Report No. 1369a-UNI
Appraisal of Ayangba Agricultural
Development Project Nigeria
May 20, 1977
Agriculture Projects Department
Western Atrica Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =   Naira (N)
US$1                 =   N. 0.617
N I                  =   US$1.62
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Unless otherwise stated, all weights and
measures in this report are metric.
1 metric ton         =   0.98 long ton
1 long ton
(= 2,240 lb)       =   1.016 metric ton
1 hectare            =   2.47 acres
1 acre               =   0.405 ha
1 kilometer (km)    =   0.62 mile
ABBREVIATIONS
APEC              Ayangba Project Executive Committee
APMEPU            Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit
APMU              Ayangba Project Management Unit
BPMB              Benue Plateau Marketing Board
BSP               Basic Services Package
CPDCET            Centre de Perfectionnement pour le Developpement et la
Cooperation Economique et Technique of the French Aid Ministry
DC                Development Center
FDL               Federal Department of Livestock
FMARD             Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
FMG               Federal Military Government of Nigeria
FSC               Farmers Service Center
IAR               Institute of Agricultural Research
ICCMU             Igala Cooperative Credit and Marketing Union
IITA              International Institute of Tropical Agriculture
LBA               Licensed Buying Agent
LGC               Local Government Council
MANR              Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
MOW               Ministry of Works
NPMC              Nigerian Produce Marketing Company
NSMB              Northern States Marketing Board
THU               Tractor Hire Unit
WARDA             West Africa Rice Development Association
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NIGERIA
BENUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  .............................. i-iii
I.    INTRODUCTION ...........           ..............................    I
II.    BACKGROUND  .        ..........................................    2
- The Economy              ..........................                    2
- The Agricultural Sector ......              ......................    2
III.    THE PROJECT AREA .........             ............................    6
- General               ..........................                       6
- Agriculture Area Farm Systems  ......................                  7
- Institutions and Farmers Services  ............                        7
- Development Plans    .........................                         8
IV.    THE PROJECT .        ..........................................    8
- General Description .................                                  8
- Detailed Features  (State Component)  .............                    9
- Detailed Features  (Federal Component)  ...... ........  13
V.    COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS  ....                ........  14
- Project Costs        .................. ....................   14
- Financing Arrangements  ........... ..             ................   16
- Procurement    ................... .....................   18
- Disbursements        .................. ....................   19
- Budgets,  Accounts and Audits  ..........              .............  20
VI.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ..........................  21
- Organization   ......................................   21
- Staffing ...........................................   21
- Input Delivery and Credit Arrangements  ..... ........  22
- Postproject Development  ............. ...............  23
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. van der Lugt, Pease, Draper  (Bank), Reader, Hallgrimsson (Consultants),
Tagoe (WARDA), Deprez (Trainee CPDCET) and Dalton (FDL expert).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                   Page No.
VII.   PRODUCTION, MARKETING, FARMER BENEFITS, AND
FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS FOR GOVERNMENT ....    ........... 23
- Yields and Production ........    ......................  23
- Marketing and Prices ........    .......................  24
- Farm Benefits . .....................................  25
- Financial Implications for Government ....   .......... 26
VIII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .....      ......................  27
IX.   RECOMMENDATIONS AND AGREEMENTS REACHED ....    ...........  28
ANNEXES
ANNEX I  Project Area
A. Description
B. Agriculture
C. Institutions
D. State Development Plans
Table 1 Mean Rainfall Data
Table 2 Summary of the Main Characteristics of the Soil Map Units
Table 3 Population Estimates and Area Under Cultivation
Table 4  Estimated Staff Strength in the Project Area
Chart 16363 Mean Rainfall
Map   12334  Soil Classification
ANNEX 2   Summary of Crop and Farm Development
A. Crop Development
B. Farm Development
Table 1 Estimated Cropping Patterns
Table 2 One Hectare Annual Crop Budgets
Table 3 Production Benefits
Table 4 Average Farm Budget
Table 5 Annual Crop Labor Requirements
Table 6  Production Estimates
Table 7 Extension Staff Requirement
Table 8 Costs of Extension Service
Table 9  Costs of Farm Development Division
Chart 16328 Farm Labor Profile



Table of Contents (Continued)
ANNEX 3   Livestock Development
A. General
B. Development Proposals
Table 1 Livestock Development Costs Summary
Table 2  Costs of Livestock Extension Unit
Table 3  Costs of Poultry Rearing Unit
Table 4  Idah Goat and Pig Farm Development Costs
ANNEX 4   Summary of Forestry Development
- General
- Benue State
- Development Proposals
Table 1  Summary of Forestry Activities
Table 2  Summary of Forestry Costs
ANNEX 5   Fisheries Development
A. General
B. Development Proposals
Table 1 Costs and Benefits of Bunded Lagoons
Table 2  Costs of Fisheries Development
ANNEX 6   Civil Works
- General
- Organization and Management
- Road Development
- Water Supply
- Buildings
- Project Costs
Table 1 Phasing of Road Construction and Maintenance
Table 2  Operating Cost of Plant and Equipment
Table 3  Schedule of Building Costs
Table 4  Number of Houses
Table 5  Engineering Department, Summary of Costs
Table 6  Production Rates and Plant Requirements for Critical Units
Table 7  Equipment Utilization and Operating Costs
Table 8  Capital Costs of Plant and Equipment
Table 9  Housing and Workshop Requirements
Table 10 Staff Salaries and Overheads
Table 11 Cost of Materials
Chart 16365 - Agricultural Road Cross Section
Map 12373   - Federal Trunk Roads



Table of Contents (Continued)
ANNEX 7   Supporting Services
- General
- Management and Administration
- Seed Multiplication
- Research
- Training
- Evaluation
Table 1 Costs of Management and Administration
Table 2 Staff Likely to be Internationally Recruited
Table 3 Area Required for Seed Multiplication and Research
Table 4 Seed Purchases
Table 5 Costs of Seed Multiplication
Table 6 Costs of Research
Table 7 Costs of Training
Table 8 Costs of Evaluation
Chart 16482 Organization Chart
Chart 16459 Start-up Plan
ANNEX 8   Commercial Development
A.  General
B. Input Development
C. Marketing Development
Table 1 Tentative Sites of Farmers Service Centers
Table 2 Seasonal Crop Input Requirements (per crop)
Table 3 Seasonal Crop Input Requirements
Table -4 Physical Requirements for Medium and Long-term Credit
Table 5 Requirements for Medium and Long-term Credit
Table 6 Costs of Commercial Services Department
Appendix 1 Clarification of Fertilizer Procurement Procedures
ANNEX 9   Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation,
and Planning Unit (APMEPU)
A.   Background
B.   Proposals for Expansion and Development
Table 1 APMEPU, Summary of Costs and Financing
Table 2 APMEPU Staff Costs
Table 3 APMEPU Vehicles and Equipment
Table 4 APMEPU Operating Costs
Chart 16429 - APMEPU, Organization Chart
ANNEX 10 Project Costs
Table 1 Summary of Project CosIts by Function
Table 2 Summary of Project Costs by Expense Categories



Table of Contents (Continued)
ANNEX 11 Financing Arrangements
Table 1 Detailed Financing of State Component
Table 2 Detailed Financing of Federal Component
Table 3 Disbursement Schedule
Table 4 Illustrative Cash Flow of FMG
Table 5 Illustrative Cash Flow of the State
ANNEX 12 Marketing and Prices
A. Market Background
B. Market Outlook
C. Price Forecasts
Table 1 Forecast Farmgate Prices
ANNEX 13 Economic Justification
Table 1 Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 2 Sensitivity Analysis
MAP 12135R3 Nigeria Agricultural Projects
MAP 12328    Project Area
Details relating to this project and to the Lafia Agricultural Development
Project, which is being prepared simultaneously, are in a supplementary report
entitled Nigeria, Supplementary Annexes to Central Agricultural Development
Projects (Report 1370a-UNI, dated May 31, 1977), which has not been dis-
tributed but is available upon request. It contains the following annexes:
1.   Agriculture in Nigeria
2.   Crop Development
3.   Farm Development
4.   Livestock Development
5.   Forestry
6.   Seed Multiplication
7.   Research
8.   Training
9.   Monitoring and Evaluation
10. Organization and Management
11. Marketing and Prices






NIGERIA
BENUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary and Conclusions
i.        The Federal Military Government of Nigeria (FMG) has requested Bank
assistance to finance an agricultural development project in Benue State. The
project was identified by a Bank mission in June 1974, and prepared by con-
sultants in late 1974. This report is based on the findings of an appraisal
mission that visited Nigeria in May/June 1976.
ii.       Currently industry and the urban population are becoming more
dependent on the rural population for food and labor inputs as the gap between
urban and rural incomes increases. FMG is trying to offset this by promoting
agricultural development.
iii.      Benue State produces a wide range of crops reflecting the suitability
of soils and climate. Research organizations and farmers have demonstrated
that the use of improved seeds, fertilizers and insecticides produces substan-
tial benefits. However, due to poor planning, managerial and financial
constraints, little has been done for the farmer.
iv.       The project area (13,150 km ), representing some 1.5% of the total
land area of Nigeria, is centered around Ayangba in Benue State. It has a
population of 1 million or about 1% of the total population of Nigeria
(estimated at 75 million). Approximately 80%, 150,000 families, are engaged
in agriculture with an average holding of 2.0 ha. Soils are declining in
fertility and internal inflation creates pressures to increase production.
v.        The project would increase crop production through improved farm
practices and extension services; livestock development through improved
veterinary services and small stock; forestry development by establishing
1,000 ha of fuelwood and pole plantations; and fishery development through
improved extension services and 15 fishing lagoons. Infrastructural develop-
ment includes 1,300 km of feeder roads, 180 wells and project headquarters
in Ayangba. Seed multiplication, applied research, evaluation and training
would support project development, and commercial services would include
input delivery through 30 Farmers Service Centers, credit facilities and
market advisory services. In addition, the project would expand the Agricul-
tural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit (APMEPU) in Kaduna.
vi.       The project would be managed by an Executive Committee and a special
Management Unit under the State Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
(MANR). The Committee would be chaired by the Permanent Secretary of MANR.
The semi-autonomous Management Unit, which would be responsible for implement-
ing and operating the project, would be staffed through transfer of existing
Government staff or direct recruitment. Deficiencies in specialized technical



- ii -
skilis and high level management staff, which are unavailable or in short
supply in Nigeria, would be met through international recruitment.
vii.      Project costs are estimated at US$114 million and a 20-year Bank
loan of US$35 million is proposed, including 4.5-year grace period, which
is equivalent to the foreign exchange component; US$31 million would be
onlent to Benue State and would finance 30% of the costs net of taxes. The
remainder of the Bank loan, US$4 million, would finance 40% of the Federal
component costs net of taxes.
viii.     Vehicles, tractors, road-making equipment, other equipment,
materials, fertilizers, insecticides and other farm inputs valued at US$13.4
million, and vehicles and equipment of APMEPU valued at US$0.5 million, would
be procured through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
guidelines for those contracts valued over US$75,000, and through competitive
bidding in accordance with local procedures satisfactory to the Bank for con-
tracts of less than US$75,000. For contracts under US$10,000 direct competi-
tive shopping would be employed. Experience has shown that contracts for
buildings, houses and FSC complexes valued at US$11.0 million would not be
attractive to foreign bidders due to dispersed locations, small size of con-
tracts and competitiveness of local contractors; such contracts would be
awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding. Construction of roads and
wells would be undertaken by the project on force account, a practice that is
proving successful on the Northern Agricultural Development Projects. A large
part of project costs would be for salaries, operating expenses, training
costs, nursery expenses and seed purchases valued at US$36.3 million, and for
staff costs and operating expenses of APMEPU valued at US$4.1 million, and
unsuitable for competitive bidding. The services of consultants and expatri-
ate staff valued at US$3.5 million for the State component and US$i.4 million
for APMEPU would be obtained in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Bank. An amount of US$43.7 million would be required for contingencies.
ix.       The Bank loan would be disbursed over the five-year period, 1978-
1982, as follows: State component: 100% of the total foreign exchange costs
of directly imported vehicles, equipment and spare parts (or 70% of the costs
of these items if locally procured) totaling US$3.6 million; 100% of the total
foreign exchange costs of directly imported equipment, furnishings and mater-
ials (or 70% of the costs of these items if locally procured) totaling US$1.8
million; 100% of the total foreign exchange costs of directly imported fertil-
izer and insecticides (or 70% of the cost of these items if locally procured)
totaling US$3.9 million; 100% of the costs of internationally recruited staff,
including their salaries, allowances and recruitment costs, and of consulting
services and scholarships totaling US$3.5 million; 40% of the costs of build-
ings and houses totaling US$ 3.3 million; 15% of the costs of local staff
totaling US$3.8 million; Federal component: 100% of the total foreign exchange
costs of directly imported vehicles and equipment for APMEPU (or 70% of the
cost of these items if locally procured) totaling US$0.5 million; 100% of the
costs of internationally recruited staff including their salaries, allowances
and recruitment costs and of consulting services totaling US$1.4 million; 20%
of the costs of local staff of APMEPU totaling US$0.4 million; and an unallocated



- iii -
amount of US$13.3 million. Retroactive financing as of November 1, 1976 of
up to US$550,000 is proposed for internationally recruited personnel and the
purchase of an aircraft. Disbursement of the Bank loan would be against
import documentation, contracts and certified records of expenditure; the
latter would be scrutinized by Bank supervision missions and independent
auditors.
x.        The estimated principal direct benefits would be annual incremental
production from Year 5 onwards as follows: 92,000 tons yams, 100,000 tons
cassava, 12,800 tons rice, 26,100 tons maize; 2,100 tons melon, 3,400 tons
sorghum, 6,800 tons cowpeas and 1,100 tons benniseed. About 150,000 farm
families are expected to benefit, but the project would also benefit non-
farming families in the area through better communications, water supplies
and marketing. Some one million people would one way or another receive
benefits from the project. Intangible benefits include infrastructure on
which health and other social services could be developed, expansion of local
trade and the strengthening of institutions including the Local Government
Councils and the State's Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources.
The project's evaluation unit, under guidance of the Federal Ministry of
Rural Development's Projects Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit would
support future Federal and State agricultural planning. Average farm incomes
in the project area would increase by some US$160 from US$382 to US$546 per
annum at full development.
xi.       The economic rate of return is 27%; a 20% reduction in benefits
and a 20% increase in costs would reduce the rate of return to 16% and the
project would still be viable.
xii.      On the basis of the assurances obtained during negotiations and set
out in Chapter VIII, the project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$35
million.






NIGERIA
BENUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Federal Military Government of Nigeria (FMG) has requested
a Bank loan to help finance an agricultural development project in Ankpa,
Dekina, Idah and Bassa Local Government Council (LGC) areas of Benue State,
and an extension and expansion of the Northern Projects Monitoring and Evalua-
tion Unit established with the Northern Agricultural Development Projects.
The project would have direct and indirect benefits for about one million
people living in the four LGC areas and would provide for important institu-
tion building.
1.02      The project was identified by the Lagos Resident Mission in June
1974, and a feasibility study was completed in March 1975 by consultants,
recruited with World Bank assistance, financed by FMG. The project was
appraised in May/June 1976 of a mission composed by Messrs. van der Lugt,
Pease, Draper (Bank), Reader, Hallgrimsson (consultants), Tagoe (WARDA),
Deprez (Trainee CPDCET), and Dalton (FDL expert).
1.03      The first Bank loans for agriculture in Nigeria were for the
Western State Cocoa Project (1971, Loan 764-UNI, US$7.2 million), now physi-
cally completed, and the Second Cocoa Project (1974, Loan 1045-UNI, US$20
million), which is being successfully implemented in the former Western and
Mid-Western States. 1/ Following an identification mission in 1972 loans
were made for three integrated agricultural development projects in the
north: Funtua Project (1974, Loan 1092-UNI, US$29 million), Gusau Project
(1974, Loan 1099-UNI, US$19 million), and Gombe Project (1974, Loan 1164-UNI,
US$21 million); Rice Project (1974, Loan 1103-UNI, US$17.50 million) in
the former East Central and South East States; 2/ Livestock Project (1974,
Loan 1091-UNI, US$21.0 million); and three oil palm projects; Nucleus
Estate/Smallholder Oil Palm Project, Western State 3/ (1975, Loan 1192-UNI,
US$17.0 million), Nucleus Estate/Smallholder Oil Palm Project, Mid-Western
State 4/ (1975, Loan 1183-UNI, US$29.5 million) and Smallholder Oil Palm
Project, East Central State, 5/ (1975, Loan 1191-UNI, US$19.0 million). The
Northern Agricultural Development Projects are being implemented successfully;
the remaining projects have for various reasons been slow starters but are
expected to make up lost time as management gains experience. Most of the
1/   Following the creation of the new states, the project is now executed
in Oyo, Ogun, Ondo and Bendel States, and project assets and liabilities
are being divided accordingly.
2/   Now in three States:  Anambra, Imo and Cross Rivers.
3/   Now in Ondo State.
4/   Now in Bendel State.
_/   Now in Imo State.



- 2 -
projects are encountering substantial cost overruns, due to rapid internal
inflation (40% in 1975). However, Government is expected to allocate suf-
ficient funds to meet these deficits. A further six agricultural development
projects and a potential forestry project were identified in October 1976.
Two of the agricultural projects and the forestry project are expected to be
appraised during FY78.
II. BACKGROUND
The Economy
2.01      The 924,000 km2 Federal Republic of Nigeria comprises 19 States
and has a population of about 75 million. Average annual per capita income
is estimated at US$327 (1975), but in rural areas it is only about US$60.
In urban centers average income is much higher but unequally distributed.
2.02      Following a period of civil strife, rehabilitation, and consolida-
tion, characterized by relative stagnation, economic growth generated by
increased public sector activities resumed in 1972. This was accompanied
by inflation, supply shortages and infrastructural congestions. Although
primary productive sector performance has been disappointing, the economy
continued to grow rapidly because of the phenomenal expansion of the service
sectors; from 1972-75 GDP rose at an average rate of 6.5% per annum. Nigeria's
economic development has been increasingly dominated by oil, which by 1974
accounted for 41% of GDP, 93% of export earnings and 82% of total Government
revenues, surpassing the agricultural sector in all areas except employment.
The Third National Development Plan (April 1975 - March 1980) was budgeted
at US$53 billion, but due to slippage the effective program is now projected
at US$32 billion. The plan has recently been reviewed by Government and
greater emphasis has been given to health, housing and agriculture.
The Agricultural Sector
2.03      General.  Approximately 75% of Nigeria's population is dependent
on agriculture, which accounts for about 28% of GDP, 5% of total export
earnings and 75% of non-oil exports. Agricultural production is almost
entirely in the hands of smallholders whose levels of technology and
production efficiency are low.
2.04      Cropping patterns vary within the country's main ecological zones.
In the forest zones of the south, where rainfall is bimodally distributed over
a wet season of up to eight months, the agricultural economy is largely based
on tree crops with annual staples providing subsistence and subsidiary income.
In the Guinea and Sudan Savannah zones of the north, rainfall is monomodal
within a six-month spread and production is based almost entirely on annual
crops. Between these two zones is an area known as the "middle belt," support-
ing southern Guinea and transitional forest savannah vegetation and a mix of
annual and tree crops, though rainfall quantity and spread are inadequate for
successful economic exploitation of the latter. Little development attention



- 3 -
has been directed towards the "middle belt," which forms an important food
producing reserve for the nation.
2.05      Growth of the agricultural sector has been disappointing, averaging
1.3% per annum from 1970-75, equivalent to only half the average population
growth. This same period has been characterized by rapidly rising domestic
food prices as demand, resulting from population and income growth, out-
stripped domestic supply, and by a marked decline in traditional agricultural
export crops: N 309 million in 1970 to N 265 million in 1975. During the
same period total exports (including petroleum) increased from N 852 million
to N 4,848 million; importation of food and live animals over the same period
rose from N 60 million to nearly N 300 million.
2.06      Development Strategy.  Government is acutely aware of the need to
improve performance in the agricultural sector and to invest the substantial
revenues from oil, a wasting asset, in order to expand and diversify the
rest of the economy in which agriculture is the dominant sector. In the
Third Five-Year Development Plan, a total of N 2.2 billion has been ear-
marked for the sector to support a targeted growth rate of 5%. The program
includes development of several major river basins for irrigation, dissemina-
tion of modern farming techniques to smallholders, improved input distribution
and marketing services and support for various integrated development projects.
Rural development will be promoted with complementary investments in secondary
and feeder roads, rural eletrification, health and other social services.
2.07      Government's main short-term objective is to improve internal price
stability in basic fooderops and to ensure adequate food supplies to the
rapidly expanding urban centers. Against this background of assured domestic
food supplies, Government's longer-term objectives are to create a prosperous
and efficient agricultural industry sufficient to reduce population drift to
urban centers and to revive the role of Nigeria as an exporter.
2.08      Development Constraints. Undoubtedly, the main short-term develop-
ment constraint in the sector is the lack of effective agricultural support
services. Produce evacuation is hampered by lack of feeder roads, and many
farmers have to travel long distances to the unevenly distributed and un-
reliable sources of inputs.
2.09      Input demand, at the present highly subsidized prices, is high
and unsatisfied; in many areas this has encouraged a thriving black market.
However, within areas of relatively high consumption of purchased inputs,
physical yields are invariably low and it is unlikely that economic via-
bility, and indeed financial viability, would be achieved at economic
prices. A greater effort is required, particularly by the agricultural
research institutions, to improve the analysis of technical, economic and
financial aspects of farming innovations adapted to the different socio-
ecologial conditions of Nigeria. This information is essential for the
application of a sound input supply policy and the development of relevant
delivery systems that would support the adoption of modern farming tech-
niques.



-4-
2.10      Agricultural development in Nigeria is taking place against a
background of rapid development in the non-agricultural sectors and rising
standards of education, both of which react against the poor returns to
labor and drudgery associated with traditional agriculture. This has
encouraged the drift of young people away from rural areas and has re-
sulted in a sharp rise in wage rates for hired labor. Ultimately, a pros-
perous agriculture industry, capable of reducing this drift, would only
be achieved through application of advanced farming techniques which are
particularly adapted to larger farming units either group or individually
operated.
2.11      Government's development strategy takes full account of these
constraints but the lack of the necessary planning and organization base
at either the State or Federal level prevents the application of success-
ful remedies. Responsibilities of different ministries and departments
remain uncoordinated while severe technical and managerial shortages continue
to impede both planning and executive ability.
2.12      Agricultural support services remain almost entirely in the hands
of the public sector, and present Government subsidy policies have served to
remove commercial incentive for private sector participation. It is, however,
quite clear that given Nigeria's size and massive development program, Govern-
ment may need to progressively divest itself of responsibilities such as
input and produce marketing, thus requiring the creation of an economic frame-
work appropriate to profitable intervention of private entrepreneurs in the
agriculture service sector.
2.13      Bank Role and Sector Lending Strategy.  Since 1971, the Bank has
been involved in ten tree or food crop projects (see para 1.03). During this
time, Government and the Bank have been able to review the progress of these
projects, and together are generally satisfied with the approach adopted.
In particular, the progress of the three northern projects (Loans 1092-, 1099-
and 1164-UNI) has clearly demonstrated the advantages of planned agricultural
development implemented under a reformed administrative structure which
allows necessary State control while affording management full day-to-day
operational autonomy. As a result, both Federal and State Governments are
anxious to replicate this structure in other states in the Federation. There
is also increasing interest in the role of the commercial sector in agriculture
which is being actively pursued under these projects. As such, these
projects are acting as catalysts of change on a much wider basis than might
initially have been envisaged.
2.14      The very success of the projects has underscored and brought to the
attention of the Federal Government some important economic and development
issues that have to be taken into account in future Bank lending for agricul-
ture. First, the unnecessary fertilizer and chemical subsidies in the light
of the huge developing demand threaten to have a serious fiscal impact which
will erode the public resources which otherwise could be directed to other



- 5 -
more long-term agricultural investments. It is estimated, for instance, that
the Funtua project alone could consume, at present subsidy levels, 100,000
tons of fertilizer a year by 1980.. Overall, on conservatively estimated total
consumption of 500,000 tons of fertilizer per annum in 1980, and on the basis
of the present subsidy of N 120 per ton, the annual fertilizer subsidy bill
would be about N 60 million (US$97.2 million). Government is now undertaking
a review of these policies. Second, the current commercial bank interest
rates at 5% are reflected in Government's agricultural farm lending policies.
These low rates are due to a temporary liquidity situation, and it is difficult
for the Bank to press for increased interest while the current situation pre-
vails. However, as in the ongoing projects, the commercial banking institu-
tions are being encouraged to participate; the Bank's contribution to onfarm
lending, particularly medium and long term, would be kept to a catalytic
minimum--as proposed in this project. The above situation is unlikely to
perpetuate itself, and will be kept-under constant review. Third, the need
for more stabilized farm commodity prices, particularly for foodcrops, has
become evident. Government is tackling this problem by establishing a series
of crop-specific marketing boards that would establish floor buying prices;
however, the latter is a new development and has yet to be properly tested.
As Bank-supported projects mature, marketing problems are more apparent, and
it is quite likely that before long the Bank may have to become involved in
marketing policies and infrastructure on a nationwide basis. Fourth, the lack
of physical support infrastructure including feeder roads and farm service
centers has caused serious bottlenecks in Government-sponsored programs,
including Operation Feed the Nation and the National Accelerated Food Produc-
tion Programs. On the other hand, the provision of such infrastucture in the
northern projects has demonstrated its importance and is paving the way to
participation of the private sector in serving agriculture. Finally, the lack
of experienced manpower in the agriculture public administration is quite
probably the major constraint to the planning and implementation of development
schemes in Nigeria.
2.15      Resolving the above issues is a very difficult task that Government
recognizes and for which it expects the financial and technical support of the
Bank Group. For instance, Government has informally approached the Bank to
review the subsidy, interest rate and pricing policies, and consequently the
forthcoming Economic Review of Nigeria intends to analyze the problems and
make recommendations under which a future Bank lending program would be devel-
oped. The provision of physical infrastructure comprising roads, service
centers, input distribution and improved extension systems forms a major com-
ponent of the Bank's existing and proposed agricultural development projects
and constitutes the minimum development criterion to ensure an agricultural
takeoff in any given area. As to management and administration constraints,
the short-term solution adopted in Bank-supported projects in Nigeria is
international recruitment and the establishment of special project management
units. Yet the long-term solution necessarily involves the training of
Nigerian management staff.  To this end, at the request of Government, the
Bank intends to consider financing an Agricultural Management Training
Institute. Government views the Northern Projects Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit created under the Funtua Agricultural Development Project (1092-UNI)



- 6 -
as a first step toward creating the planning and monitoring capability for
rural development in the Ministry of Agriculture, and Government hopes to
expand it with Bank support with the proposed project.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      The project area (for details see Annex 1 and Map 12328 attached
to this report) covers 13,150 km2. 1/ It comprises the Ankpa, Dekina, Idah
and Bassa Local Government Council (LGC) areas of Benue State. To the north
and west, the area is bounded by the Benue and Niger rivers. The most prom-
inent feature of the area is the Ankpa Plateau which rises to over 500 m. The
gently to steeply undulating Plateau descends into foothills, before leveling
into lowland plains. The area lies mostly within the Guinea Savannah zone and
remnants of primary forests are now contained in forest reserves.
3.02      Rainfall, influenced by the Ankpa Plateau, varies from about 1,150 mm
to 1,400 mm annually; on the Plateau it is generally higher and distribution
is more bimodal. Rainfall commences in February but is not agriculturally
effective until early April and increases to a peak in September. Sunlight
hours and radiation are highest in the dry months, peaking in December at a
daily average of 8.4 hours, and decreasing from April to a low of about 4.7
hours in August. Mean air temperatures show a bimodal character: the highest
is 300C in March, declining to 210C or less in August; 270C in October.  The
Plateau soils are derived from false bedded sandstones and upper coal measure
sandstones interruped by widespread iron pan outcrops. Inherent fertility is
low. These soils are strongly acid with low organic content and cannot
sustain high yields. Marine shales outcrop in the lowlands, but cultivation
is mainly concentrated on sandstone soils and medium-textured ferisols derived
from the Niger alluvium.
3.03      The area's population is predominantly of the Igala tribe.  A not-
able feature is a large but unquantified floating labor force which migrates
annually to the western cocoa areas. No census figures are available, but
the area's total population (1980 estimate) is about 1 million. With about
80% engaged in agriculture there are about 150,000 farm families cultivating
some 300,000 ha.
3.04      Most transportation is by road and the road network is composed as
follows:  Federal trunk roads 240 km, State roads 477 km, Local Government
Council (LGC) roads 395 km, and community roads 1,500 km. The road network is
1/   Although large this represents just about 1.5% of Nigeria's total area;
just over 1% of Nigeria's estimated population live in the area (see
para 3.03).



- 7 -
sufficient but generally poor. Water supplies are generally unsatisfactory.
However, a borehole scheme on the Ankpa Plateau is being rehabilitated and
should provide a reasonable water supply by mid-1977. Education and health
facilities exist and will be expanded under the Third National Development
Plan. Thiere is no electricity in the area, except private generators.
Agriculture and Farm Systems
3.05      Agricultural production in the area is mainly cereal, root and
legume supplemented by wild and planted tree crops, small stock and river
fishing. Subsistence smallholders using low technology predominate, and
bush/fallow cultivation is generally practiced. Intercropping is common
to exploit a long growing season and to achieve two harvests through relay
cropping and undersowing.
3.06      Yams, cassava, maize, millet and sorghum are the principal sub-
sistence crops although rice is important in the lowlands. A large propor-
tion of cash income is derived from yams. Wild oil palms throughout the
area provide oil for cooking and kernels as a cash crop. Other harvested
tree crops include citrus, sheanut, and cola.  Plantation tree crops are
rare and although the area is not suitable for modern plantation develop-
ment, there is potential for further tree crop development around homesteads.
3.07      There is no integration of crops and livestock, the small local
cattle population being in the hands of Fulani pastoralists.  Small stock
survive as scavengers around homesteads. The former trade route from
Makurdi to Idah has almost ceased to exist as cattle move now directly south
from Makurdi. Stock estimates are: 10,000 cattle, 19,000 goats, 20,000
sheep, and 4,000 pigs.
3.08      Fishing is an important industry along the Benue and Niger rivers.
Swamp and flood areas which become inundated during the wet season provide
good fish breeding and growing conditions. There are no communal forests, but
95% of Benue State's forest reserves, covering an estimated 1,600 km2, are in
the project area.
3.09      Land which is communal is allocated to community members accord-
ing to customary usufruct. Cultivation rights usually include tree
felling although certain species are protected. Responsibility for land
allocation lies with LGC and is administered locally by village heads and
chiefs.
Institutions and Farmers Services
3.10      The State's Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR)
is responsible for agricultural development in the State, including forestry,
fisheries and livestock. MANR has offices in Ankpa, Dekina, Oguma and Idah.
Existing MANR staff and facilities in the project area would be incorporated
in the project (see para 6.05). The Ministry of Works is responsible for



-8-
civil works programs. The M'inistry of Trade, Industries and Cooperatives
operates a small-scale industry credit scheme which would also benefit agro-
industries. The Registrar of Cooperatives supervises the cooperative movement.
Local Government Councils exist and incorporate the traditional authorities in
the area.
3.11      There are 136 primary cooperatives in the area, but the coopera-
tive movement has come to a standstill, as all are affiliated with the Igala
Cooperative Credit and Marketing Union which has accumulated large debts
and which is being divided into three divisional unions to coincide with the
local Government structure.  More successful are the Farmers Councils, con-
sisting of groups of 10-25 farmers, organized by the Roman Catholic Mission.
There are presently 625 Farmers Councils grouped in 43 zones, the estimated
membership being 10,000.
3.12      Farmers services and credit facilities in the area are minimal, as
prior to the creation of Benue State the area was separated from its previous
administrative capital at Ilorin by the Niger river, causing serious communi-
cation problems. As part of the newly-created Benue State, the area has a
significant role in State development, and through the project would develop
strong institutional ties and services with the new capital at Makurdi.
Development Plans
3.13      The Third National Development Plan includes the following which
will affect the project area: development of a steel complex at Ajaokuta;
an east-west railroad which would link Ajaokuta with the main north-south
railroad; development of proven coal reserves at Okaba; establishment of an
oil palm plantation at Alloma; a railroad bridge over the Niger at Ajaokuta
(more bridges over the Niger and Benue are contemplated but are less certain);
rural electrication and water supply for Ankpa, Dekina, Idah and Ayangba; and
expansion of health services and primary and secondary education facilities.
IV. THE PROJECT
General Description
4.01      The project would be carried out effectively over a five-year-
period, 1978-1982; 1977 would be spent on start-up activities and expenses
incurred during that year have been included in project costs. The project
provides for a Basic Service Package for the area (crop development, roads,
supporting services and commercial services), supplemented by additional
livestock, forestry, fishery, and water supply development, and would spe-
cifically involve:



Production and Associated Investment
-    Crop Development:  increasing farm production through improved
farm practices and expanded extension services and establishment
of farm advisory service;
-    Livestock Development:  providing veterinary services and improving
local small livestock;
-    Forestry Development:  establishing about a thousand hectares of
township fuelwood and pole plantations;
-    Fishery Development:  improving and expanding fishery extension
services and establishing 15 fishing lagoons.
Infrastructure and Support Services
-    Infrastructural Development:  improving 1,300 km of feeder roads;
supplementing water supply through well construction and con-
structing an administrative center at Ayangba;
-    Supporting Services:  establishing a project seed multiplication
farm, improving applied research capacity; expanding the training
center at Ochaja, and establishing an evaluation unit;
-    Commercial Services:  providing adequate input supply and credit
facilities through 30 Farmers Service Centers (FSC) and providing
a market advisory service.
Institutional Support
-    the Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning
Unit (APMEPU) financed under Loan 1092-UNI would be expanded.
The last component is not part of the agricultural development project in
Benue State (referred to as State component) but is the responsibility
of FMG (this component is referred to as Federal component).
4.02      The project would be managed by the semi-autonomous Ayangba Proj-
ect Management Unit (APMU), which would be responsible for implementing
the project.  APMU would be responsible to the Ayangba Project Executive
Committee (APEC) for budgetary and policy control (see Chapter VI).
Detailed Features (State Component)
Production and Associated Investments
4.03      Crop Development (for details see Annex 2).  Farmers' crop yields
would be increased through the improved technical production packages compris-
ing: improved seeds, seed dressings, fertilizer and insecticides, supported



- 10 -
by a more intensive and better trained extension service. The major crops
affected would be yams, cassava, maize, sorghum, cowpeas, benniseed and
melons. Of the total cropped area of 440,000 hectares, about 100,000 hectares
(23%) would be improved. The proposed extension staff to farmer ratio would
be 1:500, resulting in an increase of extension staff from 54 at present to
300 at full development. Smaller farmers would be encouraged to form groups
to enable them to make full use of farm advisory services, input delivery
systems and farm mechanization.
4.04      For larger units, farmed by groups or individuals, a special farm
advisory system would be developed to provide land-use planning, soil con-
servation, tractor hire services, and crop rotation advice for proper long-
term farm systems. FMG has recently awarded an aerial photography contract
which covers the area and the results should be available for this purpose.
4.05      A small but inefficient MANR tractor service operates within the
project area. This would be incorporated into the farm advisory service,
and would be decentralized with initially two tractors for each FSC. Mainte-
nance and back-up facilities would be provided from headquarters. The project
would support private and cooperative tractor ownership for which the commer-
cial banks are willing to provide credit. To improve tractor use efficiency,
the project would provide limited credit for land clearing.  Both the clearing
and tractor services would be charged at full cost to the farmers.
4.06      Livestock Development (for details see Annex 3).  The project
would establish a Livestock Development Division that would incorporate the
existing small and poorly-equipped veterinary service. The main objectives
would be to improve animal health through compulsory inoculation campaigns,
provide better cattle husbandry advice, upgrade small stock, and establish
an improved poultry exchange scheme. The animal health component would be
achieved through the use of project-equipped mobile inoculation teams, par-
ticularly against rinderpest and bovine pleuropneumonia. The teams would also
have responsibility for meat and hide inspection. The Division would provide
livestock husbandry advice to those farmers interested in mixed farming to
improve general nutritional and management standards. Goat upgrading would
continue at the Idah goat farm and the project would support trial breeding
for the adoption of improved species. A piggery in Idah would be supported
to produce improved gilts and boars for farmers' purchase. There is a strong
demand for improved poultry, and the project would operate three poultry
rearing units with the objective of providing Rhode Island Red and White
Leghorn birds on a direct exchange basis with village birds. Unit rearing
capacity would be 4,500 pullets and 4,500 cockerels per annum.
4.07      Forestry Development  (for details see Annex 4).  The project
would establish 1,000 ha of fuelwood and pole plantations in the vicinity of
major towns (Ankpa, Dekina, Oguma and Idah). Three nurseries would be estab-
lished to provide seedlings, the main species being Eucalyptus and Gmelina.
The nurseries would sell these seedlings at cost to farmers, as well as other
seedlings including oil palm, citrus and mango. It is estimated that the



- 11 -
farmer demand for fruit trees and forestry seedlings would be about 160,000
per annum. MANR would assume postproject nursery management and LGC would
manage the fuelwood and pole plantations.
4.08      The project would expand charcoal production by encouraging the
use of traditional earth kilns and modern portable steel kilns. In addition,
training courses for project staff and local woodworkers would be conducted.
The project would support national forest species trials, assist in State-
wide forest planning and would provide technical assistance to local
saxmnillers in the planning and extension of their operations. Financing
for the latter would come from the small-scale industries credit scheme.
4.09      Fishery Development (for details see Annex 5).  Through better
trained fishery extension staff, the project would provide improvements in
fishing technology that would have a considerable impact on catch. A fish-
eries expert would be employed to advise the long-term planning and the
implementation of fishery development. A fisheries training center, with
a capacity for 20 students, would be established at Bagana. Fifteen 30-acre,
bunded lagoons, controlled by sluiee gates, would be constructed and oper-
ated, on a licensed fee basis, as intensive fishing areas. The lagoons would
provide for better water control, breeding and growing habitats. Fishing
staff would promote improved, FAO-designed fish-drying kilns in an effort to
improve quality.
Infrastructural and Support Services
4.10      Road and Water Development (details at Annex 6).  Six hundred and
twenty-five kilometers of LGC roads would be reconstructed and 675 km of
community tracks would be improved to LGC standards. The roads would be
simple 'Laterite roads supported by adequate culverting and drainage structures.
Existing MOW and LGC road departments do not have the capacity to implement
the proposals. In view of this and the acute shortage of local contracting
capacity, and the probable lack of interest of foreign contractors (as con-
firmed by the Northern Agricultural Development Projects), the project would
undertake construction on force account using equipment and labor procured
with project funds. The project would work closely with LGC to develop an
adequate road maintenance unit that could be operated by LGC at the end of the
project period.
4.11      Existing well-digging crews would be reorganized and 180 new wells
would be constructed. Wells would be standardized, being 1.2 m in diameter,
concrete lined, with the top raised 0.8 m above ground level. Handpumps and
wellcovers will be provided. LGC would be responsible for their maintenance.
4.12      Buildings and Houses (details at Annex 6).  A considerable number
of buildings and houses are required; these would be constructed by local
contractors (foreign contractors are not excluded, but are generally not
competitive). The project would construct 34 senior, 48 intermediate, 129
junior, and 252 traditional staff houses; office headquarters; two training
centers; a workshop complex; and 30 Farmers Service Centers. Designs success-
fully developed by ongoing projects would be used where possible.



- 12 -
4.13      Seed Multiplication and Research (details at Annex 7).  The project
would improve the existing seed multiplication and research programs. A
200 ha farm would be established at Ochaja to provide a nucleus for surround-
ing outgrowers' multiplication farms (ultimately outgrower multiplication
would cover 500 ha). Seeds would be sold to farmers through the project-
established Farmers Service Centers (para 4.16). Investments would include
farm buildings, farm machinery, seed-cleaning equipment, etc. The farm would
also allow for demonstration and research. The project research component
would confine its attention to applied research and would associate cLosely
with national and international research agencies. In particular, it would
concentrate on variety trials, soil fertility and farming systems trials,
mechanization, minor crop trials, and, in association with the evaluation
unit, would undertake farm management studies.
4.14      Training (details at Annex 7).  A training unit would be established
for training staff and farmers. The existing training center at Ochaja would
be expanded to a 60-student capacity. Training under the project would be
as follows: (a) staff: scholarships for senior staff, upgrading courses for
various staff categories; residential courses for training agricultural
instructors; and introductory courses for all project staff; (b) farmers:
three mobile audio-visual training units (which would visit two villages per
day); day courses at FSCs; short residential courses in the project training
center; production of radio programs; a program to inform teachers about
agricultural development; and a mobile home economics team.
4.15      Evaluation (details at Annex 7).  Evaluation of project activities
is important, particularly in an area where relatively little development has
previously been undertaken. Consequently an evaluation unit would be esta-
blished under the administrative control of the Project Manager but techni-
cally responsible to the Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation and
Planning Unit, APMEPU, located in Kaduna. The evaluation unit, comprising
50 enumerators and associated senior staff, would initially undertake a
baseline survey, followed by mainline surveys at two-year intervals. Other
project/management orientated surveys would be undertaken.
4.16      Commercial Services (for details see Annex 8).  Adequate input
supply facilities would be provided through strategically located Farmers
Service Centers. Each FSC would be located on at least 2 ha, and would
comprise a fertilizer store (400-ton capacity), other small stores, offices,
houses for storekeeper and other FSC staff, and a shed for teaching purposes.
FSCs would service farmers within a 15 km radius and would provide seasonal
farm inputs and equipment for cash or credit. At full development the annual
throughput of fertilizer and chemicals would be 19,000 and 470 tons respec-
tively. A market intelligence and advisory service to promote better market-
ing and storage would be developed. Ironsheet, bins, cement and brick-
press would be provided on credit for construction of village stores.   The
existing MANR produce inspection division would be improved. When necessary
the project would promote market contracts between producers and buyers, and
would act as an agent against commission in such cases. The project would be



- 13 -
authorized to act as a Licensed Buying Agent for those scheduled crops traded
in the area.
4.17      Logistical Support.  Logistical support would be provided in the
form of automobiles, trucks, motorcycles, workshop and office equipment,
weigh scales, livestock and crop handling equipment, etc. Staff support
would include accountants, secretaries, clerical and store control personnel
funded under the project. Detailed requirements are at the relevant annexes.
Detailed Features (Federal Component)
Institutional Support
4.18      Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit
(APMEPU) (details at Annex 9). APMEPU, currently operating under the name of
Northern Projects Monitoring and Evaluation Unit, was established at Kaduna
with funds from Loan 1092-UNI (Funtua Agricultural Development Project).
Because of functions not perceived at appraisal the unit has grown larger
than originally intended, and apart from playing a dominant evaluation role,
it now provides technical supervision to the three northern projects; agron-
omic and research support; and more recently, development of project staff
training systems. The original funds allocated for a five-year period will
be fully committed by end-1977. Nigerian Government project planning capa-
bilities are extremely limited, resulting in many States endeavoring to
implement unplanned and sometimes irrational schemes. Furthermore, FMG and
the States are over-reliant on outside consultants who at times draw up
development proposals that are inappropriate, and which, because of lack
of local expertise, cannot be properly evaluated. Consequently, it is pro-
posed, under the project, to expand APMEPU with the formation of a planning
unit to provide nationwide support for agricultural development planning.
This would result in a strong, functional field unit for the newly created
Federal Department of Rural Development. The additional funds provided
under this project would enable APMEPU to operate for a further five years
and would include establishment of the planning section, international tech-
nical staff, vehicles, an aircraft, equipment, local staff and operating
expenses. The inclusion of a small aircraft (twin-engined, 6-9 seats) is
justified due to a growing demand by the existing three Northern Agricultural
Development Projects, APMEPU, and the Livestock Project (components of the
latter are located throughout Nigeria); and the anticipated demand from
Ayangba and Lafia projects, as well as two proposed projects (currently being
prepared) at Bida and Ilorin. A project aircraft would result in improved
logistical support, particularly for the road and dam construction units;
the provision of spare parts and services from commercial suppliers located
at distant urban centers; better interproject communication among senior
staff, resulting in a more rapid transfer of techniques and developments
from one project to another; better control of ranching companies and grazing
reserves by livestock project staff located in Kaduna; closer and improved
monitoring, evaluation and planning services by APMEPU staff working from
Kaduna; and more frequent visits by senior Government officials, of both
Federal and State agricultural ministries, to assess progress and become



- 14 -
more involved in the ongoing and future development operations of the proj-
ects. Existing air charter services are extremely limited and costly, and
on the basis of a minimum project demand of 150 flying hours per month, an
aircraft is economically justified. The aircraft would be based at Kaduna
and its movements would be coordinated and controlled by APMEPU. (Cost
details are included in Annex 9).
V. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
Project Costs
5.01      Project costs for the period 1977-1982 are estimated at N 70.2
million (US$114 million); if taxes and duties are excluded costs would be
N 68.1 million (US$110.3 milion). The foreign exchange component would be
N 21.4 million (US$35 million). State component costs, encompassing agri-
cultural development in Benue State, are estimated at N 64 million (US$104
million), of which foreign exchange would be N 19 million (US$31 million)
or 30% of total costs. Federal component costs involving APMEPU are esti-
mated at N 6.2 million (US$10 million), of which foreign exchange would be
N 2.4 million (US$4.0 million) or 39% of costs.
5.02      Project costs are detailed in Annex 10 and summarized below:



- 15 -
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
Total  Foreign  Local   Total   Foreign   Local
---- N million ------   ------US$ million------
A.   State Component (Annex 10)
Crop Development                 5.0    0.8      4.2      8.1       1.3      6.8
Farm Advisory Service /1         3.7    1.0      2.7      6.0       1.6      4.4
Livestock Development            1.5    0.3      1.2      2.4       0.5       1.9
Forestry Development             1.2    0.3      0.9      2.0       0.5       1.5
Fishery Development              1.4    0.4      1.0      2.3       0.7       1.6
Roads and Water Development   5.3    2.0         3.3      8.6       3.2       5.4
Management Administration        5.0    1.6      3.4      8.0       2.5       5.5
Seed Multiplication              1.1    0.2      0.9      1.8      0.3       1.5
Research                         0.5    0.1      0.4      0.9       0.2       0.7
Training                         1.6    0.5      1.1      2.6       0.8       1.8
Evaluation                       1.8    0.4      1.4      3.0       0.7      2.3
Commercial Services              7.3    1.5      5.8    11.9        2.5      9.4
Subtotal                  35.4    9.1    26.3    57.6        14.8      42.8
Incremental Seed                0.2      -       0.2      0.3        -       0.3
Incremental Fertilizer/
Insecticides                  3.4    2.4       1.0     5.5       3.9       1.6
Medium-Term Input Fund           0.5    0.3      0.2      0.8       0.5      0.3
Total Base Cost           39.5   11.8    27.7    64.2        19.2      45.0
Physical Contingencies           2.0    0.5      1.5      3.2       0.8      2.4
Price Contingencies            22.5    6.7    15.8    36.6         11.0     25.6
Total Costs               64.0   19.0    45.0   104.0        31.0      73.0
B.   Federal Component (Annex 9)
Base Costs                       3.7    1.4      2.3      6.0       2.4       3.6
Physical Contingencies          0.2    0.1       0.1      0.2       0.1      0.1
Price Contingencies              2.3    0.9      1.4      3.8       1.5      2.3
Total Costs                6.2    2.4       3.8    10.0       4.0       6.0
C.   TOTAL PROJECT COSTS             70.2   21.4    48.8   114.0        35.0      79.0
/1   Includes tractor hire services (40%) and land use planning.



- 16 -
5.03      If livestock, forestry and fishery development are excluded,
the baseline costs (in constant 1976 terms) per farm family would be
N 236. This can be compared with N 250, N 355, and N 400 per farm family
for the Funtua, Gusau and Gombe Agricultural Development Projects res-
pectively. 1/ The costs per farm family are lower than those for the Lafia
Agricultural Development Project, reflecting substantial economies of scale.
5.04      Cost estimates are based on price data and quotes obtained
during appraisal, updated to reflect end-1976 prices. Project costs include
a 5% physical contingency. Price contingencies are calculated on base costs
plus physical contingencies and allow for compounded increases based on the
following annual percentages: 1977, 20%; 1978, 15%; 1979, 12%; and 10% from
1980 onwards. These estimates take account of the high internal inflation,
40% in 1975, and of international inflation for imports. Cost estimates ex-
clude the cost of land compensation for roads and building sites. In those
circumstances where compensation payments are made, additional funds would be
provided by the State Government.
5.05      In order to facilitate Government financing and budgetary arrange-
ments, the cost of staff salaries, allowances and administrative expenses has
been estimated on a gross basis, and includes existing insignificant Government
expenditures (less than 1% of total project cost). All other project costs are
estimated on a strictly incremental basis.
Financing Arrangements
5.06      The financing plan is detailed in Annex 11 and summarized below.
1/   Based on revised supervision mission cost estimates in 1976 terms.



- 1 7 -
DETAILED FINANCING PLAN
State
%       Total        IBRD         Government
--  N million ------------
A.   State Component
Development Investments
Houses/Buildings              11         6.8         2.0              4.8
Vehicles                       5         2.8         2.2              0.6
Other Equipment/
MIaterials                    2         1.5         0.8              0.7
Other Developments              1        0.6          -               0.6
19
Operating Expenses
International Staff            4         2.2         2.2               -
Local Staff                   26        16.9         2.4             14.5
Operating Costs                7         4.6          -               4.6
37
Farm Inputs
Seed                           -         0.2          -              0.2
Fertilizer/Insecticides        5         3.4         2.4              1.0
Medium-Term Inputs              1        0.5          -               0.5
6
Unallocated                   38        24.5         7.1             17.4
TOTAL STATE COMPONENT        100        64.0        19.1             44.9
Federal
B.   Federal Component (APMEPU)                                    Government
International Staff           13         0.8         0.8               -
Equipment                      6         0.4         0.3              0.1
Local Staff                    19        1.2         0.2              1.0
Operating Costs               23         1.4          -               1.4
Unallocated                   39         2.4         1.0              1.4
TOTAL FEDERAL COMPONENT    100           6.2         2.3              3.9
C.   Total Project                            70.2        21.4            48.8
--------- US$ Million --------
114.0        35.0            79.0
of which:  State Component (91%)    104.0           31.0             73.0
Federal Component (9%)    10.0           4.0              6.0



- 18 -
5.07      The Bank loan of US$35 million would be equivalent to the project
foreign exchange costs. The loan would be for 20 years, including 4.5 years
grace on repayment of principal. Part of the Bank loan (US$31 million) would
finance 30% of the State component costs net of taxes, and during negotiations
assurances were obtained that the amount would be relent by FMG to Benue State
under a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower and the State on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. It was also agreed that the signing
ot a subsidiary loan agreement would be a condition of effectiveness. The
remainder of the Bank loan (US$4 million) would finance 40% of the Federal
component costs net of taxes.
5.08      The remaining funds N 44.9 million (US$72.7 million) for the State
component would be financed through the State budget.  However, the State
would receive an FMG allocation of N 16 million (US$25.9 million), equivalent
to 25% of project costs. During negotiations assurances were obtained that
not less thlan N 16 million would be allocated in the FMG budget for this
purpose. FMG has already allocated N 9 million for the project under the
Third National Development Plan (1975-1980) and the balance would be allocated
under the Fourth Plan. The remaining funds N 3.9 million (US$6.3 million) for
the Federal component would be financed through FMG budget.
5.09      Farm inputs are costed on an incremental basis but fertilizers
are sold at subsidized prices. Therefore in addition to the financing of
project costs, an estimated N 5.3 million would be required to cover these
subsidies. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that FMG would
reimburse APMU for fertilizer subsidies no later than three months after
delivery to project stores.
5.10      The project would be implemented during the five-year period
1978-1982, but 1977 (Year 0) would be the start-up period, and expenditures
during Year 0 would be met totally by the State. To speed up project imple-
mentation, key international staff have already been recruited; and it was
agreed that retroactive financing of up to US$400,000 would be made avail-
able for recruitment costs and staff emoluments as of November 1, 1976 (when
recruitment procedures were initiated). A further US$150,000 would be allowed
retroactively for the purchase of an aircraft (para 4.18) to facilitate on-
going project operations and to ensure timely implementation of Ayangba and
Lafia.
Procuremient
5.11      Vehicles, tractors, road-making equipment, other equipment,
materials, fertilizer, 1/ insecticides and other farm inputs valued at about
US$13.4 million net of contingencies, and vehicles and equipment for APMEPU
valued at US$0.5 million, would be procured through international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines for those contracts valued over
1/ For further details clarifying fertilizer procurement, see Annex 8,
Appendix 1.



- 19 -
US$75,000, and through competitive bidding and in accordance with local pro-
cedures satisfactory to the Bank for contracts of less than US$75,000. For
contracts under US$10,000, direct competitive shopping would be employed.
Domestically manufactured goods would be allowed a 15% preference or the
applicable import duty, whichever is lower. Experience has shown that
contracts for buildings, houses and FSC complexes valued at US$11.0 million
are not attractive to foreign contractors due to dispersed locations, small
size of contracts and competitiveness of local contractors; such contracts
would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding. Construction
of roads and wells would be undertaken by the project on force account, a
practice that is proving successful on the northern projects. Construction
by force account is necessary due to the scattered nature of the works, the
need for fast and flexible construction, and the acute shortage of contractors
able or willing to undertake the work. A large part of project cost would be
salaries, operating expenses, training costs, nursery operations and seed
purchases valued at US$36.3 million, and for staff costs and operating ex-
penses of APMEPU valued at US$4.1 million, and are unsuitable for competitive
bidding. The services of consultants and expatriate staff valued at US$3.5
for the State component and US$1.4 million for APMU would be obtained in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. An amount of US$43.7
million would cover contingencies.
Disbursement
5.12      The Bank loan would be disbursed during the five-year period
1978-1982 as follows:
State Component
-    100% of the total foreign exchange costs of directly imported
vehicles and equipment and spare parts (or 70% of the costs of
these items if locally procured) totaling US$3.6 million.
-    100% of the total foreign exchange costs of directly imported
equipment, furnishings and materials (or 70% of the costs of
these items if locally procured) totaling US$1.3 million.
-    100% of the total foreign exchange costs of directly imported
fertilizer and insecticides calculated incrementally (or 70%
of the cost of these items if locally procured) totaling
US$3.9 million.
-    100% of the costs of internationally recruited staff, including
their salaries, allowances and recruitment costs, and of con-
sulting services and scholarships totaling US$3.5 million.
-    40% of the costs of buildings and houses totaling US$3.3 million.
-    15% of the costs of local staff totaling US$3.8 million.



- 20 -
Federal Component
100% of the total foreign exchange costs of directly imported
vehicles and equipment for APMEPU (or 70% of the cost of these
items if locally procured) totaling US$0.5 million.
100% of the costs of APMEPU internationally recruited staff
including their salaries, allowances and recruitment costs,
and of consulting services totaling US$1.4 million.
20% of the costs of local staff of APMEPU totaling US$0.4 million.
Unallocated
An unallocated amount of US$13.3 million.
5.13      Disbursements would be fully documented.  Disbursements against the
cost of local staff would be against certified records of expenditures, the
documentation of which would not be submitted to the Bank, but would be
retained by APMU and APMEPU for review by supervision missions and the
auditors.
Budgets, Accounts and Audits
5.14      Annual and quarterly budgets would be prepared by APMU for approval
by APEC. APMU would establish monthly cash flow statements which would be
submitted to APEC for monitoring, but would be authorized to operate on the
basis of these statements unless informed otherwise by the Chairman of APEC.
APMU would prepare for prompt submission to the Bank quarterly and annual
progress reports including summaries of project expenditures and use of
funds. Identical procedures would apply for APMEPU.
5.15      On the basis of the approved annual project budget, the State and
Federal Governments would make appropriate budgetary allocations and there-
after would make available to APMU all necessary funds quarterly and in
advance. Identical procedures would be followed by FMG for APMEPU. During
negotiations it was agreed that a project bank account would be established
with adequate funds as a condition of loan effectiveness.
5.16      APMU and APMEPU would keep adequate records to reflect, in accord-
ance with sound accounting practices, their operations and financial posi-
tion and would have these accounts audited by a firm of independent external
auditors acceptable to the Bank; the audited accounts and the auditor's
report would be submitted to the Bank within four months of the end of the
fiscal year. The project would maintain a central accounting system from
which would be drawn the project's consolidated statements. In addition,
project activities identified as potentially self-sustaining commercial units
such as farm input supply would have separate sets of financial statements
prepared along commercial lines. During negotiations assurances were ob-
tained that the requirements set out in paras 5.14, 5.15 and 5.16 would be
established to the satisfaction of the Bank.



- 21 -
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Organization
6.01      The project organization would be modeled on the three Northern
Agricultural Development Projects which so far have proved successful.
The project would be executed by a largely autonomous and independent unit
under the State Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR); and its
organization would consist of the Ayangba Project Executive Committee (APEC)
and the Ayangba Project Management Unit (APMU). During negotiations it was
agreed that as a condition of loan effectiveness Benue State would publish
in the Gazette a notice establishing APMU and APEC in a form and with powers
and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank.
6.02      APEC would have full authority for project execution and would
approve budgets, appoint senior staff, deal with major procurement matters
and award all large contracts. APEC membership would include: Permanent
Secretary, MANR (Chairman); one representative, each from the Ministries
of Finance and Economic Planning, Local Government, Works, and Trade, Indus-
tries and Cooperatives; a representative of the Water Board; four representa-
tives of the project area appointed by the Military Governor upon recommenda-
tion of the LGC Advisory Committees; Chief Agricultural Officer; Chief Veter-
inary Officer; Chief Conservator of Forests; Chief Fisheries Officer; Project
Manager; and the Project's Director of Administration (Secretary).
6.03      Project organization is detailed in Annex 7 and Supplement 10, and
consists of four major departments: Administration, Commercial Services,
Development Services, and Engineering. In addition, an Evaluation Officer and
a Stores Control Officer would be responsible directly to the Project Manager.
6.04      Relations with the local people would be maintained through four
Local Advisory Committees. Membership of each advisory committee would
include: the Chairman of LGC as Chairman; two representatives of LGC; re-
presentative of the cooperative union; all District Heads; the four project
Department Directors; and a Senior Administration Officer (Secretary).
6.05      Except for the State forest reserves and the Alloma Oil Palm Estate,
all existing MANR facilities would be brought under the control of APMU.
Staffing
6.06      A high level of management efficiency and technical competence
would be required as the project is both large and complex. Well-educated
and trained personnel are available in Nigeria but, because of fast economic
growth particularly in the industrial sector, the creation of seven new
States, and the difficulty of employing personnel from other States, demand on
available manpower is high. The most critical period will be the start-up
year and the subsequent two or three years of project implementation when
basic structures have to be developed, systems tested and modified, and staff
trained at all levels. Although, where possible, qualified and experienced
Nigerians would be recruited, many key positions would have to be filled



- 22 -
through inLevnational recruitment.  Key project staff comprise the Project
Manager and -;- e Heads of Administration, Commercial Services, Development
Services, and Engineering Departments, and during negotiations assurances
were obtained that they would be appointed with qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of service satisfactory to the Bank, and that staff
appointments for the Heads of all Divisions (Annex 7, Table 2) would be
suitably qualified and experienced and would be appointed by APEC in con-
sultation with the Project Manager. Qualifications and job descriptions for
all senior staff have been prepared and are in the supplementary annexes.
6.07      The Agricultural Projects Management Unit of the Bank's West African
Region is assisting in recruitment and contract administration of international
staff, and is currently advertising for and recruiting staff for the project.
Internationally recruited staff would be employed either under direct Govern-
ment contract or seconded under standard World Bank secondment contract.
Staff cost would be debited against the special prefinancing fund, established
under a memorandum of understanding of June 30, 1975, between the Bank and
FMG, which will be replenished when the loan becomes effective.
6.08      Local staff recruitment and terms and conditions of employment
would vary. Those employed by the State Government would be transferred to
the project; incentives including housing allowances and higher salary levels
would be provided. Other staff would be directly recruited and employed on
three-year renewable contracts. During negotiations assurances were obtained
that Government would transfer adequate numbers of competent staff to APMU.
Input Delivery and Credit Arrangements
6.09      The project would be responsible for procurement, distribution and
sale of fertilizers, seeds, insecticides, sprayers and other farm inputs and
equipment. Distribution would be made through the Farmers Service Centers
(FSCs), of which 30 would be built under the project (see para 4.16). Gener-
ally five FSCs would be supervised and coordinated by a Development Center
(DC).
6.10      An Assistant Agricultural Superintendent would be responsible for
FSC operation and its staff, including a Storekeeper, Salesman and, as of Year
3, a Marketing Assistant. DC staffing would involve an Agricultural Superin-
tendent, a Sales Supervisor, a Marketing Advisor, and a Credit Officer and
Credit Assistants. Marketing staff would build up during the project period,
initially at DC level.
6.11      A radio link would be established with APMEPU in Kaduna to provide
good communications and to make the project delivery system more effective.
Internal project radio networks would link DCs with project headquarters and,
through vehicle radios, with senior staff and road brigades.
6.12      Issues relating to fundamental policy questions, including subsidies
and interest rates, are referred to at Chapter II. Current Government policies



- 23 -
are unavoidable and have to be reflected at project level. Consequently
at current fertilizer subsidy levels (80%), it is unlikely that seasonal
credit would be required, and where possible, sales would be on a cash basis,
although deferred payment against a 10% price markup would be available for
group orders. Medium to long term credit (maximum five-year loan) would be
available to farmers and farmers groups, under advisement from the project's
farm advisory service, for land clearing, sprayers, farm equipment and for
storage improvement. Farmers would pay a 10% service charge and in general
interest rates would follow the Nigerian Agricultural Bank rate and would vary
between 5.5% and 9% per annum, with the specific rate to be charged in any
year to be determined by APEC. Within the above parameters, the farm advisory
service would determine the detailed terms of each loan. Where possible, and
following the lead of the ongoing projects, the commercial banks and NAB would
be encouraged to take responsibility for servicing the medium and long term
credit requirements as and when demand grows.
Postproject Development
6.13      There are two possible alternatives for postproject development
after 1982. A second phase project could be contemplated, in which case the
proposed project organization would be continued.  Alternatively, the project
unit could be partly dismantled and road and well maintenance could revert
to LGC. The commercial department could be incorporated as a company to
provide inputs, credit and marketing services to farmers on a commercial
basis. The administration and development services departments could remain
under MANR or might conceivably be handed over to LGC. Indications from the
ongoing Northern Agricultural Development Projects are that State and Federal
Governments are aware of possible postproject development problems and a
flexible approach is being taken early in the implementation cycle to test
possible solutions, and it is likely that the final outcome could, with
some modifications, be replicated for Ayangba. Assurances were obtained
that before the end of the project period (1981) agreement would be reached
between FMG, the State Government and the Bank on the future of the project.
VII. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, FARMER BENEFITS, AND FINANCIAL
INPLICATIONS FOR GOVERNMENT
Yields and Production
7.01      Due to the complexity of cropping patterns throughout the project
area, the expected incremental production is difficult to estimate. From
research data and other information, yield potentials have been assessed
and are presented as single crop hectare budgets in Annex 2. An estimated
300,000 ha is cultivated in the area, 185,000 ha under full season crops, and
165,000 ha under early and late season crops. Farmers grow a whole range of
crops, the proportion changing annually depending on family and market needs.
Production forecasts have been set, partly determined on the basis of good
farmers' response in the Northern Agricultural Projects, and provide a logical
parameter within which input requirements and benefits are estimated.



- 24 -
Total area cropped annually would be 440,000 ha, of which 100,000 ha (23%) is
estimated to give improved and advanced yields under the project. This covers
the major crops although development of other crops would not be excluded.
Areas developed during the project period, estimated yields and incremental
production are summarized (for details see Annex 2) below:
Without /a                                        Incremental /b
Project      With Project at Full Development   Production
Traditional   Traditional  Improved   Advanced  Due to Project
area yield/ area yield/ area yield/ area yield/ tons '000
ha   ha      ha      ha    ha    ha    ha    ha
'000  tons    '000  tons   '000  tons  '000  tons
Full Season Crops
Yams                45.0   6.0   25.0  6.0    20.0  13.0    -    -           92.0
Cassava             60.0   5.0   45.0  5.0    10.0  10.0    5   15.0    100.0
Rice                15.0   0.8    4.0  0.8       8.0   1.8    3    2.5       12.8
Early Season Crops
Maize               90.0   0.75  57.0  0.75   18.0   1.75   -    -            6.5
Melon               15.0   0.35   9.0  0.35    6.0   0.70   -    -            2.1
Late Season Crops
Sorghum             22.5   0.60  16.5  0.60    6.0   1.20   -    -            3.4
Maize               75.0   0.60  57.0  0.60   18.0   1.75   -    -           19.6
Cowpeas             15.0   0.25   9.0  0.25    6.0   1.50   -    -            6.8
Benniseed            7.5   0.23   4.5  0.23    3.0   0.60   -    -            1.1
/a   All crop yields estimated at 'traditional' levels.
/b   Net of seed supply and storage losses.
7.02      In the forestry plantations  an eight-year cutting cycle is
assumsd. Growth is estimated at 15 m /ha annually, which would produce
120 m /hi, giving an estimated produce mix of 1,000 poles (4 m x 12 cm)
and 80 m firewood. An average 30-acre fishing lagoon is estimated to
yield 20 tons of fish annually. Benefits from poultry and livestock
are insignificant and difficult to quantify at this stage.
Markets and Prices
7.03      Annual incremental grain and rootcrop production generated by the
project is expected, in Year 5, to reach 52,000 tons and 192,000 tons respec-
tively. Though substantial this should be readily absorbed without a signif-
icant impact on domestic priceq. Consumption in the area is expected to
increase but there are also nearby market outlets. Food supply and demand
forecasts in Nigeria'indicate that with a rising market-dependent urban



- 25 -
population, foodcrop deficits of 1.2 million tons of grains and 2.5 million
tons of roots can be expected by 1985, unless present levels of productivity
are increased. As a rule foodcrops such as those supported by the project
are traded through regular private channels. Marketing arrangements and
facilities although adequate would be further improved through project
actions.
7.04      Prices for various crops, detailed in Annex 12, are based on
IBRD forecasts, or on retail value in Nigeria. Farmgate prices used
are forecasts for 1980 in 1976 constant terms summarized as follows:
Economic              Financial
1976          1980    1976             1980
------- Constant 1976 Naira/ton --------
Yams (domestic retail)              74            67       68              61
Cassava (domestic retail)           23            22       20              19
Husk Rice (import substi-
tution)                           99            143.5   202.5 2/         135.5
Early Maize 1/ (import
substitution)                      93            92       91              90
Millet (domestic retail)           103            99.5    95               92
Melon (domestic retail)            310           291      288             268
Sorghum (import substitution)    98.5             95      101.5            98
Late Maize 1/ (import
substitution)                      97            96.5    95.5             94
Cowpeas (domestic retail)          188           181      174             167
Benniseed (export parity)          175           175      257.5 3/        158.5
1/   Difference due to different estimates for storage losses.
2/   Based on prices presently paid by millers.
3/   Based on Marketing Board intervention price.
Farm Benefits
7.05      Typical farm models have not been prepared, as farm sizes and
production patterns vary considerably. Direct benefits to farmers are
evaluated from single crop budgets and overall benefits on the basis of
these budgets and assumed adoption rates for various crops. Net returns
at actual farmgate prices per hectare and per manday resulting from the
proposed technology improvements are summarized below (details in Annex 2):



- 26 -
Incremental
Without Project              With Project           Return
Net Return  Net Return   Net Return  Net Return  Per Incremental
Per Hectare  Per Manday  Per Hectare Per Manday        Manday
____________________--------- Naira ---------------------------
Yams                274          1.6         612           2.4           4.5
Cassava
(improved)           95          1.1         190           1.5          2.4
Cassava
(advanced)                                  271            1.8          4.1
Rice
(improved)         157          1.4        346           2.2           4.2
Rice (advanced)                              475           2.7           4.9
Maize (early
season)             65          1.0         145           1.5          2.7
Maize (late
season)             55          1.0         151           1.7           2.8
Melon                94          1.3         184           1.7           2.3
Sorghum              58          1.1         110           1.4           2.1
Cowpeas              40          0.7         226           1.8           2.7
Benniseed            57          1.3         147           2.3           4.5
7.06      Based on a hypothetical 2 ha farm that has a typical cropping
pattern for the area, farm incomes would increase from N 236 (US$382) to N 337
(US$546) or 43%. Per capita incomes (average family size estimated at 5.5)
would increase from N 43 (US$70) to N 61 (US$99).
Financial Implications for Government
7.07      The project does not increase directly-generated revenue to Govern-
ment as there are no taxes or cesses on farmers' produce. However, evidence
from the ongoing projects suggests that considerable secondary economic
activity develops within the vicinity of the project, with the development
of commercial servicing agencies and minor industries; and there is a marked
increase in consumer goods supply. Indirect Government taxation must there-
fore increase considerably. Costs would be recovered where practical; for
example, tree seedlings would be sold at full cost, and levies would be
charged for fishing the lagoons. During negotiations assurances were ob-
tained that commercial charges reflecting full production costs (see paras
4.07 and 4.08) would be charged for tree seedlings; fees would be levied for
fishing the lagoons (see para 4.09); income from additional sales would cover
costs of poultry units (see para 4.06), and cost recovery procedures for the
above and other FSC-supplied farm inputs would be reviewed annually with the
Bank. Cash flows for the Federal and State Governments are at Annex 11. As
expected, substantial negative balances are accrued to both the Federal and
State Government budgets. Certain reductions could be made if for example
fertilizer subsidies were reduced. However, generally these negative cash
flows are typical of such a project, and under present Nigerian circumstances



- 27 -
can be justified as a means of transferring oil revenues to the rural popula-
tion. In summary the State Government would provide an average of N 5.8
million (US$9.4 million) per annum during the project development period, and
thereafter N 3.0 million (US$4.8 million) annually, in order to maintain its
services in the area. The Federal Government would provide, during project
implementation, 25% of total project costs, N 2.5 million (US$4 million)
annually, and a rising subsidy payment, leveling off at N 2.2 million (US$3.6
million) per annum in the fifth year of the project. Servicing of the Bank
loan, included in the above State Government cash flow, would peak at N 3.0
million in Year 5, with a gradual decrease to N 1.7 million in Year 20.
VIII. BENEFITS ANID JUSTIFICATION
8.01      The project would in one way or another benefit some 150,000 farm
families by providing improved services and a means to improve farm incomes.
Direct project benefits would be an annual incremental production at full
development of 92,000 tons of yams; 100,000 tons of cassava; 12,800 tons of
rice; 26,100 tons of maize; 2,100 tons of melon; 3,400 tons of sorghum; 6,800
tons of cowpeas and 1,100 tons of benniseed; partly offset by a reduction in
millet output of 3,200 tons. At full development, fish catches are estimated
at 300 tons annually. Since most production would be traded locally, foreign
exchange savings/earnings would be a modest US$9.0 million.
8.02      The project would have substantial secondary but largely unquanti-
fiable benefits. The project area would benefit from infrastructure improve-
ments including roads and water supplies. The development of farmer groups
would provide a better basis for economic farm support services, and the
project would strengthen the agricultural, technical, managerial, and planning
capabilities in the State.
8.03      The economic rate of return is estimated at 27%.  Principal
assumptions are in Annex 13, including the sensitivity analysis which shows
that the rate of return remains attractive even under adverse circumstances.
A 20% reduction in benefits together with a 20% increase in costs reduces
the rate of return to 16%. Delayed benefits of one year result in a rate
of return of 21%. The rates of return for forestry plantations and fishery
lagoons are 10.4% and 22% respectively. If livestock, forestry and fishery
development and research and evaluation are excluded, the rate of return
becomes 35%. The high rate of return is consistent with similar ongoing
projects in northern Nigeria where farmer response has been good. High re-
turns are due to minimal long-term farm investments, and to dramatic yield
increases due to new, but relatively simple and low cost, technological
introductions applied to annual crops that currently have very low yields.
Even so farmers' response estimates are difficult to assess accurately; how-
ever, analysis shows that if project administration and service costs remain
constant, but response is lower than anticipated with a commensurate reduction



- 28 -
in farm inputs, the project would still be economically viable (12% economic
rate of return) if the area under improved production were proportionately
reduced from 100,000 ha to 40,000 ha.
8.04      Smallholder agricultural development projects are inherently and
conceptually complex and full attainment of project benefits might con-
ceivably be jeopardized by risks and uncertainties, particularly through
delays in implementation and inadequate staffing. Risks due to technical
weaknesses are less, as the technical packages are fairly simple and based
on research data and experience obtained elsewhere in Nigeria. A major
advantage for project implementation will be the experience to date with
the Northern Agricultural Development Projects.
IX. RECOMMENDATIONS AND AGREEMENTS REACHED
9.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained from Government
that:
(a)  the loan would be relent by FMG to Benue State under a
subsidiary loan agreement on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank (AR para 5.07; LA section 3.01(c)); 1/
(b)  FMG would allocate in its budget not less than N 16 million
towards the cost of the State component (AR para 5.08; LA
section 3.02);
(c) FMG would reimburse APMU for fertilizer subsidies no
later than three months after delivery to project stores
(AR para 5.09; LA section 3.04 );
(d) budgetary, accounting and reporting procedures would be
satisfactory to the Bank; that accounts would be audited
by independent auditors, and that the audited accounts
and auditor's report would be submitted to the Bank within
four months of the end of the final year (AR paras 5.14, 5.15
and 5.16; LA sections 3.06 and 3.07; PA sections 3.02 and 3.03);
(e) the Project Manager and the Heads of Administration, Commer-
cial Services, Development Services and Engineering would be
appointed with qualifications, experience and terms and con-
ditions of service satisfactory to the Bank (AR para 6.06;
PA section 2.03(a));
(f) staff appointments for the Heads of all Divisions would be
suitably qualified and experienced and would be appointed
by APEC in consultation with the Project Manager (AR para 6.06;
PA section 2.03(b));
I/ AR = appraisal report; LA = loan agreement; PA = project agreement.



- 29 -
(g)  the State Government would transfer adequate numbers of com-
petent staff to APMU (AP para 6.08; PA section 2.03(c));
(h)  before the end of the project period (1981) agreement would be
reached among FMG, the State Government and the Bank on the
future of the project (AR para 6.13; LA section 3.05; PA
section 2.06); and
(i)  commercial charges reflecting full production costs would be
charged for tree seedlings, and fees would be levied for fish-
ing the lagoons; that income from additional sales would cover
costs of poultry units; and that cost recovery procedures for
the above and other FSC supplied farm inputs would be reviewed
annually with the Bank (AR para 7.07; PA section 3.04).
9.02      During negotiations it was agreed that conditions of loan effec-
tiveness would include:
(a)  the signing of the subsidiary loan agreement between FMG
and Benue State (AR para 5.07; LA section 6.01(b));
(b)  Benue State establishing with adequate funds a project
bank account (AR para 5.15; LA 6.01(c)); and
(c)  Benue State publishing in the Gazette a notice establishing
APMU and APEC in a form and with powers and responsibilities
acceptable to the Bank (AR para 6.01; LA section 6.01(d);
PA section 2.02).
9.03       It was agreed that as of November 1, 1976, retroactive financing
of up to US$550,000 would be made for the appointment of key international
staff and the purchase of an aircraft for APMEPU (AR para 5.10; LA Schedule 1,
para 4). The cost of international staff would be funded from the prefinanc-
ing fund established under a memorandum of understanding of June 30, 1975
between the Bank and FMG. This fund would be reimbursed from the loan account
following effectiveness (AR para 6.07).
9.04      On the basis of the above assurances and conditions the project
would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$35 million.






ANNEX 1
NIGERIA
BENUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Area
A. Description
1.        Location.  The project lies between latitudes 6 20' and 8 002' N and
and longitudes 6 42' and 7051' E, occupying a total of 1,315,000 hectares.
It comprises the whole of Ankpa, Dekina, Idah and Bassa Local Government
Council (LGC) areas 1/ containing a total of 20 administrative districts.
To the north and west the area is bounded by the Benue and Niger rivers and
the southern boundary forms the frontier with Anambra State. The eastern
boundary adjoins Oturkpo division. The most prominent feature of the area is
the Ankpa Plateau which rises to over 500 m. The gentle to steeply undulating
topography of the Plateau descends into the deeply dissected piedmont, before
leveling once again into the lowland plains that border the Benue and Niger
rivers. Elevation at the rivers' confluence is 40 m.
2.        Climate.  The normal convectional rainfall of the area is slightly
modified by the Plateau, which occupies the southern half of Ankpa division,
and the northeastern part of Idah division. Rainfall in the Plateau area is
generally higher with a more distinct bimodal distribution. At lower eleva-
tion northwards to the Benue river and westward to the Niger river, rainfall
decreases slightly and the bimodal pattern is less distinct. Very little rain
falls between November and January. Rainfall commences in February but it is
not agriculturally effective until early April after which it increases to a
peak in September, and thereafter diminishes rapidly, and effectively ceases
by the end of October. There is a well-defined rainfall trough in the Plateau
area in late July and August. In the west and south a slight trough may occur
in July/August. In the north and northwest a less defined trough gives a more
monomodal type of climate. Rainfall patterns are graphically presented in
Chart 16363 attached to this annex. Rainfall figures for stations in, or
relevant to, the project area are: Ankpa 1,366 mm; Dekina 1,198 mm; Idah
1,266 mm; Lokoja 1,180 mm; and Abejukolo 1,210 mm. Details are in Table 1.
The highest recorded annual rainfalls for Ankpa and Idah are 2,085 mm and
1,772 mm respectively, while the lowest are 730 mm and 590 mm respectively.
1/   These four LGC areas formed the Igala province before the creation of
the States.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
3.        Sunlight hours and radiation are highest in the dry months of
November to March with a December average of 8.4 hours. It decreases from
April to a low of about 4.7 hours in August. Between July and September,
average sunlight hours are about 5 per day. Mean air temperatures show a
bimodal character.  The highest temperatures (300 C) are in March.  With the
onset of the planting rains, air temperatures begin to decline and reach a
low of about 250 C or less in August. They then rise again to a high of
about 270 C in October.  Diurnal ranges in temperature vary between 100 C and
250 C with the lowest in July and the highest in January.
4.        Soils.  The soils of the project area are derived from cretaceous
sedimentary deposits of sandstones, mudstones and shales. They are generally
ferruginous, free draining, low in available plant nutrients and strongly
acid (pH 4.5 to 5.5). Soil differences are mainly associated with topography.
At higher elevations with rolling hills, the soil surface becomes coarse-
textured and medium to large sheets of iron pans occur usually as cappings to
mesas; at medium elevations coarse-textured soils are found overlying fine-
textured, deep, well-drained horizons. No ironstone outcrops occur except in
areas of very rolling topography. Generally, on the fairly level to gently
sloping land on which most of the farming is done, the soils are sandy and
deep with no ironstone concretions. On the flat flood plains of the main
streams, deep, imperfectly-drained alluvial soils are found.
5.        Very little cultivation is practiced on steep slopes.  Farming is
concentrated on flat to moderately sloping areas and as a result there are
very few signs of erosion. Soil erosion is largely contained because of high
soil permeability and gentle relief, but farmers should be educated to ridge
along the contours. The high permeability of the soils, their low pH and
organic-matter content and high content of iron oxides make them poor in their
ability to retain inorganic fertilizers and causes problems of phosphorous
fixation; this would need to be carefully investigated during project imple-
mentation to determine the most suitable method of fertilizer application
and whether the use of non-acidifying fertilizers is advisable. The low
soil organic-matter content and adverse soil temperatures at the onset of
the rains could be improved by returning crop residues and vegetable matter
to the soil, and disturbing the soil structures as little as possible. Yam
mounds are made this way by sandwiching vegetative matter between unbroken
slices of soil and capping the mounds with a grass mulch. Less care is taken,
however, when preparing ridges for cereal crops. In this respect, minimum
tillage practices could have an important role in the project. There are
many practical problems, however, in applying these techniques on a tropical
smallholding, particularly in dealing with crop residues, using hand tools,
and training farmers in herbicide application. In addition, yam mounds will
still need forming and subsequently breaking down into ridges.
6.        A land resource survey of central Nigeria is currently being under-
taken by the Land Resources Division of the UK Ministry of Overseas Develop-
ment. This survey covers the project area and although an official report



ANNEX 1
Page 3
has not yet been published, a soil classification map has been completed and
is reproduced in Map 12334 attached to this annex. The related soil classifi-
cation is in Table 2.
7.        Ecology.  Most of the Plateau area lies within the derived Savannah
Zone with remnants of primary forest which covered much of the area until
some 40 years ago. The remaining areas of high forest, rich in commercially
exploitable timber, are now largely contained within gazetted forest reserves,
though isolated forest trees including Clorophora, Antiaris, Triplochiton,
Nauclea and Khaya, are found on the cleared farms. Farm fallows revert to a
dense thicket in which Elaeis (oil palm), Anthocleista, Ricinodendron and
Chlorophora are found, although in many areas Eupatorium is the colonizer to
the exclusion of other species; the dominant tree, however, is the oil palm,
both singly and in dense groves. A closed savannah woodland with Daniella,
Lophira, Crossoptervx. Detarium and Terminalia latifolia is found on the
more elevated lateritic soils.
8.        To the north of the Plateau, roughly separated by the 1250 mm iso-
hyet line, the area descends through steeply dissected foothills into the
Southern Guinea zone with open savannah woodland containing Uapaca spp.,
Lophira lanceolata, Butyrospermum Parkii (shea nut), Detarium senegalense,
Daniellia oliveri and Bridelia sp., with a light herb layer and fairly dense
coarse perennial grasses. Along and near watercourses, remnants of oil
palm groves (Elaeis quineensis) and fan palm groves (Borassus aethippum)
appear, usually as isolated trees. Where cultivation is intense there is
widespread inversion of Imperata (spear grass).
9.        Population.  People in the area are predominantly of the Igala tribe
though Bassa Komo and Bassa Nge are numerically important in the lowland
areas of Dekina Division. Most of the population is concentrated in large
nucleated villages with outlying hamlets, though temporary houses may be used
during the growing season when distant fields are cultivated.
10.       A notable feature of the population is a large, but unquantified,
floating labor force which annualy migrates to the Western State cocoa grow-
ing areas, attracted by higher wage rates than obtainable from farming. Dura-
tion of absence can extend to 11 months and local shortage of farm labor is
a common complaint from farmers, especially in less densely settled areas.
11.       No recent population figures are available because the results of
the 1973 census, although subjected to postsurvey evaluation, have not been
published and are not available for planning purposes. The only census fi-
gures available are those for 1963, which show a total population of 684,880
for the three divisions as follows: Ankpa, 264,877; Dekina,-188,703; and
Idah, 231,300. Population estimates are, therefore, necessarily tentative.
The 1973 population was estimated using a 2.6% growth rate, followed by a 2%
growth rate for 1973-1980 to reflect migration from the area. On this basis,
the area's total population is estimated at 1 million in 1980. With about
80% of the population engaged in rural activities and a family size of 6 to 7
the number of rural families would be about 150,000 by 1980, cultivating
approximately 300,000ha (based on an average holding size of 2 ha). Details
are in Table 3.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
12.        Services.  General communications are unsatisfactory; there are no
telephone links and postal services are unreliable. This problem is com-
pounded by the area's unfavorable location in regard to general access to
the north and west. Indeed the Niger and Benue rivers represent a psycholo-
gical as well as physical barrier to communication with the ferry crossing to
Lokoja taking at best over 1-1/2 hours and often ceasing for many days during
the dry season when the river becomes too shallow for water transport.
13.        The project area is served by road and river transport.  Roads are
the most important transport modes both in terms of volume and provision of
access to inhabited areas. Connections between the project area and other
parts of the country are largely satisfactory towards the south and east,
but the Benue and Niger rivers, forming about half of the area's border, are
considerable obstacles to communications to the north and west. Two ferry
services, one at Lokoja and the other at Idah, link the road network in the
project area with that of western Nigeria, but there are no connections to
the north except via the bridge at Makurdi some 180 km east of the area.
Transit traffic is therefore limited, and the main cattle routes to the south
bypass the area. The Federal trunk road from Oturkpo to Lokoja passes through
the project area and through Ayangba, where project headquarters will be lo-
cated. Federal roads are well built, and adequately maintained, and the State
Government is engaged in an extensive improvement program to bring the State
roads to bituminous surface standards. However, both those State roads are
not yet under this program and Local Government Council (LGC) roads are badly
maintained, and during the rainy season many roads are impassable. All trans-
portation of goods by road is controlled by private transport firms or indi-
vidual truckers. Bus services, largely unscheduled and operated by owner/
drivers, provide passenger transport to most important villages when roads
are motorable.  River transport is minimal and is virutally limited to serving
the road links across the Niger. The road network in the area is composed as
follows:  Federal roads, 240 km; State roads, 477 km; LGC roads, 895 km; and
community roads, 1,500 km. For more details on roads and road development,
see Annex 6.
14.       Water supplies are unsatisfactory with most of the rural population
relying on surface sources which are often distant and seasonal. Daily treks
of several kilometers are not uncommon, and in some Plateau villages, water
is sold from private bowsers and commands high prices. Borehole schemes were
installed on the Plateau in 1960 but none are now operative while a large
number, sunk between 1954 and 1965, have not yet been fitted with pumps and
distribution facilities. However, work is now underway to rehabilitate these
boreholes, and by end-1977 all 27 boreholes on the Plateau should be opera-
tive. This should safeguard water supply in the Plateau area.
15.        Education and health facilities are also rudimentary, though con-
siderable expansion is planned under the Five-Year Development Plan and under
the program for Universal Primary Education.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
16.       There is no electrical distribution system though a Rural Elec-
trification Program is included in the Third Five-Year Development Plan.
B. Agriculture
17.       Farming Systems.  The agricultural economy is based on cereal,
root, and legume production with supplementary income derived from wild and
planted tree crops, small stock and river fishing. Production is entirely
in the hands of small cultivators using low technology and achieving their
subsistence requirements and some surplus for sale from a varied range of
crops and cropping practices.
18.       Marked differences in cropping patterns are found in different
ecological zones though production techniques are comparable. Intercropping
is commonly practiced, and farmers exploit the long growing season to achieve
two harvests through a system of relay cropping and undersowing of short
duration crops. Production systems are based on bush/fallow cultivation in
which land is cropped for 4 to 7 years, then rested for 3 to 5 years. In
areas of dense population more continuous cultivation is practiced and fer-
tility is supplemented by household wastes, small stock manure and vegeta-
tive growth, principally Eupatorium odoratum, which is slashed and left for
termites to convert into humus.
19.       Production is primarily oriented towards subsistence security.  Poor
soil conditions, seasonal vagaries and low average incomes combine to create
an environment in which technological adventure is highly risk discounted.
20.       A few small surveys have been undertaken previously, but all lack
sufficient scale or detailed breakdown of the the farming system to permit any
form of quantifiable assessment of the crop production complex. Considerable
primary data collection was undertaken by the preparation mission and an
analysis of 1963 air photographs and other data indicated an average farm size
of about 2 ha.
21.       Agriculture is considered a task for men.  Practices vary with dis-
tricts but women do not regularly work in the fields, their family role being
mainly confined to domestic chores.
22.       Annual Crops.  Cereal production is widespread, with maize, millet
and sorghum occupying around 40% of the annual cropped area. Millet is mainly
grown as an early crop but is secondary in importance to early maize, most of
which is harvested as a green crop and finds a ready market. Late maize,
grown almost entirely as a grain crop, is widespread in the Plateau zone but
is replaced by tall sorghum in the piedmont and lowland areas. Rice is an
important source of food and cash income, and is grown on the lowland hydro-
morphic soils where rainfall is naturally supplemented by lateral run-off.



ANNEX I
Page 6
23.       Root crops occupy a prominent position in the economy and a large
proportion of cash income is derived from the lucrative yam, though its culti-
vation is restricted to the more fertile areas, where it is usually grown
as the first crop of the bush/fallow rotation. Cassava is the basic staple
food and is widespread in all areas, often growing as an end-of-rotation
crop when fertility has been depleted to the extent that little else will
grow. Cassava is much valued due to its reliable yield and its suitability
for inground storage, thus serving as a secure food reserve which can be
harvested as and when needs require. Cocoyam is commonly grown in the palm
groves of the Plateau zone and as a compound crop but is is not often traded.
24.       Cowpeas are widely planted as an intercrop and are often grown in
pure stand, particularly in the Plateau zone. Pigeon peas are widespread in
the piedmont zone, common on the Plateau, but only occasionally planted in
the lowlands. A diverse range of crops makes up the remainder: cotton,
once a major cash crop, is now of minor importance; good stands of tobacco
are seen but usually in small compound plots; and bambara nuts, which sup-
port a steady local trade, are an important crop in the Plateau zone.
25.       Tree Crops.  Wild oil palm groves occur throughout the Plateau zone
and provide a substantial source of income for Plateau farmers; oil is pro-
cessed traditionally for domestic uses and trading, and kernels are sold to
Licensed Buying Agents at gazetted inspection stations. Traditional process-
ing is practiced since three 'pioneer' oil palm mills established by the New
Nigeria Development Corporation have now closed down. Harvestings from other
wild trees such as shea and kola make small contributions to income. Planta-
tion tree crops are not common, though some coffee, cocoa and improved palm
have been established. There is a thriving local trade in citrus.
26.       Livestock Production.  There is no integration of crop and live-
stock farming in its true sense. The small local cattle population is en-
tirely in the hands of Fulani pastoralists and although the cattle are wel-
comed for their manure value during the dry season when they browse and feed
on crop residues, the agriculturists have neither tradition nor interest in
handling cattle themselves. Small stock and poultry which are kept by most
of the agriculturists survive mainly as scavengers around the homestead
and adjacent lands.
27.       The area lies entirely within the documented limits of Glossina
distribution and traditionally the cattle population consists almost entirely
of migratory herds, which cross the Benue during the fly-free dry season.
The movement has now diminished, but during the last decade there has been
a reduction in incidence of trypanosomiasis and a small sedentary herd now
remains throughout the year, confined to the lowland zone of the Guinea
Savannah and the Benue flood plains.
28.       There are no reliable statistics on cattle numbers in the area but
they are believed to total about 10,000 head. Small stock estimates are
39,000 goats, 20,000 sheep and 4,000 pigs; poultry is common in most villages,
but their numbers are unknown.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
29.       There was a trade route passing through the area coming via Makurdi
through Ankpa and on to Idah. There are no check points but some staging
posts have shelters for herdsmen and surface water available for livestock.
From figures from the Idah check point it is clear that this route has been
declining in importance and has presently almost ceased to exist. Since the
end of the Civil War, the cattle can once more move due south from Makurdi
to the southern markets, and thus no longer pass through the project area.
30.       Fishing.  Fishing is an important industry along the Benue river
and Niger rivers. Little information is available on size and composition
of catches or on the numbers of full and part-time fishermen. The latter,
however, are most common and many migrate to the Benue and Niger rivers during
the dry season both from within and outside the State. The most important
fishing locations are in the swamp and flood areas which become inundated
during the wet season to form perennial pools or shallow swamps with dense
plankton population on which the fish thrive. Fishermen use a wide variety of
fishing gear, and techniques vary with the changing season. Much of the catch
is sold as dried fish, for which there is a strong demand in markets within
and outside the area.
31.       Land Tenure.  Land is a communal asset and is allocated to community
members according to customary usufruct. Responsibility for allocation lies
with the Local Government Council (LGC) and is administered at the local
level by village chiefs and headmen. The right to cultivate usually carries
the right to harvest any economic trees, though the felling of certain species
protected under forestry legislation requires LGC permission and payment of a
scheduled fee.
32.       Land rights are inheritable and while in most areas cultivable soil
is relatively abundant, it is rarely unclaimed. Inheritance is primogenitary
and present distribution is not entirely equitable, large families commonly
begging or hiring additional areas from more favourably endowed relatives
and friends.
33.       Land tenure does not constitute an important constraint to develop-
ment, however, and a revision of tenure law is neither necessary at this
stage of development nor possible in the absence of specific Government
policy. Certain aspects require clarification, however, such as ownership
rights for farmer planted tree species that are presently scheduled as pro-
tected trees with felling revenues paid to the LGC. The project would also
need to monitor land settlement developments closely and to asist Government
in long-term policy formulation.
C. Institutions
34.       Some of the major institutions present in the project area, and
their respective responsibilities, are described below. It should be noted
that Benue State is a new state and that Makurdi became a state capital only



ANNEX 1
Page 8
in April 1976. All state infrastructure therefore has to be built up from
zero. A remarkable effort has been made, but most institutions are of ne-
cessity new and in the process of settling in.
35.        Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR). MANR is
responsible for State agriculture, livestock, and forestry development and
its authority is directed through a Commissioner and Permanent Secretary to
the following divisions: Agricultural Services, Fisheries, Forestry, Pro-
duce Inspection and Veterinary, with necessary administrative and accounting
backup. All divisions report directly to the Permanent Secretary. The
Agricultural Services Division incorporates a planning unit and has wide-
ranging responsibilities including extension, irrigation, mechanization and
fertilizer procurement and distribution. MANR would have responsibility for
project implementation, and existing technical. staff in the area involved in
development activities to be expanded by the project would transfer or be
seconded to direct project administration, except for staff engaged in forest
reserve management and the Alloma oil palm estate (for details see Table 4).
36.       Ministry of Works (MOW). MOW is responsible for undertaking all
State-financed public works programs. Maintenance operations within the pro-
ject area are undertaken by divisional branches of MOW.
37.       Ministry of Trade, Industry and Cooperatives.  This Ministry admin-
isters the Small Industries Credit Scheme which also provides finance for
agro-industrial ventures. The scheme is expected to remain a continuing
source of funds for such acitivites. The Registrar of Cooperatives is re-
sponsible for supervising the cooperative movement in the State. Cooperatives
are not strong in the project area, but there is a strong farmer group move-
ment.  Government is keen to revive the cooperative movement, but has not yet
determined whether the existing farmer groups should be incorporated.
38.       Cooperatives and Farmer Groups.  There are presently 136 primary
cooperatives, with a combined membership of 9,000 in the project area, that
were originally affiliated with the Igala Cooperative Credit and Marketing
Union (ICCMU). ICCMU has been divided into three divisional unions, but
dividing assets and liabilities equitably still remains a problem.
39.       The Roman Catholic mission has successfully sponsored group forma-
tion in the area. The Farmers Councils are small groups (10-25 farmers) and
cater to the basic needs of the community; overheads are minimal and farmers
have confidence in their organizers' genuine interest in development. The
network consists of 43 zonal committees, 625 Farmers Councils and about 10,000
farmers.
40.       Local Government Council (LGC).  There are four areas, each adminis-
tered by its own LGC, situated in the respective main towns of Ankpa, Dekina,
Idah and Oguma. Each LGC is organized into functional departments, including



ANNEX 1
Page 9
agriculture, livestock, forestry, health, and education, whose activities
interface with, and occasionally overlap, those of Government divisions and
field officers. LGC is supported by subordinate councils at district, town
and village levels, and is responsible for tax collection, administration of
land allocation, well and feeder road construction and maintenance, building
and staffing of some dispensaries and clinics, operation of traditional courts
and general augmentation of Government activities in the area. Coordination
between Government field officers and LGC is effected by the Resident, the
senior Government representative in the division, who is also responsible for
security.
D. State Development Plans
41.       The Third Five-Year Development Plan (1975-1980) is ambitious and
far-reaching, though full implementation is uncertain. State planners, how-
ever, are confident that all their proposals will be executed on schedule.
The Development Plan's agricultural proposals for the area, including certain
allied services embraced within the concept of integrated agricultural devel-
opment, would be superseded by those contained within this report. Financial
estimates for these superseded activities would form the basis of State
Government's contribution to project development costs.
42.       There are some Development Plan proposals, not embraced by the
project, which could be of direct impact or relevance to it; these include:
a)   the development of a steel complex at Ajaokuta which
would be an important source of employment as well as
food demand, likely to be further enhanced by con-
struction of a small industrial estate in the same
area;
b)   the establishment of an oil palm plantation and asso-
ciated mill at Alloma, Idah Division;
c)   there are proven reserves of 60 million tons of coal
at Okaba; further studies are being undertaken, but
establishment of a mining complex is likely;
d)   a rail link will be made between Ajaokuta and the
main north-south rail link; this will traverse the
project area east-west and link up with the main rail-
road south of Makurdi;
e)   construction of a railroad/road bridge over the Niger
at Ajaokuta. Two more bridges over the Niger are
contemplated: one at Idah and one at Lokojo. A
new road bridge at Makurdi is being constructed and
this seems to make it unlikely that plans to make



ANNEX 1
Page 10
another bridge halfway between the confluence of the
Benue and Niger rivers and Makurdi will soon materi-
alize; and
f)   rural electrification and water supply for Idah, Ankpa,
Dekina and Ayangba.



NIGERIA
BENRE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Mean Rainfall Tata (mm)
10-day                ANKPA               DEKINA                IDAH                LOKOJA              ABEJUKOLO
periods        Rainfall Cumulative  Rainfall Cumulative  Rainfall Cumulative  Rainfall Cumulative  Rainfall Cumulative
Jan      1-10            0.25       .25       1.78      1.78       3.81      3.81        .25       .25
11-20            3.30      3.55        .25      2.03       1.52      5.33       1.7(8     2.03
21-31            3.05      6.60       1.78      3.81       3.30      8.63       2.29      4.32       1.7(8     1.r78
Febr     1-10            6.35     12.95       3.30      7.11       2.29     10.92       4.83      9.15        -        1.78
11-20            3.81     16.,76      4.83     11.94       5.59     16.51       2.29     11.44       3.05      4.83
21-28            8.64     25.40       8.38     20.32       4.57     21.08       5.o8     16.52       2.79      7.62
March    1-10           14.48     39.88      10.41     30.73       6.60     27.68       7.11     23.63       5.08     12.70
11-20            9.40     49.28      19.30     50.04      12.19     39.87      11.43     35.o6      15.49     28.19
21-31           24.89    74.17       11.18    61.21       15.75     55.62      24.13     59.19      27.69     55.88
April    1-10           31.75    105.92      26.42     87.63      34.54     90.16      32.51     91.70      28.70     84.58
11-20           39.37    145.29      43.18    130.81      28.70    118.86      29.46    121.16      38.86    123.42
21-30           50.80    196.09      31.50    162.31      43.43    162.29      37.85    159.01      38.35    161.80
May      1-10           51.56    247.65      41.15    203.45      43.69    205.98      45.72    204.73      32.51    194.31
11-20           63.50    311.15      40.64    244.og      49.28    255.26      48.01    252.74      48.77    243.08
21-31           54.61    365.76      53.34   297Y.43      60.71    315.97      58.93    311.67      46.99    290.07
June     1-10           77.64    438.40      57.65    355.09      58.93    374.90      59.94    371.61      45.46    335.53
11-20           64.26    502.67      56.90    411.99      60.71    435.61      55.88    427.49      54.86    390.40
21-30           57.91    56o.58      47.24    459.23      67.82    503.43      47.75    475.24      46.23    436.63
Jully    1-10           63.50    624.o8      44.70    503.94      56.90    560.33      53.85    529.09      57.65    494.28
11-20           57.40    681.48      56.13    560.07     61.'72    622.05      59.44    588.52      60.45    554.74
21-31           41.15    722.63      69.60   629.67       62.74    684.78      60.'71    649.22     61.47    616.20
Aug      1-10           39.12    761.75      34.29   663.96       51.31    736.09      39.62    688.85      73.91    690.12
11-20           43.43    805.18     27.18    691.13       46.74    782.83      60.96    749.81      60.71    750.82
21-31           74.42    879.60      65.28    756.41      69.60    852.42      67.82    817.63      64.77    815.59
Sept     1-10           92.71    972.31      68.83    824.65      90.93    943.36      69.og    886.71      69.60    985.19
11-20           92.96  1,o65.28      72.13    897.38      70.87  1,014.22      74.17    960.88      74.42    959.61
21-30           96.01  1,161.29      60.96    958.34      73.66  1,087.88      72.64  1,033.53      83.o6  1,042.67
Oct      1-10           76.71 1,238.00       76.96  1,035.30      58.42  1,146.30      59.44  1,092.96      60.45  1,103.12
11-20           44.96  1,282.95      59.18  1,094.49      51.31  1,197.61      48.51  1,141.48      60.20  1,163.32
21-31           47.50  1,330.45      43.68  1,138.17      37.59  1,235.20      26.67  1,168.15      27.18  1,190.50
Nov      1-10           19.56  1,350.01      19.81  1,157.99      20.57  1,255.77       7.87  1,176.02       2.28  1,192.78
11-20            6.86  1,356.87       8.38  1,166.37       2.79  1,258.57       2.03  1,178.05      11.68  1,204.47
21-30            2.03  1,358.90       5.33  1,1'71.70      0.76  1,259.33       0.76  1,178.81        -    1,204.47
Dec      1-10            2.54  1,361.44       4.32  1,176.02       0.76  1,260.09       1.02  1,179.83       5.59  1,210.06
11-20            3.81  1,365.25        .25 1,176.27         -   1,260.09        0.76  1,180.59        -    1,210.06
21-31            1.78  1,367.03        -   1,176.27        2.54  1,262.63       0.25  1,180.85        -   1,210.06
Source: An Agroclimatological Atlas for Northern Nigeria.
July 20, 1976



0-                                            0              '0
0   -                                                       .oO                     00                       '00
0   -    00   '0          'oS                         '00              00
0   0      00,   0     0    00    00    00    00    00    0        00    5'0   00   0,0   0        0   0                  000  0      0       00               0,00
0     0'0    0    0'0   00    00000000000                            0   00   -       0           0      0,0         0  0  0      0      00               0
-    0,0          00   .00,  0,0,  0,0   0,0   0,0,000            00   00    00   '0      0                   -      00  -      0,0      0               000
0   00    00   0'    00    00,   00,   00-   0'0   00,   0                           00    00'   00           00'  o:    00000-   CO          Co
0     00    0     0     0     0      0     0     0     00    0    00,   00                 '00,  0                   00
'00    00    0    00   '00   '00   '00   00   '00   '00   '00   00   '0000                   0   00                 0o'00              0
0  'oo                        '00
0     0     0    0       0     0     0     0     0      0     0     0     0     0    00     0    0'      0   0,0     0                  0       0              0,0
00 '-'0 0 -00,00,00,00,0 oO 0,00,0 0.OoO 00 -0 0,0 -                                                                                                     0 0
0   0,0,  .00          0,00,00,00,00,00,00,0,0,00,0,0                                0-   0,0,   00   0,0    0000,00   0,                     0,0              00,0
0.0                     !   2o    00   0        0     0  0  0  0  0  0                 0   0  0 .0'0   2.  Ooo  00   00    0          000  0  0  o'o      0   0       oo               00
0     00    000  OOo  0o0    00    o        0   000  00                  00    Co   00    00   000   o22             00      00               0-00
00 0    0  00  00  00  00  0000000    0000000000    00 0,0,0 0,0 0-0  0,0                                                                         0,00,
0,0,   0,00  0,    0-0   0,00  0,00,  0,00  000  0,00  0,0   0,00  00,   0,00  0,0,0  0,0   00   0,0   000  0,0    0000000               00
00    000  0      00    OCX  OCX  000  000  000  00    000  '00    000  000  00   '00    00   '000  OCO   00    00    00                 0>
'00,                          00    000  0,    00    000  000  000  000  000  00    000  00    000  000  00    00    00                 00000   0,0   00   0,0    0,0                   0,00
0,0   0,00, 0,    0,0   0,00  0,00  0,o0  000  0,00  000,000-0    0,00  0,0o  0,0   0-0   0,0   a00, 0,00
- --      - --                                                                       - -
0    0     '0    00    00    0       0-    0     0     0                 0     0      0                  0
0     0           0     0      0     0     0,0   0      0     0     0     0                 .0   .0     .0                 0            0
00000             0    .0   .0   '0   '0                     0     0      0                 0            0
0     C     0     0     0                                                 0
0.0                                                                             2     0,          0,
0   00    0,    0,0    0,C   0,    0,                0     0      0     ,     0     0,           0,
0           0-0  :      ::    2                             0     o      C                 0
'0         '     0                        5             0   00     0     0
00                         0,
00    XC        2     2!   2':   0       2                              0
0-00  0,    0.0   0-C  0,   0,                                            0.0   0           20
0-0,                    00   0,           00
- 0                                                ---0-0---.---
0,0,                    0,               0,
o   00                                                      0                       ,                  0           0,                 0,
0000             ,       '         ,            '           0                                                '            '    '    0
20    00   0,                                                0,           0                 2
0,    0                                                0-           0-                0,    0-    0'           0                 0
og                   2    2                   2     2           0      0     0     0
0           o     0     2     2     2     2           go    ggo
0     '00    0    00   '00   0       '00   '0    0                                                o0-   0,00  0,    000, 0,    0,
00   '0     0                                                             '0    000  '0   '00.0  0                  0,   0,
0-    0,00,0,0          0-0  0.   0-0,  0,   0,                                                    00    0  0 0      0 0- 0
0     0     0     0     0     0      0     0     0                                    0     0     0     0      0     0     0
0    o      . o   0     0      0,         *-o   0,
0    0      0     0     0     0      0     0     0                                                '0   .0     0-    0     0,     .0
'0  '0      0     '0   '0    '0     '0                                                0     0     0     0     0
'0    '0   '0    '0                       .0    0,
a           a     a     a     a      a                       a           a    0,
0,                                                             0,    0,    0,    0,    0,                0      0
a                                   -0-'.-  -    --0--    0- --   -      5Z'  0,                           ____
0,    0  0,    0                                                                                        0     0
0     0     0     0     0     0      000  000          ,    0                                     0                                         0      0
0,0,0,0,0,0,                          '00  '0o                    0,,  5                             0   0   0   0                  0
*    00,0  000  0,                                                 0,   0,   0,   0,   0,              -0
0,                                                                                                                                                       0-    0-
'00, a -                                                                   ___ ___ 0 7 do:!;
     00.0       X':'0  00.0  0'0'0       a!'0                      00  020000000    00    0'0   0'00 5,0.0
0000        000000,  0020                    00,0,                   &0         00,00,000          0-0   0C00    0  00
0-0   00    0000,00,00-000          0-0
OO   0,0   0,00  0-OX  0000  0000  toOX  C00,00 o           00j0        '000  oX  ooo0,'0'o           '00   '0.0CC  000000           0,0,
I                                            0,000,0,                                       I



ANNEX 1
Table 3
NIGERIA
BENUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1/
Population estimates -and area under cultivation
A.  Population                         1963 (census)   1973 (2.6%)   1980 (2%)
Ankpa                             264,877          342,385        393,290
Dekina                            188,703          243,921        280,187
Idah                              231,300          298,983        343,436
684,880         885,289      1,016,913
B.  Rural Population                   616,392 (90%)                  813,530 (80%)
C.  Rural Families                     112,071                        147,914
(family size 5.5)                                                 150,000
D.  Area Under Cultivation             224,142                        295,828
(2 ha)                                                            300,000
E.  Density
Total Area   13,150 km             52                              77
1/  1973 population census results are not available and the latest population,ddta
are from 1963. In the absence of any other reliable data the 1973 figure has been
arrived by using Nigeria's standard 2.6% growthrate; the 2% growthrate thereafter
reflects the migration of labor to other areas.



ANNEX 1
Tab]e 4
N I G E R I A
Benue State
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Staff Strength in the Project Area  -
Number                Estimated
All    2/   I       43        Salaries
Agricultural Services (Staff Strength)
Principal Agricultural Superintendent               -      1     -      1           3,700
Higher Agricultural Superintendent                   2     1     -      3          11,100
Senior Agricultural Superintendent                  -      -     1      1           3,700
Agricultural Superintendent                          1     1     2      4          11,600
Agricultural Assistant                              22    17      6    45          76,500
Produce Inspection
Produce Superintendent 6/                            2     2     1      5          14,500
Produce Inspector                                    4     5      5    14          23,800
Produce Examiner                                     2     3      7    12          15,600
Irrigation
Irrigation Superintendent 6/                        1      1     -      2           4,400
Agricultural Assistant                               -     1      -     1           1,700
Agricultural Instructor                              1     1      -     2           2,600
Irrigation Overseer                                 -      5     -      5           5,000
Tracer                                              -      2     -      2           2,000
Technical Officer                                   -      -     1      1           2,900
Others                                              3      2     -      5           5,000
Engineering
Mechanical Superintendent61                          1     1      1     3           8,700
Assistant Superintendent -                          3      1      -     4           8,800
Mechanics                                            7     3      9    19          55,100
Drivers                                              -     7      8    15          13,500
Operators (Tractors)                                21     5    13    39           39,000
Welders                                              -     -      2     2           2,600
Others                                               6     4      -    10          10,000
Fisheries
Fishery Assistant                                   -      1      8     9          15,300
Fishery Overseer                                    -      -     1      1           1,300
Boat Driver                                          -     -     1      1           1,000
TO T AL               339,400
1/ Ankpa           2/ Dekina           3/  Idah            4/  Total
5/ Tentative listing as the new MAnU9 was just in the process of
establishing its staff strength.  Staff under training not
included.
6/ Or equivalent positions



NIGERIA
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Mean Rainfall
120                                      10 DAY TOTALS
100
I DAH
80   _ _    _ _                          _  _                       A
ANKA 
A~~A
60                                             A,''
7N I~~~I
yJ/LOKJKOA
/ /                ~~~~DEKINA
20
I /
Jan.   Feb.   Mar.   Apr.    May   June   Jul.   Aug.   Sept.   Oct.   Nov.   Dec.
MONTHS
World Bank-16363






_______ _______ _______ _______ ______ _______ _______ _______ ______ ___   ___ _______ __IBRDI R 12233
B20 E GA
1 N
NIGERIA
i v.AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AYlNGB-                   SOIL  CLASSIFICATION                                                   _                            ,
l  ,   1>t\                              .  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O~F,.






ANNEX 2
NIGERIA
BENUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Crop and Farm Development
A. Crop Development
1.        A detailed technical appraisal of production opportunities in the
project area is contained in Supplement 2, along with supporting economic
analyses and production estimates; a summary of the supplement's contents is
outlined below.
2.        Cropping Systems.  A wide range of crops is grown in the area cover-
ing full season crops, which exploit most or all of the long growing season
of over 200 days, and short duration crops, for which rainfed double cropping
is possible. The principal crops are usually grown sole or as single dominant
crops with plots of scattered admixtures that exert insignificant competing
effects on principal crop yields.
3.        Little technical crop improvement has been introduced into the area
and substantial scope exists for its development. Suitable technical packages
have been assembled by using research results from IAR and IITA, and from
observation and field trials within the area. Although the project would
actively pursue development of all crops in the area for which suitable
technical opportunities exist, quantified analysis has been restricted to
yams, cassava, rice, maize, millet, melon, sorghum, cowpeas, and benniseed.
Estimates of areas presently planted to these crops are in Table 1, and a
summary of the technical packages proposed is contained in Table 2.
4.        Crop Budgets.  Summaries of crop budgets under existing and proposed
technology are contained in Table 2. Economic and financial translations of
the physical budgets have been made using the commodity price forecasts
summarized in Annex 12. Economic budgets have been calculated using the
economic farmgate price forecasts and include a shadow price for labor of
N 1.00 per manday. Financial budgets have been calculated both at full
cost 1/ and actual farmgate prices, and are expressed in returns per hectare
excluding labor, and in returns per manday. Also included are incremental
returns per incremental manday. An average farm budget has also been calcu-
lated. This is based on a hypothetical farm of 2.0 ha (average farm size)
using the cropping patterns in Table 1 and the adoption rates given in
Table 3. The average farm budget given in Table 4 reveals an average without-
project farm income of N 260 and a with-project farm income of N 400; the
increment would thus be N 140 (54% increase).
1/   Without taking into account price distortions and subsidies.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
5.        Labor Requirements.  Labor availability is an important constraint
on holding size and the impact of increased labor requirements under improved
technology must be taken into account. Annual labor requirements included
in the individual crop budgets have been expressed on a monthly profile in
Table 5 and include all operations necessary to convert the planted crop
into the marketable form used as the basis of the farmgate price projections
in Annex 12.
6.        Production Development.  New technology adoption rates have been
estimated and areas developed are presented in Table 3. The effect of con-
tinuing labor constraints has been taken into account in making these projec-
tions, and a decline in early season crop plantings is expected so that peak
requirements in the existing farm labor profile will not be increased.
7.        Graphical presentation of farm labor profiles under existing and
improved technology is given in Chart 16328 attached to this annex. These
have been calculated for a hypothetical 2.0 ha farm using the cropping
patterns given in Table 1 and the adoption rates included in Table 3. The
graphs show that with small reductions in early season crop plantings, the
increased labor demands of new technology improve labor distribution through-
out the profile rather than raise peak requirments.
8.        Estimates of economic production benefits resulting from the project
are included in Table 2 and have been calculated from the economic farm
budgets of Table 4. Physical production estimates net of shortage losses and
seed requirements are given in Table 6.
B. Farm Development
9.        Agricultural Services.  Lack of reliable and adequate agricultural
services is presently the main constraint on production. Technical dissemina-
tion services are also inadequate but in any case have little relevance if
the basic ingredients of technology cannot be purchased.
10.       The project would, therefore, create a number of multifunctional
Farmers Service Centers (FSC) at which basic project field services would be
clustered; suggested FSC locations are shown on Map IBRD 12328 attached to
this report. A total of 30 FSCs would be developed, each serving a hinter-
land of up to 15 km radius; this density allows a reasonable balance to be
maintained between ease of access by farmers and economies of scale for
commercial services. Proposals for developing a sound and commercially-
based trading network in the area are discussed separately in Annex 8.
11.       General Extension.  Responsibility for crop production would rest
with a Crop Development Division which would provide extension field staff
at the ratio of I to 500 farm families. On this basis, the following exten-
sion staff (see also Table 7) would be required:



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Title                          Grade      Number
Senior Agricultural Officer              SAO          1
Agricultural Officer                      AO          3
Agricultural Supervisor                   AS          6
Assistant Agricultural Supervisor        AAS         30
Agricultural Assistant                    AA         60
Agricultural Instructor                   AI        240
Extension staff would provide the main communication link between project
management and farmers and would be responsible for advising farmers on
technical and economic aspects of crop production; speedy dissemination
of market intelligence information; providing a continual feedback of infor-
mation to project management; and providing follow-up in field supervision
of farmers involved in the project's training program. Requirements for staff
and farmer training are dealt with separately in Annex 7. In addition to the
extension service, the Crop Development Division would also have a research
unit and seed multiplication unit; details on these units are in Annex 7.
12.       Group Formation.  Providing services to small farmers is frequently
hampered by diseconomies of scale; some form of rural grouping is, therefore,
essential if commercially-based services are to become viable and if projects
are to be replicated without making heavy demands on public funds. Every
opportunity would be taken to provide incentives to farmers to group and
bulk their crop input requirements, and training and extension would largely
be directed towards group representatives in order to promote technical
dissemination between farmers. Important groundwork in group development
has already been started by the Roman Catholic Mission; there are presently
625 Farmers Councils in the area with a total membership of about 10,000
farmers.
13.       Advanced Management.  In order to promote advanced farm development,
the project would include a separate and specialist Farm Management Divi-
sion. 1/ The Division would specifically attend to large farmers and pro-
gressive smallholder management groups who display sufficient technical and
business acumen to advance beyond the level of basic crop husbandry and yield
improvements described in Section A of this annex; advanced farm development
has been shown to have an important role to play in the three Northern
Agricultural Development Projects, both in spearheading technological
development and in attracting private capital into agriculture.
14.       The Division would be responsible for operating the existing tractor
hire unit (THU); land-use planning and layout of block farming areas; pro-
viding investment, business and advanced production advice and assistance
to farmer groups, and for liaison with cooperatives and Farmers Councils.
15.       Expansion of the THU would be limited to the equivalent of two
tractor units per FSC and attention would be directed towards substantially
improving operating performance with a long-term objective of transfer to
private ownership. Tractor deployment would center on areas most suitable
1/   For further details refer to Supplement 3.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
for large-scale operation and would be utilized within the framework of farm
system development involving sound land use planning, soil conservation and
a sound rotation to ensure long-term maintenance of soil fertility. The
present charges on an acre basis would be replaced by hourly rates and ser-
vices would be provided on a cash basis only.
16.       Credit (see Annex 8, Table 3) would be provided for land clearing
and for limited subsoiling and ripping operations available from surplus
plant capacity in the Engineering Department. Credit for private ownership
of tractors would be sought from the commercial banks; this is proving par-
ticularly successful in the three Northern Agricultural Development Projects.
Farmers wishing to operate their own equipment would be assisted by the
project in preparing the necessary financial data.
17.       The project would also closely monitor work at IAR and IITA on small
equipment and modified and minimum tillage operations, and provide field
demonstrations to farmers as appropriate. The farm labor profiles shown in
Chart 16328 attached to this annex indicate that new technology could substan-
tially modify the present labor peaks in the growing season; such changes will
require close monitoring by field staff with supporting advice on both invest-
ments to improve labor productivity and crop purchase and trading arrangements
involving haulage direct from the field.
18.       Development Costs.  Capital and operating costs of the Extension
Service and Farm Management Division are given in Tables 8 and 9.



Annex 2
Table 1
NIGERIA
BENUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Cropping Patterns
WITHOUT PROJECT                WITH PROJECT
%          Hectares            %              Hectares
Full Season Crops
Yams                 15            45,000           15                45,000
Cassava              20            60,000           20               60,000
Rice                  5            15,000            5                15,000
Other 1/              5            15,000            5                15,000
Early Season Crops
Early Maize          30            90,000           25               75,000
Early Millet         10            30,000            7.5             22,500
Early Melon           5            15,000            5               15,000
Other 1/             10            30,000           10               30,000
Late Season Crops
Tall Sorghum          7.5          22,500            7.5             22,500
Late Maize           25            75,000           25               75,000
Cowpeas 2/            5            15,000            5               15,000
Benniseed             2.5           7,500            2.5               7,500
Other 1/             15            45,000           15               45,000
Total Cultivated Area 3/            300,000                           300,000
1/  Other crops include cocoyams, pigeon peas, groundnuts, bambara nuts, cotton
and vegetables.
2/ As sole crop.
3/ Full season plus late season.
All crops specified grown as sole crops or principal crops in crop mixtures.
June 29, 1976



NIGERIA
BENUE STATE
AYANGRA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
One Hectare Annual Crop Budgets
Economic                                     Financial Returns
Output                                            Inputs                                          Rcturns
0utput   Sends  Fertilicer                Insecticide          Labor                                   Fully Costed                       Actual Parate Prices
Product    Yiold          3/          CAN     TSP       NP     Drensing  Storage                 Per hectare  Pe                                                    t.tl FrMnay __icremetal
-------------   --Kg ----------------                            -       Mandayn      ---- -----------Naira 2/---- 5/i---------  ---------- 5----
Full Season Crops
Yams:       Traditional                     Tubers       5,000        1,500                                                           175          126.5         274          1.6              -             274           1.6
Inproved                        Tubers    13,000          2,500       200               50       17.5                    250           396          580           2.3             4.1           612           2.4            4.5
Cassava:   Traditional                      Tubers       5,000        6,500                                                            90           20           95           1.1              -              95           1.1
Improved                        Tubers    12,500          6,500                                                          130           100          190          1.5              2.4            190           1.5           2.4
Advanced                        Tubers    25,000         10,000       200      100      50                               150           128          211          1.4              1.2            272           1.8           4.1
Rice:       Traditional                      Paddy         800            25                                                         110             1          106           1.0              -             157           1.4            -
Improved                        Paddy        1,800           43       100       50                0.15                   155            69          208           1.3             2.3            346           2.2           4.2
Advancedq                       Paddy        2,500           70       200        75     50         0.25                  175           118          269           1.5             2.5            475.5         2.7           4.9
Early Season Crops
Maine:      Traditional                      Stain         750            20                                                           65            2           65.5         1.0               -             65.5         1.0
Improved                        Grain        1,750           20       100       75      25        0.1          2.3        95            27.5        116           1.2             1.7            145           1.5          2.7
Millet:    Traditional                       Grain         450             8                                                           50           (6)          41           0.8              -              41           0.8
Melon:      Traditional                      Seeds         350             1                                                           70           31.5          93.5        1.3              -              93.5         1.3
Improved                        Seeds          700            1.5    100                                                 110            77.5        170.5         1.6             1.9            184           1.7          2.3
Late Season Crops
Sorghum:   Traditional                       Grains        600             5                                                           55            1.5          58.5        1.1              -               58.5         1.1
Improved                        Grains       1,200            8       100       50                0.03         1.5        80             7           88           1.1             1.2            110           1.4           2.1
Maine:      Traditional                      Grains        600            20                                                           55            1            54.5        1.0              -               54.5         1.0           -
Improved                        Grains      1,750            25       100       75      25        0.1          2.5        90            40          122.5         1.4             1.9            151.5         1.7           -8
Cowpeas:   Traditional                      Beans          250            10                                                          55           (11.5)        40.5         0.7              -               40.5         0.7
Advanced  4/                    Beans        1,590           25         50       50                0.07        2.5       125           108.5        211           1.7             2.4             226.5        1.8           2.7
Bennineed: Traditional                       Grain         230             5                                                          45            (5.5)        35.5         0.8              -               57.5         1.3           -
Improved                        Grain          600           10       100       50                                        65            14.3         69           1.1             1.7             147.5        2.3           4.5
1/  See Supplement 2 for detailed budgets.
2/  Using projected 1980 prices expressed in 1976 constant Nairs                                                                                                                                                                                  t
3I  Kg of sets for yams, number of cuttings for cassava.
4/ Budget includes spraying costs
5/ Incr-emstal returnls per incremental Manday
April 14, 1977



NIGERIA
BENUE STATE
AYANG8   GCLUA   EEOMN   RJC
Production Eenefits
AREA DEVELOPED                                                                     ECONOMIC BENEFTS -
Year 0      Year I       Year 2      Year 3       Year 4       Year 5            Year 0       Year I       Year 2       Year 3       Year 4      Year 5
---------------------- '000 ha -'-0-------        --           ---------------------- '00 Naira ---------- --------
Pull Season Crops
Yams            Traditional                  45           41           37          33           29           25              5,692        5,186        4,680       4,174         3,668       3,162
Improved                    -             4            8          12           16           20                _          1,584        3,168       4,752         6,336       7,920
Cassava         Traditional                  60           60          59.9         59,4         57          45              1,200        1,200        1,198        1,188        1,140          900
Improved                    -            -             0.1         0.4          2          10                 -                          10           40         200        1,000
Advaneed                    -            -            -            0.2          1            5                -            _            -             26            28        640
Rice            Traditional                  15           14          12.5         10            7           4                  15           14           13           10           7            4
Improved                    -             1            2           4            6            8                -             69          138          276         414          552
Advanced                    -            -             0.5         1            2            3                -            -             59          118          236         354
OThER                                         15          15           t5           15          15           15                -            -            -            -            -           -
Earlv Seasn CroPs
Early Maize    Traditional                   90           88.5         87          78           68           57                180          177          174          156          136         114
Improved                    -             1.5          3           7           12          18                 -             41           83         193          330          495
Early Millet   Traditional                    30          30           30           27.5        25           22.5             (180;        (180)        (180)        (165)        (150)       (135)
Early Melon    Traditional                   15           14.5         14           13          11            9                473          457          441          410          347         284
Improved                    -             0.5          1           2            4            6                -             39           78          155         310          465
OTHER                                        30           30           30          30           30           30                -            -            -            -            -           -
Late Season Crops
Tall Sorghum   Traditional                    22.5        22           21.5         20.5        18.5         16.5                34          33           32           31           28           25
Im,roved                    -             0.5          1           2            4           6                 -              4            7           14          28           42
Late Maize       Traditional                  75          73.5         72          69           63           57                 75           74           72           69           63          57
Improved                    -             1.5           3           6          12          18                 -             60          120         240          480          720
Cowpeas          Traditional                 15           14.5         14          13           11            9               (173)        (167)        (161)        (150)       (127)        (104)
Advanced                     -            0.5          1            2           4            6                -             54          109          217         434          651
Benniseed        Traditional                   7.5         7.0          6.5         6            5.5          4.5              (41)         (39 )        (36)        ((33)         (301         (25)
Improved                    -             0.5          1           1.5          2            3                -              7           14           21          29           43
OT}ER                                        45           45           45          45           45           45                -            -            -            -            -           -
TOTAL 11                    -            -            -           -            -                            7,815       8,613       10,018       11,742       14,007       17,164
Increment                   -            -           -            -            -                                        1,338        7,743        4,467        6,732        9,889
1/ Total does not include rounding errors or the economic benefits from 'Other Crops'
2/  Area multiplied by economic returns per ha (See table 2).
April 14, 1977



NIGERIA
BENUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AVERAGE FARM BUDGET V/
A Y A N G B A
WITHOUT PROJECT                                     WITH PROJECT
Area              Net Return 2/                 Area                  Net Return _
(ha)                 (N)                        (ha)
Full Season Crops
Yams -          Traditional                          .300               82.35                         .167                  45.84
Improved                             -                   -                           .133                  81.40
Cassava -       Traditional                          .400               38.0                         .30C                   28.5
Improved                             -                   -                           .067                  12.73
Advanced                             -                   -                           .033                   8.96
Rice -          Traditional                          .100               15.7                         .027                    4.24
Improved                             -                   -                           .053                  18.34
Advanced                             -                   -                           .020                   9.51
Early Season Crops
Maize -         Traditional                          .600               39.3                         .3&0                   24.89
Improved                             -                   -                           .120                  17.4
Millet -        Traditional                          .200                 8.2                         .150                   6.15
Melon -         Traditional                          .100                 9.35                        .060                   5.61
Improved                             -                   -                           .040                   7.36
Late Season Crops
Sorghum -       Traditional                          .150                8.78                         .110                   6.44
Improved                             -                   -                           .040                   4.4
Maize -         Traditional                          .500                27.25                        .380                  20.71
Improved                             -                   -                           .120                  18.18
Cowpeas -       Traditional                          .100                4.05                        .060                    2.43
Advanced                             -                   -                           .040                   9.06
Benniseed -    Traditional                           .05                 2.88                         .030                   1.73
Improved                             -                   -                           .020                   2.95
TOTAL                                                                  235.86                                             336.83
Increment                                                                                                                 100.97
(D- >
ax 
1/ Calculated by applying the average cropping pattern of each area to
hypothetical average farm. Excludes returns from 'Other' crops.
2/ Actual farmgate prices (see Table 2).
April 14, 1977



NIGERIA
BENUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ANNUAL CROP LABOR REQUIREMENT
(Mandays per Hectare)
Jan.       Feb.       Mar.       Apr.       May.       Jun.       Jul.        Aug.       Sep.        Oct.         Nov.        Dec.         Total
Full Season Crops
Yams                   Traditional              18                    _          5          10          15         15         17         25            20         25           25          175
Improved                20           5                  15           20         15         15         22         30            34         43           31           250
Cassava                Traditi-nal               -         -          12        14          14         14           6         10         10            10         -            -            90
Improved                 -         16         27        22           17         17         11         10          -            10         -            _           130
Advanced                  -        16          32       24           18         18         12          20         -             10         -           -           150
Rice                   Traditionial              5         -          -         -           10         30          15         10         10            10         13           12          110
Improved                10         -          -         -            20         35         20         15          15           12          18          10           155
Advanced                15          -          -         -           20         35         20         15          15            19         24          12           175
Early Season Crops
Early Maize            Traditional              -          -           5        13          12          15         10          8         -              2         -            -            65
Improved                -          -            5        16          19         15         18         18          -             4          -           -             95
Early Millet           Traditional              -          -           5        14            9          4         14         -           2             2         -            -            50
Early Melon            Traditional              -          -          10         2           5           5          5         10         10            23         -            -            70
lmproved                -          -          10         5           10          5          8         17         15            40         -            -            110
Late Season Crops
Sorghum                Traditional               3         -          -         -           -          12           7         10          5            -          10            8           55
Improved                 5         -           -        -            -          15         14         10           5           -           17          14            80
Late Maize             Traditional              -          -          -         -           -          -            5         10         15             8         20           -            55
Improved                -          -           -        -            -          -           6         13          16           15         40           -             90
Cowpeas               Traditional              -          -          -         _           -          -          -           15         10             5         16            9           55
Advanced                -           -          -         -           -          -          -          25          19            14         -           67           325                                H 3-
Benniseed             Traditional              -          -          -         -           -          -          -           13         10            -          -           22            45                                a x
Improved                -          -          -         -            -          -          -          17          17           -          -            31            65                                U 9
1/ See Supplement 2 for detailed labor profiles for individual crops.
April 14, 1977



NIC-EEIA                                             ANNEX 2
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL D-TELOIMENT PROJECT                               Table 6
Pr: duction Estimates
Year 0           Year 1           Year 2           Year            Year 4          Year 5
________ _______________________-( tOOO Tons -------------------------------
Fll1 Season Crops
Yeas
Gross Production                      270               298              326              354             382             410
-  Storage loss                        54                 60              65               71              76              82
-  Seed retention                      67                 72              75               80              84              87
-  liet Productiorn                   149               166              186              203             222             241
Cassava
Gross Production                      300               300              300.5            304              320            400
-  Storage loss                         -                -                -                -               -               -
-  Seed retention                       -                -                -                -
-  let Production                     300               300              300.5           304              320             400
Rice
Gross Pr.duction                        12               13               14.9             17.7             21.t4          25.1
-  Storage loss                                  -                -                -               -                       -
-  Seed retenticn                        0.        .4              0.4     0.- 0.5                           0.6            0.7
-  Net Production                       11.6             12.6             14.5             17.2             20.3           24.4
Farly Season Croos
,iaize
Gro:ss Producti^n                       67.5              69              70.5             70.s             72             7L.3
-  Storage loss                          6R.               6.9             7.1              7.1              7.2            7.4
-  Soodl retentioDn                      1. 8              1.3             1.3              1.7              1.6            1.5
-  N.t Procdctior.                      58.              60.3             6t.6             62.0             63.2           65.L
lillet
0r ss PrFductioi,                       13.5             13.5             13.5             12.4t            11.3           1 0.1
-  StoraEe l-.s                          0.7               0.7             0.7              0.6              0.6            o.5
-  Soeo retentiLin                       0.2               _o              C.2              0.?               .?              .
- N.t       ac":-     .                 12.5             12.6             12.6             11.6             10.             0 I
-ross Pr ductinor                        c                 5.'             5.6              6.0                7
-  St.rage lnss                          0.2               0.2             0.2              0.2              0.2            0.2
-  Seed retention
-  Net Prcduction                        .1               5.2              5.?              5.8              5.5            7.2
Late Season Cr^ps
S orghun
2ro.s Froduct' n                        11.5             13.3             17 .1            t.               ?5.           1t7O
-  St.rage lrsss                         0.7               0.7             0.7              0.7              o.            0o
-  Seed retentirn                        0.1               0.1             0.1              '.1              0.1            0.1
-  let Producti n                      12.7               13.0            13.3             13.?           1t'.C            16.1
I aize
Groo s s 9 ;:du .                        50 4:.6.7                        48.5             ,1.,            5   -5.
-  S6    r-'ge  'S7-3                    2.3       7        A                                                 .             3.3
-  Seed retenti -.                       1.               1.5              1.5              1.5              1.             L.6
-  iet Productio-                       Lt.?             42.5             .,4.6           '?7.             5?.3            'c.s
Cowpeas
Oross Product-on                        3.8               ?               5.c              5.3              2.2            11.3
-  Storage i ss                          0.                0.L             0.5              0.6              0.9            1 .1
-  Seed reterti-                         0                 0.2             0.2              C.2              C.2            0.2
-  Net Prdu cti o                        3.2              3.0                               5.5              7.7           1 0.0)
3enniseed
Gross Producti3n                         1.7               1.9             2.1              2.3              2.5            2.8
-  St^rage 1 ss                          -                 -               -                -                -              -
-  Seed retetian                         0.1               0.1             0.1              0.1              0.1            0.1
-  Net Pro *'ctirm                       1.6              1.0              2.0              2.2              ?.?            2.7
April 14, 1977



ANNEX 2
Table 7
NIGERIA
BENUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Extension Staff Requirement
Ultimately
Grade   Required   Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5
Senior Agricultural Officer       SAO        1         1        1        1       1        1
Agricultural Officer 1/           AO         3          3       3        3        3       3
Agricultural Supervisor 2/        AS         6          4       6        6        6       6
Assistant Agricultural
Superintendent 3/               AAS       30        20       30       30      30       30
Agricultural Assistant 4/         AA        60         20      30       40      50       60
Agricultural Instructor 4/        AI       240         20      60      120     180      240
1/  1 in each Division
2/  1 for five FSC
3/ 1 for each FSC
4/ Extension staff to farmer ratio is 1:500 of the estimated number of farm families.
Thus 300 AAs & AIs are ultimately required.



ANNExI 2
Table 
NIGERIA
BNUJE STATE
AYANIGS AGRICULTUJRAL SPFBWP8IEBT PSO.SECT
Cost, of Etensiono Service 1
lFore Lo  lochence    Local
Units      OnLt Coats         Year 0        year 1         Year 2        Year 3         Year 4        Year S        Total      7.      Costs       Costs
A.  Capital
BuildLgs. end Houses
Beolor Houses   X/                          No          30.            (53)  90.                                                                                 80.01    50         27.        63.0
Intermdiate Houes                           N.IS         21.0          (7) 147.80    (2)  42.0                                                                 1880        25        47.3,    141.7
Suojor Houses  A/                           ISo          14.0         (21) 294.0   (10) 140.0                                                                  434.0       25       100.5      325.5
TreditionaI Houses 3/                       N.o           4.0         (20)  00.0   (10)  40.0   (15)  40.0   (10)  40.0   (10)  40.0                            240.0      10        24.0      2i6.0
Sebtota1l Houses                                                            611.0         222.0           40.0          40.0           40.0                     953.0               206.0      746.2
SEuiPMso
Typewriters  6/                             so            05                         (11)   5.5                                                                   5.5      60         3.3        2.2
Calculators z17                  ISo           0,6~~~~~~~~N               (12)   4.8                                                                   4.8      60         2.0        1.9
Vsrious Office Furiture S/                  Bet           1.0                         (4)   4.0    (2)   2.0                                                      6.0      40         2.4        3.6
VenOus Office Furaiture it                  SeC           0.5                        (20)  10.0   (10)   5.0                                                     13.0      40         6.0        9.0
Vanfouc Office FurniLture JQ/               Bet           0.9                         (9)   7.2                                                                   7.2      40         2.9        4.3
Enneasion Equipment  fl/                    Set           0.1                        (40)   4.0   (50) __j    (70) ~7.0   (70)   7.0    (70)   7.0               30.0      40        12.0       180.
Subtotal                                                                                   35.5           12.0            7.0           7.0            7.0       60.5                29.5       39.0
Vehicles
fttoa-Shsel Drive                                         6.0          (2)  12.0    (4)  24.0                      (2)  12.0    (4)  24.0                        72.0      s0        37.6       14.4
Pickup Trucks                                             4.0                         (6)  24.0                                  (6)  24.0                       40.0      00        50.4        9.6
Moocoes 1/08(20)  16.0   (10)   8.0   (10)   8.0   (10)   8.0    (10)   8.0                                                                                      40.0      60        20.0       19.2
Bicyclea 11                                               0.2,               -        20)   4.0l  (40)) 8..L      (60))  12.0   (60)  12.0    (60)  12.0         48.0      40        19.2       20.0
Subtotal                                                                     12.0          68.0           16.0          32.0           68.0            20.0    206.0                144.0       72.0
TOTAL. CAPITAL COMM(A                                                     625.0         325.5           68.0          79.0          115.0            27.0  1.237.5                300.2      057.3
B.  Recurrent
Staff Seleriee                                                             7J/
thief Agrooainis                          Hen-years   32.0          (0.3)   16.0    (1)  22.0    (5)  32.0    (1)  32.0    (1)  22.0                   .        144.0      75       100.0       36.0
frincips1 Agrioultos1 Officer                            7.5                  -       (1)   7.0    (15    7.5    (1)   7.5    (1)   7.5          (1)   7.5       37.3      -         -          37.5
Agricaltera1 Aesisteot                                   1.7          (1)    1.7    (1)   1.7    (1)   1.7    (1)   1.7    (1)   1.7             (1)   1.7       10.2      -         -10.2
Costfidential Secrtary                                   2.9                  -       () 2.9        () 2.9         () 2.9         () 2.9         (1    2.9       14. 5                          14.5
Senior Clerk                                             1.5                  -       (11)   1.5   ((11)   1.1   ((1)   1.3    (11)   1.5        (1))  1.5        6.5      -         -6.5
Cler                                                     1.           (1      10      (2)   2.0    (2)   2.0    (2)   2.0    (2)   2.0           (1)   2.0       11.0      -         -11.0
2i0eesenger                                    0          .8          (11)   0.8      (2)   1.6    (2)   1.6    (2)   1.6    (2)   1.6           (2)   1.6        8.8                             8  .0
Drivers                                                   .           (2)   1.        ( 2)   1.8    (2)   1.6    (2)   1.8    (2)   1.8          (2)   1.8       10.0                           10.8
Senior Agricultural Officer                              60-                          (1)   6.0    (1)   6.0    (1)   6.0    (1)   6.0           (1)   6.0       30.0      -3.
Agricultural Officer                                     4.9          (0)  24.5       (3)  14.7    (3)  14.7    (3)  14.7    (3)  14.7           (2)  14.7       00.0      -         -980.
AgricultuAral  uprvior1 /0                               2.9          (4)  11.6       (4)  11.6    (6)  17.4    (6)  17.4    (6)  17.4           (6)  17.4       92.68                          92.6
Superinteodent  21/                                     2.2          (5)  11.0    (20)  44.0   (30)  66.0   (30)  66.0   (30)  66.0    (30)  66.0    519.0                -319.0
Agricultural Assistant                                   1.7         (20)  34.0    (20)  34.0   (30)  51.0   (40)  40.0   (80)  85.0    (60) 102.0    274.0                                    3  74.0
Agricultural  lestrctor                        0         1.3         (20)  26.0    (20)  26.0   (60)  78:.0  (120) 106.0  (28) 23.0    (240) 512.0    832.0                                    8302.0
Secetr                                                   17-                          (4)   6.8    (4)   6.        (4)   6.8    (4)   6.6        (4)   6.8       34.0                           3  4.0
Clerks                                                  1.0                -          4)   4.04   ((6)   6.0    (6)   6.0~   (6)   6.0O          (6)   61 8.0                   28.0 - .2.
Me-Ssssger                                               0.8                -         (8) 6.    (10)   8.0   (10)   80    (10)   80             (10)   8.0       20.4      -         -38.4
Drivers                                        0         5.                          (10)   9.0   (10)   9.0   (10)  _8.0   (10)   9.0    (10)   8.0             45.0      -         -45.1
Subtotal                                                                   128.4          215.3          313.7         408.7          503.7           366.7  2,134.5                10.0.   2,076.3
Allowaacee                                 (75%) 15/                        84.5          158.0          211.3         282.0          353.8           425.0  1,492.9       157.     223.9   1,269.0
TOMA   JAL1 A1I.AM!9S                                                   212.7           348.3          520.0         691.2          857.5          991.7  3,627.4                 531.9   3,295.5
Operat, OneExenses
Fou-whee O1rive                            An-lal        2.1          (2)   4.2       (6)  12.6    (6)  12.6    (6)  12.6    (8)  12.6           (0)  12.6       87.0      457.      30.2       37.0
Pick UPs                                   Annua         1.8                -         (6)  10.8    (6)  10.8    (6)  10.8    (6)  10.8           (6)  10.8       54.0      457.      24.3       29.7
Office Eopeo.es  16/                                     .                  -               .                            ..-                          -.:        .         -         - 
Tors1 Qoeratla  Costs                                                        4.2            23.4          23.4           23.4          23.4            23.4    121.2                 54.5       66.7
TOTAL BEQRBUNT (OTS (B)                                                 216.8           32217          548.4         714.6          880.9        1.015,1  3.748.6                 306.4   3.362.2
C.  082380 TOTAL A + A                                                         039.9           698.2         616.4          795.6         985.9         1,042.1  4,086.1                 766.6   4,219.5
j/  Inclding Senior staff of Crop  evelopseet DivieLos; for ree...eob and seed sultipILcatianse  Annen 7.
1/ Fo  Chief Agroemiet, PAO  and SAO.
3/For AO and AS.
15/  Fr AAS end Coofidential Secretrsy.
For AAs  (ces  be regarded as a lImp a-saloao  to assist lee  level staff With housing.
6/sLx for DC  and five far H.Q.(eeoretaries).
* 1Lx fun DC  sad foun for all senior staff at 0.Q.
/At DC level.
9/At POC levl.
10/  For Six senior staff makerTs in H.Q. and three times mgac  for supporting staff.
11/  Extesion equipment tied to  xteos.in staff (AA. and AIs).
:hi Will be boogh0 by Jocior staff mbesra thes,selves; project wIll provide loan s acco.rdane with
civil service regulatiLo; to build op revo1ving food allowance aade for One otoreycle initially for AAs
aod one bicycle for AIs..
13)1  Css far each DC.
R7/  Cone for each PSt.
151  75% of local salaris..
IT/  Coated ..der lspO ass for adninLstretian  (Anne  7).
KI:l  Most arclulstaff presen.tly meployd is detailed h.es rather then over vaoicu  tables;. therefore, na ated
roduoti. to ill oc-r .e tbie staff will bn ouploped   ewea
October 27, 1976



I                                                                                             .-~~~~~~~.   ..    ..      ..C ..a 
L~~ ~~~~~~~~~~                               ~            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . ... . .-. . .
-   ~ ~ ~ ~ C~~~~~~ C 0 C C   a  a                    a                                                  a                                           -~~~~~~.. .. ..






NIGERIA
BENUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FARM LABOR PROFILE
50
30                L_                    _  __       _
POST PROJECT 1980
vo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 1 .j% 
o ,/  .                            1'
20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0P
I PRE PROJECT 1976
0~~
FEB. MAR. APR. MAY  JUN.  JU L. AUG. SEPT. OCT. NOV. DEC. JAN.
World Bank-16328






ANNEX 3
NIGERIA
BENUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock Development
A. General
1.        The project area has a sedentary cattle population of some 10,000
head.  In addition there are some 39,000 goats, 20,000 sheep and 4,000 pigs
and large numbers of native poultry. Some migratory cattle owned by Fulani
graze in the Benue flood plains with the end of the rains and the departure
of the tsetse fly. However, numbers are small since the Benue river has to
be crossed to get to the grazing areas and adequate grazing is generally
found to the north, in the Lafia project area.
2.        In the past, trade stock have used the area in transit to the
attractive cattle markets of the south and east, traveling by way of Idah.
However, with improved road and rail communications, numbers have been
steadily diminishing over recent years.
3.        The project area lies in the Glossina belt though significant reduc-
tion in infestation has been noted over recent years as a result of the work
of the Tsetse Clearance Program. There are few suitable cattle in the area
having a resistance to trypanosomiasis (N'Dama and Muturu) but MANR is operat-
ing a N'Dama multiplication breeding ranch at Ruav outside the project area.
4.        Prices for goat and sheep meat have increased over recent years
reflecting a decreased availability of beef and an increasing population
having a rising demand for livestock products.
5.        FMG has accorded a high priority to the development of the livestock
sector and this is also reflected in the Benue State Government's budgetary
proposals for the Veterinary Division 1975-1980.
6.        Despite many restrictions on expanding livestock production, the
fundamental physical resources and technology are available. With an ex-
panded applied extension input this considerable potential could be
exploited.
B. Development Proposals
Livestock Extension Unit
7.        All existing services of the livestock division within the area
would become the responsibility of the Livestock Extension Unit including



ANNEX 3
Page 2
meat and hide inspection and handling, and compulsory inoculation programs.
The latter would be undertaken by a mobile team of veterinary staff that
would use approximately four strategically located FSCs as field bases.
These would provide accommodation, drug storage, and refrigeration facili-
ties.
8.        The Livestock Extension Unit would provide specialist advice to any
farmer wishing to undertake commercial livestock production. With a long-
term objective of encouraging mixed farming it is intended that responsibility
for routine management advice be gradually assumed by the General Extension
Services supported by livestock advisers. Therefore, husbandry training for
extension workers would be part of the training program.
9.        A detailed summary of livestock development costs are in Table 1,
and costs of the Livestock Extension Unit are given in Table 2.
Poultry Upgrading
10.       There is a strong demand for improved poultry in the project area
and crossing with local birds has been successfully employed in the past.
The objective would be to attempt a high degree of saturation with improved
cockerels and pullets throughout the project area so as to increase meat and
egg production.
11.       Most villagers keep a few poor quality chickens which exist by
scavenging. Hens weigh about .75 kg - 1.5 kg and lay 60-90 eggs per annum
worth about N 0.77 per egg. Local chickens fetch between N 2.50 to N 3.00
in the market. Demand for poultry meat and eggs is high and MANR has recog-
nized this demand by establishing poultry demonstrations and holding centers
for disseminating improved quality birds to farmers.
12.       Improved poultry would be Rhode Island Red and White Leghorn, and
both cockerels and pullets would be available to villagers who:
(a) provide adequate management facilities for the improved
stock, as approved by poultry extension workers;
(b) agree to a complete 'flushing' of all existing cockerels
in exchange for improved stock.
Improved pullets will be available on the same exchange basis as cockerels,
but only to those villagers residing in a village where a cockerel flushing
exercise has taken place. Surplus cockerels will be fattened and sold by each
unit and surplus pullets will be retained as an egg-producing flock. The
earnings would be set against losses occurring in exchanging improved cocker-
els and pullets for local cocks and hens. The poultry extension unit will
ensure that all poultry operating under the exchange flushing system continue
under a prophylactic regime against Newcastle disease, fowl pox and fowl
typhoid.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
13.       There are six poultry rearing units at Ankpa, Dekina, Ayangba,
Abejukolo, Alloma and Idah, but the project would reduce this to three
efficient working units. Day old, unsexed, vaccinated chicks would be
purchased from commercial hatcheries located in neighboring states which
currently supply Benue State's requirements. Chicks would be raised to five
months before exchange for village poultry, allowing a period of adaptation
before sexual maturity. Unit rearing capacity would be 10,000 a year
enabling an output of 9,000 birds to be available for exchange to farmers,
after allowing time for cleaning and disinfection between batches, given a
10% mortality.
14.       Pullet and cockerel distribution would be on an exchange basis
though a 20% bonus would be offered to villages that agreed to a complete
exchange of either sex of local poultry. The high demand likely to be en-
joyed by the program enables certain conditions of improved management (e.g.,
water supply and supplementary feeding) to be a condition on those entering
the scheme. All stock would undergo a minimum of two weeks limited free
range prior to release to enhance adaptation. All birds received by the
project during the exchange operations would be sold at prevailing market
prices possibly after a short fattening period on limited free range, during
which they would run with the next batch of exchange hens. No egg produc-
tion per se would be undertaken but the unit would concentrate its efforts
on exchange and extension to increase survival and production of exchanged
birds.
15.       Cost estimates are in Table 3.
Small Stock
16.       Goats.  Goats are owned widely throughout the project area and are
mostly West African Dwarf or Fouta Djallon though some Sahel goats are also
kept. Goats do not receive any special treatment and graze and browse at will
though they are often tended by children to avoid damage to growing crops.
Management is minimal. Liveweight varies from 20-25 kg and returns are fairly
constant at N 30 per head. A goat breeding station was established at Idah in
an attempt to introduce a larger breed into the area, but the majority rapidly
died from a pulmonary disease - 'Kata'. Under the project the Goat Breeding
Unit at Idah will be supported by providing funds for the purchase of stock
and equipment for the maintenance of investigatory work. Costs are detailed
in Table 4.
17.       Goats and sheep constitute a major component of the livestock inven-
tory of Ayangba and while, at this stage, known lines of genetic improvement
have not yet been identified, some improvement in mortality reduction and
animal health could be expected from better husbandry techniques. The exten-
sion service will concentrate on this aspect.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
18.       Sheep.  Sheep are kept in Igala Region.  Most are West African Dwarf
sheep but some West African long-legged sheep also occur. They have a parti-
cular value for slaughtering on ceremonial and religious occasions but do
not represent an important element in livestock production. The market value
of a sheep is approximately N 30 each.
19.       Pigs.  Pig numbers in Ayangba are estimated at 4,000.  A large pro-
portion of the human population are Muslims and hence the demand for pig pro-
ducts is not great. Nevertheless, pigs could play a useful role in converting
certain crops into meat; notably, this refers to cassava and maize. The few
pigs which are owned by farmers in the area at present are black and rather
small. They exist by scavenging and it is likely that their productivity is
low.
20.       It is proposed to support a Pig Breeding Unit so that improved
quality stock could be provided to farmers. Some demand exists from more
advanced farmers for exotic pigs which are managed on an intensive basis.
Improved pigs are unsuitable for free range farming techniques as conducted
by most farmers in the area; the local pigs are good scavengers and thrifty
under the very basic management techniques employed.
21.       Breeding boars and gilts would be sold to farmers at economic prices
where a farmer had first provided suitable premises and had indicated that
he was prepared to maintain the improved stock under satisfactory management
conditions.



N!ICERIA                                                                              ANNEX 3
AYANGBA AGRICULTUEAL DTTVEL DO2ENT PROJECT                                                               Tetic  I
Livestock OrtepetoRqt COStBs- Somaro
(Naica '000)
Omit                                                                                                                 Foctr-g  E-.cc-gt
Emits        Cost        Year 0          Year 1         Year 2        Year 3          Year 4          Year F5 Ftal                  0         Amouett        Local Coert
A   CAPITAL  'ovE
1.  L-mt,rck E -rr i- 1, - -
B-Id -gs - Ho-si-                                                 87 .0           57.0           -             -               -                            144.0          -          35.1            108.0
cot iptent                                                         7.9             5           1.0            -               -               -             14.2          -           6.9              7.0
Welirles                                                           6.D            24.8          8.0            -              6.0            20.0             64.8                     I 50.9           139
Sbotoe-                                                          100.9            87.1         9.0             -              6.0            20.0           223.0         42          92.9            130.1
0.  Tocicrtr  earlogUlEet
B,o Idli.g   C - Housing                                           -              66.0           -                             -               -              66.0         -           12.8            53.2
Other                                                              -             20                            -               -               -            220.8          -          55.3            165.5
Egoilprirene                                                       -               't.2                        -               -               -              4.2          -           1.7              2.5
r'et,Irel                                                          -               2.4          -              -               -               -               0.4         -           1.4               1.0
Stbtoc-l                                                           -             293             _             _               _                            09.4         42           71.2            222.2
3.  Cia- Cram ead Pi  Fare
Buildin8s - Ho -eg                                                                3                                                                           30.0                     8               26.2
Otter                                                              -55                          --                             -               -               5.5         -           1.0              4.2
Tttsprm2t                                                                                                                      -               -               2.8         -           1.9              0.9
reeiog Stork                                                                      01 .3                                        _               -               1.9         -           -                1.9
Sdbcocel                                                                          44.9           -            0.3              -               -             40.2          -          12.0             30.2
T-cl Capital Costs                                              100.9           425.4         9.0            0.3                           20.0            561.6         31         17t.1            385.5
0. RECURRENT COSTS
0.  Ctv-c-iktot -st              -
StaEf  Selectee                                                   43.0            61.0        03.3           03.0            83.3            80.3           457.9          _          29.4            428.5
Ort.i,leo                                                          4.9            12.7        12.7           12.0           1.7             12.7            68.4          -          30.8             37.t
S-reral fvicq ...7                                                        7 4         7.7            7.7             7.7             7.7            45.2          -          30.0             15.2
Svttorol                                                          54.9           101.8       103.7          103.7           103.7           103.7           571.5         16          90.2            481.3
7. Potlctro Reenrin Emit
Staff  al arces                                                    -              36.2        36.2           36.2            36.2            36.2           161.0          -          11.6            169.4
Taremsprrracc00                                                    -               007          7.8           7.8             7.8             7.6             30.0         -           11.7            27.3
Cecerti Sr rms                                                      -             75.2        75.2           75.2            75.2            75.2           376.0          -          36.4            339.6
LCs:   Soles of P2olEry                                            -              71.4)      (71.4)         (71.4)          (71.4)          071.4)         (357.0)         -           -             (357.01
Subtotel                                                           -              40.8        47.8           47.8            47.8           47.8            239.0          -          S5.0            179.3
0. ldeh Feat atnd P'ie Farm
Stoff Saloriet                                                     9.4            22.8        2208           22.8           22.0            22.8            123.4          -           8.0            115.4
Li-e-sok Cocci                                                     -               3.5         1.5            3.5             3,5             3.5             17.5         -           3.0             14.2
sqi pert Meintenance                                              -               0.1         0.1            0.1             a.1             0.1              0.5         -                    0.1     l.
Less:  Salt oF Pigs                                                _             j(1.6)       (1IS)          (1.61            1.61          _1.6_             18.08        -                           7 (8.0)
S ial                                         _9.4                                 4.6         4.            24.8            24.8           24.8            133.4          -          11.4            122.0
Total Rr r,,-rr I C-ss                                            6h.3          174.4        176.3          176.3           176.3          176.3            943.0          -         161.3            782.t
rotal Cap-iel iod ROcocreet Costs                                165.2           599.8       185.3          176.6           182.3          196.3          L.2Q5.I          -         332.4          1,168.1



ISb I>OJl00.00010-I0I0J >
000                                                                                                                                         0. CHO '     0          H 0                     C2teI       Cs.0  o< 00  n= HO..   <  o0cgYvHz{ 
00.0 -v O0O00 no                                                                                   2  n=    32  '2 2  S|2 |2                         822                     288 0    |  |2 < |      't= l
: ~ ~   ~      ~     ~     ~    0              00         0      o         O            O0000. O  0c  H n0 .0                                           0.     0     00      , I<n1          =V          
=~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ =0                                                 0    0 g '000.o0 H. e.   0 n                                             000
00 0.000                                           o n rt 2fi                                00    00 0 0. 0 = n00o ls                                                                                             0.c
n   s  rt  Yr  Y ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  s  s  O  O  s  O  w M s to o _ > o e o n ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ > > ~~~~~~~~~~~ o 19 J0'OI  H0~.o
0.00            00             H  o            ,oa                                                                                                                              ono  z0  o .   o 0  o 0 ro 0 oo  0
0n o         0 00           0.   C                  10                                                   008.              0          1.0                                   o                    .      0         C
Ote    08    .    00       0     0 n0 -!;00                                                                                    0    O82.80
00000. H eo S0                                  'H      00.                                                    00.,0           0                            .0                                       .        CO 
=e ~         oo       2 n              - o0.0                                                                                        CO10.200
2..0.          00         c .            ^                                         ^             ^            A             0 
0*   e.   00                                                                                                              0             n...                                0.000                   00.0o0.  ow1  w~v~      onn|| |]|sg|   
0        0      0                                                                                                        0                          0000                    00_                      0000I    |o soDo  nwwnoooo        
00    0       0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                          I A :.
00     00  e0  |                                                                                                           w~|   , wOwl  w-   .,  00  s      lt|2lI| 
>S                                              -0                                                0a0  *O.O00   0-0                  r       n        0.0                   .-0o'    w              00-Cw  -wnno 
0e                                     0.                                                0.e 0.0w0.00o 0 NI_ I  0. WOCC 1.000                                                              0.00W
0.   s   v   88nI     ~wo  n|  n      :( s|Sac    r
22            U  C|                            l  OI   >w                         w    _     o       ePwwnw        
0<  0                                                                                            __         __00 
v2    c                                                                 0.W IW00                                00 . -                                                                               0000.  l o 1   ov               oo o I oo       S|
0W          0.2A                                                 0.0                            0. .A 0 0                                                                   0.0.. 
11IP0                                              mjo                                                    00                                                   0. W000                       0    Sr|                    Hsn~ P|  oMo
n100                         0.[ C oO             0   0.   0. o00000000                                  0.   0. o00                  CO w0        0 co   n00woo00n000o   oo
[.~   ~wi               gl o 1  11010  0.0                 00   0.          COt    0.   0..00              0-     0                00   0.           0.         00      0 0             0.   0.00   ra w
2~~| 82oI  -   nl }nv n>wWs|     r>*ej 
tts~~~~00                                                 0.O.C000..0                                            CO                    0.0          |       00.0.I wnnswv>        wMw|   M|   



NIGERIA                                                                        ANINt  3
BENUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMNET PROJECT
Cost of Pooltry R-ekrig  -it
(N ' 000)
Uoit                                                                                                                Foreign Exchaneo
oiLta          Cost        Yor O          _Tar 1        Year 2         Year 3         Year 4         Year 5          Total           7,     Auoont          Local Cost
A. Capital Cooto
S. Saldioos
Junior Hooting                       No              7.0                  (3)   42.0          -              -              -             -       (3)      42.0          25       10.4             31.6
Traditional Hoouing                  No             4.0                  (6)   24.0           -              -              -             -       (6)      24.0          10        2.4             21.6
Broodor H-oues 40 m2                 No             3.5                   (9)   31.5          -              -              -             -       (9)      31.5          25        7.9             23.6
Grower - ooseo 75 =2                  No             5.6                (30)  168.0           -              -              -             -      (30)     168.0          25       42.0            126.0
Feed Store                            No             4.1                  (3)   12.3          -              -              -             -       (3)      12.3          25        3.1               9.2
Office/Store                          No             3.0                  (3)    9.0          -              -              -             -       (3)       9.0          25        2.3               6.7
Sobttoal                                                                    286.8         -                             -                             286.8                   68.1             218.7
2. Equipment
Poultry Equipment 1/                  Set            0.8                  (3)    2.4          -              -              -             -       (3)       2.4          40         1.0              1.4
Offiro Equipseot                      Set            0.6                  (3)    1.8          -              -              -             -       (3)       1.8          40        0.7               1.1
Subto-al                                                                      4.2          -              -                                              4.2                    1.7              2.5
3. Vehicles
Motroryrles  2/                       No             0.8                 (33      2.4                                                                       2.4          62        1.4               1.0
Total Capital Crete                                                         293.4          _              _              _                            293.4          24       71.2             222.2
B.  Eerront Costs
1. Staff Salaries
Poeltry A-sietant                  -n-year           2.9                 (3)    6.7   (3)   8.7   (3)    8.7   (3)   8.7   (3)   8.7   (15)                43.5          -        -                43.5
Laborers                          mae-year           0.8                (15)   12.0  (15)  12.0  (15)   12.0  (15)  12.0  (15)  12.0   (75)                60.0          .        -                60.7
Subhotal                                                                     20,7         20.7           20.7          23)7          2087             103.5          -         -               103.5
Allowarres ot 75%  3/                                                        15.1          15.5           15.5         15.5          15.5               77.5         15        11.6             65.9
Total Staff Salafies                                                         36.2         36.2           36.2          36.2          36.2              181.0                   11.6            169.4
2. Taroportation
Colletior (hired)  4/            ve-hile/year   N020/kl                          2.4          2.4            2.4           2.4           2.4              12.0          30        3.6               8.4
Distributio= (hired)                        "      NO.20                         5.4           5.4            5.4           5.4           5.4              27.0                     8.1             18.9
S.brotat                                                                      7.8           7.8            7.8          7.8           7.8              39.8                    11.7             27.3
3. General Serioe
Purrhase Chirks  5/               per chicke       N 0.45                       13.5          13.5           13.5          13.5          13.5              67.5          -                         67.5
Feed for Five mooths                               N 2.10                       59.7          59.7           59.7          59.7          59.7             298.5          10       29.9            268.6
Varei-es, =ediratio.                               N 0.06                        1.8           1.8            1.8           1.8           1.8               9.0          70        6.3               2.7
Equip-eot Maiote-arre (57.)                                                       0.2          0.2            0.2           0.2           0.2               1.0          20        0.2               0.6
Sbtotal                                                                     75.2          75.2          75.2          75.2          75.2             376.0          -        36.4             339.6
lees:  Solo of pellets 6/                                                       35.7          35.7           35.7         35.7          35.7              178.5          -        -               178.5
Sale of                                                                 3.7           3.7            35.7          35.7         33.7              178.5         -                         178.5
Subtotal                                                                     71.4          71.4          71.4          71.4          71.4   357.0   357.0            -         -               357.0
TOTAL RECUR8NT CODSTS                                                           47.8          47.8           47.8          47.8         47.8              239.0          25       59.7            179.3
TOTAL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT
COSTS                                                                    341.2          47.8           47.8          47.8          47.8             532.4          25      130.9            461.5
1/  Brooder, rater troughs,  feed era rd feed bins.
2I  Will be bought  by poultry n-sis--rt.  Pro)err will provide Soars ir eeerrdaoro sooth cii  servlce regolavi-os: loly build up of
revolving food costed order pro/set roses.
3/  Alloweces irelads provisior for motorrycle ope-teing rod the foreign echbage eorpo-nen  is e-timated at 15, of total allorarees.
2/Trtportetloo   of poultry to f-eres red fend to the  nei will be door either by hired eros-port or by pro-jet  -ehioles.  Foods
are provided or hire hesis.
5/  Drv or wbhie'  re d1lirered by suppliers.
6/  All birds reared are assumed to be seebarged   ith local village po-ltry ahibh havea marbee vale of N 2.50.  IT  prr.tee, sore
pullerr ray be reti-ned which  oIlI yield a retu-r  fron egg peed-cri-n  is eddil-or tome eiproved pou1,ev nay be sold for  -ebh oh-bo
roll  -ai-e o-e  thar N 2.30 per bird.



isiCEFRIS                                                                              ANNEX 3
Table 
AYANGRA ACERICULTULA). DUEVELOP8ERU PROJECT
Idah Cost and Ffg Farm
D-osloenst Costs
(Raft 1002)
Unit                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Forign Exchange
Unite-       Cos          Teat U           -Tea  1      heat 2          Tear 3           Tear 4          Year S          Total                    Amount         Lotal Costs
A. CAPITAL COSTS
Itteo-diste  Soue-R              N.           2110           -          (U)  21.0                                                                      (1)  21.0        25          5.3              15.1
-I-fe   Reuse 21                 Se    ~     l4.0                       (U)  14 0         -                                -                             )    _14. 0    2h         3 .5             1f.7
Subtota1 (SouRing)                                                            35.0                                                                           35.0                   R.U              26.2
Figgert 3/                       N.            4.0           -           (0)   4.0                                                                     (U)   4.0        25          LU0               2.0
st-co                            No            0.5           -           (11   0.5         -                                                -          (U)   0*5        10          T.l               0.4
Fsddotk F-otitg                  No
S45 .ha.te.  4/                 No            1.2           -          I)    1.0          ----                                                        (U)  1.0         20         0.2                0.0
Subtotal                                                                       3.5         -                               --                                   5                   1.3               4.2
Total B.ildiiog                                                               40.5         ----4035                                                                                10.1              30.4
2.  M-oblner  & EnufiI-,,
St-las                           No            1.0           -           (1)   1.0         --                                              -           (U)   1.0        70          U.7               0.3
V.eater...ry Equip-en            5et           1.0           -           (12    1.0        .---                                                        (1)   i.U        70          U.7               0.3
Notor-ytle 51                    No            0.8           -           (U)   0.8         .---                                                        (I)   o.8        60          U.N               0.3
Subtotl                                                                        2.8                                                 -                          2.8                   1.9               0.9
3.  Or..edio- St-tk
Suw  61                          So            0.1           .          (6)   0.6                                     (2)  0.2             -                   .8       -            .                0.6
Boar                             No            0.1           -           (1)   0.1         --                         (1)  0.1             -0.2                                                       0  .2
Coats 7,                         N.            0,01                     (30)   0,9         -                               --09--                                                                      0.9
Sobtotal                                                     -1.6                          -0 .3                                                               .                                       1.9
Total C-pUtal Costs                                                           44.9         --0.3                                                             45.2       -          12.0              33.2
0.    NECTORENT COSTS
1.  Staff Salaries
Fen Iase                 na-year           6.0           -           (1)   6.0   (1)  6.U          51)  6.0      (1)l  6.0         (1)  6.0        (5))  30.0                                    30.0
FIO Msisst2.9                                       (1)  2.9        (1)   2.9    2) .9            (1)  2.9       (1)   2.0        (1)  2.9         (5)  17.4        --17.4
Clerk             ''    '         ~~~~      ~~~~~~~~0.9  (1)  0.9  (1)   U.N    (1)  N.9   (11)  0.9      (1))  U.9        (1))  0.9       (6)    5.4       --5.4
Lahor              '    ''        ~~~~      ~~~~~~~~0.0  (2)  1.6  (4)   3.2   (4)  3.2    (4)  3.2       (4)  3..         (4)  3.2       (22)  _17.6                                     1  0.4
S.bueta1                                                      5.4             13.0         13.0            13.0           13.0             13.               7O.4                                    7 0.4
Alooesa  75T  9/                                        4.0              9.8          9.8             9.9            9.8              9.8             5-3 0       15          0.0              45.0
Tota  Staff Salaries                                          9.4             22.9         22.0            22.8           22.8              22.8            123.4                   0.0             115.4
2.  Line-tet  Cests
Fig Food 3/                      ToO5          0.25                    (12)   3.0  (12)  3.0         (12)  3.f    (12)  3.U           (12)  2.0       (60)  15.2         10         1.5              13.5
Co toin-y Redfit-o                             -     -                         0.5          U.S             0.5            0.0               2.               25         R           .                0.7
Subtotal                   -            -                  5~~    ~ ~~~~               ~~~~           ~~~~~~~~~~~~.5  3.5  3.5  3.5  3.5  17.5                  3.3              14.2
3 .  Equi4e-t oe:ntrant                             -           -0.1                             0.1             0.1            0.1              0.1               o0        20          0.1               0.4
Securteut Snhtotal             -              ~~~~            ~~~~~       ~~~~~9.4  26.4  26.4  26.4       26.4             26.4            141.1                  11.4              132.0
Les:  Sale of figs 1O/           No                          - __       (82)    1.6  (82)  1.6        (82)  1.6.L   (92)  1.6         (82)  1.62~    (410)   8 2~   -                -                N.O
Total Ontur-e  Coats                                          9.4             28.0         28.0            28.0           28.2             28.0             149.4        N         11.4             136.0
Total CapItl1 4 Reo..reot
Ctnts                                         N~~     ~      ~~~~ ~ ~~~~            ~     ~~~~     ~     ~~~.4  72.9  28.0  28.0C  28 .3  28.U  194.                34               1.
1I  2/ .Sons noefgbidnsaa.fbebtpsiimede for hoosng for Ufar  -anage  an  field s.s.stan-.
37Tolri tyehon fr6swn  I bea  ad  -ralng  --ko.
~(Proisiet for outside padd-tk for dry sees and gnats wick efple shads  -osreiesd pronisfe- for watr.,
51 i011  be bought by fU-r.eatsg-r   P-ojst will provide I me  in at-rdano  with ofofI ssrolost-guIatiosl  only build-up ef
ennoln ioN" fund teste   u         jatrnr  tot .    Y-4
t.'  io eons bought Sn Teat I ad 2 piafet   I   er4
71  Tbite0 goats bouUbt 1-11ly to Ye-  I
N A llo- -oss-ludn  p-olin- for mtoryrle npera.tiogaod forign   -h-bsgaos-p--a                      I fssni- tatd at 15, of totl all11- -a
/  SonO~ 0.6 ton/ou..un  reaing ste-k at 280 lbs/nn-   Coen-ri-o  4:1 - sale eaight wafghk                  0 lOIbs); boa  0.5 tee; ...undlng0U.4 net
10/l  Fighm-too youg stork sold so fa..me-  One ftt-oing/b-ndfeg at 8 20  -se  eeighlog 150 10. per -oiU



ANNEX 4
NIGERIA
BENUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of FoFestry Development
General
1.        The forestry sector plays a significant role in the Nigerian
economy. Forest lands supply about 50 million cubic meters or 95% of the
fuelwood used by the rural population. Over one million cubic meters
of sawn lumber are used for both urban and rural area housing construction
and other purposes. Exports of high value--sawn lumber, veneer, plywood
and logs--were a significant source of foreign exchange earnings (about
US$10 million in 1974). However, because of increased demands, Government
has recently banned all exports of foreign products. Employment in the
sector is estimated at some 18,000 persons. Organized agro-forestry farm-
ing operations provide a significant source of family income for an esti-
mated 10,000 farmers.
2.        Forests cover about 119,000 square miles or about one third of
Nigeria's total land area. Permanent Government-controlled forest reserves
amount to 36,000 square miles out of this total. About 70,000 hectares of
plantation are reported to have been established, although actual areas are
probably below reported areas. Forest lands play a critical role in pro-
tecting water catchment areas, regulating stream flow, protecting soils from
winds and other erosion, providing a habitat for wild live resources and
as an important reserve of land, some of high agricultural potential for
future agricultural settlement.
3.        About 70% of Nigeria's population relies on fuelwood as their
principal source of cooking and heating energy. In large areas of the
country existing woodlands have been denuded and many farmers are forced
to utilize cattle dung as an alternative or to purchase petroleum based
fuels, e.g., kerosene. This is particularly difficult for families in
the lower income groups as they would have to spend a considerable part of
their income on kerosene in order to ensure satisfactory heating and cooking
of food supplies. Fuelwood plantations established on marginal lands not
suitable for agriculture could provide a cheaper alternative fuel as well as
additional benefits such as nut production, cattle fodder, building poles,
and soil protection.
4.        At the current annual rate of sawn timber consumption (about 1.5
million cubic meters) the remaining high forest will last for approximately
25 to 30 years. The number of sawmills operating in the country exceeds
350. Rapidly rising do'nestic markets have resulted in a sharp reduction



ANNEX 4
Page 2
of exported lumber in the last decade (from about 500,000 cubic meters in
1966 to 200,000 cubic meters in 1972). In order to remain self-sufficient
in future lumber supplies it has been estimated that some 100,000 hectares
of industrial saw log plantations (short rotation species) will be needed by
1990 over and above the already established plantations.
5.        Domestic pulp and paper consumption has increased dramatically
from about 40,000 tons in 1966 to about 130,000 tons in 1975 and it is
estimated to exceed 300,000 tons by 1985. One paper mill has already been
established and three new mills are planned but there is a critical shortage
of raw material to supply existing and future mill requirements. An estimated
100,000 hectares by 1985 will be needed to assure domestic self-sufficiency in
paper supply. If this program is not implemented, pulp and paper imports will
be costing Nigeria something in the order of US$150 million per annum by
mid-1980.
6.        Management of the forest reserves and control of the exploitation
of nonreserve forest is the responsibility of the State Governments, but
Local Government Council staff control felling and collect revenue. A
major function of the State Forestry Department has been the protection of
the natural forests. In Nigeria, State Forestry Departments are seriously
handicapped in their ability to implement large development plans as they
lack trained personnel and expertise in project planning and implementation
of feasibility studies. However, on the positive side, many years of
research and development have already solved main technical and economical
problems of plantation forestry.
7.        Until 1971 the Federal Department of Forest Research located in
Ibadan provided technical information to the State Forest Departments and
managed subprofessional training at the Ibadan Forestry School and tech-
nical training at the Jos Forestry School. Also in 1971, a Federal Depart-
ment of Forestry was established with the responsibility for developing a
national program and coordinating forestry development in the States. In
1976 the Department of Forestry Research was renamed the Federal Institute
for Forest Research which comes under the responsbility of the Agricultural
Research Council. As such it is not directly linked with the Federal Depart-
ment of Forestry which comes directly under the responsibility of FHARD.
The Federal Department of Forestry is expanding its activities through the
development of specialized divisions for planning, management, forest indus-
tries, wildlife and conservation, extension and publicity, and a sawmill
training center. Allocation of Federal funds for forestry development n
the States is now managed and monitored by the Federal Department of Forestry.
Under the Third Development Plan (1975-1980) some US$144 million is budgeted
for forestry development.
Benue State
8.        Forest resources include gazette reserves, community forest areas,
and extensive areas of low volume savannahs in unallocated and private lands.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
2
and community forest areas 31 km , and together they cover about 4% of the
land area of the State. There are no community forest areas in the Ayangba
project area but 95% of the forest reserves is contained within the three
project divisions. Ownership of these areas is vested in the State and not
in the Local Government Council. The Northern Nigeria Timber Company (NNTC)
Sawmill at Ochaja is the only large-scale forest industry in the State. There
is a small sawmill in Makurdi and elsewhere minor exploitations are carried
out by pitsawyers. Since the embargo on exports in March 1976, the (NNTC)
mill has increased sawmill production for the local market and is currently
exploring the possibility of producing prefabricated housing units. Prelim-
inary studies are also being undertaken into the prospects of establishing an
integrated particle board mill. The major emphasis of the State development
plan is on timber plantations development and next on fuelwood.
Development Proposals
9.        In the project area, the present savannah is generally sufficient
for local farm supply of rough poles and fuel for the immediate future.
However, land has been cleared of trees for a radius of about five kilome-
ters or more around the main townships and both poles and fuel are trade
goods commanding high prices (upwards of N 0.01/pound for firewood--US$20
per cubic meter--and N 1.0 for a 12-inch pole of borassus). The project
will establish pole/fuelwood plantations around the major township so as to
secure future supplies at a reasonable cost at these main centers. The tech-
niques developed during the project would establish standards for forestry
management and would be used for extending this system to other areas in sub-
sequent development phases. The operations would be carried out by project
staff on land set aside and titled for forestry. Products from the project
plantation would be sold at economic stumpage prices so as to provide refi-
nancing of replacement plantations. Under the project 1,050 hectares of
fuelwood/pole plantations will be established around Ankpa, Dekina, Idah
and Oguma and suitable areas will need to be selected in consultation with
the Local Government Council and gazetted for forestry development.
10.       The nurseries supplying the plantations would also raise seedlings
for sale to farmers. This would include forest seedlings and also fruit tree
seedlings, especially citrus, mango, coconuts and cashew. As there is some
demand, project nurseries would also sell seedlings for cocoa, coffee and oil
palm.
11.       Use of charcoal in the project areas is confined to blacksmiths
and laundrymen. Charcoal has a significant advantage over fuelwood and is
convenient for domestic fuel because it is easier to handle and store and
contains about double the heat value of well-dried wood. In addition, trans-
port costs of charcoal are less than half those of firewood. There are good
prospects that charcoal would be adopted as fuel in the larger townships.
The project would initiate charcoal production using both traditional earth



ANNEX 4
Page 4
kiln and portable steel kiln methods to establish the industry in the area.
The project also includes a provision for the services of a charcoal spe-
cialist consultant to assist in setting up this component.
12.       The project would also provide training courses to project staff
and woodworkers (local small-scale sawmill operators and carpenters).
13.       The project would assist in processing applications from small-
scale forestry industries (sawmilling and carpentry) to the Small Indus-
tries Credit Scheme which could provide credit to finance simple improved
technology, thereby substantially improving recovery rates, productivity
and product quality.
14.       The project would assist in the development of the national
forestry program by supervising and extending introductory trials of tree
species in the project areas; assistance would also be provided at the
State level in planning activities.
15.       Forestry activities would be under the responsibility of a separate
division in the Development Services Department. Because of severe staff
constraints, a forestry specialist would be recruited internationally under
the Ayangba Project. However, this specialist would work equally under the
Lafia Project.
16.       For successful project implementation the following aspects would
require detailed attention:
(a) Land for nurseries should be set aside.
(b) Forest tariffs are out of date and should be brought in line
with actual costs of growing forestry products.
(c) Tree seedlings should be sold to farmers at full cost and
present prices should be raised to that level; project
accounts would annually provide detailed information to
assess the actual costs.
(d) Land acquisition for pole/fuelwood plantations would be
necessary around Ankpa, Dekina, Idah and Oguma.



ANNEX 4
NIGERIA                                   Table 1
BENUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Forestry Activities
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5          Total
Nursery Establishment (No.)          3         -         -         -         -             -
Nursery Production for
Plantations ('000)               308       615      615       615       615         2,768
Fruit Trees for Sale ('000)        100       100       100      100       100            500
Other Trees for Sale ('000)         75        75        75        75        75           375f
Subtotal                     483       790       790       790       790         3,643
Fuelwood/Pole Plantations (ha)
Ankpa                              -        50      100       100       100            350
Dekina                             -        50      100       100       100            350
Idah                               -       50       100       100       100           350
Subtotal                       -       150       300       300       300         1,050
Charcoal Development:
Portable Kilns (No)                2                                                     2
Introductory Species Trials
(Plots)                           1         1         1         1         1             5
Training Courses:
Project Staff (Trainees)          12                                                    12
Woodworkers (Trainees)             -        20        20       20        20             80
July 28, 1976



NIGERIA
BENUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Forestry Costs (N '000) 1/
/% Foreign     Foreign       Local
Year 1        Year 2        Year 3         Year 4        Year 5         Total Costs        Exchange        Costs       Costs
A.  OVERHEAD AND ADMINISTRATION
Housing                                                     179.0            -             -              -             -              179.0              -            43.8         135.2
Buildings                                                     11.1           -             -              -             -               11.1              -             3.1           8.0
Vehicles                                                      32.4           -              -            15.2          10.8             58.4              -            46.5          11.9
Equipment                                                      4.2           -              -             -             -                4.2              40            1.7           2.5
Staff Salaries 3/                                            Y9.6           79.6          79.6           79.6          47.6            366.0              30          111.3         254.7
Operating Costs                                                4.7           4.7           4.7            4.7           4.7             23.5              45            10.6         12.9
B.  FORESTRY COMPONENTS
Nurseries Construction                                       39.4            -             -              -             -               39.4              65           25.6          13.8
Nurseries Operating                                           19.9          27.9          27.9           27.9          27.9            130.5              20           26.1         104.4
Plantation Establishment
Surveys                                                     0.3            0.6           0.7           0.6            0.7              2.9              -             -             2.9
Access Tracks & Firebreaks                                  1.4            2.7           2.9            3.0           3.3             13.3              18            2.4          10.9
Land Preparation, Planting
and Cultural Operations                                     -            44.4           95.4         105.2          108.3           353.3                3           10.6        342.7
Subtotal                                                  1.7          47.7           99.0         108.8          112.3           369.5                            13.0        356.5
Charcoal Production
Equipment                                                   2.4            -             -              -             -                2.4             60             1.4           1.0
Consultants                                                 2.5            2.5           -              -             -                5.0            100             5.0           -
Subtotal                                                  4.9           2.5            -             -              -               7.4                             6.4          1.0
Training Courses                                               0.2           0.8           0.8            0.8           0.8              3.4              -             -             3.4
Introductory Species Trials                                   1.0            1.0           1.0            1.0           1.0              5.0              -             -             5.0
GRAND TOTAL                                               377.1          164.2         213.0         238.0          205.1         1,197.4                           288.1        909.3
1/  For full details see Supplement 5, Appendix 10.
2/ No activities in Year 0.
3/  Including in Years 1, 2, 3 and 4 expatriate salaries of N 32,000 annually.
October 18, 1976



ANNEX 5
NIGERIA
BENUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fisheries Development
A. General
1.        Nigeria, with a population of 75 million, is the largest single
consumer of fish and fish products in Africa. However, both inland and sea
fisheries' potential remain comparatively unexploited. The fishing industry
is an important component in food production for the project area. The
Ayangba project has the Benue and Niger rivers as its northern and western
boundaries. It is estimated from records produced by the Fisheries Depart-
ment that 26,000 metric tons of fish were harvested from these rivers and
marketed in the project area during 1975/76, as against 6,000-10,000 metric
tons per annum between 1968/69 and 1974/75. Total value of the catch rose
less dramatically from N 0.6 million in 1968/69 through N 5.0 million in
1974/75 to over N 5.75 million in 1975/76. A 1966 FAO study estimated the
total catch of northern fisheries at 30,000-50,000 metric tons per annum,
of which two thirds came from 'fadamas' or flood plains. Demand for fish
is high but availability becomes increasingly scarce as distance from the
rivers and fishing areas increases. The natural diet of the people consists
principally of starchy foods lacking in proteins, and including more f;sh
in the diet would play a valuable part in improving the nutrition of -iit
people. Studies of the fishing potential of the Benue and Niger rivers
have been carried out by FAO with UNDP financing, and information from
these studies has assisted in preparing the fisheries component of the
projects.
2.        Under the project it is proposed to:
(a) strengthen the Fisheries Department of the Ministry of
Agriculture in Benue State by providing the services
of a fisheries expert who will be located in the
Ayangba project, and who will assist and advise the
Fisheries Departments of Benue and Plateau States
in the long-term expansion and development of the
industry;
(b) establish a Fisheries Training Center at Bagana with a
capacity of 20 trainees;



ANNEX 5
Page 2
(c) construct and manage 15 bunded lagoons of approximately
30 acres each; these will provide a fertile breeding
and growing habitat for fish which, by single sluice
gate control, will be operated as intensive fishing
areas under close Fisheries Department control, backed
by appropriate legislation;
(d) promote through fishery extension experts the use of
improved fish drying practices, prototypes of which
have been desigied using ready-to-hand materials under
FAO investigatory work in 1969.
3.        FMG has developed plans to make an authority which would cover the
fishing in the Benue and Niger rivers. Included are also proposals to pro-
vide credit to fishermen and to provide marketing assistance for frozen
fish. However, these proposals have not yet reached beyond the conception
stage, but the project would liaise closely with any other development
efforts for fisheries in the Benue and Niger rivers.
4.        Although the demand for both fresh and smoked fish in the project
area is high, supplies are not readily available except at well-developed
localities close to the river, e.g., Makurdi and Idah. Inadequate communica-
tions, poor processing and unsatisfactory marketing conditions are the major
factors limiting extended sales. Nevertheless, fish is a popular ingredient
in the diet when it is available.
5.        Close to sources of catch, fish is sold fresh at prices ranging
from N 0.50 to N 1.0 per kg. About 75% of the total catch is sold dried
and smoked, and since the ratio of dried fish to fresh fish is approximately
1:3, prices are comparable to fresh fish at N 2.00 to N 3.00 per kg.
6.        The wide-ranging fishery practices carried out by local fishermen
have been designed over a long period of time and are effective. For the
most part, fishermen are itinerant, fishing particular stretches of water
according to the season of flooding. However, a number of farmers do operate
as fishermen in slack seasons in the farming year.
7.        Fishermen use a wide variety of fishing gear and methods depending
upon the river flow, type of fish being sought, and upon the particular
location of the fishing ground. Little improvement can be made to this gear.
Canoes are generally adequately constructed using traditional methods.
There is some demand for outboard engines, but since supplies are available
it is considered better that fishermen obtain their requirements by direct
purchase. In general, provision of credit to fishermen is not favored, due
to their itinerant nature and inability to provide acceptable collateral.
8.        Present methods of traditional fishing are uncontrolled and the use
of overfine nets, dynamiting and poisoning are having a serious effect on
long-term fish stocks. A Fish Conservation and Management Act has been
drafted and had reached Executive Council level in May 1976, prior to being



ANNEX 5
Page 3
scrutinized by the Solicitor General. This Act would provide the necessary
backing for fisheries staff to police the industry. However, there is cur-
rently a severe manpower constraint within the Fisheries Department which
would limit effective implementation of the Act. The output from the proj-
ects Fisheries Training Center at Bagana should rectify this situation.
B. Development Proposals
Extension Services
9.        The fisheries extension service would be considerably expanded and
the quality improved under the project. The extension service would have the
backing of a 'Fish Conservation and Management Act' to be enacted in Benue
State. Credit facilities are not considered suitable to fishermen who are
generally itinerant and can offer little substantial collateral. Assistance
to fishermen will, therefore, be directed at extending a knowledge of improved
techniques by demonstration and on-the-spot training.
10.       An expatriate head of the Fisheries Section would be responsible
for conducting the training program, identifying lagoon sites, supervising
lagoon construction, and providing technical assistance to MANR. Although
the fishery expert would be engaged under the Ayangba project, he would also
be responsible for supervising the small fishery component of the Lafia
project and for technical assistance to Plateau State MANR.
11.       Some scholarships will be provided under the project to train
promising Nigerian extension staff overseas.
Fisheries Training Center
12.       A center would be established at Bagana which is suitably located
in the project area, having immediate access to the Benue river and from which
work could readily be conducted along both the Benue and Niger rivers. Some
existing buildings would provide useful additional storage space for the
fishery unit in Bagana. The expatriate head of the Fisheries Section would
be responsible for the design and conduct of the training program.
13.       The broad pattern, to be detailed by the fishery expert, and the
curriculum of a fisheries training course 1/ would be as follows:
(a) species and behavioral characteristics of fish found in
Benue and Niger rivers;
(b) fishing law;
1/   The course would train the equivalent of Agricultural Instructor in the
fishery field.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
(c) techniques of local fishermen;
(d) boat building;
(e) outboard engine maintenance and repair;
(f) nets, repair and usage;
(g) chemistry of river and 'fadama' waters;
(h) fish breeding and feeding habits;
(i) marketing;
(j) use of improved techniques in smoking and drying
fish;
(k) river behavior;
(1) bunded lagoon fishing;
(m) illegal methods of fishing;
(n) fisheries extension methods;
(o) commercial fishing.
Lagoon Fishing
14.       The project proposes to develop and manage 15 bunded lagoons at
sites to be selected along the southern bank of the Benue river between Bagana
and Sintaku and along the eastern bank of the Niger river southwards to Idah.
15.       The principle of establishing bunded lagoons was propounded in the
FAO study in 1967 though information on their potential yield and management
is scanty. A lagoon consists of an area of land which may be immediately
adjacent to the river or may be located at a low point set back some way from
the river in the form of a network board. During the flood season, access
to these ponds is left open and fish are attracted into the lagoon by the
presence of greater food supplies than occur in the fast flowing river. Some
additional crop wastes, if suitable, can be distributed into the lagoon as a
further attraction for fish to enter.
16.       The lagoon provides a spawning ground for the fish,-and at the fall
of the river, sluice gates, controlling lagoon capacity, would be closed and
the fish thus impounded in the lagoon. Fishing of each lagoon would be
strictly controlled by a fisheries assistant who would act in conjunction
with the traditional chief responsible in the area for managing the lagoon
with the aid of powers provided under the Fish Conservation and Management



ANNEX 5
Page 5
Act. The fisheries assistant would provide technical assistance to fisher-
men in the area particularly on matters of fishery management, harvesting,
processing and marketing, rather than in fishing techniques, since very
effective methods are currently employed. Each fisheries assistant in charge
of a lagoon would have his house sited nearby and would be equipped with a
canoe and outboard together with a set of scales permitting accurate recording
of lagoon cropping performance.
17.       Lagoon locations have yet to be determined, but financing for 15
has been provided.  Lagoon size may be variable, but in Katwina-Ala Division,
northeast of the Ayangba project area, 9 such lagoons have been identified
varying in size from 420 to 20 acres.  An average of 30 acres has been
assumed for project lagoons. Data provided by the FAO team on a limited
number of sample lagoons indicate a yield of about 150 kg per acre per annum.
Peak yields occurring over fishing festival have been as high as 4 tons from
a small lagoon on a single day. Fisheries Department estimates are 1 ton per
acre per annum. For project calculations, an estimated yield of 20 tons per
30-acre lagoon per annum has been taken, having a value of N 14,000 per annum.
Improved access to lagoon areas will play a major part in promoting their
development and exploitation through improved marketing prospects.
18.       Users of lagoon fishing would pay a service charge of N 10 per
annum to cover development and maintenance of lagoons; the number of users
would be limited by agreement between the fisheries assistant and the local
chief. Bunding would be carried out using hand labor with clay-faced bunds.
This method has proved satisfactory in an experimental lagoon at Lokoja.
Provision for two sluice gates has been included.
19.       Investment costs for bunded lagoons are estimated at N 2,500 -
N 3,000.  For details, see Table 1.
Improved Fish Drying
20.       Particular benefits could be derived by local fishermen using
improved but very simple drying kilns for fish drying. The FAO study noted
that the kilns have a two-fold increase in capacity, needed one-sixth of
the fuel and one-third of the processing time. It also resulted in a uniform
product of high quality. Farmers can derive considerable increased benefits
by using improved but very simple transport boxes which use chicken wire.
It is proposed to promote the improved processing and marketing purely through
the project fishery extension agents, with fishermen themselves providing all
materials required which are inexpensive and easily obtained, e.g., old oil
drums and chicken netting.
Cost Estimates
21.       Costs are detailed in Table 2, attached to this annex.



NIGERIA
BENUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVEIOPMENT PROJECTS
Costs and Benefits of Bunded Lagoons 1/
(N   000)
Unit Costs          Year I          Year 2           Year 3          Year 4          Year 5           Year 6 Onwards
A. Investments
Bunded Lagoons
Bund Construction                              0.2                -       (5)      1.0    (8)       1.6   (6)       1.2
Sluice Gates                                   0.5                -      (10)      5.0   (16)      8.0  (12)        6.0            -                 -
Fish Scales                                    0.1                -        (5)     0.5    (8)      0.8   (6)        0.6            -                 -
Fishery Assistant Canoes                       1.0                -       (5)      5.0    (8)      8.0   (6)        6.0            -                 -
Land Compensation                              0.5                -        (5)     2.5    (8)      4.0   (6)        3.0            -                 -
Subtotal                                                                    14.0            22.4            16.8             -                -
Othet Capital Costs
Senior Houses                                 30.0       (3)      90.0             -                -               -
Junior Houses                                 14.0       (5)      70.0             -       (8)   112.0   (6)       84.0
DeLuxe Four-Wheel Drive                        9.0       (1)       9.0             -                -     (1)       9.0            -                 -
Four-Wheel Drive                               6.0       (2)       6.0             -                -     (2)       6.0            -                 -
Motorcycles                                    0.8       (5)       4.0             -       (8)      6.4   (6)       4.8            -                 -
Subtotal                                                  179.0              -             118.4           103.8             -                -
B. Recurrent
Fishery Advisor                               32.0       (1)      32.0    (1)    32.0    (1)    32.0   (1)         32.0            -                 -
Seniz Fishery Officers                         6.0       (2)      12.0    (2)    12.0    (2)    12.0   (2)         12.0   (2)    12.0    (2)         12.0
Fishery Assistants                             1.7       (5)       8.5    (5)      8.5   (13)    22.0  (19)        32.3  (19)    32.3   (19)         32.3
Clerks                                         1.0       (2)       2.0    (2)      2.0    (2)       2.0   (2)       2.0   (2)      2.0    (2)         2.0
DeLuxe Four-Wheel Drive                        2.4       (1)       2.4    (1)      2.4    (1)       2.4   (1)       2.4   (1)      2.4    (1)         2.4
Four Wheel Drive                               2.1       (2)       4.2    (2)      4.2    (2)      4.2   (2)        4.2   (2)      4.2    (2)         4.2
Bunded Lagoon Maintenance 21                                       _                       (5)      5.  (13)       13.0  (19)    19.0                19.0
Subtotal                                                   61.1             61.1            79.7            97.9            71.9              71.9
C. TOTAL COSTS                                                      2=4Q.1           75.1           220.5            218.5           71.9               71.9         Rate of Return
D. TOTAL BENEFITS                                                     _               _               65.0           169.0          247.0              247.0         10 years       14.05%
15 years      19.95%         ,
20 years      21.45%
1/       Theoretically  constructed on the basis of the 19 lagoons to be
built under the two projects.
2/       N 1,000 per lagoon (N 700 maintenance; N 200 outboard engine/boat; N 100 miscellaneous).



ANNX S
Table 
NTIGEIA
BE-NUE STATE
AYANiGIA AGRICU2LTURAL DEVELOPTI8EN PFOJECIS
Costs oftste.sDveomn
(kIea '000)
Dolts       UnitCosts           Yoar            Ynar I          TYorD            Deare 3         Dearn            YeseS5    Total       7         os         Cot
A.  Capitol Costs
Boildi.gs
Seot- Staff Boosts I/                            No            30.0                -          (2)  60.0          -                  ---                                        6 .0    30        18.0          42.0
1ososodiet- St-ff flosse  2/                     No            21.0                -          (3)  63.0           -                                 --                         6'3.0    205      15.8          40.2
issio-  ossos- 3/                                So            14.0                -          (2)  28.0       (1)  14.0         (3)  42.0       (3)  42.0           -         126.0    23        31.3          94.3
Teaditioa-(  Eosses 4'                           So             4.0                -          (33  20.0       (2)   8.0         (3)  12.0       (3)  12.0           -          52.0    10         3.2          46.8
Traioiag Center
Clasaoo-                                         No             3.0                --                          (2)  10.0            ---                                        1D.I    30         3.0           7.0
Lob-totor                                        So            10.0                --                         (1)  10.0             ---                                        18.0     30        3.0           7.0
Worblsop                                         No            1o0.--                                          (13  10.0            ---                                        11.0    30         3.0           7.0
Dialog Rtos/Kitohan                              So            13.0                -.                         (1)  13.0             .-                                         13.0    30          3.9          9.1
Dorsito-ies                                      No             7.5                -.                          (2)  15.0            ---                                        15.0    30         4.3          10.5
Toilet Ca-ilities                                So             2.0                .-                          (1)   0.0            .-                                          2.0    30          0.6           1.4
R-e..ati- loom                                   No             8.0                                           (l)  8.               -_                                          R .0    30        2.4           3.6
Sobtotal1                                                                                          171.3            90.0             34.0            54.0           -        369.0               90.9         200.1
DrToinia Eaail-at_s
Corpeory a-d M-h-ai-aI Toola                                    5.0                .-                         (1)   5.0                                                         5    .0    60     3.0           2.0
M.at_iela  for lap-oolg Spying Kitlss                           3.0 5                                          (1)   0.3        (13    0.5      (1)   0.0       (1)   0.0       2.0    40         0.6            1.2
Classoo  go d Laoaoy3.0                                                            --                          (3    3.0            ---                                         3.0    60         1.6            1.2
N insgCaapo                                                      .                                  .          ( 13   2.0           -.                          (1)    7.0    14.0    60          6.4           5.6
Trgiaiag loot and Cagior                         So             3.0                -          (1)   3.0            -                -.                            )   3.0       6.0    50         3.0           3.0
Wi-h aod Passer                                  No             2.0                -           (0)   2.0           -                                --                          2.0    60          1.2          0.8
KitphsnFopit-or  -vd Ut-nsis                     No             4.35                                          (1)   4.5             -.                                          4.5    60          2.7           1.8
Dads aad lddiog                                  No               .4               --                        (20)  8R.0 Q                                                       8.0    20          1.6          6.4
Sabtot... 1                                                                                          5.0            28.0              0.0             0.3             10.5    44.5               22.3          22.0
Sohol-hbipa
os-rdaaEatar-a  Soholarhipa                             3.0                .-                         (13    5.0        (1)   5.0           --                         10.0   100        10.0           -
Vehiole- nd Esoliment
"a'Io'  Caor-lOso                                               9.0                -          (1)   5.0 (                                       (1)   5.0           -          18.6    80        14.4           3.6
por.WOheeO Doi-o  elhiplos                                      6.0                -          (4)  24.0            --                           (4)  04.0           -          48.0    80        38.4           9.6
P_r _oe  Ca-ir-  (Tr-iatag)                                     6.5                --                         (1)   6.35                             -          (1)   6.5      13.0    80        10.4           2.6
Sotortyolna      31                                             0.8                .          (3)   2.4       (3)   2.4         (6)   4.8       (6)   4.8            -_        14.4    60         8.6           5.8
Sab-ozi                                                                                             35.4             8.9              4.6            37.8              6.5    93.4               01.8          21.6
Banded Lagooo
Boad Coesvoootloo- l1S5s/d at N 1.75/md    Na                   0.2               --                          (33    0.6       (6)   1.0        (6)   1.2           -           3.0     -         -             3.0
Siir  Gats_                                                   0.5               -                            63    3.0      (12)   6.0    (12)   6.0              -         130      6          9.60
Cash  So-st                                      No             0.1               --                          (3)   0.3        (6)   0.6       (6)   0.6            .1.5    75                    1.1           0.4
fisheries A-si--a's Cano
oaf0 Doboad                                    So             1.0               --                          (3)   3.0        (6)   6.0       (6)   6.0            -         15.0    50          0.5           7.5
Lood C-mpeas-i-o - N 15/a--                      So             0.5                --                         (3)   1.5        (6)   3.0        (6)   3.0           -           25    -                         7 .5
.oorI--                                                                                                          8.4              16.8            t6.8           -         42.0               12.6         24.4
T0TAL CAPITAL COSTS                                                              -211.4                          140.3             91.1           109.1            12.0   558.9               212.8         346.1
8.  - -apes  Costa
Fiaberte  Advisor                            Maya-             32.0                .          ()  32.0        (1)  32.3         (1)  30.0       (1)  32.0           .         128.0    75        96.0          32.0
Se-ior Flsh-i- Offiltt-                                         6.3                           (1.)   6.0      ii)   6.0         (1)   6.0       (1)   6.0       (1)   6.0    30.0       -        -             30.0
Fiaberia  Oopariat-dro-  (toa-iaig)              "4.9                              --                         (1)   4.9         (1)   4.9       (1)   4.9       (1)   4.9      19.6     -        -19.6
Finhania-  Sope-inr-dent                         '3.27                                        (2)   2.4       (23   7.4         (2)   7.4       (2)    2.4      (2)   0.4    37.0       -        -32.0
Fiaharia  As-isont-                                             1. 7                          (3)    3.1      (6)  10.2         (12) 20.4     (18)  30.6       (18)  30.6    96.9       -96.9
Artia...      aaogSb5                                            .                                  .         () 26             (2)   2.6       (23    2.6      (2),   2.6     1041  0.4
Cooka                                                            I .0              -                           2) 2.0           (2)   2.0       (2)   0.0       (2)    2.0      8.0                             8  .0
Laboo-                                                          0.8                .-                         (8)   6.4       (04)  11.2    (20)  16.0    (20)  16.0    49.6            -        -49.6
Clerks                                                          1.0                -          (2)   2.3       (3)   3.0        (3)   3.0       (3)   3.0        (3)   3.0    14.0       -        -14.0
,w-                                            ~~~~0.9             -          (4)   3.6       (5)   4.5        (5)   4.3        55)   4.5       (3)   4.5      21.6     -        -21.6
Sob-ot1                                                                                             56.1            79.0             94.0           109.0             22.0   415.1               96.0         319.1
Soandard aof Proj-rt
All..-on   (75%)                                                                                   18.1            35346.5                    ~      5857.6   215.5    10                       32.3         180.2
Sobto-a                                                                                             74.2           114.3            140.5           166.8            134.8   830.6      -       108.3         582.3
Dp-rtiog aod Monttnasaoo
Bo-doiataoa.. /7 123% Coesino...o.
Cost te-ldi g Sla-  Cites                                     2.1                 ---                                               0.9             2.7              4.5      6.1     -        -              6.1
etan  Floor-Wheel Drtia                                         2.4                                 2 .4             2.4              2.4             2.              2.4    10.0    45           5.46.
porioolDive Vehnla-                                       2.1                                  8.4             8.4              8.4             8.4'             6.4    422.0    45        18 .9         00.1
Zeso.ot 1 Carrion                                               3.0                 --3.5                                             3.5              3.5             3.3    14.0    45          6.53          7.1
Ootboar  Engi_n T-Trioirg                                       0.2                 -0.2                             0.0              0.2              0.2             0.2      1.0    45          0.4          0.0
oboarf Engia- i.goos A-ats.                                     0.02                                                 0.6               1.8             3.0             3.0      8.4    45         3.8           4.6
Sa ilSfia  Mtinre--r  (Trajniog Castr-   5% )---                                                                     8.5             17.3            21.3             25.4     72.5    20        14.5          58.0
Tra-iaig Caste- -Op-ranlg Coat..0,                                                            1.0                                     1.0              1.0             1.0      4.0    00         0.8           3.2
Stofeona  Payiteats  6/             -                  -              -               ~~~~       ~     ~~~~      ~      ~~~~     ~     ~~~~~~12.0  12.0  12.0  10.0    48.0  .      48.
Subtotal                                                                                            11.0            36.6             40.5             54.5            60.4   210.0               50.1         159.9
Total OoRero-t Coats                                                                                33,0           050.9            188.0           321.             195.2   840.6              1)8.4         860.2
0G50NS T0TAL(A + B)                                                                              066             202291                           3041.218.3386.2                                         1,008.3
F-Do  fotaries Advtao-  gad Se-to  Fisherti- Offi-e.
2/  Por Fish-nies   ap-iata-ad.-
3/  Hoa_tig _Co itbari-s A-itao-t  nalrolatnd at 50%  ai-ir  tn-d-rd; 50, traditi-anl.
4/  T-radtito..l  -tnd-rd hoaig Cor Artisan  gad C-oa o-ly.
5/  pill be to-ght by jani-o staff - per Fith-ri-a A-siatt.-
6/  N l.fS per day ni adih N 1.40 gill he paid by eath stod-t to roe  katp ogt - 340 days 0' 1.25 =N 595, say 600.



ANNEX 6
NIGERIA
BENUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Civil Works
General
1.        Nigeria has in recent years experienced a very rapid increase in
activity in all branches of the construction industry. A large number of
indigenous and foreign firms are established in the country. Mlajor works
in the public sectors are ordinarily carried out by contract, with minor
works of a recurrent nature and maintenance works being done by force
account.
2.        Between the project areas, there are some variations in local
construction capacity and availability of labor. Although the Ayangba
project area is a region of emigration, seasonal and permanent unskilled
labor is expected to be available, but the construction industry, even
in house construction, is not strong. Conversely, the Lafia project area
is short of unskilled labor but the local construction industry for housing
is well established. In none of the areas are there any local contractors
capable of undertaking road construction works, except for artisans con-
structing minor drainage structures.
3.        Major equipment for civil works is not manufactured in the country,
and with the increase in construction activity in recent years, spare parts
are particularly difficult to obtain. There is a shortage of skilled
mechanics and equipment operators who command relatively high salaries.
Materials are subject to long delivery times. The projects should therefore
provide for initial purchase of buffer stocks of spare parts and materials.
4.        Project development proposals for civil works consist of road
maintenance and reconstruction, construction and rehabilitation of wells,
and a large construction program of houses, office buildings and stores.
Organization and Management
5.        All project civil works will be executed and administered by
the project's Engineering Department, headed by a Chief Civil Engineer.
A Road Division will be responsible for road construction, a Water Supply
Division for water supply for human consumption, and a Building Division
for housing, farm service centers and other building construction. A
central workshop will provide central maintenance for all project civil
work activities.
6.        The Roads and Water Supply Divisions will be headed by, respec-
tively, an experienced Road Engineer and a Hydrologist. The Building



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Division would be headed by a Building Supervisor, under immediate super-
vision of the Chief Civil Engineer. The project's building construction
program would mostly be completed by Year 2. By that time the Building
Division would be abolished. Responsibility for houses and offices would,
upon completion of construction, revert to the Housing Division in the
Administration Department. A single Hydrologist will be responsible for
both project areas, dividing his time about two-thirds to Lafia and one-
third to Ayangba. The project workshop for maintenance of vehicles and
heavy equipment would be headed by a very practical and experienced
Workshop Engineer.
Road Development
7.        General.  An enormous amount of road construction is presently
undertaken in Nigeria. As an indication, the Federal trunk road network
(see Map 12373 attached to this annex) reveals the magnitude of the road
development undertaking. State road development plans have also increased
substantially. As a general rule, therefore, coverage by State and Federal
roads is adequate, taking all construction plans into account. Maintenance
is more of a problem, not so much because of lack of funds, but mainly
because of insufficient organization and lack of spare parts. Roads under
Local Government Council (LGC) and community control are, however, inade-
quate in coverage and standards and are usually not motorable all year
round.
8.        The road situation in the project areas can be summarized as
follows:
Ayangba
-- km -
Federal roads                     240
State roads                       477
LGC roads                         895
Community roads                 1,500
9.        The condition of the road network in the project area is one of
the most important factors relating to the success of agricultural develop-
ment. The extent of the network is with a few exceptions adequate but only
the main Federal and State road links in the area receive proper mainte-
nance. Consequently, all other roads are in an unacceptable condition.
Transport costs outside the main road network are very high (up to 0.25
per ton-km) and truckers are unwilling to risk their vehicles on many of
the access roads to important agricultural areas. Traffic volumes on rural
roads vary greatly, but are generally light, estimated not to exceed 15
vehicles per day on any of the Local Government Council (LGC) or community
roads. Because of the poor condition of all but the main network, traffic
in the wet season is difficult if not impossible.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
10.       The Federal road network traversing the project area comprises
194 km of the main Oturkpo-Lokoja road and an additional 46 km from Ejule
to Itobe recently taken over from the State Government for incorporation into
the Federal trunk road system. The extent and condition of the Federal road
system presents no constraint on proposed project activities.
11.       The State roads in the project area comprise 477 km of asphalt,
laterite and earth-surfaced roads. The extent of this network appears ade-
quate, but construction standards (which are adequate) are not always followed
and maintenance is quite poor in spite of sufficient funds. The State Ministry
of Works (MOW) divisional headquarters are adequately staffed and equipped for
field operations, but equipment maintenance is poor, mainly due to the unsatis-
factory spare parts supply situation. If more funds presently allocated to
maintenance were used to build up an adequate stock of spare parts, mainte-
nance operations would improve considerably. It is therefore imperative that
Government ensure that (a) all funds allocated to maintenance be spent for
that purpose, and (b) equipment maintenance be improved and an acceptable
level of spare parts stock be established.
12.       The four LGCs in the project area presently have 895 km of roads
under their responsibility. The extent of their network is not sufficient to
ensure motor vehicle access to all cultivated areas in the divisions. Design
standards are satisfactory, but only applied to a limited part of the network.
Many roads cannot be used during the rainy season when bridges and culverts
have collapsed. There is no mechanized maintenance and the labor force on
hand is insufficient (about one laborer per 5 km or about a third of require-
ments).
13.       The extent of the community track network is not precisely known,
but is estimated at about 1,500 km. Tracks are only partially motorable even
in the dry season, and drainage works are almost nonexistent.
14.       FMG plans to improve the Ejule-Itobe road in Idah Division to two-
lane paved standards, but funds have not yet been allocated. The State Gov-
ernment is presently upgrading the Ayangba-ldah road (166 km) to paved
standards. The State improvement program covers bituminous surfacing of
another 97 km of road in the area during the Five-Year Development Plan
period.
15.       The project would undertake road construction and maintenance works
on a total of 1,300 km of LGC and community roads. It is estimated that 625
km of LGC roads will require reconstruction and an additional 675 km of
community tracks will be improved to LGC standards. The road construction
and maintenance program under the project is detailed in Table 1. Road
maintenance forms an important component of the project. Mlaintenance opera-
tions would not be restricted to project roads and should commence at the
start of the project so as to avoid further deterioration of the presently
motorable sections until improvement works are undertaken.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
16.       Execution.  Several possible agencies were considered for program
implementation. There are no small local road civil engineering contractors
in the areas and major Nigerian or foreign agencies would not be attracted
by the limited scope and long period necessary for road improvement.
17.       At present, the State Ministry of Works (MOW) is hardly able to
adequately maintain the roads for which it is responsible, and would not have
spare capacity to execute the project's road construction program. The same
applies also for Local Government Council road divisions, which are not mech-
anized and generally have too low a labor force to ensure adequate labor/km
ratios for maintenance, and would clearly not have any capacity to execute
the program. This situation is not likely to change, although maintenance
responsibilities might switch, on the basis of a road maintenance study by a
consultant to the Federal Ministry of Works. However, these recommendations
could be implemented only during project development.
18.       The roads programs would therefore be undertaken directly by the
project, which would purchase equipment, construct workshops and engage
staff as required to carry out the works by force account.
19.       Both construction and maintenance would be undertaken under the
project. For details, see Table 1. A limited emergency rehabilitation
program would commence at the start of the project period to ensure that
roads do not seriously deteriorate until project improvement works are
undertaken.
20.       Road maintenance would form an important part of the project.
The existing LGC road divisions would continue to operate their hand-labor
maintenance gangs. In addition, mechanized maintenance (grading and re-
surfacing) would be undertaken by the project. Close liaison would be
established with the LGC roads divisions for joint planning of maintenance,
and staff would be seconded from LGC to the project for training.
21.       At the end of the project period, equipment would be handed over
to the LGC. It is estimated that the equipment would have a remaining life of
about two years. Adequate funds should be budgeted for staffing and replacing
LGC equipment in the postproject development period so as to allow them to
undertake the increased road maintenance responsibilities.
22.       Standards.  All road improvements under the project would be under-
taken to the standards shown in the attached chart 16365. MIajor realignment
works are not expected and earth works would be light, except on a few bridge
crossing sites. Lateritic material is available over the entire project area
and would be used for surfacing when required; an estimated 50% of the con-
struction length would require surfacing.
23.       The basic construction tool would be the motorgrader, which would
be used for shaping of formation, roadside ditch construction, and surfacing.
Hard laterite outcrops would require a suitable bulldozer, which also would



ANNEX 6
Page 5
be used for cleaning in bush and forest areas. Excavation, transport and
placing of surface material would be done by scraper, dozer, wheel-loader and
tip-trucks. Operating lists of plant and equipment are listed in Table 2.
24.       Drainage works would, except for side ditches, be done by hand
labor. Cut-off ditches would be dug by hand, and culverts would be prefabri-
cated concrete pipes and masonry boxes. Many small existing bridges would
require renewal of timber decks.
25.       Self-help by voluntary labor is widely practiced in the area for
road works, and the project would encourage this. The emphasis would be on
providing farm access tracks from the project roads, and the project would
assist in alignment selection, and provide the modest amount of materials
required.
Water Supply
26.       Water requirements of the rural areas are met from various sources
depending on village location. A number of villages are sited alongside,
or within easy reach of, perennial rivers, the important ones being the
Niger, Benue, Amara and Anambra; water is taken directly from these rivers
by bucket. Along the lowlands and plateau slopes, springs and hand-dug wells,
some of which were dug by the Government and others privately, constitute a
main source of water supply. All wells inspected were less than 15 m deep.
Government wells are 1.2 m in diameter, concrete lined, and with the top
about 60 cm above ground level. Private wells are unlined, about I m in
diameter and poorly finished, with the top barely above the ground level to
permit direct re-charge from surface run-off. Water from all wells is drawn
by buckets. On the plateau, the groundwater is too deep to be reached by
traditional hand-dug wells. Run-off during the wet season is small because
of high soil permeability and many streams and rivers dry up during the well-
defined dry season; villagers often walk several kilometers to the nearest
perennial rivers or springs, while in some areas water is transported by
private bowser and sold at high prices ranging from N 20 to N 25 per 100
liters.
27.       Twenty-seven water supply systems, providing water from boreholes
to storage tanks and public standpipes, were installed around 1960 on the
plateau, but some were never commissioned for lack of funds, and all but one
is now inoperative. The State Government has now embarked on a program of
rehabilitating these systems. Works are underway and are expected to be
completed by mid-1977. When completed, the Plateau area will be adequately
served by water supply. The depth of the boreholes varies from 50 m to
200 m, and hourly yield is on the average about 15 m .
28.       There is no record of the number of hand-dug wells in the area,
but it is estimated that some 60 wells have been constructed to date. No
hydrological information on the project area is available, and a survey
would be carried out under the project. This would concentrate on the low-



ANNEX 6
Page 6
lands areas as the Plateau is not suited for wells. Under the project about
180 wells would be constructed, so as to ensure adequate water supply in the
lowland areas.
Buildings
29.       Building requirements for project headquarters and extension centers
consist of staff housing, offices, workshops and stores. Building design would
be done under contract with local architectural firms, but standard designs
exist already 1/ and would be used to the extent possible.
30.       Implementation of the building programs must adapt to local condi-
tions of the contracting industry. Contracting would be used wherever
available and would be competitive in price and quality. Average size and
cost of each type of unit are listed in Table 3. No price differential is
estimated between contract and force account works. The estimated number of
houses to be built is in Table 4.
Project Costs
31.       Project costs are summarized in Table 5 and detailed in Tables 6
to 11.
1/   Since the projects are similar to the Northern Agricultural Development
Projects, most designs have already been made for these projects.



ANNEX 6
Table 1
NIGERIA
BENUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Phasing of Road Construction and Maintenance
_n__t_r___t__ _                     Maintenance
Year             Type 1      Type 2      Total          Routine      Periodic
1                80         160          240            120           150
2               200          80          280            340           150
3               200         120          320            600           390
4               145         115          260            860           430
5                -          200          200          1,120           500
Following Years                                        (1,570)          (785)
TOTAL             625         675        1,300          3,040         1,620
1/ Reconstruction of existing LGC road.
2/ New consttuction or improvement of community road.
July 19, 1976



NIGERIA
BENUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Operating Cost of Plant and Equipment
Unit Cost    Transport    Unit Cost    Fuel    Lubricants    Tyres    Spares &           TOTAL    Foreign       Foreign      Local
ex Lagos     to site       on Site        _       Filters       _          Repairs      _ _       Cost %        Cost        Cost
Motorgrader  150 h/p                  50            2.0          52          2.33        0.59         1.01      2.80        6.73        40          2.69         4.04
Motorgrader  125 h/p                  40            2.0          42          1.93        0.28         0.72      2.10        5.03        40          2.01         3.02
Wheel Loader                          30            2.0          32          1.32        0.43         1.01      2.12        4.88        40          1.95         2.93
Agric. Tractor                        -             -             7          0.61        0.14         0.28      0.20        1.23        50          0.62         0.61
Smooth Wheel Roder 8 tons             27            1.2          28.2        0.70        0.19         --        0.77        1.66        30          0.50         1.16
Tipper  7 tons                        11            -            11          0.86        0.11         1.09      1.52        3.58        50          1.79         1.78
Four-Wheel Drive                       6                          6          0.80        0.21         0.36      0.30        1.67        45          0.75         0.92
Pick up  1/2 ton                       4.0          -             4          0.80        0.11         0.36      0.30        1.57        45          0.71         0.86
Concrete Mixer                         2            -             2          0.16        0.05         --        0.05        0.26        25          0.07         0.19
Water Bowser 4.5 m3                    3.5          -             3.5        --          --           0.04      0.06        0.10        50          0.05         0.05
Trailer  3.5 tons                      1.5          -             1.5        --          --           0.07      0.07        0.14        60          0.08         0.06
Water Pump                             1.0          -             1.0        0.50        0.05         --        0.08        0.63        15          0.10         0.53
Generator  2.5 kVA                     1.0          -             1.0        0.62        0.15         --        0.20        0.97        25          0.24         0.73
Hand Tools                                          -             7.0        --          --           --        --          --          --          --           --
Dozer D-7 with Ripper                                            80.0        3.13        0.83         --        8.16       12.12        40          4.85         7.27
Fuel Tanker                                                      16.0        0.86        0.11         1.09      1.52        3.58        50          1.79         1.79
Scraper (Towed)                                                  22.5        --          0.20         1.40      1.10        2.70        50          1.35         1.35
Low bed Tractor                                                  65          3.44        0.44         4.40      6.00       14.28        50          7.14         7.14
Scraper, Self Propelled, 150 h/p                                 50          1.68        0.56         1.56      4.00        7.80        50          3.90         3.90
0'



ANNEX 6
Table 3
NIGERIA
BENUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Building Costs
(N)
No. of Sub-
Sub-Unit        Unit Per
Sub-Unit         Cost             Unit         Unit Cost
A.   HOUSING
Senior Staff Houses                            m2            165              180            30,000
Intermediate Staff Houses                      m2            140              150            21,000
Junior Staff Houses                            m2            120              115             14,000
Traditional Houses                             m2            -                -               4,000
B.   BUILDINGS
Office Building                                m2            100            1,500           150,000
Workshop                                       m2             75              400            30,000
Fuel Depot                                                                    -               5,000
Parking                                        m2              3                                 360
Access Roads, including Drive-Ins              km            -                -               12,000
Electrical Supply                              km            -                -               5,000
Sewage (septic tanks)                          No            100              _                  100
Landscaping                                    ha            125              -                  125
Fencing                                        m             -                -7
Water Supply                                   m                      -                           15
Landing Strip                                  m2              1           30,000            30,000
Recreational Facilities (lump sum)                           _                -              50,000
Guest House                                    m2            165              240            40,000
Design and Lay-out 3%
C.   FARM SERVICE CENTERS
Store                                          m2             75              255            19,000
Apron                                          m2             12               60                700
Fencing                                        m               7              400             2,800
Equipment                                                                     -               1,100
Access Road                                                                   -                1,200
Lay-out 3.5%-                                                                 -                1.200
26,000
Nov. 29, 1976



ANNEX 6
Table 4
NIGERIA
BENUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Number of Houses
Senior   Intermediate   Junior   Traditional
Extension Staff                       3             9           31           60
Farm Advisory                         2             9           14          19
Livestock                             1             3             8          10
Forestry                              1             1            8            4
Fisheries                             2             3             9         13
Civil Works                           6             3           16            -
Management                            6             3           12            9
Seed Multiplication                   1             3            2          11
Research                              1             3            -            3
Training                              1             2            5           9
Evaluation                            2             2             7           -
Commercial Services                   8             7           17         114
34            48          129         252



NIGERIA
BENUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1/
Engineering Department, Summary of Costs -
Year 0    Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5          TOTAL        Foreign      Local
Housing                   425.0        67.0        -         -          -          -        492.0          130.8       361.2
Buildings                  30.0        20.0       20.0       20.0       -          -          90.0          22.5       67.5
Workshop Equipment          -          47.4       15.6       15.6       0.8        0.8        80.2          52.0       28.2
Plant and Equipment         -         810.4      41.0        42.0      91.0      31.0    1,015.4          848.9       166.5
Materials                   -          74.0      89.0        87.0      87.0      87.0       424.0          102.2      321.8
International Staff        66.0        96.0      96.0        96.0      96.0      30.0       480.0         360.0       120.0
Local Staff                54.6       348.3     370.3       371.9    355.4       348.8    1,849.3          118.9    1,730.4
Operating Costs of
Equipment                  -         161.2     168.5       177.8    174.5       174.7      856.7         375.1       481.6
TOTAL                     575.6    1,624.3      800.4       810.3    804.7      672.3    5,287.6        2,010.4    3,277.2
1/ For details see Supplement 7, Appendix 1.
Ln a.



NIGERIA
BENUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Production Rates and Plants Requirement for critical Units
Average Dimension                    Length (km)              Total          Output                          Plant Hours
Type 1           Type 2               Type I      Type  2        Quantity         Rates         Dozer      Grader     Loader      Roller      Tipper      Scraper
1. Road Construction
Clearing open country or
scattered bush                     8 m              12 m                375          375       7,500,000 m2         5,000 m2/h   1,500        -           -           -           -
Clearing medium bush                 8 m             12 m                100          100        2,000,000 m2        3,000 m2/h      670        -          -
Clearing heavy bush                  8 m             12 m                100          150        3,000,000 m2        2,000 m2/h   1,500         -          -           -           -            _
Clearing forest                     8 m              12 m                 50           50        1,000,000 m2        1,000 m2/h      830        -          -           -           -            -
Topsoiling                           -            1,500 m3/km              -           50           75,000 m3           50 m3/h   1,500         -          -           -           -         1,500
Earthworks                      3,000 m3/km       3,000 m3/km             40           50          270,000 m3           40 m31h   8,000 1/    -            -           -           -        6,750
Shaping (subgrade)                   8 m              8 m                625          675       10,400,000 m2        1,500 m3/h      -       6,930         -           -           -            -
Compaction (subgrade)               4 m               4 m                625          675        5,200,000 m2          500 m2/h      -          -          -       10,400          -
Surfacing                           4 m               4 m                440          470        3,640,000 m2           40 m3/h      -          _        9,100         -       60,700
Compaction (surface)                4 m               4 a                440          470        3,640,000 m2          500 m2/h      -          -          -        7,280          -
Shaping                              4 m              4 m                440          470        3,640,000 m2        1,500 m2/h      -        2,430        -           -
2. Road Maintenance
Shaping                              -               -                     -           -        12,160,000 m2        1,500 m2/h      -       8,130         -                 -
Resurfacing                          -               -                     -           -            64,000 m2           40 m3/h      -          -        1,600         -       10,700          -
TOTAL                                    -                -                    -            -             -                -          14,000    17,460      10,700    17,680       71,400        8,250
Hours per year                          -                -                    -            -             -                -           2,800      3,490       2,140     3,540      14,280        1,650
Number of Units                         -                -                    -            -             -                -               2          2           1          2          7            1
Type 1:  Improvement of existing LGC road
Type 2: New construction and upgrading of community roads.
I/ Includes 1,250 additional hours for work at bridge embarkments.
July 19, 1976



*      ANNEX  6
00.........
PIZ
l 8             C .-   Ioo S                                            Ta,le?
0.0 0 000,vo.          . 40 .0r0s
OO- ooooo                      0     0
- -1       - - - - - -i    - - - - - - -I -/      - - 
I                                     W 000000000000000000
400 -    N_N                    0  V    , _00   004V1
IIW.
00  00 0         00       000 000
_l          0     0    0    00       0    0    0     0
4, 0     O    OO        OO        OO0.          OO  
0~ ~~~~~ -- .-0   00000000000 S00 f ^  g   
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 00 0: 0)                       _N_s   r<  nN<r   
O[ ti    ooo0000000000  0      .  Q             <wo
30o
z                  OI~~       ~~;Z -0t         4                               e .-.  0 
Coo  0000  000000   0000
:21 ~ ~ _1 _                                                                            a    nr      D        l_u
I  0c.0_.   r   0 _                                                                     a kum    Neo 
o    o -    P4 _  N0  0 i<     O  ONncr_t  
400 _02- _                                   0 _I N  14.S0r  I g    
8~~~~~~~~~4 o                                                             000pNW  H<c N-101 ~r 
_     0J0)000                      00.44. o    0S_rlv  gOSOm   
0o _4 _4 0 _l 00  0.4  N 0 0 44 _   o_ 
~~OO44~4O0430OC0..,O04)          0           ~             1



NIGERIA
BENUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Capital Cost of Plant and EquiPment
Number of               1/                                                                          % Foreign        Foreign        Local
Units       Year 1  -    Year 2          Year 3         Year 4        Year 5         Total        Exchange          Cost           Cost
Road Construction & Maintenance
Grader 125 hp                           1            42             -             -               -                          42             90           37.8            4.2
Grader 150 hp                           1            52             -             -               -             -            52             90           46.8            5.2
Dozer                                   2           164             -             -               -             -           164             90          147.6           16.4
Scraper                                 1            50             -             -              -              -            50             90           45.0            5.0
Wheel loader                            1            32             -              -              -             -            32              90          28.8            3.2
Agric. tractor                          3            21             -             -               -             -            21              90          18.9            2.1
Roller                                  2            56.4           -             -               -             -            56.4           90           50.8            5.6
Tipper, 7 tons                          7            66.0           -             11             -              -            77             80           61.6           15.4
Water bowser                            4            10             -             -               -             -            10             90            9.0            1.0
Trailer, 3.5 tons                       3             9             -             -              -              -             9             80            7.2            1.8
Low-bed tractor                         1            65             -             -              -              -            65             90           58.5            6.5
Concrete mixer                          2             2             -             -              -              -             2             90            1.8            0.2
Fuel tanker                             1             8             -             -               -             -            18              90          16.2            1.8
4 wheel drive                           6            36             -             -              36             -            72             80           57.6           14.4
Pick-up                                 2            16             -             -                8            -            16              80          12.8            3.2
Generator                               1             1             -             -               -             -             1              80           0.8            0.2
Water pumps                             3             3             -             -               -             -             3              80           2.4            0.6
Hand tools                              -             3              1             1               1             1            7              50           4.2            2.8
Radio equipment                         8             4             -             -               -             -             4              90           3.6            0.4
Spare parts stock                       -            62             -             -               -             -            62             90           55.8            6.2
Subtotal                                            704.4            1            12             45              1          763.4           87          667.2           96.2
Water Supply developpent
Well sinking tools                      8             6             -             -               -             -             6}            60            3.6            2.4
Portable hand drills                    2             2             -             -               -             -             2              80           1.6            0.4
Drilling tools                          -             3             -             -               -             -             3             80            2.4            0.6
Drainage pumps                          2             3             -             -               -             -             3             80            2.4            0.6
Generator                               2             3             -             -               -             -             3             80            2.4            0.6
Shallow resistivity equipmerit          1             4             -             -              -              -             4             85            3.4            0.6
Hand pumps                            180            50             40            30              30            30          180              70         126.0           54.0
Camping gear                            -             5             -             -              -              -             5             50            2.5            2.5
4 wheel drive                           2            12             -             -              12             -            24             80           19.2            4.8
Pick-up                                 1             4             -             -               4             -             8             80            6.4            1.6
Lorry                                   1            -8                                           -             -             8             8C            6.4            1.6
Spare parts stock                       -             6             -             -              -              -             6             90            5.4            0.6
Subtotal                                            106             40            30             46             30          252             72          181.7           70.3            t
TOTAL                                               810.4           41            42             91             3'        1,015.4          848.9        848.9           166.5           mc'
July 19. 1976
1/       Most Equipment will be ordered in Year 0 and delivered in Year 1; a few
four-wheel drives might be purchased in Year 0 rather than in Year 1.



NIGERIA
BENUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Housing & Workshop Requirements
N' 000
Unit                                                                                             X Foreign    Foreign          Local
Units        Cost        Year 0      Year 1      Year 2       Year 3      Year 4      Year 5        TOTAL      Exchange        Cost           Cost
N'000
Wirkshop Requirements
(i) Main Workshop
Workshop building & store                       No            30.0        30.0                      -           -           -           -            30.0         25            7.5           22.5
Fuel storage                                                   5.0                     5.0          -           -           -           -             5.0         60            3.0            2.0
Overhead boists                                                1.0                     1.0          -           -           -            -            1.0         80            0.8            0.2
Lubricating equipments                                         1.0                     1.0          -           -           -           -             1.0         80            0.8           0 2
Welding equipments                                             1.0                     1.0          -           -           -           -             1.0         80            0.8            0.2
Tyre equipment                                                 1.0                     1.0          -           -           -           -             1.0         80            0.8            0.2
Air compressor                                                 0.8                     0.8          -           -           -            _            0.8         80            0.6            0.2
Jacks                                                          0.8                     0.8          -           -           -           -             0.8         80            0.6           0.2
Bunch Tools                                                    4.0                     4.0        0.4          0.4         0.4         0.4            5.6         80            4.5            1.1
Hand tools                                                     2.0                     2.0        0 2          0.2         0.2         0.2            2.8         50            1.4            1.4
Mobile workshop                                               14.0                    14.0          -           -           -           -            14.0         60            8.4           5.6
Miscellaneous                                                  2.0                     2.0        0.2          0.2         0.2         0.2            2.3         50            1.4            1.4
Subtotal                                                                  30.0        32.6        0.8          0.8         0.8         0.8          65.8                      30.6           35.2
(ii) Divisional vorkshops
Workshop buildings                              No            20.0                    20.0       20.0         20.0          -           -            60.0         25           15.0          45.0
Fuel storage                                                   5.0                     5.0        5.0          5.0          -            -           15.0         60            9.0            6.0
Overhead boists                                                1.0                     1.0        1.0          1.0          -           -             3.0         80            2.4           0.6
Lubricating equipment                                          1.0                     1.0        1.0          1.0          -           -             3.0         80            2.4           0.6
Tyre equipment                                                 l.0                     1.0        1.0          1.0          -           -             3.0         80            2.4           0.6
Jacks                                                          0.8                     0.8        0.8         0.8           -           -             2.4         80            1.9           0.5
Bunch tools                                                    2.0                     2.0        2.0          2.0          -           -             6.0         80            4.8            1.2
Hand tools                                                     2.0                     2.0        2.0          2.0          _           -             6.0         50            3':O          3.0
Miscellaneous                                                  2.0                    _2Q         2.0          2.0          -           -             6.0         50            3.0           3.0
Subtotal                                                                              34.8       34.8        34,8           -           -           .04.4                     43.9           60.5
1oulsin  and Other Buildings
Senior Staff Houses                                          30    (6)  180.0         -          -            -            -           -           180.0         30           54.0         126.0
Intermediate Staff Houses 2/                                21    (3)   63.0          -                                    -           -           63.0          25          15.8           47.2
Junior Houses 3/                                             14   (13)  182.0  (3) 42.0          -            -            -           -           224.0         25           56.0         168.0
Field Shelters                                                5           _      (5) 25.0        -            - -                      -            25.0         20            5.0          20.0
Subtotal                                                            425.0        67.0        -                        -            -          492.0                     130.8         361.2
TOTAL                                                               455.0       134.4       35.6        35.6         0.8         0.8          662.2                     205.3          456.9
> 1
1/  For internationally recruited staff, building supervisors and deputy hydrologist.                                                                                                                               x
2/  For roads foremen and workshop foremen.                                                                                                                                                                       'a
3/ For roads headmen, mechanics, surveyors and field superintendents.



ANNEX 6
Table 10
NIGERIA
BENUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICU.LTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Staff Salaries & Overheads
Unit       Y                                                                                           Foreign    Local
Units    Ccst       Year 0    Year 1          Year 2       Year 3        Year 4       Year S        TOTAL  FE  Exchange  Costs
Chief Civil Engineer  Manyear  36.0            (1) 36.0  (1) 36.0    (1) 36.0    (1) 36.0    (1) 36.0                 -         180.0  75      135.0      45.0
Building Supervisor 1/                 8.4     (2) 16.8  (2) 16.8    (2) 16.8    (2) 16.8   (2) 16.8    (2) 16.8                100.8  -          -      100.8
Road Construction
and Maintenance
Road Engineer                        32.0    (.5) 16.0  (1) 32.0    (1) 32.0    (1) 32.0    (1) 32.0  (.5) 16.0                160.0  75       120.0      40.0
Workshop Engineer             "      28.0    (.5) 14.0  (1) 28.0    (1) 28.0    (1) 28.0    (1) 28.0  (.5) 14.0                 140.0  75      105.0       35.0
Boads Foremen                          4.9     (1)  4.9  (2)  9.8    (2)  9.8    (2)  9.8    (2)  9.8   (2)  9.8                 53.9  -          -        53.9
Roads Headmen                          2.9     (1)  2.9  (6) 17.4    (6) 17.4    (6) 17.4    (6) 17.4    (6) 17.4                89.9   -         -       89.9
Plant Operators                        1.3           -      (7)  9.1    (7)  9.1    (7)  9.1    (7)  9.1    (7)  9.1             45.5   -         -       45.5
Operator Assistants                    0.9           -      (7)  6.3    (7)  6.3    (7)  6.3    (7)  6.3    (7)  6.3             31.5  -          -        31.5
Drivers                                0.9     (3)  2.7 (17) 15.3   (17) 15.3  (18) 16.2  (18) 16.2  (18) 16.2                   81.9  -          -        81.9
Journeymen                             0.8           -    (1()  8.0   (10)  8.0  (10)  8.0  (10)  8.0   (10)  8.0                40.0  -          -       40.0
Carpenters                             1.3           -      (4)  5.2    (4)  5.2    (4)  5.2    (4)  5.2    (4)  5.2             26.0  -          -       26.0
Workshop Foremen                       3.7           -      (1)   3.7    (1)   3.7    (1)   3.7    (1)  3.7    (1)  3.7          18.5  -          -        18.5
Clerks                                 1.0     (1)  1.0  (2)  2.0    (2)  2.0    (2)  2.0    (2)  2.0    (2)  2.0                11.0   -         -       11.0
Storekeeper                           1.7            -     (1)  1.7    (1)  1.7    (1)  1.7    (1)  1.7    (1)  1.7               8.5  -          -        8.5
Mechanics                              2.9           -      (2)  5.8    (5) 14.5    (5) 14.5   (5) 14.5    (5) 14.5              63.8  -          -       63.8
Apprentice Mechanics                   1.3           -      (2)  2.6    (5)  6.5    (5)  6.5    (5)  6.5    (5)  6.5             28.6   -         -        28.6
Surveyors                             2.9      (1)  2.9  (3)  8.7    (3)  8.7    (3)  8.7    (1)  2.9                  -         31.9   -         -       31.9
Chainmen                              0.9            -     (6)  5.4    (6)  5.4    (6)  5.4    (2)  1.8    (1)    .9             18.9   -         -       18.9
Laborers                               0.8           -    (40) 32.0  (40) 32.0  (40) 32.0  (40) 32.0  (40) 32.0                 160.0  -          -      160.0
Subtotal                                      97.2       245.8        258.4         259.3        249.9        180.1    1290.7  28        360.0    930.7
Water Supply
hydrologist 3/
Deputy flydrologist                    6.0           -      (1)  6.0    (1)  6.0    (1)  6.0    (1)  6.0    (1)  6.0             30.0  -          -       30.0
Field Superintendent                  2.9            -     (2)  5.8    (2)  5.8    (2)  5.8    (2)  5.8    (2)  5.8              29.0  -          -       29.0
Foremen                                1.7           -     (8) 13.6    (8) 13.6    (8) 13.6    (8) 13.6    (8) 13.6              68.0   -         -       68.0
Clerks                                 1.0           -      (1)  1.0    (1)  1.0    (1)  1.0    (1)  1.0    (1)   1.0             5.0  -          -         5.0
Drivers                               0.9            -     (4)  3.6    (4)  3.6    (4)  3.6    (4)  3.6    (4)  3.6              18.0  -          -       18.0
Laborers                               0.8           -    (24) 19.2  (24) 19.2  (24) 19.2   (24) 19.2  (24) 19.2                 96.0  -          -       96.0
Subtotal                                       -          49.2         49.2          49.2         49.2          49.2     246.0  -           -      246.0
Allowances (75%) 2/                           23.4       149.3        158.7         159.4        152.3         149.5      792.6  15      118.9    673.7
TOTAL SALARIES                               120.6       444.3         466.3        467.9        451.4         378.8    2329.3  21       478.9  1850.4
NOVEMBER 1, 1976
1/ Later to cover senior staff in Engineering Department
2/ To reflect normal and project incentive allowances; 757 of local salaries.
3/ Internationally recruited under the Lafia project, but he will also work for the Ayangba project.



NIGERIA
BENUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost of Materials
% Foreign   Foreign    Local
Year 1    Year 2      Year 3     Year 4      Year 5      Total    Exchange    Exchange  Currency
Road Construction & Maintenance
Cement                             800       9!0         9.0         9.0        9.0        44.0        30           13.2       30.8
Concrete pipes                    35.0      40.0        40.0       40.0        40.0       195.0        25           48.7      146.3
Timber for bridges                10.0      15.0        15.0        15.0       15.0        70.0        -             -        70.0
Miscellaneous                      6.0      10.0        10.0        10.0       10.0        46.0        50           23.0       23.0
Subtotal             59.0      74.0        74.0        74.0        74.0      355.0        24           84.9      270.1
Water Supply
Concrete                          15.0      15.0        13.0        13.0       13.0        69.0        25           17.3       51.7
TOTAL                             74.0      89.0        87.0        87.0       87.0       424.0        24          102.2      321.8
July 19, 1976                                                                                                                    I-.



NIGERIA
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL ROAD CROSS SECTION
2.0       0|5           1.5             1.5        0.5           2.0
4%
=== ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 IN 4
0.40      W      7    5                                                      -
I                                       8 .0   l__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
SPECI F ICATI ONS
CLEARING WIDTH    12m
SURFACING         ONLY WHERE DIRECTED BY THE ENGINEER AND
THEN FULL COMPACTED THICKNESS AS ORDERED
OVER CENTRAL 3M TAPERING TO ZERO THICKNESS
2M EITHER SIDE OF CENTER LINE.
DEGREE OF CURVATURE   AS DICTATED BY TERRAIN.
TURN-OUT DRAINS       AS DIRECTED BY THE ENGINES R.
World Bank-16365






IBRD 12373
2 '                                           _ -   .  _4   ._   K  :1 0                                                                                                       1 2'                               T V           A G  T   9 7
Kair/       _. olo5Be                                           N    I       G   E   R                                                                        C    H   A   D
N      / I   G       E  R       00    Io                 o,;
Koonogoro~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~Yo                                                                                                                         
BE.NI A A g oe no                                                                            f                                     ; /C' 0'\''
POl No   .10   IOEJA ' ;UuX                                                                                                                                                                     Ntoa O
/ l&2/ ' ' ' i' ursu All WA\,.,                 Worri         g8OWERRI             k *nee n;,K     0/       C A M(ER OON                                                         Stone bondor en
A        1'                                                                                                 '                               __-0 o
W,oO,fro,,2,treOjOr,,vre              6'__'                                                                  \10-                                 2z'                                   IC






ANNEX 7
NIGERIA
BENUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supporting Services
General
1.        The project's main development activities are concentrated on crop
development and farm advisory services, livestock, forestry and fisheries
development, through its Development Services Department, and road develop-
ment and, to a lesser extent, water supply through its Engineering Department.
Commercial services (credit, input supply and marketing) to support these de-
velopment efforts are detailed in Annex 8. In addition the following support-
ing services will supplement project development:
-    management and administration,
-    seed multiplication,
-    applied research,
-    training, and
-    evaluation.
These various supporting services are detailed below and in the supplements.
Management and Administration
2.   Successful project implementation would require effective management.  An
efficient administration department is required to organize the cooperation of
the many people employed and the coordination of the deployed capital equip-
ment. Costs of management and administration are in Table 1.
3.        Project organization is explained in Chapter 6 of this report and
as it is very similar to the Lafia project, is detailed in Supplement 10.
Project organization is in Chart 16482 attached to this annex.
4.        A major impact on ultimate project success will come from implemen-
tation steps undertaken in the start-up period. A start-up plan is presented
in Chart 16459 attached to this annex.
5.        A high level of management efficiency and technical competence would
be required to achieve project objectives, as the project is both large and
complex. Project staff would be well trained, highly competent and flexible
to permit prompt project execution. Demand on existing manpower resources in
Nigeria is high and international recruitment will therefore be necessary. A
list of persons likely to be recruited internationally is in Table 2. It
should, however, be noted that this is only a best estimate at the time of
appraisal, and that if qualified Nigerians are found within the recruitment



ANNEX 7
Page 2
time framework 1/, they would not be excluded from filling these positions.
Job descriptions for all major jobs are in Supplement 10.
6.        Certain internationally recruited staff would work for two projects
since the size of the relevant component would not justify two expatriate
experts. These are:
-    Hydrological Engineer
-    Fishery Specialist
-    Forestry Specialist
-    Livestock Specialist
The time spent by these single experts would not necessarily be divided
equally between the projects but would depend on the work to be executed under
the respective projects. In order to avoid difficulties in contracts the
above experts are recruited and paid under one project rather than being
officially shared and paid under two projects.
Seed Multiplication 2/
7.        As a system of seed production contracting already exists in the
area, the project would continue this practice, but the existing system would
be improved. Most of the seed production would be by contract farmers but
there would be a small project farm which would provide a nucleus for seed
production and allow for applied research (see below). Under the project an
area of 200 ha would be needed for project seed multiplication and research
(details are in Table 3). Seed purchases during the project period are de-
tailed in Table 4.
8.        A graduate trained 3/ in seed technology would head the project
seed multiplication program. His major task would be to ensure purity and
viability of seed for sale to farmers. There are two aspects to the seed
program: field production, and processing and storage. Field production will
be under the supervision of Agricultural Assistants (AAs) and Agricultural
Instructors (AIs). One AA and one AI would supervise seed production on the
project farm and one AA and two AIs would supervise 50 ha of contract farms.
As estimated 500 ha of contract farms will ultimately be needed for the proj-
ect. Processing and storage will be handled by a seed technologist, expe-
rienced storekeepers and laborers.
1/   See start-up plan for major appointments in Supplement 10, Appendix 5
for full details.
2/   For details see Supplement 6.
3/   Or to be trained early in Year 0 (three to six months).



ANNEX 7
Page 3
9.        Five year requirements will have to be contracted out of existing
national and State institutions such as the Yandev Farm Center, and no problems
are expected in obtaining the necessary quantities.
Research 1/
10.       Except for research work carried out by agriculture faculties of
Nigeria University, the major institutes involved in foodcrop research in
Nigeria are:
(a) The Institute of Agricultural Research. This institute
is attached to the Ahmadu Bello University and concen-
trates mainly on crop research in the more northerly
areas of Nigeria.
(b) Federal Department of Agricultural Research. This is
located in Ibadan and its area of influence is mainly
in the former Western State. Its research activities
cover cereals such as maize and rice, foodcrops and
grain legumes.
(c) The International Institute of Tropical Agriculture.
This institute is situated in Ibadan and is responsi-
ble for research in the low altitude tropics throughout
Africa. It is sponsored by the Consultative Group of
International Agricultural Research.
11.       Because of the lack of properly organized applied research specifi-
cally geared to the need of the project area, there is a need to establish an
applied research unit. This unit would be staffed by qualified and expe-
rienced staff, but would maintain close links with existing research institu-
tions and would limit its operations to applied research. Current national
trials undertaken in the project area would be incorporated in the project
research program and would receive improved supervision. Based on experience
with the existing trials, the project research officer would make recommenda-
tions to the research institutions for their improvement. The project would
apply for participation in international trials such as those carried out by
IITA, as well as continue to participate in national trials.
12.       The project would concentrate on the following aspects, taking into
account especially the distinct ecological conditions of the project areas
compared with those prevailing in the northern and southern areas of Nigeria:
(a) variety trials;
(b) soil fertility studies;
(c) farming system studies;
1/   For details see Supplement 7.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
(d) mechanization;
(e) minor crops (those not specifically part of the development
proposals of the project); and
(f) farm management studies (carried out by the project's evaluation
unit with the cooperation of interested students of Nigerian
universities.
13.       Project research would be under the responsibility of a Senior Agro-
nomist supported by a Soil Technologist and Agricultural Assistants for soil
research. Applied research would be undertaken both on the project farm and
on selected smallholdings. One farm manager would be responsible for the
project farm, supervising both seed multiplication and applied research work.
The project would also participate in national and international research
schemes and would work closely with APMEPU's Chief Agronomist.
Training 1/
14.       Training is of fundamental importance for the long-term success of
the development proposals incorporated under the project. An experienced
training officer would therefore need a team adequately backed by resources
to conduct a wide range of training under the project.
15.       Adequate training facilities for Agricultural Assistants and Agri-
cultural Superintendents exist already in Nigeria and diploma courses and
certificate courses are given at various Federal and State institutions includ-
ing the Yandev Training Center. However, not enough training facilities exist
for Agricultural Instructors and under the project a training center would be
constructed which would accomodate 60 trainees. Initially, training at the
center would mainly be focused on Agricultural Instructors but later in proj-
ect life other specialized staff and advanced farmers would attend residential
courses at the center. The training team would consist of four instructors
and three field workers and would be under the supervision of the project's
Chief Training Officer.
16.       In addition to the training center, the project will provide training
for staff and for farmers.
17.       Staff training will consist of the following elements:
(a) Senior staff training. Scholarships will be made available for
management training for those senior staff who would benefit.
(b) Intermediate level training. Specialized training for project
staff will be provided following review with the relevant
department heads. Close liaison would be maintained with other
educational facilities to provide this training, although short
courses would be provided during inservice training.
1/   For details see Supplement 8.



ANNEX 7
Page 5
(c) Introductory training will be held periodically
throughout the years to provide new staff with the
necessary background information.
(d) Residential courses for extension workers. As ex-
plained in paragraph 15, Agricultural Instructors
would be trained in the project's training center.
(e) Refresher courses. These courses would mostly be
technically oriented and would update staff members'
knowledge.
(f)  Specialized training.  Specific training programs in
such fields as credit, forestry and fisheries would be
undertaken in conjunction with the relevant department
head. Project training facilities would be available
for this purpose.
18.       Farmers training would consist of the following components:
(a) Mobile units. Farmers training would be carried out
mainly at the village level by itinerant teams,
consisting of a training instructor and a driver
equipped with a loud speaker system, and audio-visual
aids.
(b)  Day courses.  One-day courses would also be employed
from Year 2. These courses would be held at farmers
service centers but would also include visits to
progressive farmers or demonstration plots.
(c) Residential training. From Year 4 it is envisaged
that one-week residential training would be provided
to farmers in the project's training center and
provision for expansion of the training center has
been made under the project.
(d) Use of mass media. The Training Officer would inves-
tigate ways and means by which radio and newspapers
could be used to provide information to farmers in the
project area.
(e) Training within the educational system. Specific
effort would be made to ensure that primary and
secondary teachers are made fully aware of project
goals.
(f) Home economics. Provision has been made for the in-
clusion of an itinerant home economics team later in
the project period (Years 4 and 5).



ANNEX 7
Page 6
Evaluation 1/
19.       The project covers a large area with a substantial population.  Eva-
luating production increases would therefore be a formidable task and would
require a considerable resource input. The situation is aggravated by a con-
siderable resource input. The situation is aggravated by the fact that the
project area consists of various ecological zones.
20.       Project field evaluation units would be under the overall direction
of APMEPU. Work plans would take into account APMEPU's experience so far with
the monitoring and evaluation of the three ongoing Northern Agricultural Devel-
opment Projects. The project's Chief Evaluation Officer would coordinate with
the Project Manager to whom he is administratively responsible, determine
project priorities for evaluation, and establish a work plan in agreement with
APMEPU. The Field Evaluation Unit would be headed by a Chief Evaluation
Officer experienced in collecting and analyzing microeconomic data in a small-
holder environment. In addition there would be a Senior Evaluation Officer
and supporting staff (two Evaluation Officers, Senior Enumerators and Enumera-
tors).
21.       The Chief Evaluation Officer would liaise closely with the Head of
the Development Service Department to determine how best to share the respon-
sibility for data collection. 2/ The evaluation program would start early in
1977 when, following initial orientation, a listing of all villages would be
made. This would be followed by a baseline survey carried out over five
months between end of 1977 and early 1978. Following this survey, and over a
full cropping cycle beginning in February/March 1978, a detailed farm manage-
ment study (mainline survey) would be instituted to record farmers' activities,
farm inputs and outputs, etc. Costs of evaluation are detailed in Table 8.
1/   For details see Supplement 9.
2/   In Francophone West Africa extension staff have been used for data collec-
tion but in English-speaking West Africa they have not, although there is
no inherent reason why this could not be done.



22222                   -   2   2222222222    2A2222     22222222LC22gA    22522   22222222    2222
5222                         5       2252           225LC.222   2                           A.ACA.AAC
I      A      CAACA                                LA                                                                              C
I             AA.CAA                               I C
A A5C5 AA                                         A                L                    A                                                          +Si C:YC AX4
AAA.CCCAAAAAACAC5CACC                       22?                                   5'                                                              C-.CAACCAACICA                 CA   A CA
222k?    A  C. AA    A  A  A        A                                    5A  2CC.  AACAAC                                                  AAAA
S                CA           I                                    A                      AACC  CCC   -.AA        A  A  AC                            AAAA
A-C     5           CC.                        A             IA                                    2ACA                                   C  AAACA             A  A    A    5                   A
5AA       CS                                                                                                                                                            CAA      A.
A A CA - A                                                                  222EtAA.AA                                       I22232   C  A    AAAA  S
AAAAA.AAAA5                                2                          LCA   A                        A AS C
AC C A A.5AgAo2g?                                         -   A55                                      AAC'j22                    2  A A5A9    A A A                   ACC
C A A                         AriA                                  AA       AAASA       AC AAA   A        A    A                           IA  AC        JCS25
SijCAC.gtA.22                                                                   CA       AAAA          CCC                                  A A               A             C    A        A A. A
A.CAAAAAC.AAA SCA.A                                                               2          2      52CC2       22522             5   A                A A             C           AK2              A
CAA2AC                                                                                         A5C                                                             A A
IA. CA                                                    AC
I                                                     'CCC
AC.C.  C                                                                          C  A           A. A A                                              A         A
AA AAC CACaIA                                                                                        A
A A A A
A       IACC          '2
A A A A. A A A          A.ACA.A.A.C.A.A.AC         AC A A C       A A.   C A A       AC A. A. A.     C
A. A.                                           A C A A A. A A A CA A C CC A A AC A A. A A   C C ACA.CACAC A A C.        A A A A       A. A    A A C      A. CC A.
i A
A       A  A. A. A                                                             A.A.AAA.A.A.A.A.ACA.CA.A.    A A.                               A        A.   A                           A A A. A.
5A   :A9
2           5    C      IC                            I                                               A.
[A.
A       A A C C. A                A. A    A A A                                         CCAA.A.A.A   C A    A AC A.  A.                                                  '   'C
AC ADA
A       A  A C                                                                                              CC.       A A.                                       A.
A       AA       2    2
5. 22 2
A.                                                      A.AA.A.A.AAAA.AA.A.A.ACC.A.A.A.A               A.A.A.A.A.A.A.AA.AA         A A.        AA.A.A.A.           A. A. A. A.
Si                                  A C
A                                                           A.    A.                                           A'A.C                                      C             C    A                   A
A.                  I            'CCC   ACAA.AA.AC C C C C" C 'AC AC A 'C A C' A A  CA.  CC CCA.CCA.CCA.A.ACCC AC  C.   C A.  A  A. A. A C A A. C    A  A. A. A. C.
22        A  'CA        A      'CA.                                    A  A. C                          A.     A.A.      A.IA.ACACCC.                 CCC           C  C.ACAACC         A  A.CA.A          A
CA A A A A A. 21C.A.5  I.CCC (CCA.
A  A.I                                                lACACACA. AACCAAA ACCCAAACC   AC. AA.CA.A.A.CACCA. A. CC.  C CACAA.A.C  C
A                                      A. C  CCC C                                                                                                                                                            C
2
C A    5                                                                              A.AA.A.AAA.AA.AA.AAAAA.A.A.A.                A.A.A.   AC                               AC.                AC                                   2
SC                                                                                    AA.CCCA.AA.CA.A.A.A.CCCA.CA.C                C'CACAA.CA
C                     C                                     (                                              Ci           'CCC  C C'flCCC    A    CCCC '                                       IS                CC
A- C. A                                  'A  C'                  I             C  A. I             AC-CC            A.C.C     A. C C                                     CAC.                A.CC               IA
A A  5A            A         5           2212252                               C  A  IAA.CA.AACC.ACCA.A.AC.AA A A C A        A.CA.C-CC-'C    A                C         'CA.                CA.A               A
C  A  A                      -           .      I                .                                                C  C           C                             C         AC
A    C                                   A  C  C C CA.           I             AC.IAA.A.C ACA.CAAC.CAA ACCCACCA               A.IA.CCCACAC   CC   C            I             A. A.           A  AC              IC
I                                                 A. C       A.                              S                                                                  :  :
2 2 12225                           IA   IC               AA.AAACC                       (CC CCCCCCC C C
C                I                0  A.A.AA.A.ACC               -CACA         C. C C
[CCCL
I      i                             IC    ICCCCCC*CCCC*CCC    C
A  AC. AC C            r             A  A  CA. AC. CACACCA. A A. 22 A CA. A.        Al
2
C                         CA.                                                              29
I                                                                                                                                                               2                 A  2
CC.                  I      I                               C  C. AA.AA.CACACCCAA. AC. AC AC A A          C C.    C            CC                                                         IA
2212222                              C A.               A2CDCA                        [  A                       CICA.                                              [C-                CS
'C  C  C C C A                       I C  C. AA.ACA.AACCCA.ACCC  A A C               A.
A.    C                                     I                                                                                                                         IA
I      I                             I
A. A. C.                    CC C  A A. A. C AA.AA.A.AA. C. C  A C C         C A
C ALA        ACA.           I          C                                       CC        A. C                          A
I             A  LA  CCC    C                  CA.A.A.'ACA.ACAA.AA            CAC              A.A.A.C.CACCC             2  A.A.A.A.A.C.C.
CA  A. A. C.CA.A         A.            A  VA  " F552A52?52QC                            LA A.A.CA.ACCCA.AACCC    C  AA.A.A.                          A.      C'
CC  I A. C. I CA. A. C   A.            C      A.                             '  '        C CAA.AAA.CA. CC.CCC    A  C.C.CC    A. A.C.CCCCA.    C.
A. A. C          A. C AC C    C       CCCCCCCCCCCCCACC  A. A                      C C A. A A  A A C C C C     A C C. A      A.ACCA.CAC          C C A. C
CCC                            C.                           C      CA             CCC AC C CC-CC CCC          AC 22         CC  CA  A.          A C AC C.     ICAfI
C C  I C  C-. I             C          A. I  A. I CCC C''C''''C   A''                    A.
A. I A.C.A      A. I    A    C  C  Al                          C      22         C CI             CCC         C  ACA.   C          '      A.   SI
C A. C  C  CCC          C  C. A. C A    A. AC CC I                     C      CC        AC                                          C  CA.  CC
CA. I C  C-C CC C        :A )tCSKC'A.   5. 5    I                                                              A CA
Ct
C A. FAA     C  A.                     CIA.  C  I
C C.C'  A. IA.A.A.A      C  C  C C    C I A. CIA.CCA.CA.A.CA.A.A.C'CCAA.CCACCCA.A.       A. A.    A       A            A.
C A  C C  C I C A. C C   A. CACCA.   A. CAACCC.A.A.A. C CA.AA.CA.AAC-'A. C A C           CC A CCACCA.AA C CACCA.   CCC ACACA.   C  A A C C A CC    CCCA. A
II                                   II                                C. C    C [C
A. C  C  A. A A C       C  A A. A. C.  A. C  A  A A. C CA.CA.CA.AC A C C C 'C C. C C    CCA.A.A.C A A.A.2A.AC A    A  A A C C    A. C. C C C C A C    A  A. AC A. C



ANNEX 7
Table 2
NIGERIA
BENUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Staff Likely to be Internationally Recruited
Project Manager
Head of Engineering Department
Head of Development Services Department
Head of Commercial Services Department
Chief Accountant
Roads Engineer
Workshop Engineer
Farm Management Advisor
Chief Agronomist
Fishery Expert 1/
Forestry Expert 1/
Training Officer
Evaluation Officer
(Hydrological Engineer) 2/
(Livestock Expert) 2/
1/ Also to work for the Lafia Agricultural Development Project.
2/ Recruited under the Lafia Project, but also to advise and work for
the Ayangba Project.



NIG1EIA
BWUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRiIaLTURAL DEVLO0ET PROJECT
Area Required for Seed Multiplication nnd Research (ha)
Year 0        Year 1        Year 2         Year 3        Year b        Year 5
SEED IULTIPLICATION
Rice                                                          6            9             13             19            13
Maize                                                         6           12              25            26            21
Melon                                                         3            6             12             18            18
Cowpeas                                                       3           5               9             13            13
Benniseed                                                     1            1              1              2             2
Sub-Total                                                  19          33              60             78            67
OTHER MULTIPLICATIONS
Yams                                                          2            2               2             2             2
Cassava                                                      20          20               5                           1 
Sub-Total                                                  22          22               7              7             7
RESEARCH AND EXPERIMENTS                                       20           30             5              LO            50
MISCELIANEC0S  g/                                              29           1              58             65            66
TOTAL AREA, REXQUIRED                                          90          130            175            200           190
]/  Details are in Supplement 6.
j/  Including access, fallows etc.   Basis about 50% area under cultivation.
tD>
(D X
J _,



NIGERIA
BENUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Seed Purchases 3/
Year 0       Year 1       Year 2       Year 3        Year 4       Year 5
Seed Requirements 1/                     ------------'000 kg-----------------____________
Rice                                    45           80            125          195          285           190
Maize                                   67.5          67.5         155          317.5        337.5         270
Melon                                    0.75          1.5           3            6             9            9
Cowpeas                                 12.5         25             50          100          150           150
Benniseeds                               5            5              5            5           10             6
Seed Purchases           Price 2/        ----------------------------N '000--------------------------------
Rice                    304            13,680       24,320        38,000       59,280       86,640        57,760
Maize                   135             9,112        9,112        20,925       42,862       45,562        36,450
Melon                   402               302           603        1,206        2,412        3,618         3,618
Cowpeas                 250             3,125        6,250        12,500       25,000       37,500        37,500
Benniseed               386             1,930        1,930         1,930        1,930        3,860         2,316
Total                                  28,149       42,215        74,561      131,484      177,180      137,644
Incremental Costs                      28,149       14,066        32,346       56,923       45,696          -
1/  See Supplement 8, Appendix 1.                                                                                       b 
2/  1.5 times financial market price (1980 in constant 1976 terms or if not available 1976 prices).
See Annex 12.                                                                                                          X
3/  All needed seed valued; no differentiation made between contract farms and project farm as costs
(not separately costed in project) have to be made for the latter production also.



4     4N4.-4-j 42      .C2'.-.-..  1    2                                0           'N             2;
>1  2                                                          4 -. "N-                    4211              <4-
(4((.        0044444          Nc' 4-4  4-4 .4 4444                                        'Nj'              .4,0
[1  <-               4.440044J4j    *,,44'4''4'4'4*l't  -z1;i2
Ii         no      o        04-0          cocco.  4c0(N0                                               0         cc                       0
04244 'ct          4>44  4'4'N-'0o             t,,iii,l,,ii   444                    444                        44
Ill            oo->4 o-           o- oo c-  .- 411  LI       v.34'.-i$,i.  -cn-tooll&iQ   4214'
'-4' "    "'              '-'     I'  21      'N <>4N'N              "Il  7142
40                "tl"4'N."i     J440444  'N 'I'  I           ONtO   4-4 44 -440 444-i-n  L4-    "N'Nj 2c.sj<
004 4-44044'44N'N-'N 4444  - 4 '0   .-ccI    CI 4-
'''j.   '''''K''jW1                                                                               11%
44044<-4-40'-.00-4.->4  & '7       'N<I   21
I                                 4
-4-444-0-4-4-4  - 4o-N.''.-. 0        ,4-4.-.4                   4
4     4
4-         -4-I     4424        I,2.'-..,I2           ,,,,,                 Of       04N'4-.44 04044444-44 'N-"-'NI   "-1%  42%4%j 4-f
'7          4-i                                                  I         A        0-404-4'0-40  4.4.444-j    4          4440l 421                       4
'71                               I"'                      I   '2                                 I"  "Ni          '7 441
4- 1                                         4-N444.--' 420-44-04.4 .'N-.4j4N    .-4                       4    'N
4    4
"4         01 0          'NO  0-oI o              0"    I 4 4-I        444 4-4-44-4--'N 4cr-c' 444    'NI    -044-4 4010
44              I      ''I  -   I              I.      44ItIj--*g  II    0                               . '-4  -  -I --    ..."   '-I.               4-
'7                     21 2          0044n;I 4                  -4     I   '71       C.4KNOVNc)-4'4.O4444.44-j   I      ThA   "KK
44          -4   4444                                       -44444,44444-444  000.44             .4-4-42                   --
40                   I                 44                                                                 4414               4.
'N                  .    ,            242-'      i --.1          ..'           O'4N0-----004-4444-'40N'N, 4- 4,0      -4<4
4'                                                         InC'I                                  44
4-1<                 04        0               ll            44,44404.4-4.4-04    I..4j 4        4400                       4
4'               .4444        .                                00404-4,1'N.44.-00
'7                                                                                                                                                   'N
CO 440  0    -'44-NC- .00000                  04044-4-444 4404'Nt-4-     -
21    2                            sw-I 42    .    4229%-it
0424Sf '0  4.    4-4-004        404'N  044-0.1                                                                                  4  444
-4-44-44-44                  ,-.0444.-.4>.4.14 .-.4N
40                                                  I            'N -<<<-4-   4- 4- <<4-I   'N1
444- 4-4 ,                                      4 44-44 -4    0  -4-40414  I
Of0   0    22,2-22                    04,,,'         I                                                        I
I                                           I                                      4
.4044 4 4-
4N  4
0000        4    -4040            44440                            0444-4-4 -"-440-444-4               -404
4-44-004        444444  4040'N                 4-4-4,0-4  -4.4.44440                                            -4  2
4'                                                         4  '44
4                           -4                           -4'                             .444   -
42                                                             44                                                                   t
I  4-                                                         444-04444
el    4                                             4,
01                  I                 -          4'      4-
414            4    40                     44              I  N.         44  4
0'-  44  444  4                                 V2
4-'..'                            44
'0  0               4                    44              '7  44>        444414                      I         0.-     I
4   -4                             '4-   40               2  4.4      4 444  4              44
O    44               44    0-                   4-4                -44-4  '.4  4-A                         1                    444  044
F                    -4    4              44   4424                444044   4440                  4                 ,-N  N     444N4.-4
0'400  4   4   444    4>              44  4400-                    04444'  0       4                   4       0    0
'74>4>  4   4444044,44                                              4.    < 4                o 'N       '  4444-4
4"14'"'               oqr-o-.cr.          '7 "  '"''4' 4'                           4444-44  
I             4   0  4   1-   44,-.44
'7442424        4C40440'444-4.44           '7 4>2   .c,$4-&144'74t C-4> 4'
0414444         4   440404-H         4-44444444 2N'7j                04444<4  070444.44                    4444                              4
4-444--4<44     I    '04-444-''N-4             4.'Nt4-0t-'N.404.'N4'N4-4'44-0        44 44-4
11 4-414)41 144



ANNEX 7
Tabie 6
NIGERIA
BENUE STATE
AYANGaA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Costs of Research
Unit                                                                                                                igreigc! ange       Local
Costs         Year 0         Year 1        Year 2        Year 3         Year 4       Year 5       Total                   Amount        Costs
CAPITAL COSTS
Houses
Senior Houses   /                    30.0                      (1)  30.0                                                               35.c          30           g.0        21.0
Intermediate Houses  2               21.0                      (3)  65.0                                                                63.o         25          15.8         47.2
Traditional Houses  31                4.o                      (3)  12.0                                                                12.0         10           1.2         10.8
Subtotal                                                      105.0                                                              105.0                      26.o        '9.0
Vehicle s
Four-Wheel Drive                      6.o                      (2)  12.0                                 (2)  12.0                      2h.O         80          19.2          4.8
Pick-Ups                              4.o                      (1)   4.0                                 (1)    .o                       8.0         80            t.4         1.6
Motorcycles  9'                       o.8                      (3)   2-4                                                                 2.L        6So           i.           1.0
Subtotal                                                      1i.4                                       16.0                     34.4                      27.C         7.4
Equipment
Soil Laboratory Equipment 2/  Lump Sum                               5.0                                                                 5.0        80            4.o          1.0
Sundry Equipment                 Lump Sum                            3.0           0.3           0.3           0.3           0.3         4.2        50            2.1          2.1
Typewriters                           0.5                      (1)   0.5                                                                 0.5       6S              C.3         0.2
Calculators                           c.4                      (4)   1.6                                                                 1.6        6o             L.o         o.6
Furniture  6J                         0.8                      (5)   4.0         _               __                                      4.o0       40            1.6          2.4
Subtotal                                                       14.1          0.3           0.3            0.3          0.3        15.3                       9.0         6.3
TOTAL CAPITAL COSTS                                          137-5           0.3           0.3           16.3          0.3       151".                      62.C        92.7
RECURRENT COSTS
Staff Salaries
Senior Agricultural Officer           6.c                      (1)   6.0      (1) S.o        (   6.o       (1) 6.o      (1) 6.o         30.0                                  30.0
Agricultural Superintendant  7/    2.9                         (2)   s.8      (2) 5.8        (2) 5.8       (2) 5.8      (2) 5.8         29.0                                  29.0
AA's                                  1.7                      (3)   5.1      (3) 5.1        (3) 5.1       (3( 5.1      (3) 5.1         25.5                -                 21.5
Soil Technologist                     3.7                      (1)   3.7      (1) 3.7        (1) 3.7       (1) 3,7      (1) 3.7         18.5                       -          18.5
Secretary                             1.7                      (1)   1.7      (1) 1.7        (1) 1.7       (1) 1.7      (1) 1.7          8.5                       -           8.5
Clerk                                 1.0                      (1)   1.0      (1) 1.0        (1) 1.0       (1) 1.0      (1) 1.0          5.0         -            -            5.0
Drivers                               0.9                      (3)   2.7      (3) 2.7         3) 2.7       (3) 2.7      (3) 2.7         13.5                                  13.5
Laborers  8/                          0.8                      (1)   3.2      (4) 3.2        4) 3.2        (4) O2       (4) 3.2         16.0                       -          16.0
Subtotal                                                       29.2         29.2          29.2           29.2         29.2       146.0                                 146.0
Allowances  2/       75%                                       21.9         21.9          21.9           21.9         21.9       109.5         15           16.4        93.1
Total Salaries                                                 51.1         51.1          51.1           51.1         51.1      205.5                       16.4       239.1
VrehIcle Operating
Pour-Wheal Drise                      2.1                      (2)   4.2      (2) 4.1        (2) 4.2           4.2      (2) 4.2         21.0        45            9.1         11.5
Pick-Ups                              1.8                      (1)   1.8      (1) 1.8        (1) 1.8       (1) 1.8       - ) 1.8         0.c       4i              4.1         -.9
Subtotal                                                        6.0          6.o           6.c            6.o          6.o        30.0                      t3.6        16.4
General Services
Conferences   12/                Lump Sm                             5.0           5.           10.0          10.0          10.0        41.0         -            -           4o.o
TOTAL RECURRENT                                                62.1         62.1           67.1          67.1         67.1       321.5                     3500        291.5
TOTAL COSTS                                                   199.6         62.4          67.1           8}.4         67.4        180.2                     90.0       388.2
For SAO
2   For AS's and Soil Technologist
F Por AA's
Project will make loans to AMA'  to purchase motorcycles; initial purchases costed to build up revolving fond
For simple testing only, as existing laboratories would be used for major tests
I Three senior staff members pius 60% to reflect office staff seeds
one  to supervise field trials; cne to supervis                  on project farm
To  ork  on research plots on proet                 ect farm
Por normal civil service and additional project incentive allowances; 71% of local salaries
/   To travel to research institutes and organize research conferences in the project areas



(01.170 201
AYatf0To-         10,RI          00UR 001~C     bo-.CT          o~l        Tta                 
.loCAoo Co,ooo  31                      -~~~~~~~l  I.- SS.     (II    -          Y-1           y-,4            - ,          10A
loAtoosA                               5.0           101.0           0.0             -            12010.                                                             1.
O.abo-oloooo             100~~~4.            -      11004-                               - 
-o0ohop                            I0                         2 0.0                -              --0
T,,r.ioo                                              - -9   15. --                                       ('~  2.                         101
R--toAt- oo                         00                        O     .                 
00toooal                         .           00~~~~~~~~~~~~~7.0  -                       17.1                       10
0o-lNoolbo-1'e  0 0''l   L.A       12)  1.1.0            -      (a)  12.1~~~~~~                   ~~2)   12.   4.00           A0    ~    904             )
ToiInAoo/                   0.                        (2     00     (1      00(02                                                                0           '
Oeoo totol Paso-lao,0.4 (0 09                                                                                                                        00         01
AAAoooI                                          1':2 1                                                                                 1 2                    11
Clooooooao F     sboootry           .0                                                                                                    1'1           4.         0
S.b-Aoaootoloalo                 1.1                                                         271                                                                  1.            0
0eAoooOAAAA-                     o,T            0601   '01.                                          (o9.A`l10                                                    9
'hi~   - ig~fi        E-                        J)52'lotooo  0.12                                                                                       Oo1 1.' (  T  L           L,
A,i-ff   fi-e   2/Otre3            0.0                       (0) )0 L0 
'obTosat    ~ ~ ~ ~ 2.                           4    q11      M      106 A.91                                                                                       100
LosOoo10oaoo                      l.o                      Is   i          510                         2' 1                              0           1-
looso  Ao ,lt.o                   1.0                               .4_    '1    C        D ')'01'            0
Ct'Coa.. lAS)  IC/er            2.0         (1)                                                                                                                 0 .1 (1
OAeYP o-Aot     o 'IT1              .1                       1o1     ~      I 0 0 o   0 9       o. flo2 .1~ 1 ~
0000000  ca                         2) 1 0~~~~~~~~) :1~2
000000,                   0~~ ~ ~~~~~.0  117
00000  1.0                                                                             .1    '~         ~~~      ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 410I'  -1
00000000              0?                                                                                  -1 o~~~~~~76  4.  -  M  2.  L.  0 01.  -117
T-1                                           49.ole  L7    11'9                                                                                            101 '. ~ 1'~Il.  -
Aoatlo4looo240.1                                                     (      I 0'90           ':  '(I      4'     1                    ,.                        0           10
Tot,l Vo-I!o  40100007                                                                                                                                        -
L2do /Ctoto    '          .                        ',ol  s6 I    6
TOTAIO91I9t7                                                              261.i         '19S-          994            108         o-4 2'102                                -7
11 Coaf-Lotolo o7ofrto-eo.  .51                                                                             34.       ~ ~ 5         ~     l.6`2~C                              ,:D.
21   Al00,.      -     fl-
-y Hs  bo ,  ll Alo.           b                    ,~S11 ib~f,  -
2/   Dlrtl2 001011100 oolotiog  o-oot-oo -01                                      I 0  7011(1l..
li:/    4 Tb kD0ioo-lo11Do-o0O1aootot-1-11a'a-ooo01o-ooootoo1    7101 7o'oo Ell. DI001100 ..oboogfo



ANNEX 7
Table e
NIGERIA
SENUE STATE
AYANGbA AGNICULTU6AL DEVELOPMEhT PROJECT
Coet of Eoalcotcoo
Fo-eiao  ENxhan-e    Local
Unit Costs          Year A           YTer 1          Year 2          Year 3           Year 4          Year 5         Toco                     Arou Ccost
A.  CAPITAL. COSTS
Nooses
Sector (beets 1/                                        30.0        (2)     60.0            -                -               -              -                -             60.0             30         18.0      42.0
Irteroatarte Nooses Z/                                  21.0         (2)    42.0            -               -                -              -                -             42.0            25          10.5       31.5
J-nior Houses                                           14.0        (7)    98.0             -                -               -              -                -             98.0             25         24.5       73.5
SNbto5l1                                                            200.0                                                                                          200.0                        53.0    147.0
Vehicles
Foor Whsal Drive                                         6,0        (4)     24.0                                      ( '  3)    24.7       _                              48.0            80          38.4        9,6
Pick-Up Vehicles                                          4.0       (2)      8.0            -                -        (2)     8             - _                            16.0            80          12.8        3.2
Sobtotal                                                             32.0            -                -               32.0           -                _             64.0                        51.2       12.8
Ekuip,..t.
Typeriter-                                                0.5       (3)      1.5            -                -               -              -                -               1.3            60          0.9        0.6
CRleularoes                                              0.6       (11)      6.6            -                -               -              -                -               6.6            60          4.0        2.6
Office Furnlcire 4/                                       0.8       (8)      6.4             .               -                                                _              6.4            40           2.6       3.8
FPilog Cabinets                                           0.3      (10)      3.0  (10)        3.0  (10)       3.0   (10)    3.0             -                _             12.0             60          7.2        4.8
Se_rstary Eqoip_ et                                                          2.0             0.2              0.2             0.2            0.2              0.2           3.0            50           0.3        1.3
SNbto-E                                                              19.3             3.2              3.2             3.2            0.2              0.2          29.5                         16.2       13.3
Coe eultants Z/                                          5.0        (6)     30.0            -                 _               _             -                -             30.0            100         20.0
TOTAL CAPITAL COSTS                                                 281.5              3.2             3.2            35.2            0.2               0.2        323.5                       150,4    173.1
S.  kECUEENrT GOSTS
Sc ori to
Chief Erolcacioc Offloer                                32.0        (1)     32.0   (1)    32.0   (1)        32.0      (1)    2.0    1)    32.0               -            160.0             75        120.7      40.0
Secitr EOrloutEoo Sffi_or                                8.4        (        8.    (1)       8       (1                .4   (1)               .4   (1)        6.4          50.4             _                     50.4
Evaluation Officer                                       6.0        (2)     12.0    (2)        (2     )      12.0     (2)    12.0  (2)      12.0   (2)       12.0          72.0             -          -          72.C
Statoo Rocrer- tor                                       2.2        (7)     15.4   (7)      15.4   (7)       15.4    (77    15.4  (77       15.4   17)       13.4          92.4             -          _          92.4
E__ ertors                                                1.3      (50)     65.03  (50)    63.0(50)    65.0   (50)   65.0 (50)              65.0  (S0)       60.0         390.0             -          -         390.0
Clorko                                                    1.0       (5)      5.3   (5)       5.0   (5)        5.0    (5)    5.0  (5)         5.0   (5)        3.0          30.0             -          -          30.0
Soorofary                                                 1.7       (1)      1.0   (1)        1.0   (1)       1.)    (1)      1.7  (1)       1.7   (1)         1.7         10.2             -          -          10.2
Typists                                                  0.9        (2)      1.6   (0)       1.8   (2)        1.6    (7       1.8 12)6) 1.8   (2)  1.8   (2)    8           0.8                                   10.8
ltoeaotgors                                               3.6 8     7)       0.8              0.:                      (1)       0.8   (1) 0,    (1            0.6          4.8            -_                      4.8
Oriners                                                  .09        (6)      3.4   (6)       5.4   (6)        5.4     76)     6.4  (6)       5.4   (6)         5.4         32.4             -            _        32
S.btoNsi                                                            147.5           147.5           147.5            147.5          147.5            115.5         853.0             -         120.0     733.0
All-..a..s  _/                                           753                86.6            86.6             86.6            86.6           86.6              86.6        519.6             15         77 .9    441.1
Total S-eiete                                                       234.1           234.1            234 .1          204.1          234.1            202.1       1 ,372.6                      197.1  1,174.V
Vehicle Opretti.,
Four Wheel DSin                                           2.1       (4)      8.4   (4)       8.4   (4)        8.4     (4)     8.4  (4)       8.4   (4)        6.4          30.4            45          22.7       22.7
PIck-C5                                                  1.8        (2)      3.6   (2)       3.6   (2)        3.6     (2)     3.6  (2)       3.5 (0)          3.6          21.4            40           9.7       11.0
Scbtot-l                                                             12.0             12.0            12.0            12.0           12.0             12.0          72.0                        32.4       39.6
TOTAL EECURbEh'T  6/                                                 46.7           246.1            746.1           746.7          706.1 2214.1                 1.444.6                       737.0   12_]
TOTAL COSTS (A I b)                                                        527.6           249.3           249.3            281.3          721 014.3                    1,768.1                       3(7.7  1,377.4
I/  Chiof aof sooior t-olo-tio- Officc.
2/  Evl(oario_ Offiocer
3/  Neoior OrEtoerotort        rbooorrrrralofrsoprfgoof
4/  Foor  -eior officr    doble                                  fo    pp ig  -ff.
3/  Noe-l cioil cervicr olloccoca and cddirioool pr-j-c  i-e-cior allowtnco
estimated or 75 porceot of (oral salaries.
61  Otfire supplies cos.ref - odor gareral a-1     ocance o-for a,dminitratioofndooagcoarr
(..to 7. Toble 1).
7/  To  _aolor initial  -t  op if   --.ry.
Noo. 5, 1976



NIGERIA
BENUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
|Anat Comm s5toutue   a|                                                                        FMARD
Na1ural .esau.ces (MANR;
PMASCh.irma     -C--n-- --    -     -     -Unr
T                     F-~~~~~~~~~~ 
n.so.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i f_____-~                                                                                   --d;| 
P Pron ec  Ma _a  |- - - - - - __                      __ _ __r_ __ __ _
LandUaolrpmeu |Cropt                                                                                                                         
|   D e p art m e nt   |o r isrn D ea rme n  A d re r   S e e o m r        D e A p e   p ar  Fen t ~ s t            O O O               r , e                 m n
{ ruleu              Siurnr            rurruvxin Mapp71islngllsllo   
j Pubilc FelulloMnrketn            Trator fincre     Sendo cmmn
Pruduc                lllroplFar
Adursury ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d.
| Coordlnatang |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aoar
M Me-r of Pchr
World bank-16482






NIGERIA
BENUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL_DEVEL OPMENT PROJECT
Start Up Plan
YEAHR 0- EAR I                                                                             YEAR 2
1976   -              ~             1977           7-9-tR197
3           4           1           2           2           4            1           2           3           4            1           2
A REPORT PROCESSING
White, Cove   ... .. .. . . .. .. -- - --IBRD  - - -- -
Yello  C-1 ................IBRR  ----------
G .ee tC.-  .....  ----                     .    BRD .......
Negtiti.os-F-----   -------- IMG1SGIBIRD  ..........
Appio-.l PFal Oooo- ,itt-----------FMO!SG --    ----    ----    --
BMAJOR APPOINTMENTS
Co-d-ieaton  eti  ARRoitm-e of
Read of Adm,ini-ri-   )epattetet ----             SG ......-        ..  
Pro1eol Me-cag     -----------t-  -APMU ----------
Head of Eogine-ie-g De,partme     .......t -     .APMU --  ------    ----    -  f
Chief Aoooot- -------_ ..._ --APMU --                                 .....      ---
Heaid ef Adonitnaio-iii   Deeaptt-,I..... _SG --------                     ...
R,ijldiog SoRenoi-s------t        -                SG     .......I---------f
C ACCOMMODATION ANS LANDI
TemPotato Sift ---   ---------                -  ~SO   .......
S PRtOJECT ESTABLISHMENT
Visit State Offiojoktto Nonteete.
Agtioilteit D-seop-eo  Peo,- --------SGS---  ----
R,-ot of Then Fie,edg-------------SG  1--.......
Edi,--------                  -------                SG  ---- -......
Reok Anooe-1--------------- SG--------.                                 ------
Tt-nsfe  P-itch tMbI-........                      SO   ---    -------
EVALUATION 
Chte  Eg, ato  Offioe....i        .........APMU..                 -------------
ReoiittnnEvooatogSteff --------             SG -------------------------
rr-eio-hEaio-ate       f SIh-------....P----------- ------------------
8-aselee i S----------------p---------------------------------
M-f1-in  Sotoy -----------                - _ _P.---- --------------- ------------------
--eo-o--S-- - - - -            - - -      - p -- - - -      - - - -      - - - - - - - - -       - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - -                                 - -  - - - - -      -
AERIAL PHOTOGRAPHY ANC MAPPING
Rt-tig of RiEt,ing PhEotvgta       ...S ......FMG-D          .- --
Slpplv E-igtogSf,,pt------   ------_                 D .G---------
Caetog-,ohio Co-i-si     ----        -----t- -    P-.....----    ---------
PURtCHASES AND TENDERIINGj
Aevde1,to  ---v-   --- -- --ent     ----et_       P   -   ------                 --- ---------
Af., F.n-- P
Poo,pet.I-   --~----   --  -----                     -----------.....
Aid -Aw eog. . . .    . . .   .. . . . . . . .    P/E  [.. . . . . . . . . . . .       - -  -
TEnote  - to    Pe. . ...nt    .. . .      . . . .    P E   - -- - - -- - ---e_.         .. . ...g.. .
BdeAlio     .. .. .. ..     -- - - - - - - - -    SP plEC t.--  - -    . .. .    - -  _   . . . .. .    . . . . . . .
BUILDINGS                                        )
Detige   V- -vo     Hootes - - - - - -- - - -     -  -- - -..                               ..
P.....t .ion    of  Sites   .. . . . _ - - - - - - P-- - - - - - - - - -     - - -  - -  - - -
D -og   Office   nod  Othet        ---i ----   -- P - - - -    --   - - - - - - - - - - --      - - - -
Coett-nimg    A.,- - - - -  - - - -  - - -  -  -  P--   - -  - - -  - -  - - -  -- --1-      - - -     -  - -
C.otto-vo      Fin-t,,d  -- - -  - - - - - --     Coettvg ..   . . .j - - - -                                    -- -- - - - - -- - - - -
FSe Ct   on 9 of   S- - - _   - - -   - -  - -      -  - -- -  - .  . . .  . .  . . .  . . ..
FMD   Fede,al D-o-et tet
APMU=Ageio-ior-1tPieotsI.Maag,me-  Lied
P -PnIO
P/EC   PI Pno' Evel-to   emoe
WhoId Baek-16455






ANNEX 8
NIGERIA
BENUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Commercial Development
A.   General
1.        During project development, substantial quantities of crop inputs
will be required and marketable surpluses generated. For the former, project
success will depend on creating a structure which will remain as a permanent
and viable unit on completion of the development phase while attention to
crop marketing must assure farmers of secure outlets for their crops in the
face of the substantial increases in marketable surplus projected in Supple-
ment 2. This aspect of development would be the responsibility of a Commer-
cial Services Department in each project. The Commercial Services Department
is divided into four divisions: Credit Division; Input Supply Division;
Marketing Advisory Service; and Produce Inspection Division.
B.   Input Development
2.        Existing Services.  All fertilizers consumed in Nigeria are imported
with the exception of some supplies of superphosphate from a recently opened
plant in Kaduna (using rock imported from Togo); projected supply from the
plant is expected to reach 40,000 tons per annum. A nitrogen plant is also
proposed in the Third Five-Year Development Plan and could begin operations
during project implementation.
3.        Imported fertilizer procurement has been a State Government responsi-
bility and the heavily subsidized official selling prices have varied between
States. Procurement has been sporadic and well short of demand, and this, to-
gether with price differentials between States, has led to an active black
market trade and undesirable movement of fertilizers across State boundaries.
All of these problems have been under review by FMG and proposals are being
considered for central procurement by a single Federal agency and distribution
at uniform sale prices throughout Nigeria. At present State requirements are
being met from Federal and State sources. A recent press announcement indi-
cates that the following sale prices will be applied: urea N 2.00 per bag;
sulphate of ammonia N 1.00 per bag; single superphosphate N 1.50 per bag; and
compound fertilizers N 2.00 per bag. Based on this publication a sale price
of N 1.50 per bag has been assumed for project fertilizers; compared with
actual delivered prices, including storage and handling, this represents a
subsidy level of around 80% in the central projects zone.
4.        Until the Nigerian Agricultural Bank (NAB) was established in 1973,
there was no specific financial institution in the agricultural sector apart



ANNEX 8
Page 2
from the rather selective advances that were at one time available to cooper-
ative members. Short-term financial requirements have to be met from other
sources, usually on terms and conditions that fully reflect both the risk
and the limited choice of sources. The value of seasonal credit extended in
this way is not known but quite an important proportion is found at family
level, while the Tiv have a fairly highly developed traditional communal
credit system.
5.        An NAB onlending scheme has recently been launched in the Ayangba
area and is supervised by agricultural and cooperative staff. A flat interest
rate of 5% is charged but onlending is restricted to 7% with liability resting
with the intermediary. This could well result in the consequent credit opera-
tion being unviable because of inadequate spread to cover cost of money, risks
and cost of lending and recovery. This position is exacerbated when credit is
granted for highly subsidized articles such as fertilizer. At current ferti-
lizer prices and a 2% interest spread it would take a 33,000 bag turnover to
achieve N 1,000 revenue, from which provision for bad debts and reserves would
have to be deducted before anything could be made available against adminis-
trative costs. An NAB onlending scheme has also been proposed for Plateau
State; but proposals to create a credit unit in MANR which would ultimately
become a cooperative bank have reached only the stage of a draft project
document for technical assistance by UNDP.
6.        Development Proposals.  Present Government policy on fertilizer sub-
sididies does not provide any incentive for private input trading (except on
the black market) but in the long term, private sector participation must be
expected and permitted. 1/ Few advanced farming systems have the flexibility
for seasonal changes from intensive to extensive production methods, and tech-
nical improvement at farm level could rapidly reach a point beyond which
farmers will be unwilling to advance unless backed by a reliable and regular
supply of farm inputs; this situation is likely to occur only against the
background of an active and competitive private trading network.
7.        Commercial development must therefore be compatible with this
requirement and even Government-inspired networks must be structured according
to commercial principles if future transfer to the private sector is to occur.
These considerations have determined the input development structure proposed
under these projects.
1/   Although not targeted in time, the project's Commercial Services Depart-
ment is designed and will operate in such a way that in the future it
can be detached (except for the Produce Inspection Division) from the
project organization and transformed into a separate commercially viable
legal entity (like the Farmers Finance Companies in the Upper Region
Agricultural Development Project in Ghana and the Agricultural Develop-
ment Project in Sierra Leone).



ANNEX 8
Page 3
8.        Farmers Service Centers.  Crop inputs would be supplied to farmers
through a network of 30 Farmers Service Centers (FSC) located to achieve a
suitable balance between throughput and access. The centers would be located
where possible at principal towns already serving as important assembly points
for the farming community. Suggested locations are shown on the project maps
and Table 1. On average each center would serve a hinterland of up to 15
km radius, a farming population of around 5,000 1/ farm families, and at
full development would have an annual fertilizer throughput of around 650
tons. At this level, and with a 15% mark-up on the pre-store projected price
of imported fertilizer, the net revenue on turnover would amount to around
N 15,000 per center per annum.
9.         The basic FSC would consist of a covered store designed on a module
basis to permit economy in initial. construction and to allow expansion on the
basis of throughput and demand. A standard 400-ton module has been used.
Assuming 4 m average height, 250 m2 floor area would provide enough space to
allow access to four separate stacks. Roof extension to provide further 60 m2
covered space woul.d permit loading and unloading to take place in all weather.
The basic FSC would consist of a single module, with the volume of storage
required being based on a turnover factor of about 2. 2/
10.       Sales Organization.  Input sales and delivery would be organized and
promoted by salesmen. 3/ A Sales Supervisor would be appointed for every five
FSCs 4/ and would be responsible for supervising sales operations and ensuring
that accurate and up-to-date store records, trading accounts and movement sche-
dules were maintained at each FSC.  Deployment of sales staff would directly
correspond with that of the general extension services with whom close liaison
would be maintained concerning group development and forward estimates of
demand.
11.       Specific attention and incentives would be given to ensure that ad-
ministrative overhead is kept to a minimum. In a scattered and small-scale
farming situation this would depend critically on achieving a sound grouping
1/   Ayangba has an estimated 150,000 farm families, and would have 30 FSCs.
2/   Not exactly 2 as seasonal. fertilizer use will, not be equal in early and
late season.
3/   As and when the Commercial, Services Department becomes a separate commer-
cial entity, salesmen could be paid incentive salaries (linked to sales
and credit performances.)
4/   As for agricultural extension where an Agricultural Superintendent over-
sees five FSCs, one Sales Supervisor oversees five FSCs. These supervi-
sion functions under the project are combined in Development Centers
(DCs), each of which supervises and coordinates the operations of five
FSCs.



ANNEX 8
Page 4
structure at farm level so that supplies can be retailed in bulk. Responsi-
bility for group formation would rest primarily with the general extension
service. This, however, would need to be supported by suitable incentives
so that farmers can receive tangible benefits from group formation.
12.       Ideally, these incentives would be provided in the form of discounts
for bulk purchases of inputs reflecting administrative savings over single bag
trading, although with Government's present fixed sale price policy, this is
not possible. However, this would be assessed annually by project management
and introduced as soon as feasible. 1/ Opportunities exist, however, for pro-
viding bonus bags (say 10%) for purchase on a full lorry load basis (5 to 7
tons) and for arranging delivery for purchase of a full lorry loads to vil-
lages or nearest accessible point on motorable roads. 2/ Project management
in conjunction with other Project Managers would continually liaise with
Government on the effects and implications of fertilizer price policy and
reassess project policy accordingly. The Bank would be kept informed of any
changes in this field. Actual incentive policy to be used would be coordi-
nated between the projects and agreed with the Bank.
13.       Credit.  At present levels of fertilizer subsidy there are no firm
grounds for supposing that seasonal credit would be a prerequisite to achiev-
ing anticipated adoption rates for improved practices; rather, the greatest
constraint on widespread use of fertilizer is lack of availability with far-
mers paying up to six times the official prices in order to secure supplies.
Although seasonal cash problems undoubtedly exist, the indications are that
this is at least as attributable to bad housekeeping as to other reasons, a
situation that is not going to be improved, but probably aggravated, by in-
creasing credit availability. Indeed, by very circumstance, this class of
borrower tends to be an avid credit seeker and poor repayer and a source of
potentially bad business that is best avoided if other borrowers are not to
be penalized. Sales would, therefore, be basically on cash but normal trad-
ing facility would be made for deferred payment against 10% mark-up for larger
group orders. Deferred payment arrangements would be strictly controlled and
subject to reference from the local authorities' extension staff.
14.       Conventional credit operations would be restricted to medium (2-3
years) and long-term (5 years) requirements and would be principally linked
to progressive farmers and management groups wishing to undertake advanced
1/   This clearly needs to be coordinated with the other agricultural projects
in Nigeria.
2/   The incentive in this case would be that a full lorry load would be
delivered free, while any other delivery would be at least at full cost.
Thus sales from a truck in a village would be at say N 1.50/bag plus
transport costs; sales at FSC would be at N 1.50/bag (but farmers would
have to arrange transport) and sale of 5 to 7 tons delivered at site
would be based on N 1.50/bag.



ANNEX 8
Page 5
farm development backed by financial analyses of the Farm Advisory Service.
Components would include land clearing and scrubbing, ULV sprayers, inter-
mediate technology equipment, tractors and implements, plus credit for storage
improvement; the latter is discussed in Section C of this annex.
15.       As seasonal credit is not likely to be required to a large extent,
credit staff would not be deployed at FSC level. Credit offices would be
appointed at Development Centers (DC). Staff at the FSC level would not
make any credit decisions but would be involved in the administrative work
on the basis of standard forms only. When project activities increase over
time more Credit Assistants would be appointed at DC level. Credit Assistants
would make a fixed number of visits (say one day a week for each FSC) to FSCs.
The project credit system would be designed in such a way as to provide
seasonal credit or cash sales for fertilizer. However, the seasonal credit
option would remain inoperative except for group sales, for the time being,
until such time as actual prices for fertilizer make seasonal credit necessary
again.
16.       Credit and farm input delivery operations would be kept separate.
For that reason, two separate divisions are proposed in the Commercial
Services Department, but accounts would also be kept separate. There would
be a trading account, used for purchase of all farm inputs and replenished
immediately either with cash obtained from sales, reimbursed for subsidies,
or- from the credit fund. There would also be a credit account which credit
operations would go through.
17.       The project's seasonal input requirements and costings are de-
tailed in Tables 2 and 3 and requirements for medium and long term credit
and costings are in Tables 4 and 5.
C.   Marketing Development
18.       The existing market structure for scheduled and food crops is des-
cribed in Supplement 11. The Commercial Services Division would contain a
Marketing Advisory Service with specific responsibilities for creating a more
disciplined and informed market structure in the area to cater for both exist-
ing and incremental production.
19.       Market Intelligence.  There is no formal regional or national crop
market intelligence service available to farmers. Uniform and accepted grades
exist only for scheduled crops, so although prices for other crops in indivi-
dual markets will reflect quality and condition of offerings, as well as
supply and demand, these prices cannot be related to a common standard. The
information that does circulate is liable to considerable distortion and deli-
berate circulation of misleading news is not unknown. Such a situation not
only affects short-term marketing actions, but also delays or impairs planting
decisions with possible adverse effects on both producer and consumer.



ANNEX 8
Page 6
20.       The project would, therefore, establish an efficient market intelli-
gence service for farmers. Links would be established with main recording
centers and particularly with market sections in other development schemes;
direct and indirect contact would be maintained with large users such as feed
manufacturers and poultry producers, and a close liaison developed with the
National Grain Production Company. 1/ Prices and trends in main markets
would be regularly recorded and the resulting data circulated inside and out-
side the project. Simple analysis work would be carried out, but the primary
emphasis would be to establish an efficient news recording and diffusion sys-
tem. Weekly news sheets would be circulated to all FSC locations for prominent
display and all staff members working or traveling away from their station
would be required to ensure they possessed up-to-date news prior to their
departure. Only experience will show how often fresh news should be dissemi-
nated because too great a frequency could cause confusion; weekly should be
quite sufficient, except perhaps at the height of the season.
21.       Those handling market news would be essentially providers rather
than interpreters of information, since the potential consequences of gratu-
itously providing wrong market advice are too serious to be incurred unneces-
sarily. Interpretation of market information would be strictly reserved for
Marketing Advisors (see below) but advice would be confined to outlining
possible courses of action and likely consequences thereof, thus aiding the
recipient in narrowing his choices of action.
22.       Weights and Measures.  While regular market users can possess con-
siderable skill in visually judging the value of produce sold in an inconsist-
ent range of volumetic measures, such standards generally provide an unhealthy
basis for exploitation of the inexperienced and ill-informed and prevent dis-
semination of market information in terms of any practically conceptualized
standard. In addition, similar volumes of produce can vary substantially
in weight due to pest infestation. 2/
23.       Weights and measures regulations are now subjects of study by
the Federal Ministry of Trade and Industry with the objective of producing
standard volumetric measures throughout the country. The project would
liaise closely with the Federal Ministry of Trade and Industry and would
assist in implementing a two phase overhaul of standards within the project
area. This would involve replacing all existing measures in main markets in
the project areas as a condition of obtaining trading licenses. Subsequently,
and at main town markets, traders would be required to use approved scales
compatible with the previously-introduced volumetric measures. In this way,
trading could continue by volume but would allow the purchaser to continually
relate volume to weight and pave the way to weight-based transactions followed
1/   See Supplement 11.
2/   A weevilled grain may occupy the same space as a sound grain but weigh
only half as much.



ANNEX 8
Page 7
by legal enforcement. These transitions would be supported by training at
primary and secondary school levels. The projects' involvement would be one
of support rather than first responsibility for implementation; the latter
clearly rests and must remain with the regulatory authorities.
24.       Crop Storage.  Harvested cereals are usually stored at the farm
on head or ear, in mud and stone rhumbus or raised woven basket-type struc-
tures (aka) as well as in the roof space of huts and houses; cribs are also
found, but are mainly used for early season crops. Insecticides are only
infrequently employed by farmers but are used by traders and cooperatives
with obviously varying degrees of effectiveness, although there is no reli-
able indication as to actual dosage rates. Heat and smoke from hut fires,
and those specifically lit under basket granaries, help to deter insects
and termites, but ratguards are unusual and losses due to rodents are re-
putedly high. Farm storage capacity is generally related to estimated family
requirements and this influences timing and volume of postharvest sales,
particularly in "good" years. Marketing of surplus foodcrops tends to ex-
tend over a long period, mainly to allow new season prospects to clarify;
a fact that partially explains the long carry that seems to be necessary
before full storage costs can be recovered, particularly for maize. 1/
25.       There have been no storage surveys in the project areas and no
quantitative information concerning losses is available. 2/ Climatic con-
ditions are generally unfavorable for the early crops that are taken through
to grain, but the dry season allows the late crop harvest to reach safe mois-
ture levels before the onset of the next rains. Where reasonable moisture
content is achieved (up to 13%), grain appears to retain condition well, but
quality may be adversely affected through damage by insects and rodents.
Discussions with farmers indicated that losses from causes other than simple
drying out were probably less than might have been expected and on a twelve-
month basis (although little if any grain will be stored that long) could
range between 5% and 25%, the higher figure covering early crops and cowpeas.
26.       Yams are extremely difficult to store satisfactorily, primarily
because their metabolic activity continues after harvest and the natural ten-
dency to sprout is accentuated by the warm humid conditions that occur through
1/   Price data from western states show that usually (five years out of six)
maize has to be carried for more than five months before increases in
market prices compensate for storage costs.
2/   Early in the project period, the Marketing Advisory Service would under-
take indepth studies to determine storage capacity and provide storage
loss information. The initial listing of villages in the project area
for evaluation purposes could also provide general data on storage
capacity. Further surveys could be based on this initial listing. As
storage is part of the overall farm management decisions, storage surveys
yT3ldst>tgfio;pogjgepr^ffte mainline surveys undertaken by the evalua-



ANNEX 8
Page 8
most of the year. Weight and condition loss occur through dehydration, rot
and decay, and has been recorded at 49% after five months in conventional barn
storage, 1/ although rather lower figures appear more usual; 2/ disease and
physical damage sharply reduce storability, as does exposure to the sun.
Limewashing has been found to reduce losses over periods of up to 10 weeks,
but to be ineffective thereafter. In general the lowest losses occur in sound
tubers quickly stored in airy, shaded conditions. If these provisions are met
then the traditional pole-hanging storage method does not seem to have any
significant advantage over shelf storage or even careful stacking. The nature
of the plant, however, as well as climatic conditions, militates against
storage at farm level beyond April.
27.       Because of the effect of store losses on farmers' returns and the
problem of reliably expressing them in absolute terms, relative figures of
weight loss have been used in calculating farmgate prices. These have been
derived from discussions with farmers, examination of new and old crop samples
and consideration of harvesting times and probable storage periods.
28.       Cassava does not pose any problems since it stores well in the
ground. Rice is not susceptible to significant insoil damage, though rodents
can be a problem; however, surplus production could be quickly marketed by
arrangement with the Rice Company, Jos; for benniseed also, rapid disposal to
the Marketing Boards would be possible.
29.       Project assistance in farm storage would be confined to expanding
and improving existing forms of farm storage. Storage insecticides have been
included in the improved and advanced farm budgets and this technology would
be an important dissemination operation for the general extension service.
Credit assistance for storage would also be provided to farm groups who wish
to assemble and bulk their surplus produce and introduce more elaborate stor-
age techniques.
30.       A standard 3 x 8 m basic storage unit is envisaged, timber framed
and clad with weldmesh (for farm storage) or traditionally manufactured
bricks, and with corrugated iron roofs. 3/ Materials would be provided on
1/   0. Olorunda and S.A. Adeyasi NSPRI Technical Report No. 7.
2/   10% after three months and 20% or more after five months are reported by
D.G. Coursey.
3/   Construction cost would vary according to type, which would depend on
the surpluses and requirements of each group. Common costs would include
corrugated roofing materials (N 150), timber (N 50), cement (N 150) and
miscellaneous supplies (N 50). Weldmesh cladding would add an extra
N 150 to costs. For calculation purposes a credit component of N 500 has
been assumed.



ANNEX 8
Page 9
credit by the project, which would also provide specialist assistance in
construction (such as a mason). Unskilled labor would be provided by the
groups.
31.       The projects would investigate alternative storage techniques during
implementation. This would include polythene bag storage, particularly for
early season grains, 1/ fumigants such as aluminum phosphor tablets for insect
control, and the use of simple driers using predominantly local materials. 2/
Additional pest control assistance would be provided to groups entering into
marketing contracts under the project.
32.       Foodcrop Marketing.  The project would provide a specialist market-
ing service for groups wishing to extend their produce sales to wholesale and
retail levels. The service would be provided on an agency basis and would
initially concentrate on establishing contracts and market outlets with insti-
tutions; contact with institutions and supply contractors during appraisal,
plus the present, often marked difference between farmgate and urban wholesale
and retail prices, indicate that response to the service would be high. Con-
tracted produce would be backed by inspection and quality control to ensure
that minimum standards are maintained. An agency fee of 5% would be levied
for the service with all handling and transport costs carried by seller or
buyer according to contract. Treatment, grading and bagging of produce would
be supervised by produce inspectors.
33.       Scheduled Crop Market.  Efforts would be directed towards improving
statutory marketing arrangements in the area and helping producers achieve a
larger share of the Nigerian Produce Marketing Corporation (NPMC) takeover
price. Licensed Buying Agents (LBA) and their subagents in the area would be
subject to approval by project management and arrangements would be made with
the Marketing Boards to ensure that these LBAs have access to sufficient
working capital, using a system of project-monitored advances if necessary.
Project management would be given LBA status; while it is not intended that
the projects should carry out any crop purchasing, such an appointment would
make this possible if circumstances warranted, 3/ and would permit sub-
licensing of groups or other associations wishing and competent to carry out
LBA duties. Such an arrangement would allow the projects to exercise a degree
of control over the marketing practices of such groups and greatly assist the
training process.
1/   Tape sealings to create anaerobic conditions would prevent fungus spoil-
age of high moisture grain.
2/   Such as that developed by J. A'Brook at Mokwa Research Station and des-
cribed in Samaru Miscellaneous Paper No. 6, 1965, and Tropical Stored
Products Information No. 7, 1964.
3/   In the past LBA have achieved near-monopoly conditions it particular
areas; under these circumstances suspension or dismissal in midseason
would adversely affect farmers' interests.



ANNEX 8
Page 10
34.       Means of minimizing produce transport and handling after purchase
would be investigated with a view of reducing marketing costs. This could be
achieved, for example, by selecting certain markets as Marketing Board holding
areas so that crops would be retained at point of purchase until required to
fulfill a sale contract. The feasibility of individual groups negotiating
special prices with NPMC, as is now contemplated for "Estate"' producers, would
also be carefully evaluated.
35.       Cooperatives.  The Ayangba cooperative movement is still operating
though financial problems are more serious. There are presently 136 primary
societies, with a combined total membership of nearly 9,000, which were ori-
ginally affiliated with the Igala Cooperative Credit and Marketing Union
(ICCMU). The Union was divided into divisionally-based unions in December
1975, but division of assets and liabilities, presently under review, is com-
plicated by ICCIU financial status, for which independently-audited accounts
up to December 31, 1974 revealed a cumulative loss on appropriation account of
N 645,000. Principal debts with commercial banks have been cleared by the
Benue State Government; debts with loan defaulters, for which accurate records
exist, are likely to become the responsibility of respective divisional unions
with trading deficits apportioned for repayment on a soft and extended term
basis.
36.       The disappointing performance of the cooperative movement highlights
the problem that can occur when a structure is imposed on a community. Early
successes in foodcrop marketing resulted in overconfidence, inattention
to trading and handling essentials, and subsequent mismanagement and substan-
tial losses. Many primary societies were also too small to be commercially
viable 1/ and abilities were frequently inadequate for their aspirations.
37.    - Government is keen to revise the cooperative movement but lasting
development is likely to occur only if cohesive group formation is established
at a very simple level. Projects activity would be primarily confined to
establishing a stable structure at this level, and services would be provided
to any operational group, irrespective of structure. Against this background,
avenues for advanced development should quickly become apparent; this in-
cludes, but would not be exclusively confined to, cooperatives. However,
cooperative staff already working in the area would work closely with the
project, and scope and possibilities for reviving and expanding the movement
would be actively pursued.
38.       Crop Processing.  Undoubtedly a number of opportunities would arise
under the project for small-scale processing or other agro-allied industries.
These would be examined and appraised by the Head of the Commercial Services
Department, assisted as necessary by technical staff from other divisions and,
1/   Some primaries have less than 20 members.



ANNEX 8
Page 11
where appropriate, by formal endorsement made to applications for finance from
commercial banks or the Small-Scale Industries Credit Scheme. Marketing
Assistants would have particular responsibility for assisting applicants as
well as for providing a follow-up service to borrowers.
39.       Marketing Advisory Service.  Marketing Advisors would be employed at
DC level. A group of Marketing Assistants would be created during the first
three years of the project and by Year 3 Marketing Assistants would be deployed
at FSC level. Costs of Commercial Services are in Table 6.



ANNEX 8
Table 1
NIGERIA
BENUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tentative Sites of Farmers Service Centers l/
In Ankpa Division
1. Ankpa
2. Ojoku
3. Agaliga
4. Agikeja
5. Ogodu
6.  Oloku/Ofugo/Ogodu x - road
7. Abejokulo
8. Okpotala
In Dekina Division
9. Akande
10. Etulekpo
11. Okura
12. Acharu
13.  Amdi
14. Odu
15. Ogura
16. Gboloko
In Idah Division
17. Opakaga
18. Onitcha Igo
19. Adoru
20. Angba - Ogoru Road
21. Opogu
22. Gwalawo
23. Achokpa - Ejule Road
l/ Identified for construction in project Year 0 and 1. Actual site selection
would be done by the Project Manager. Allowance in project costs has been
made for seven more, giving a total of 30 FSC. Identification based on fact
that each farmer would be within about 15 km radius of a FSC.
June 8, 1976



ANNEX 8
NIGERIA                                         Table 2
BENUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Seasonal Crop Input Requirements
(Per Crop)
Year 0       fear 1      Year 2       Year 3       Year 4        Year 5
Full Season Crops
1/
YAMS,           Fertilizer      CAN       Tons          -           800         1,600       2,400        3,200       4,000
MP        Tons          -           200           400         600          800       1,000
Yam Dressing              Tons          -            70           140         210          280          350
CASSAVA:        Fertilizer      CAN       Tons          -            -             -           40          200       1 000
TSP       Tons          -            -             -           20         100          500
MP        Tons          -            -             -           30         150          750
RICE            Fertilizer      CAN       Tons          -           100           300         600       1,000        1 400
TSP       Tons          -            50           137.5      275          450          625
MP        Tons          -            -             25          50         100          150
Insecticide    Dressing  Tons           -             0.15          0.425      0.85         1.4          1.95
EARLY MAIZE:   Fertilizer       CAN       Tons          -           150           300        700        1,200        1.800
TSP       Tons          -           112.5         225        525          900        1.350
MP        Tons          -            37.5          75        175          300          450
Insecticide    Dressing  Tons           -            0.15          0.3         0.7          1.2          1.8
Storage   Tons          -            3.75          7.5        17.5         30           45
EARLY MILLET                                      -           -            - _    _
MELON:          Fertilizer      CAN       Tons          -           50           100         200          400          600
SORGHUM:        Fertilizer      CAN       Tons          -           50           100         200          400          600
TSP       Tons         -            25            50         100          200          300
Insecticide:   Dressing  Tons          -             0.015         0.03        0.06         0.12         0.18
Storage   Tons         -             0.75          1.5         3            6            9
LATE MAIZE:    Fertilizer:    CAN          Tons         -          150           300         600        1,200        1,800
TSP       Tons         -           112.5         225         450          900        1,350
MP        Tons         -            37.5          75         150          300         450
Insecticide:   Dressing  Tons          -             0.15          0.3         0.6          1.2          1.8
Storage   Tons         -             3.75          7.5        15           30          45
COWPEAS:        Fertilizer      CAN       Tons         -            25            50         100          200          300
TSP       Tons         -            25            50         100         200          300
Insecticide:   Spraying  '000 1        -             2.5           5          10           20          30
Dressing  Tons         -             0.035         0.07        0.14         0.28        0.42
Storage   Tons         -             1.25          2.5         5           10          15
Batteries Sets
BENNISEED:      Fertilizer      CAN       Tons         -            50           100         150          200         300
TSP       Tons         -            25            50          75         100          150
1/  CAN:  calcium ammonium nitrate
MP: muriate of potash
TSP: triple superphosphate



NIGERIA
BENUE STATN
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPfENT PR0JECT
Seasonal Crop Input Requirmuents y
(Naira)
Year 0        Year 1        Year 2        Year 3       Year 4         Year 5
PHYSICAL
Fertilizer     CAN            Tons                     1,375         2,850        4,990         8,000         11,800
TSP                                      350            737        1,545         2,850          4,575
MP              "                         275           575        1,005         1,650          2,800
Insecticide:  Yam Dressing     "                          70           140          210           280            350
Dressing         Kg                       500          1,125        2,350        4,200           6,150
Storage          Kg                     9,500          1,900       40,500        76,000        114,000
Spraying       '000 1                        7.5           5           10            20             30
Batteries       Sets                       120           240          48o           960          19440
FINANCIAL
Fertilizer     CAN           N tooo 2/                   198           410.4        718.6       1,152          1,699.2
TSP              to  2/                    60.2         126.8        265.7         490.2          786.9
MP               n   2/                    34            71          124.1         203.8          345.8
Insecticide    Yam Dressing     "   3/                    73.5         147          220.5         294            367.5
Dressing         u   31                     6.5          14.6         30.6          54.6           80
Storage          "   3/                     8.1          16.2         34.4          64.6           96.9
Spraying         "   3/                     4.8           9.5         19            38             57
Batteries        "   3/                     0.4           0.8          1.7           3.4            5.0
TOTAL COST                                               385.5         796.3      1,417.6       2,300.6        3,438.3-
Incremental Cost 4/                                      385.5         410.8        621.3         883.0        1,137.7
1 Excluding improved seed which are costed in Annex 7.
2/  To avoid double counting; costed without project costs such as administration, etc., since this is
covered under commercial services:  CAN 1144; TSP  N172; and MP  N123.5.                                               >
3/  Project store prices used and not farmgate prices.
4/  Foreign Exchange 70%.                                                                                                 D X



NIGERIA
BENUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
Physical Requirements for Medium and Long Term Credit
Cost per        Repayment                        L  A  F  I  A
Units       Unit(N)           Period        Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5
Outflows
Medium Term Credit
1.  ULV Sprayers                   No           15.20              2            100       200         500       1,000      1,600
2.  Small farm Equipment           No          150.00              2            100        250        250         250        250
Long Term Credit
1.  Land Clearing                  ha          100                5             250       500        500          500        500
2.  Subsoiling & Ripping           ha           15                 5            150        150        150         150        150
3.  Tractors & Implements          No       10,000                 5              5         10         10          10         10
4.  Crop Stores                    No          500                 5             50        150        150         150        150
d x
4- co



NIGERIA                                         ANNEX 8
Table 5
BENUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMNT PROJECT
Requirement for Medium & Long Term Credit 1/
Naira
Year 1          Year 2           Year 3           Year 4           Year 5
____________-_-_-------- Naira----------------------------
Outflows
Medium Term Credit
ULV Sprayers                    1,520            3,040            7,600           15,200           24,320
Small farm Equipment           15,000           37,500           37,500           37,500           37,500
Subtotal            16,520          40,540           45,100           52,700           61,820
Long Term Credit
Land clearing                  25,000           50,000           50,000           50,000           50,000
Subsoiling and Ripping          2,250            2,250            2,250            2,250            2,250
Tractors & Implements          50,000          100,000          100,000          100,000          100,000
Crop stores                    25,000           75,000           75,900           75,000           75,000
Subtotal           102,250          227,250         227,250          227,250          227,250
Total Outflows                    118,770          267,790          272,350          279,950          289,070
Inflows
Medium Term Credit
ULV Sprayers                      760            2,280            5,320           11,400           19,760
Small farm Equipment            7.500           26,250           37.500           37,500           37.500
Subtotal             8,260           28,530          42,820           48,900           57,260
Long Term Credit
Land clearing                   5,000           15,000           25,000           35,000           45,000
Subsoiling & Ripping              450              900            1,350            1,800            2,250
Tractors & Implements          10,000           30,000           50,000           70,000           90,000
Crop stores                     5,000           20,000           35,000           50,000           65,000
Subtotal            20,450          65,900          111,350          156,800          202,250
Total Inflows                       28,710          94,430          154,170          205,700          259,510
Increment Fund Required            90,060          173,360          118,180           74,250           29,560
1/  Foreign Exchange 60% (farm equipment 80; clearing and subsoiling 45; tractors 80 and stores 30).
July 27, 1976



OHHH H H PHO                                                  OHHH                      OO O O           O                O H O              HH. S~O                                 H      0     0     H     H     H      "      P     O     00 '
OP   ~~PH0'H        p P.'H            H H          8                                       H'          IP                          ~     2
8882                        -          ~~~              ~~~~~-'  -    --    --      H-P       0 00
--- -------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'~-O
O P   "  H.                            '" .'                                          '                                            "~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  C o   8~~~~~   .. .                                             8. .    . .< 
H  .'.                                        tH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                     H                         8  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  .                                                                      K....     
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p11--11-I11
"HP  P0.080    C ~ ~   ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~            ....I                 .. ...                     ..p..                    ..     ...                 
P        - -                     0    0000.'OCOO                   OOHHHH    H 0000-'.-OHC'H   00.-HO.'.'                          00~~~~~~~~~ 00-0                   000000r .-.       ~,~  Q
POIH   .8A                          00<00'v                 I ~      .         ....~0-00   00       0 0 0 0H < 0 C                        I0-<O         ...'00     -CO    O.'.-                       00 00 HH 0                       OCOH             0             00



ANNEX 8
Appendix I
NIGERIA
BENUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Clarification of Fertilizer Procurement Procedures
During negotiations the question of fertilizer procurement was
discussed in light of the Federal Government's establishment of a Federal
Fertilizer Board, and it was understood that the following options could
be pursued, namely;
(a) that the projects could procure their own fertilizer on
the basis of International Competitive Bidding (ICB), in
which case the Bank would reimburse 100% of the foreign
exchange cost if procured internationally or 70% of total
cost if procured locally. Where such procurement takes
the form of locally manufactured fertilizer, then the 15%
preference clause in regard to bid evaluation would apply.
In the event this option is exercised, the Government would
reimburse the project the full amount of any subsidies in-
volved which result from the cost to the projects of fer-
tilizer so procured and from the price at which the proj-
ects are required to sell to farmers;
(b) alternatively, the projects could procure their fertilizer
requirements through the Federal Fertilizer Board by exer-
cising either of the following options, namely:
(i) the Federal Fertilizer Board, with the assistance
of the projects, would prepare the relevant tender
documents based on the projects' requirements and
place tenders for procuring such fertilizers on
ICB basis. In this case, the Board would sell the
fertilizer it has procured under ICB to the projects
on the basis of the ongoing subsidized price set by
Federal Government. The Bank would then reimburse
100% of the cost to the project so long as the cost
is less than the foreign cost of fertilizer;
(ii) the projects may procure their fertilizer from the
Federal Fertilizer Board without necessarily doing
so on the basis of ICB, in which case the Bank would
not reimburse the project against the cost of any
fertilizer so procured.



ANNEX 8
Appendix 1
Page 2
The decision regarding the form of procurement to be used would be jointly
made by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, and the
respective project Executive Committee, no later than August 1 of the year
preceding the planting season.



ANNEX 9
NIGERIA
BENUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit
(APMEPU)
A.   Background
1.        The appraisal report 1/ for the Funtua Agricultural Development
Project proposed the establishment of an evaluation and monitoring unit to
analyze the development of the Funtua (Loan 1092-UNI), Gusau (Loan 1099-UNI),
and Gombe (Loan 1164-UNI) Agricultural Development Projects. 2/ Its main
function was to be one of evaluation, specifically to:
(a) guide project management;
(b) establish project goals and schedule project activities;
(c) measure effectiveness and efficiency of project activities;
(d) inform state and national governments and others of changes
stemming from project activities;
(e) enhance knowledge of the rural development process for future
development planning; and
(f) permit the continuous reappraisal of project goals and assump-
tions underlying project design and to allow for progressive
modification of project objectives and structures.
2.        It was originally proposed that the evaluation section would be
contracted to consultants, probably the Ahmadu Bello University at Zaria
(north of Kaduna). However, for various reasons, including a rather poor
response from the University, the evaluation was undertaken on a direct basis
by the Federal Department of Agriculture (FDA). A unit known as the Northern
Projects Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (NPMEU) was established in July 1975
in Kaduna comprising the Head, Senior Statistician (Deputy Head) and a
Senior Economist, together with supporting staff. At the time of NPMEU's
establishment, the field evaluation units to be established under each of
the Northern Agricultural Development Projects were not in operation and
1/   Report 345a-UNI, dated Sept. 6, 1974, Appraisal of Funtua Agricultural
Development Project.
2/   Collectively known as the Northern Agricultural Development Projects.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
NPMEU took on the responsibility of hiring and training the field enumer-
ators. Baseline surveys were undertaken at the Funtua and Gusau projects
early in 1976 by the now fully operative project evaluation teams. Sub-
sequently, the first mainline survey was initiated at Funtua and Gusau
projects, and a baseline survey at the slower-starting Gombe project.
3.        Although there have been some problems, the surveys are proceeding
satisfactorily and data are being processed. To date there have been two
major criticisms:
(a) the evaluation process may be too sophisticated to yield
results that can be utilized quickly by project management;
and
(b) the unit, which relies heavily on expatriates, may not be
able to perpetuate itself.
4.        The evaluation and subsequent analysis are both intensive and
sophisticated. This is justified because the projects under implementation
are large and the first of their kind in Nigeria. The information resulting
from project evaluation will not only benefit the ongoing projects, but will
also provide a firm data base for numerous new projects to be developed in
Nigeria; its cost (about 3% of total project cost) 1/ can be more than justi-
fied especially since it is proposed that NPMEU would be expanded into the
main rural development planning unit of the Federal Mfinistry of Agriculture
and Rural Development (FMARD). Following the recent creation of the Federal
Department of Rural Development (FDRD), NPMEU will be under FDRD rather
than FDA, under which it was originally established.
5.        Some of the criticism regarding the direction of evaluation has
good grounds and in recent Bank supervision missions a major effort has been
made to ensure that evaluation methods will allow analysis of project-specific
problems. This would be done by including special questionnaires that can be
analyzed for project management information. If quickly evaluated, answers
to, for example, such questions as the extent of early planted cotton could
provide management with valuable data to support the season's pest control
campaign. In the future, greater efforts will be made to involved the uni-
versities in rather special short-term surveys that do not involve mass enu-
meration, but have specific problem analysis that can be undertaken by a
small team of specialized personnel.
6.        Because of the impressive development rate of the projects and NPMEU
itself, it is easy to forget that the unit has been operating for only a
little more than a year, and is not yet fully staffed. However, more quali-
fied Nigerian staff are expected to join the unit, and within a few years we
would expect the unit to be operated mainly by Nigerians.
1/   See Funtua appraisal report:  estimated cost of the evaluation unit
was N 850,000, against total base cost estimates of that project,
N 20,721,000.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
7.        From its first inception, NPIEU has taken care to avoid interfer-
ence in project execution, the latter being entirely a State responsibility,
but apart from its main evaluation functions, it has provided important
support to the three Northern Agricultural Development Projects. This support
includes:
(a)  Agronomic Services.  A special agronomic section was estab-
lished under NPMEU to provide the evaluation section with
agronomic expertise in such matters as measuring biological
yields and analyzing general environmental factors affecting
production and subsequent data collection. The section also
provides project management with vital agronomic support by:
(i)  coordinating and advising farmers on annual crop
recommendations;
(ii) assisting the development of training programs;
(iii) acting as a source of new techniques: in this respect
the section has been extremely useful in developing
ultra low volume insect spraying techniques;
(iv) advising the projects on new crop varieties, research
needs, and development of field trials; and
(v)  liaising between the research institutes and the projects,
being particularly responsible to research requirement
feedback to the Institute for Agricultural Research at
Samaru.
(b)  Training Services.  This section has only been established in
August 1976. It has become increasingly clear that the projects
need advice on developing training programs and the techniques
to be employed. The section will be responsible for:
(i)  establishing training needs on each project;
(ii) developing training programs, organizing courses and
selecting trainees for both project staff and farmers;
(iii)  developing special management support courses for senior
management staff;
(iv) testing and introducing new extension aids such as audio-
visual and video-vision techniques;
(v)  locating and preliminary selection of professional Nigerian
staff for specific posts required by project management;
and



ANNEX 9
Page 4
(vi) establishing a series of brochures and lectures, aimed
particularly at university graduates, to focus on the
objectives and implementation of ongoing and future
projects, with the objective of recruiting more qualified
Nigerian staff.
(c)  Communication Support.  Due to its central location at Kaduna,
NPMEU has played a vital communication role in the project
radio and telex communication network. Mluch information has
been shared between projects through the network, resulting in
quicker implementation and lower costs.
B.   Proposals for Expansion and Development
General
8.        FDRD intends to develop NPMEU as an important agency for the devel-
opment of integrated agricultural projects. This would mean that NPMEU would
have the responsibility for servicing the Ayangba and Lafia Agricultural
Development projects and any other major project developed with or without
Bank assistance. Further, NPMEU would expand to include a project planning
section that would draw on evaluation and other data and would henceforth
carry primary responsibility for planning future agricultural projects (ex-
cluding tree crops) in Nigeria. NPMEU would be developed to ensure better
and wider dissemination of information, and would expand its role of inter-
project communication. During the next five years, NPMEU should, where
possible, remain a highly efficient but relatively small organization. It
would continue to be dependent on internationally recruited staff, but a
staff training program would be established to ensure sensible replacement of
foreign staff by properly trained and adequately remunerated Nigerian person-
nel. In its expanded role, NPMEU would work closely with State Government
staff to assist in the development of State agricultural planning units. To
this end, NPMEU would be renamed Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation,
and Planning Unit (APMEPU) and would continue to be directly responsible to
FDRD.
9.        The funds remaining under Loan 1092-UNI for APMEPU would be drawn
down prior to utilizing additional funds provided for APMEPU under this
project.
Detailed Proposals
10.       The project would finance the continued and expanded development of
APMEPU; specifically from 1978/79 to 1982/83 it would provide:
(a) technical assistance in project evaluation, planning and
training totaling 22 manyears;



ANNEX 9
Page 5
(b)  local support staff;
(c)  vehicles, including a twin-engined aircraft, and equipment;
and
(d)  general operating expenditures.
The total cost for APMEPU would be N 6.1 million of which N 2.5 million
would be foreign exchange costs. Part of the proceeds of the Bank loan
would finance internationally-recruited staff at US$1.4 million, imported
vehicles, aircraft and equipment at US$0.5 million; and a small percentage
(10%) of local staff and operating costs at US$0.4 million; US$1.4 million
would be unallocated. Full details are in Tables 1 to 4.
11.       Technical Operations of APMEPU.  The unit would undertake the
following:
(a) Project Monitoring
(i)  development of a suitable data recording system so that
all significant aspects of project implementation are
fully and regularly recorded;
(ii) liaison with project management to ensure that suitable
financial records are maintained to allow for accurate
costings of physical development;
(iii)  dissemination at regular intervals to Federal and State
agencies of relevant information obtained from (i) and
(ii) above; and
(iv) advising project management on desirable policy changes
resulting from APMEPU's monitoring activities.
(b) Evaluation of Project Development Actions
(i)  design and execution of evaluation programs during and
after project execution to measure the effectiveness
and efficiency of project actions, changes in produc-
tion, gross and net incomes of project farmers, and
changes in general economic activity within the project
area;
(ii) design and execution of surveys to provide problem-
specific information for project management after con-
sultation with project management and field evaluation
units;
(iii) design and execution of specific surveys to measure
effects of project development on the nonagricultural



ANNEX 9
Page 6
sector resulting directly and indirectly from project
activities, viz. changes in volume and type of business,
in employment, in social and economic indicators;
(iv)  guidance to management in regard to project objectives,
design and phasing of activities based on results obtained
from evaluation analysis;
(v) liaison with other organizations involved in evaluating
similar rural development projects, e.g., the Institute
for Agricultural Research (IAR) at Samaru and the Ahmadu
Bello University at Zaria; and
(vi) processing, analysis and report preparation relating to
the activities and results of evaluation.
(c) Project Planning
(i) in conjunction with the relevant State and Federal
authorities APMEPU would identify and plan new agri-
cultural rural development projects (other than tree
crop projects);
(ii)  preparation of detailed feasibility studies for review
and approval by State and Federal authorities with at
least two major studies completed annually; and
(iii) training of Nigerian staff to prepare such studies.
(d). Agronomic Services
(i) provision of technical advice related to project crops,
including a feed-in to projects of latest applicable
technical advances, and interpretation at project level
and for farmer consumption of proven research information;
(ii)  preparation of formal annual crop recommendations;
(iii) assistance in developing project staff and farmer training
courses;
(iv)  design and layout of research and field trials within
project areas;
(v) liaison with research institutions to ensure that research
programs can be designed to fit project needs;
(vi)  liaison with commercial organizations in regard to research
and technical innovations applicable to the projects; and



ANNEX 9
Page 7
(vii) assisting the evaluation program in collecting detailed
information regarding crop yields, cropping patterns and
production trends.
(e) Training Services
(i) assessment of training needs for both projects and APMEPU
staff;
(ii) development at all levels of appropriate training courses
for project staff and farmers;
(iii) arranging the logistics of training courses, identification
and selection of trainees and trainers;
(iv) assessing efficiency of training systems, provision of
back-up services to trainees and posttraining evaluation;
(v) development of new training techniques and training aids
including video and audio systems;
(vi) assessing effectiveness of project extension systems to
farmers and advising on possible improvements;
(vii) developing special senior management training schedules; and
(viii) at project request assist in finding and selecting pro-
fessional Nigerian staff.
12.       APMEPU Organization.  The unit would be part of the Federal Depart-
ment of Rural Development (FDRD), and the head of the unit would be responsi-
ble to the Director of FDRD. The unit would continue to operate in Kaduna
and would consist of evaluation, project planning, agronomy, and training
sections, supported by administrative, accounts and information services.
13.       APMEPU would be advised by an informal steering committee composed
of relevant project managers, representatives of IAR, IITA and NISER, 1/ and
selected Federal officials. The steering committee's main function would be
to advise on the technical and national policy issues related to or arising
from project planning and implementation.
14.       APMEPU would have its own bank account which would be subject, as
now, to full independent annual audit. Each year APMEPU would prepare in
advance an annual budget for approval by the Director of FDRD. On the basis
of the approved budget, FDRD would deposit funds for APMEPU's operations in
APMEPU's bank account quarterly and three months in advance.  APMEPU staff
appointments would be subject to the approval of FDRD except for those more
junior positions to be delegated to the discretion of the head of the unit.
1/   Nigerian Institute of Social and Economic Research.



ANNEX 9
Page 8
15.       Other Operational Features.  Apart from those technical operations
outlined in paragraph 10, APMEPU would:
(a) continue to act as a communication center for individual
projects, with proportionate costs reimbursed by the projects;
(b) own and operate a twin-engined aircraft, with operating costs
shared by participating projects; APMEPU would be responsible
for aircraft control and usage sharing;
(c) establish and operate a data bank for collecting relevant proj-
ect information; APMEPU would also operate a processing bureau
to ensure timely and rapid dissemination of information; and
(d)  APMEPU would coordinate the scheduling of official visits
to projects.
16.       The head of APMEPU would have overall responsibility for all
APMEPU's activities; but he would delegate specific responsibilites to section
heads who would on the whole enjoy relative autonomy in their technical
actions. The deputy head of APMEPU would assist the head with overall policy
and administration, but would also have specific responsibility for APMEPU
information services and interproject communications. Details for the organ-
ization are outlined in the chart attached to this annex.
17.       Project field evaluation units would continue to be administered
by the respective project management units, but as now would receive techni-
cal direction from APMEPU, with APMEPU having responsibility for final
analysis and data complilation.



NIGERIA
AYANGBA AGRICU3TIPAL l!EVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL PROJECTS MONITORING EVALUATION AND PLANNING UNIT
Summary of Costs and Financing
Year 1        Year 2        Year 3         Year 4         Year 5       Total          Foreign        Local           Disbursement Schedule
-------------------------------------Naira '000-                                     ___ -      _
A.  Costs
International Staff Salaries
and Consultants                        237.0         237.0         201.0           97.0           61.0        833.0           656.0        177.0
Local Staff Salaries                     204.5         219.5          253.5         265.5          265.5      1,208.5           155.5      1,053.0
Equipment                                276.5          21.0           18.0          43.0           21.0        379.5           290.9          88.6
Operating Costs                          366.2         203.2          230.2         368.2          203.2      1,371.0           343.5      1,027.5
Total Base Costs                       1,084.2         680.7          702.7         773.7          550.7      3,792.0         1,449.5      2,346.1
Physical Contingencies (51)               54.2          34.0           35.1          38.7           27.5        189.5            72.0        117.5
Price Contingencies 1/                   330.1         328.8          457.4         633.7          555.1      2,305.1           875.9      1,429.2
Total Costs                            1,468.5       1,043.5        1,195.2       1,446.1       1,133.3       6,286.6         2,393.8      3,892.8
B.  Financing
N' 000  ----US '000----
International Staff/Consultants          237.0         237.0          201.0          97.0           61.0        833.0
IBRD 100%                                237.G         237.0          201.0          97.0           61.0        833.0                                        833.0  1,349.5  1,400
Equipment                                276.5          21.0           18.0          43.0           21.0        379.5
IBRD 100% CIF or 85% Local               235.0         217.8           15.3          36.6           17.8        322.5                                        322.5    522.4    500
PMG 15%                                   41.5            3.2           2.7            6.4           3.2         57.0
Local Staff Salaries                     204.5         219.5          253.5         265.5          265.5      _,208.5
IBRD 20%                                  40.9          43.9           50-.7         53.1           53.1        241.7                                        241.7    391.5    400
FMG 30%                                  163.6         175.6          202.8         212.4          212.4        966.8
Operating Costs                          366.2         203.2          230.2         368.2          203.2      1,371.0
FMG 1007                                 366.2         203.2          230.2         368.2          203.2      1,371.0
Unallocated                                  384.3          362.8         492.5          672.4         582.6   i 46
IBRD 382 2/                              146.0         137.9          187.2         255.5          221.4        948.0                                         948.0  1,535.8  1,500
FMG                                      238.3         224.9          305.3         416.9          361.2      1,546.6
Total                                  1,468.5       1,043.5        1,195.2       1,446.1        1,133.3      6,286.6
Of Which:  IBRD                          658.9         436.6          454.2         442.2          353.3      2,345.2
FMG                         809.6          606.9         741.0        1,003.9          780.0      3,941.4                                      2,345.2  3,799.2  3,800
1/  Calculated over base costs and physical contingencies.                                                                                                                                                   -' 'a
Percentages used:  Year 1: 29%; Year 2: 46%; Year 3: 62%; Year 4: 78%; Year 5: 96%.
2/  Same percentage (38%) as in base costs.



C,C                                                                                           C?   q0Wi=| =    g ;                      @@|         
<   e D O o     y           n t > F ' ffi O oz    rF  Y       $ = Y Y  v)      @ tc {} B t 9 th ^  8    = = x C = a M O O  Y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.~,   , C, CCndt,~n
Y  ~     ~       0>SZ>;Oo^"g=&:eS""q   *a><      "S=r=O2<<riSNa<<S=  
-C        OC               -                                              -.=c==8H~$333~D=* t=M# 
=  Do,        b=t                     Wt            ber                                           
CC  CC ;;CC =C                                         CO vC                        0C                     C? CC, v0 g
< ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~C                                       CCC?     C                 .2
D~~~~~~~C 0f s aN
0 = nCC  0                                            O             0n   0        C000      0OCOLN
a~~~~~~~~~ s,
D0    -  0   00000   0                    0X 0   0  0    0   00 0.      0   0000         0           0000    0~              0 loI0     wr~~s
0              C    ooo oCo    oN o                                                   0 o              oooooo         ooo .
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2    2
W l-0 _0 _ _0  0E_ __        HN_              _>q          _91     
oo   @  o   ooooo   oo    o~~~~~ oNco    2    Co         o    oooo00            o    oo00    o 09 
0'  -                                                         -                       0                           0       wS >olw OOOO o                      , sooswwFws  <  0? ! 
0000 s  o0 ooo            oo        0o ooooC o?                                         CJ oooC
WOs  i  o  oFoO~    Fsu             o-   00.           .O00.0.00.                                      o                                  2o9wnoO|t1   
CC N 00  CC        F o         09 OC          0O O 0              CFF~               -  000sW          o         |= .0  Cw
_0.0000,_0_0_000_         0  0         N  00C           0   0000             g C  00000                 _     C                                 CC  ___ 
0000    ~  0 0 00000    0 00    0 000                          0 0000                   .0 _0          0  __,_, _ woww                             in
U oO  @O   0 0Foo O*00        00 N0 O                                                                                                       0<ONNN o11            .oosw| 
.0    0 .             0'0    -    0   0            0       0    00  C            0      0=o0    0n    O104
O  O  OM    000s00       0  000       0  0000          0  000  0000             0   000000000               | 



NIGERIA
AYANCBA AGRICULTURAL DEVEWPMENT PROJECTS
AGRICULTURAL PROJECTS MiONITORING, EVALUATION AND PLANNING UNIT (APMEPU)
Vehicles and Equipment
(Naira '000)
No. of    Unit                                                                                                    Foreign Exchange          Local
Unit      Units      Cost          Year 1        Year 2         Year 3         Year 4          Year 5         Total          %        Amount          Cost
Administrative and Overheads Section
Saloon Cars                                     No        8         6.0       (2)  12.0   (2)  12.0                _       (2)  12.0    (2)  12.0            48.0          80        38.4           9.6
Office Equipment                                No        2         1.5       (2)   3.0            -               -              -              -            3.0           60        1.8            1.2
Twin Engined Aircraft 1/                        No        1       100.0       (1) 100.0            -               -              -              -          100.0         100       100.0             -
House Furnishings                               No        2         8.0       (2)  16.0            -               -              -              -           16.0           40        6.4
Subtotal                                                                       131.0          12,0             -             12.0           12.0        167.0                   146.6           20.4
Evaluation Section
Four-Wheel Drive Vehicle                       No         2         9.0       (1)   9.0            -        (1)   9.0             -              -           18.0          80        14.4           3.6
Office Equipmen,                                No        1         1.5       (1)   1.5            -               -              -              -             1.5          60        0.9            0.6
Professional Equipment                          No        1         1.0       (1)   1.0            -              -               -              -            1.0          70         0.7           0.3
House Furnishings                               No        1         8.0       (1)   8.0            -               -              -              -            8.0           40        3.2           4.8
Subtotal                                                                        19.5            -              9.0            -               -          28.5                     19.2           9.3
Agronomy Section
Four-Wheel Drive Vehicle                        No        2         9.0              -      (1)    9.0             -              -       (1)   9.0          18.0           80       14.4            3.6
Station Wagons                                  No        4         4.0       (2)   8.0            -              -        (2)   8.0             -           16.0          80        12.8           3.2
office Equipment                                No        1         2.0       (1)   2.0            -               -              -              -            2.0           60        1.2            0.8
Professional Equipment                          No        2         1.0       (2)   2.0            -               -              -              -            2.0           70        1.4           0.6
House Furnishings                               No        2         6.0       (2)  12.0                    -                      -              -           12.0          40         4.8            7.2
Subtotal                                                                        24.0   (1)   9.0               _              8.0             9.0        50.0                    34.6           15.4
Training Section
Saloon Car                                      No        1         6.0       (1)   6.0            -               -              -              -            6.0           80        4.8            1.2
Four-Wheel Drive Vehicle                        No        1         9.0              -             _        (1)   9.0             -              -            9.0          80         7.2            1.8
Professional Equipment                          ND        1         1.0       (1)   1.0                           -               -              -            1.0           70        0.7            0.3
Training Equipment                              No        1         5.0       (1)   5.0            -              -               -              -            5.0           60        3.0            2.0
Subtotal                                                                        12.0            -              9.0            -               -           21.0                    15.7           5.3
Planning Section
Saloon Cars                                    No         2         6.0       (1)   6.0            -               -       (1)   6.0             -           12.0          80         9.6            2.4
Four-Wheel Drive Vehicles                       No        2         9.0       (1)   9.0            -               -       (1)   9.0             -           18.0           80       14.4            3.6
Pick-ups                                        No        4         4.0       (2)   8.0            -               -       (2)   8.0             -           16.0           80       12.8            3.2
office Equipment                                No        2         1.5       (2)   3.0            -               -              -              -            3.0           60        1.8            1.2
office Equipment                                No        2         1.0       (2)   2.0            -               -              -              -            2.0           60        1.2            0.8
Professional Equipment                          No        4         1.0       (4)   4.0            -               -              -              -            4.0           70        2.8            1.2
Survey and Drawing Office Equipment           Set         1       30.0        (1)  30.0            -              -               -              -           30.0           70       21.0           9.0
Dlouse Furnishings                              NO        2         8.0       (2)  16.0            -               -              -              -           16.0          40         6.4            9.1
House Furnishings                               No        2         6.0       (2)  12.0            _               -              -              -           12.0           40        4.8            7.2
Subtotal                                                                        95.0            -              -             23.0             -         113.0                     74.8          38.2
TOTAL VEIIICLES AND EQUIPENT                                                   276.5           21.0           18.0           43.0            21.0        379.5                  290.9           88.6
1/  Assumes no duties levied as plane will be used for agricultural development projects.



NIGERIA
AYANCBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL POJECTS MONITORING  EVALUATION AND PLANNING              IT (APMEPU)
Operating Costs
(Nei- '000)
No. of       Urit                                                                                                     Foreign Exchange
Unit       Units         Cost         Year 1         Ystr 2         Year 3          Year 4         Year 5         Total                        Cost         Local Cost
Naira
Administrait-ot aod Odthead Section
Offico Exposos                                p.a.                                      10.0            12.0          12.0            12.0           12.0         58.0                                         58.0
Office Supplies                               p.a.                   3.                                  3.0            .E 3.0 33.0                               4.0           4E             6.0              9.0
House Rental 1/                               p.a.          18           9.0      (6)  54.0              _       (61  54.0    (6)  54.0               -          162.0                                        162.0
Offi- Rntal                                   p.a.           5         20.0       (1)  20.0       (1)  20.0   (1)  20.0         (1)  20.0      (1)  20.0         OOE.E                                        100.0
Vehirle EoR-ing 2/                            p.a           20           2.0      (4)   8.4       (4)    8.4  (4)   8.4         (4)   8.4      (4)   8.4          42.0          45            i8.9             23.1
Aircraft Operating                       per hosrs '000   7.5           60.0      (1.5)90.0        (1.5)90.0    (1.5)90.0       (1.5)90.0      (1.5)90.0         450.0          50           225.0           225.0
Loss Charges to Oth-rs 3/                                                               60.0            60.0          60.0            60.0           60.0        300.0                                        300.0
Net A, ccref  Operating                                                                 30.0            30.0           30.0           30.0           30.0        150.0                       225.0            (75.0)
Subsi teonc  and Traveling               per  -an year      20           2.0      (4)   8.0       (4)  8.0    (4)    8.0        (4)   8.0    (4)   8.0            40.0                                        40.0
Subtotal                                                                               133,4            81.4         135.4           135.4           81.4        567.0          44           249.9           317.1
Evaluttion Section
Office Supplies                                                                          6.0             6.0           6.0             6.0            6.0         30.0          40            12.0             18.0
HEuee Rental                                  p.a.          12           9.0      (3)  27.0       (3)  27.0            -        (3)  27.0    (3)  27.0           108.0          -              -              108.0
Vehicle Running 4/                            p...          10           2.4      (2)   4.8       (2)   4.8   (2)   4.8         (2)   4.8      (2)   4.8          24.0          45            10.8             13.2
Sousistence and TrrvoliIg                     p.a.          10           2.0      (2)   4,0        (2)   4.0   (2)   4.0        (2)   4.0      (2)   4.0          20.0          -               _              20.0
Subtotal                                                                                41.8            41.8          41.8           41.8            41.8        182.0          13            22.8            159.2
Agronomy Section
Office Supplies                                                                          3.0             3.0            3.0            3.0            3.0         15.0          40             6.0              9.0
H000c  Retal                                  p.a.           6           9.0             -        (3)  27.0             -              -       (3)  27.0          54.0          -              -               54.0
.ouse Rental                                  p.a.          12           6.0      (6)  36.0              -              -       (6)  36.0             -           72.0          -              -               72.0
Vehicle Rnnoing 5/                            p.a.          15           2.0      (3)   6.6       (3)   6,6   (3)   6.6         (3)   6.6      (3)   6.6          33.0          45            14.9             10.1
Snhoisten.-  and TraIollog                    p.s.          15           2.0      (3)   6.0       (3)   6.0   (3)   6.0         (3)   6.0      (3)   6.0          30.0          _              -               30.0
Subtotal                                                                                51.6            42.6          15.6            51.6           42.6        204.0          10            20.9            183.1
Training Se-tio-
Office and Training sllppli..                                                            5.0             5.0           5.0             5.0            5.0         25.0          40            10.0             15.0
House Rental                                  p.a.           4           6.0      (2)  12.0              -              -       (2)  12.0             -           24.0          -              -               24.0
ROutse 0e1al                                  p.a.           3           9.0             -               -       (3)  27.0             -              -           27.0                                         27.0
Vehirle Ounniso 6/                            p.a           10           2.2      (2)   4.4        (2)   4.4   (2)   4.)        42)   4.4      (2)   4.4          22.0          45             9.9             12.1
Subsistonce and Traveling                     p.-.           5           2.0      (1)   2.0       (1)   2.0   (1)   2.0         (1)    2,0    (1)   2.0           10.0          _              -_              10.0
SRbtotal                                                                                23.4            11.4          38.4            23.4           11.4        108.0          18            19.9             88.1
Planning Section
Office aod Drawing Supplies                                                              6.0             6.0           6.0             6.0            6.0         30.0          40            12.0             18.0
House Ren-tl                                  pa.           12           9.0      (6)  54.0              -              -       (6)  54.0             -          108.0          -               -             108.0
Uoose --  tntl                                              12           6.0      (6)  360               -              -       (6)  36.0             -           72.0          -               -              72.0
Vehicle   unning 7/                           p.a.          20           2.0      (43   8.0        (4)   8.0   (4)   8.0        (4)   8.0      (4)   8.0          40.0          45            18.0             22.0
Snbsistence and Tranoling                     p...          30           2.0      (6)  12.0       (6)  12.0   (6)  12.0    (6)  12.0    (6)  12.0                 60.0          -              -               60.0
Subtotal                                                                               116.0            26.0          26.0          116.0            26.0        310.0          10            30.0           280.0
Total DperitiIg Co-ts                                                                  366.2           203.2         230.2           368.2          203.2     1371.0            25           343.5         1
1/  3 yrs in advance -- could be reduced if Fcderal ho-ss-g provided -- i-clodiog bosses services.
2/  Saloon  arn - 30,000 kb  at 0,07/ko.
3/  Fstimated at 2/3 horne by various projects for one of aircraft. deluxe.. E-r-heel drivet 30,000 kh  at 0.08/kh.
4/  Deluxe fo- r-obeol drives, 30,000 km at 0.08/kb.
3/  2 stetion wago-s, 30,000 at 0.07 km a.d deluxe four-whool drive 30,000 kb  at 0.08, average 2,200,
6/  One salno1   30,000 at 0.07/Ik  aRd delu-e fonr-wheel drive 30,000 kh  at 0.08, average say 2,200.
7/  One saloon at 30,000 ut 0.07: one del... fo-r-wheel drive 30,000 at 0.08/ko and 2 pick ops at 30,000 at 0.06; thIs average 2,000.






NIGERIA
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FEDERAL DEPARTMENT OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT (FDRD)
AGRICULTURAL PROJECTS MONITORING EVALUATION
AND PLANNING UNIT (APMEPU)
ORGANIZATION CHART
DIRECTOR
FDRD
STEERING
COMMITTEE
HEAD      |
APMEPU     |
l           ~~~~DEPUTY HEAD
|         ~~~INFORMATION SERVICES DAA POESN
ADMINISTRATION & ACCOUNTS                                  MUNITRN AN INTE          BAK      BREA
_                       i            ~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT COMMUNICATIONS
AGRONOMY                  EVALUATION               PROJECT PLANNING              TRAINING
mRECOMMENDATIONSI                                                                          I    
CENSU SURVGEYSMIDNIFCTINMAAEMN
FARM MANAGEMENT              PREPARATION                 PERSONNEL
4  SURVE~~~~~~~~~~~~~YS ~~~I DENTI F ICATION
-| TRAINING    l         |OPINION SURVEYS p-|EXTENSION AIDS|
TECHNOLOGY               PROBLEM SPECIFIC L                                     INTER-PROJECT
H   DISSEMINATION  |   m     SURVEYS  rc   q                                 n     SEMINAR
lMONITORING OF
| ECONOMIC INDICES
PROJECT FIELD  _
EVALUATION UNITS
World Bank-16429






)UPTEX I(,
Table 1
NIGERIA
:3ENUE STATE
AYANGSBA AGRIC -TURAL DEVELOP.ENT PFFOECT
Summary of Project Costs by Function
Ref erence
Table        Year O         Year 1      Year 2       Year 3        Year 4       Year 5        To,tal       Foreign       Local
Crop Development                      2.2           839.9         698.2        616.4        795-.         995.9      1,042.1       4,996.1        766.6      4,219.5
Fanm Aivisory Service                 2.9           659.2         401.8        621.0        665.3         545.2        469.3       3,1(i.P        992.4      2,669.L
Livestock Development                 3.1           165.2         599.8        185.3        176.6         152.5        196.3       1,100.5 5s                 1165.1
Forestry Developmoent                 4.2                         377.1        i64.2        -'11.0        238.r        205.1       1, 197.4       232. 1        09. 
Fishery Developmenot                  5.1             -96.6                    091.2        269.i         530.4        212.2       1,5993.        591.p    1,OOs .
Roads and Water Developnent           6.2          s_s.6        i,624.3        900.4        810.3         5o4.7        672.3       1,281.6      2,010. 4     3,277.?
Management and Admainistration        7.1           581.1       1,272.1        59c.0        so4.4         488.4        370.4       3,9o.        1, 015.      2,o9g.(
Seed Multiplication                   7.5          200.6          255.4        i56.s        204.8         185.2        167.2      1,167.7         259.2        929*E
Research                              7.6             -           199.6         62.4         67.4         53.4          67.4         4sos.         92.0        583
Training                              .7            117.9         462.5        263.4        255.1         934.6        198.5       1,616.6        E12 0        ,104.6
Evaluaoioo                           79.            527.6         249.3        249.3        231.5         2L6.5        214.5       1,768.1       5007       1  P72  4
Cormercial Services                   3.4           146.1       1,966.1      1,2159           -.4      1,121.5       I,0s6.5      7,267.6       1,474.C 1z
Subtotal                                    4,115.2        8,705.S     s,46,1.2      S,459.53     1,59.7        4,871.4     543.14.1      8.q 97.7    2 6 o 4
Other Overheads  i/                  10.2             3.7         106.7        235.7        271.1         290.5        297.0      1,212.1         rCo.4        600 0
Tncremental Seed                      7.4            28.1          14.c         32.3        s6.9           4s .7                     177.0                     177. 0
Incremental Fertilirer/Inoecticides  5.2       -                              L31.s  1110.8  621.3      8a3.0        1,157.7      5.  o.o, 4 2 14 C31. 2
Mediem Tenm Input Fund                q,3             -            90.1        17i.4        113.2          74.2         29.6         485.s        291.3        1'2i;4
TOTAL BASE COST                             4,i45.o        9,299.5     6,316.2       6,511.;      6,252.9       6,sss.7     39,461.1      1s,Pn4 2    27,6<6.q
Physical Contingencies (28)                        207.5          465.o        515.3        325.6         542.c        516.3      1,977.1         590.      1 352
Prioe Contingencies                                451.2        2,531.8     5,050.7       11259.3      5,612.5       6,1P6.4     2P, 511        6,766.R    15,729.1
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                         4,737.5       12,196.6     9,682.7      11,076.8     12,88.0O    13, 053.       63,99q0.5     19,il. 6    14, 3 
M Mainly maiotenance 05 Project Assets.



ANNEX IS
Ta-ble 2
NIGERIA
BENUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DNEELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Project Costs (State Component) by Expense Categories
(Syaira 000)
Reference
Table        Year 0         Tear l       Year 2        Year 3        Year 1        Year S      Total       Foreign       Local
A.  Capital
Houses
Extension Service                      2.8           611.o          222.C         40.0         4.            4o0.0          -         953.0        206.8       746.2
Farm Development                       2.9           399.0          122.0          -            -             -             -         521.0       121.9        399.1
Livestock Development                  3.1            87.0          126.0          -             -1i*o                                              56.7       186.3
Factory Development                    4.o             -            179.0          -                          -             -          79.0         43s.9      155,0
Fisheries                              5.1             -            171.0        22.0           4.c          s4.o 0301.C                           70.5        230.5
Civil Works                            6.2           425.0           67.0          -            -             -             -         492.0       135.6        561.2
Management                             7.1           237.0         1i4.o          26.0           -                                    147.0        lis.4       331 6
Seed Multiplication                    7.5            aa.o           57.0          6.c         12.0           -             -         i65.o         36.2       12a.3
Research                               7.6             -            102.0          -                                                  lE- 102.0      6.o        79.0
Training                               7.7            51.0          105.0         i6.o          -                                     1.0  -  176.0  4o.6      137.4
Evaluation                             7.8           200.0            -            -            -             -             -         200.0         53.0       147.0
Commercial Services                    8.L           222.0          531.0       175.0         101.0          24.0           -      1,029.         208.7        LLi
Subtotal                                     2,320.0        1,901.0        292.0         210.0         122.0           -      4,84s.o      1,110.4      3,73L.6
Other Buildings
Livestock Development                  3.1             -            226.3          -            -             -             -         226.5         56.6       169.7
Forestry Development                   4.2             -             11.1          -            -             -             -          11.1          3.1         6.0
Fisheries Development                  2.1             _              -           6-.0                        -                        68.o        20.4         L7.6
Civil Works                            6.2            30.0           20.0        20.0          20.0                         -          90.0         22.2        67.5
Management                             7.1            75.0          502.0         80.0           -                                    66o.o        1l5.0       s4s.o
Seed Multiplication                    7.5            10.0           20.0          -                                                   30.0          6.o        24.0
Training                               7.7             -             75.0          -            -            27.0                     100.0         30.0        70.0
Commercial Services                     -L-                         220.0       260.0                                                 760.0       254.0        s46.o
Subtotal                                       115.0        1,375.4        425.0          20.0          27.0                  1,962s.4       487.6      1,177.6
Vehicles
Extension Service                      2.6            12.0           68.o         16.0         32.0          68.o          20.0       216.o        144.o        72.0
Farm Development                       2.9            50.0           69.6       111.4         135.0          6c.o          i6. o      442.0        367,4        '.6
Livestock Development                  3.1             6.o           27.2          6.0          -             6.o          20.0        67.2        22.3         14.9
Factory Development                    4.2                           32.1                                    15.2          -o0.        58.4        L6.5         11.9
Fisheries Developme-nt                 5.1                           35.L          8. 9         4.6          37.8           6.s        93.4        71.6         21.6
Civil Works                            6.2             -            6l1..L        41.c         42.0          91.c          31.0    1,0ls.4         848.9       i66.s
Management                             7.1            37.0           L8.0          -           37.0          18.0           -         110C.0        6.o         22.0
Seed Multiplication                    7.5            25.6           24.o         2.4          25.6          i6.0           -          93.6         72.6        20.8
Research                               7.6             -             i8.4          -             -           i6.o                      344,h        27.0         7.4
Training                               7.7            12.0           59.6         o5 3         12.0          46.8          27.2       166.2        132.3        33.9
Evaluation                             7.8            32.0            -            -           52.0           -             -          64.c         51.2        12.8
Commercial Services                    8.4            31.6          15l10        69.o          38.8          87.6          77.c       4s2.2        345.9       1092
Subtotal                                       186.2        1,314.0        28s.C         359.2         462.6         208.8    2,612.8      2,24o.1        267.7
Other Equipment
Extension Service                      o.8             -             35.2         12.0          7.0           7.O           7.0        68.s         29.2        39.0
Farm Development                       2.9            41.0          133.7        22.9          49.9           4.8           4.9       267.1       111.3        145.8
Livestock Development                  3.1             7.9           12.3          1.0          -             -             -          21.2         10.5        10.7
Forestry Development                   4.2             -              6.6          -            -             -                         6.6          3.1         3.4
Fisheries Development                  2.1             -              2.0        28.0           0.2           0.2          1C.2        44.s        22.1         22.0
Workshop Equipment                     6.2             -             47.4         15.6         15.6           0.8           0.8        80.2         22.0        28.2
Management                             7.1             2.0          125.0         15.2          1.6           i.6           1.6       116.5         99.5        45.1
Sced Moltiplication                    7.              -             3155          2.0.         1.3           1.3           1.3        36.0        2o.a         14.2
Rese-rch                               7,6                           14.1         0.3            0.5          0.5           0.         15.5          0,5
Training                               7.7             -             24.o          5.5           -           27.0           -          36.o 6.:
Evaluation                             7,8             9.2            5.2          3.2          3.0           0.2             2        29.5         16.2         13.3
C^mneroial Ser-ices                    8.4             -             94.4        _S.6          72.0           -             -         596 0        121.6        76.4
Subtotal                                        73.4          s6o.5        i64.5         154.4          43.s          26.6    1,022.9        56s.l        457I 8
M1aterials
Civil Works                            -               -             1L.0        89.o          67.o          67.C                     424.o        102.2       321.R
Subtotal                                          -            74.o         89.0          87.0         85.0           87.0      424.C        102.2        5f1.8
Consultants
Farm Development                       2.9            30.0            -            -             --                         -          3.0         30.0 
Foreotry Developeet                    4.2             -              2.2          2.2           -            -             -           s.o          s.o
Evaluation                             7.8            30.0            -            _            _             -             -          30.0         30.0
Subtotal                                        60.0            2.5          2.2           -             -             -         6s.o         6s.o
Scholarships
Fishery Development                    2.1             _              -            2.O           25.0                                        10.0 1..O
Training                               7.7             -             21.0        21.0          27.0          27.0           -          96.0         6c.o        36.C
Subtotal                                                       21.0         o6.o          32.0          27.0           -        106.0         70.0         36.o
/   Including charcoal equipmert.
Plant and related equipment.



ANNEX 10
Table 2
Page 2
Soamary of Project Costs (State Component) by Expense Categories, (Costinned)
(Naira 000)
Table        Year 0        Year 1        Year 2        Year 3        Year 4        Year S      Total       Foreign       Local
B. Recurrent
,nternational Staff
ESteasbon Service                      2.8            16.,o         32.C          32.0         32.0          32.0                    144.0       108.0         56.O
Farm Development                       2.9            16.o          52.0          32.0         32.0          32.0           -         144.0       108.C         36.0
Forestry Development                   4.2             _            52.0         32.0          32.2          52.0           -         129.0         96.0        32.0
Fishery Development                    5.1                          3 52.0       32.0          52.0          52.0           -         128.0        96.0         52.0
Civil Oorka                            6.2            66.o          96.0         96.0          96.o          96.0          20.0      41o.0        i60.0        12C.0
Management                             7.1            82.0         100,0        100.0         100.0         100.0           -         482.0        %61.5       120.5
Training                               7.7            32.0          32.C          52.0         32.0          52.0           _         160.0       120.0         4o.o
Evaluation                             7,R            32.0          32.0          32.0         52.C          32.0           -         16C.0       120.0         4o.o
Commercial Services                    8.4            18.0          _6.          36            36.o          i6             - _62.0               121.5         110.8
Subtotal                                       262.2        1424.0         424.0         124.0         424.0          50.0    1,988.O      1,1491.0       497.o
Local Staff
Exte-oi_r ServLce                      2.9           196.7         317.3        493.0         659.2         825.5         991.7    3,L85.4        223.9      3,259.5
Farm Develp-et                         2.9           131.5         282.4        355.7         409.3         4093.         409.3    2,030.5        130.5      1,900.0
Livestock Development                  3.1            52.4         140.7         142.3        115.3         142.         1i42.5       762.3        L90         715.3
Forestry Development                   4.2             -            47.6         47.6          47.6          47.6          47.6       258.0        15.5        222.7
Fishery Deveiopment                    5.1             -            42.2         82.3         108.8         1341.8        t14.8       so2.6        32.53      4Sy,
Civil Works                            6.2            54.6         548.3       530.3          371.9         35.54         548.8    1,849.3        118.9      1,700.4
Yanagement                             7.1            87.9         185.3         211.4        211.4         211.L         211.4    1,118.R         71.9      I,0146.9
Seed allviplictton                     7.5            67.7         105,4        122.0         144.6         1114.6        144.6      728.9         46.9        682.0
Research                               7.6             -            51.1         51.1          51.1          51.1          51.1       b55.5         i6.4       239.1
Training                              7.7            17.7          8o.9          95.2         95.2          99.8          99.8       458.6         51.4       457.2
Evaluation                            .78            202,1         20  1        202.1         202.1         202.1         202.1    1,0212.6        77.9      1,134.7
Commsercial Services                   8.4           168,2        578.2         808.7         886.o        29023          905.9    4,2_4.9        273.2      3,975.7
Slbtotal                                       978.P       2,5R4.S       3,011.7       5,529.2       3,527.8       1,697 ,4 ,919.4         1,D87.6    1E,9P1.8
Vehiclt peratihg C-ota
Extensio  Service                      2.8             4.2          23.4          25.4         23.1          23.4          25.4       151.0         54.5        66.7
Farm Development                       0.9            11.7          39.1         79.1          39.1          39.1          39.1       207.2        93.5        115.9
Li-otlock De-rloment                   3.1             4.9         20,5          20.5          20.5          20.5          20.5       107.4        42.5         614.9
F.oretry Development                   4.2             -             4.7          L.7           4.7          L7            4.7        23.5        1o.6         12.9
Fishery Development  1/                5.1                         11.1         15.1          16.3          17.5          17.5       77.11        34.8         42.6
Civil rlotks                           6.2             -           161.2        168.5         177.R         174.5         174.7       856.7       575.1        418.6
Olaosgeosot                            7.1             7.2          17,4          17.4         17.4          17.11         17.4        14.2        42.4         51.5
Seed Molltiplictis n                  7.5             9.,          17,7         21.3          21.3          21.5          21.5       112.2        E5.8         5S.7
Res-arch                               7.6             -             6.C          6.o           6.C           6.o           6.o        30.0        13.6         16.1
Trae nirg                              7.7             4.2          16.          *7.9          27.9          30.0          30.0      136.8         61.6         75.2
Evallaaisa                             7.8            10      2      .0         12.0          I8.O          12.0          12.0        72.0        32.4         59.,
Comenrcial Services                    8.4             6,3                         5.6         75.6            .6            .6      364.5        169.1        195.4
Subtotal                                        59.,         5S4.6         431.5         L42.0         442.0        142.2    2,2C2.1        987.4      1,219.7
General   p        Csts
Livestck DeveloPment                   3.1             .0.          15.2         13.5          15.5          13.5          13.5        74.2        69.8         14.4
Fishery Devel,pnest                    5.1             -             -           21.1          51.2          57.0          42.9      132.6         15.5        117.3
Office Expenses                        7.1            50.0        14o.o          i140.0       140.0         140.0         14n.0      750.0        120.0        630.0
Training                               7.7             1.0          40o.O        41.o          4i.o          411.0         4.0        20S.0         _          205.0
Subtotl                                        28.o         193-2         216.0         225.7         251.5        237.4    1,168.9         205.1        956.7
Ove_rheads
BOilding Ms                                            -            73.0        171.3         192.9        19.8          204.5       841.5       sot.8        336.E
Vehicle  Mna2atnance                                    . 3.7       50.0         55.7          42.9          42.9          42.9       198.1         -          198.1
Equip-eat '4ainteaance  5d J                                         3.7         31-7          39.2        _47.6          _49.        172.7_      103.6         69.1
Subtotal                                         3.7         106.7         258.7         275.7         290.3        297.0    1,212.1         608.4        603.7
C.  Other DeveL-pments
Breeding itork                         3.1             -             1.6          -             0.            - _                       1.9         _            1.9
Forestry N-rseries                     1.2             -            58.5         27.9          27.9          27.9          27.9       1149.9       51.7        115.2
Fore,tty Plo,tatbots                   11.2                          1.7         47.7          99.0         icO.8         112.5       569.5        13.0        356.5
Forestry Traisieg Courses              4.2             _             0.2          o.8           0.8           o.8           o.8         5.4         -            5.14
Forestry Trials                        4.2             _             1.0           1.0          1.0           1.0           1.0         5.0          -           5.0
Buded lagoons                          5.1                           -             9.14        36.8          i6.q 9                    42.C        17.6        201.4
Research Conferences                   7.6             _             5.0           5.0C        10.0          10.0         51.0         4o.o          -          40.o
,ubtDtal                                                      67s.          90.8         15s.8         165.53        15.0       631.7         82.5        549.4
S. FarD Inputs
Incremental '.eed                      7.4            28.1          14.o          52.3         1n.9          45.7           -         177.0          -         177.C
Incremesooel Fertilizer/Insecticides  8.2              -           350.5         o10.9        621.15        887.0       1,157.7    3.38.8       2,107.2      1,L031.
Medito,-Term Inpu,t Fend               8.3             -            90.1         175-.4       113.2          714.2         29.6       485.2        091.5      L91.2
ShtotoaL                                        28.1         489.6         616.5         796.9       1,002.9       1,167.5    4,101.5      3,698.5       1402.8
TOTAL BASE COSTS                             4,14s.o       9,299.8       5.316.2       6,sli.0       6,852.9       6,s35-7   59,461.5    11,304.6    27,656.9
- Including bhot cDeratisg.
2/  Three percett of bouses and buildings after year of construction on cosslative assets.
5J Two percent of ormulative vehicle costa (until year 3 when replaceme-so take place>) level after year 3.
14 Five percent of cs-snlative co-ts of equipment year after purchase.



ANNEX 11
Table 1
NIGERIA
BENUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Financing Plan (State Component)
Year 0      Year 1       Year 2       Year 3        Year 4       Year 5       Total              Disbursement Schedule
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -Naira '000- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -           - - -U.S.$  000- - -
Houses and Buildings                    2,435.0      3,276.4       720.0        230.0         149.0           -        6, 810. 4
IBRD (40%)                                243.5      1,310.6       288.0         92.0          59.6                    1,993.7       1,993.7      3,229.8      3,300.0
Government                              2,191.5      1,965.8        432.0       138.0          89.4                    4,816.7
Vehicles                                  186.2      1,314.0        285.0       359.2         462.6         208.8      2,815.8
IBRD (100% CIF)                             -        1,116.9       242.3        305.3         393.2         177.5     2,235.2        2,235.2      3,621.0      3,600.0
Government                                186.2        197.1         42.7        53.9          69.4          31.3        580.6
Other Equipment/Materials                  73.4        634.5        253.5       241.4         130.5         113.6      1,446.9
IBPD (100% CIF)                             -          380.7        152.1       144.8          78.3          68.2        824.1          824.1     1,335.0      1,300.0
Government                                 73.4        253.8        101.4         96.6         52.2          45.4        622.8
International Staff/
Consultants/Scholarships                322.0        447.5        452.5       456.o         451.0          30.0      2,159.0
IBRD (100%)                               322.0        447.5        452.5       456.0         451.0          30.0      2,159.0        2,159.0     3,497.6      3,500.0
Local Staff                               978.8      2,384.5     3,011.7      3,329.2       3,527.8       3,687.4    16,919.4
IBRD (152%)                                 -          357.7       451.7        499.4         529.2         553.1      2,391.1       2,391.1      3,873.6      3,80c.0
Government                                978.8      2,026.8     2,560.0      2,829.8       2,998.6       3,134.3    14,528.3
Operating Costs - /Overheads              121.5        685.5        886.2       943.4         963.8         976.6      4,577.0
Government                                121.5        685.2        886.2        943.4        963.8         976.6      4,577.0            -            -
Other Developsent Costs                    _            67.8         90.8       155.8         165.3         152.0        631.7
Government                                              67.8         90.8        155.8        165,3         152.0        631.7                         -
Incremental Fertilizer/Insecticides         -          385.5        410.8       621.8         B83,0       1,137.7      3,438.8
IBRD (100,% CIF or 70%)                                269.8       287.6        435.3         618.0         796.4      2,407.1       2,407.1      3,899.5      3,900.0
Government                                             115.7        123.2        186.5        265.0         341.3      1,031.7
Incremental Seed                           28.1         14.o         32.3        56.9          45.7           -          177.0
Government                                 28.1         14.0         32.3         56.9         45.7           -          177.0                         -
Medium-Term Credit Fund                     _           90.1        173.4       118.2          74.2          29.6        485.5
Government                                              90.1        173.4       118.2          74.2          29.6        482.5            -            _            _
Unallocated                               642.5      3,296.8     3,366.s      4,564.9       5,955.1       6,703.2    24,529.0
IBBD (30t)                                  -          989.0     1,010.0      1,369.5       1,786.5       2,010.9      7,165.9        7,165.9    11,608.7    11,60o.o
Government                                642.5      2,307.8     2,326.5      3,195.4       4,168.6       4,692.3    17,363.1
TOTAL                                   4,787.5    12,596.6      9,682.7    i1,o76.8       12,808,0      13,038.9    63,990,5                                 3_000.0
of which:  IBRD2                          565.5      4,872.2     2,884.2      3,302.3       3,915.8       3,636.1    19,176.1
Government :/               4,222.0      7,724.4      6,798.5      7,774.5      8,892.2       9,402.8    44,814.4
I/   12R5  is not retroactively financing in Year 0 except for international staff.
?/   Vehicle operating and other operating.
)/   For purposes of this schedule Federal and State  Goversssent costributions are taken together.
Assuming signing in December 1977 and thus 25% would be eligible for Bank financing.
5/   Assuming signing in Decesber 1977:  thus 75% needs to be retroactively financed.



NIGERIA
BENUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Financing of Federal Component 21
Year 1         Year 2            Year 3           Year 4            Year 5            Total            --------US$ '000--------
------------------------------------Naira '000--------------------------------------
International Staff/Consultants            237.0          237.0             201.0               97.0            61.0             833.0             1,349.5          1,400
IBRD 100%                             237.0           237.0            201.0               97.0             61.0             833.0
Equipment                                  276.5           21.0              18.0               43.0             21.0            379.5
IBRD 100% CIF or 85% Local            235.0            17.8              15.3              36.6             17.8             322.5               522.4            500
FMG 15%                                41.5             3.2               2.7               6.4              3.2              57.0
Local Staff Salaries                       204.5          219.5             253.5              265.5            265.5          1,208.5
IBRD 20%                               40.9            43.9             50.7               53.1             53.1             241.7               391.5            400
FMG 80%                               163.6           175.6            202.8              212.4            212.4             966.8
Operating Costs                            366.2          203.2             230.2              368.2            203.2          1,371.0
FMG 100%                              366.2           203.2             230.2             368.2            203.2           1,371.0
Unallocated                                384.3          362.8             492.5              672.4            582.6          2,494,6
IBRD (38%) 1/                         146.0           137.9             187.2             255.5            221.4             948.0             1,535.8          1,700
FNG                                   238.3           224.9             305.3             416.9            361.2           1,546.6
Total                                    1,468.5        1,043.5           1,195.2            1,446.1         1,133.3           6,286.6
Of which
IBRD                                  658.9           436.6            454.2              442.2            353.3           2,345.2             3.799.2          4,000
FMG                                   809.6           606.9            741.0            1,003.9            780.0           3,941.4
1/  Same percentage as in base costs,  and rounded.
2/  For details, see Annex 9 and Supplement 15.



ANNEX 11
Table 3
NIGERIA
BENUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
US$ '000
FY '78 second half                                  5,400
FY '79 first half                                   3,500
FY '79 second half                                  3,100
FY '80 first half                                   2,400
FY '80 second half                                  3,300
FY '81 first half                                   2,600
FY '81 second half                                  3,800
FY '82 first half                                   2,800
FY '82 second half                                  3,800
FY '83 first half                                   2,500
FY '83 second half                                  1,800
35,000



NIGERIA
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVULOPENT PROJECT
ILLUSTRATIVE CAIN PLOW (Federal G-overnment)
(N '000)
Year 0      Year 1       Year 2       Year 3       Year 4       Year 5       Year 6       Year 7       Year 8       Year  9      Year  00    Year 11   Yea   12    Yea   13    Yea   14            Year 15    Years~ 16-20
CBRUD Lean I/                      36 5 .2    5,331.1     3,320.8      3,756.5      4,358.0      3,989.4                        - -                -            -                    -           -            -            -              -             -
Tae-  2/                           244           939         289           3.6        243.9        217.1         109.4        10.           0.        ,3.              63           36.3        56.3         56.3         56.3           56.3          56.3
TOTAL CASH TUICO  849 6    6.15.0  3.609.]  3990.1       4 601.9      4 206.3        109.         102.4        105_4          03550456.335.3                          656.3636.366.3                         56.3           56.
CShi OUTFLOW
APIEUF  Ceers 3/                     -        1,468.5     1,043.5      1,195.2      1,446 .1     1,333.1           -            -            -            ---                                    -            -            -              -             -
FMG2 SOube...ni-  to State 4/  1,197.0       3,076.0      2,342.0      2,443.0      3,010.0      3,013.0        637.5        675.0        412.0        600.0        3314.0         334.0       334.0        334.0        334.0         334.0          334.0
Irpen Subsidy 5/                     -          73 3 .7     486.5        806.7      1,476.8      2,265.5      7,265.5      2,263.5      2,265.5      2,365.3      2,265.5       7,265.5   2,265.3        2,265.5       2,265.5       2,269.3       2,265.5
TBRl Lean (State)                  563.5     4,872,2      2,804.2      3,302.3      3,915.0      3,636.1                                                                                                                                    
1102 Lean Repeynees b/ F%8
Censet-et fee                        -           17,6         12.6          9.4          6.0          2.7          ---                                                 ----
Terer-t                              -           28.8         95.8        135.6       174.3           ---                                                 -----
Priim pal                            -            -            -            -            -         361.5  3__48.3            334.3        320_.3       306.3        293.3          279.3       766,3        252.3        238.3         224.7           12.0
TOTAL CASH OUTFLOW                   1  76' 5    9968           6840        8079          1037        1019         32.3         32.8          ,9.8         ,71.8       2,892.8       2,878.8_ 2.865,8         2,.851,6      2,837.8       2,823.8       2,269.5
Uerpl-u(DUeitrl                        (9135     (3,5721      (3,2557      (4,181)       5,435)      (6,409)      (3,141)      (3,112)      (3,092)      (3,068)      (7,836)       (2,0233    (2,810)       (2,7963      (2,7823        (7,768)       (2,713)
ts be ret free FYLT budget.
AssuepLiees:   I/ 1002 Lean Secludes bth Federl and State (eepee-n,
2/ Fur dotesle  e  Anne  13,Tabln I
3Y.Fo  details  e  A--iex 9, Table I
4Oreses275" sif Projectout.
3i  02; Federl Generenet subsidy for f-rtilicer inputs.
6/  S$4.0 nill-e  at 8.75. for 20 years aith 4.5 year  gra-  fen prie-ipal.
Repayments raleelted en basis ef level prniplrpaymet ertbod.



NIGERIA
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT0
ILLUSTRATIVE CASH FLOW (State Governent)
(N '000)
Years
-Year 5        -Year 1    Yea-r 2      -Year 3  Year 4         -Year 5     -Year 6     -Year 7    Yea-r 8      -Year 9   -Year 10  -Year 11   Year 12   -Year13  -Year 14    Year 15    16--20
CASH INFLOW
IBRD Lean I/                                565.5   4,872.2    2,884.2    3,302.3    3,915.8    3,636.7               ---                                          -------
Farmers Credit Repayments:
1. medium tern                            -           8.2        28.3        42.8        48.9        57.2         ----                                          --                                  ----
2.  long ternm                                       20.4        65.9       115,4       156.8       202.3         -                       --                    -------
Input Subsidy 2/                              -         233.7      486.5       886.7    1,476.8    2,265.5    2,265.5    2,265.5    2,265.5    2,265.5  2,265.5    2,265.5    2,265.5    2,265.5    2,265.5    2,265.5    2,265.5
13MG Subvention 3/                       1,197.0    3,076,0   2.342,0    2,643.0   3,018.0   3,013.0               657.5       650          120         0.0        340        354.0        334.0       334.0       354,0       354.0       334.0
Total Cash Inflows                        1,762.3    8,200.5   5,807.1    6,986,2   8,616.3    9,174,7   2,903.0    2,891.0    27877.5    2,865.5  2,600.5    2,600.5   2,600.5    2,600.5    2,600.5    2,600.5    2,608.5
CASH OUTFLOW
Hose     Buildings                  2,435.0    3,276.4        720.0       230.0       149.0         -           -           -           -           -         -           -           -           -            -                       -
Vehicles & Eqaip-et                       259.6    1,948.5        538.3       600.6       593.1       322.4          -   4/      -           -          -         -           -           -            -           -           -           -
Intornational8, Local Staff Salary 1,300.8    2,852.0    3,464.2    3,785.2    3,978.8    2,717.4    1,840.0 - 1 84.0.   1,840.0    1,840.0  1,035.0    1,033.0    1,035.0    1,033.0    1,035.0    1,035.0    1,035.0
Ovorheads/Uma1located/Others              764.0   4,050,1   4,343.5    5,664,1    7,084.2    7,831.8              710.0 -/  660.0         610.0       560.0      300.0       300.0       300.0       300.0        300.0       300.0       300.0
Subtotal                     4,259.4   12,107.0    9,046.2   10,279.9  LL,805.l   11,87 3.6    2,550.0    2,500.0    2,450.0    2,400.0   1,335.0    1,335.0    1,335,0    1,535.0    1,335.0    1,555.0    13,55.0
Farmers Credit
Medium term                                  -          16.5       40.5        45.1        52.7        61.8         -           -           -                                                  -  -                            -           -
Long tans-                                             102.2      227.2       227,2       277.2       227.2          ----                                         --                                   ----
Subtotal                         -        118,7       267.7       279,3       279.9       289.0         -                        --                   -------
Fertilionrs                                  -         292,2      608.2    1, 101.4    1,84,6.0    2,831.9   2,531.9    2,831.9    2,831.9    2,830.9 -'53 8   9             S~        2,53 .01624.            2,831.9    2,831.9    2,931,3
Seeds  6 /                                  28.1        14.0        3 2 .3      56.9       45.7          -          -            -           -          -         -------
T-sctlcidos 6i                               -          93.3        9f,9       116.1    1,484.0       151.8          -           -                       -        .                                                              
Sohtotal                        28.1       399.51     73 5 .3    1,7283,4    2,01(0.1J.   7,903.7    2,831.32',,831.9    2,631.9    2,831.9   2,831.9    2,831.9    2,831.9    2,131.9    2,8131.9    7,831.9    2,631.9
1080Repye
C-enitmetn fee 7/                           71.9       139.6       183..0       81.4        56.6         ----                                                     ------
Soeoo    /                            74,7       ',aZS.4     728.0    1,971          55):          --                      -           -                     -           -           -           -           -            -           -
Prioc;palS/                                              -           -           -           -      2,936.4 - 2 ,844.0    7,733.0    7,621.0    2,509.0  7,397.0    2,285.0    2,173.0    2,062.0    1,949.0    1,838.0    1,390.0
sobtota1                        96.6      615.4       831.0    1.098.4    1-416-4   2 936.4   2-844-0   2.733 0   2 621 n   2 509.0  7 397-0   2 78.? 7                                    062? 0    1 949 0       3         ,9.
Total Cooh outflow                       4,884.0    1,324.1  10,900.0   12,941.0  15,542.0  18,101.0   8,2245.0    8,066.0    7,0.0                   ,4.        ,64.0    6,452.0    6,340.0    6,729.0    6,116.0    6,005.0   3,556.0
Surplus (Deficit)
to ho cot from budget ara                 (3,177)    (5,031)    (5,093)    (5,949)    (6,976)    (8,926)    (5,323)    (5,174)    (5,026)    (4,876)   (3,964)    (3,857)    (3,740)    (3,629)    (3,516)    (3,405)    (2,336)
1/  08$ 31 million at 8.75% for 20 years with 4.5 years of grace for principal.
2~/  Repr-esnte 507 of if-tilfo orinpot rosts.
3/  PFMG subc tionro oqoals 257. of project costs.
4/  lor1udes cro p de-elopmeot roots (entension, of,), and roo t farm advisory serice.   100% until year 9
and 507. thereafter.
5l  Tnclodes  cost to maint.io aset-        ceae  by project, ood trulning/evaluatioo  costs
reducd to nero  is year 10.
6/  Incremental costs only.
7/  At 3/4 of 1% per  on-omn0 ondishursed amont.                                                                                                                                                                                            e
8/  See fistotno     1.-
9/  tI-Iodes principal and interestL payments; calculated or level principal payment basis.



ANNEX 12
NIGERIA
BENUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Marketing and Prices
A.   Market Background
1.        Official market support and intervention in Nigeria has been largely
confined to a narrow sector of export (or scheduled) crops while fooderops
have been traded almost entirely within the private sector. The scheduled
crops have traditionally provided a major source of income for farmers but,
since the end of the Civil War, increasing urbanization and substantial rises
in oil-originated income have led to marked increases in domestic food prices
relative to those of the export crops, which have declined both in absolute
areas planted and in proportion of the non-industrial crops marketed through
the statutory system.
2.        Scheduled Crops.  Responsibility for scheduled crop marketing lies
with the Nigerian Produce Marketing Company (NPMC), initial purchases and
assembly being performed through a series of franchise operations negotiated
between NPMC and the various marketing boards. Actual buying is carried out
by Licensed Buying Agents (LBA) at gazetted buying stations and traded produce
is subject to quality control by the Project Inspection Service of Federal
and State Agricultural Ministries.
3.        The project area is presently served by the Northern State Marketing
Board (NSMB) while the remainder of Benue State is served by the Benue Plateau
Marketing Board (BPMB). 1/ Guaranteed buying prices are uniform throughout
the country and are fixed annually by the Head of State advised by the
Technical Committee on Produce Price Fixing. LBA incentive is provided by a
Block Buying Allowance plus a transport differential on a fixed ton/kilometer
basis.
4.        Since 1973, FMG has introduced a series of reform measures aimed at
revitalizing the statutory system. Attention has been focused both on stabi-
lizing domestic food prices and on improving producer returns on scheduled
crops by abolishing produce taxes and substantially improving guaranteed prices;
the latter now more closely resemble domestic demand rather than export
parity, and trading losses incurred by the statutory system are carried by
subventions from FMG. Average guaranteed prices over the last six years are
as follows:
1/   This situation has resulted from the reorganization of States earlier in
the year.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
Naira per Ton
1972/73    1973/74    1974/75    1975/76
Benniseed                106.5       122.9      176.3       264.0
Groundnuts                82.9         -        176.6       250.0
Soya beans                49.2       51.3        65.0        99.0
Seed cotton              134.8      141.0       198.2       298.0
Palm kernels              64.4        65.9      139.2       150.0
5.        Further restructuring of the Marketing Boards has resulted from the
creation of additional states earlier this year. NPMC and the existing Market-
ing Boards will be phased out and a price fixing authority and seven Commodity
Boards (cocoa, groundnuts, cotton, palm produce, rubber, grains, and root
crops) will be established. A system of floor prices will be introduced.
6.        Foodcrops.  Due to the extensive nature of both supply and demand,
foodcrops are marketed through a large number of somewhat unconnected markets.
Most are efficient in themselves but, in the absence of an effective market
intelligence service, prices can vary substantially within and between areas
of production and consumption.
7.        These problems are exaggerated by goods being sold by volume rather
than weight. Standard measures vary in size between different areas and
largely conceal the effects of pest infestation on volume/weight ratios.
Storage is carried out mainly on the farm, and since production is still
largely subsistence oriented, production surplus may not be released onto
the market until prospects for the coming season can be appraised; pro-
nounced seasonal price movements are frequently the result.
8.        Government intervention into this sector has been restricted to
strategic grain purchases but total volume stored is presently insignificant.
Expansion is proposed under the Third Five-Year Development Plan, and consi-
deration now being given to more direct intervention with guaranteed minimum
prices provided for all the major foodcrops.
9.        Crop Inputs.  Supplies of fertilizers are presently procured and
handled by State Ministries of Agriculture though proposals are being devel-
oped for procurement through a Central Federal Agency. Distribution is made
through Ministry of Agriculture field offices on a heavily-subsidized, fixed-
sale-price basis. Delays in importation and internal transport have resulted
in sporadic and untimely distribution, and supply over the last three years
has been minimal.
B. Market Outlook
10.       Supply and Demand.  IBRD forecasts of food supply and demand in
Nigeria indicate that programs to stimulate foodcrop production would be
effective import substitution. With a rising urban and hence market-dependent



ANNEX 12
Page 3
population, fooderop deficits are projected at 1.2 million tons of grain
and 2.5 million tons of roots by 1985 if present levels of labor produc-
tivity per head of rural population are maintained. Government is now giving
considerable attention to stimulating foodcrop production through Operation
Feed the Nation, the National Accelerated Food Production Program and various
State development projects. However, the food deficit position is expected to
widen with increasing reliance on imported food.
11.       Incremental grain and root crop production generated by the project
is expected to reach 52 thousand tons and 192 thousand tons respectively by
1982. Though substantial in absolute terms, the increase should be readily
absorbed into the economy with no significant impact on domestic market
prices.
C.   Price Forecasts
12.       Domestic retail prices have been collected from a range of market
centers and related back to farmgate level by deducting market overhead, local
transport and assembly costs. Prices have been checked by discussions with
extension staff, farmers' associations, large farmers and supplies contractors.
13.       With growing dependence on food imports, domestic food prices are
expected generally to follow those of the world market and, where possible,
IBRD forecasts have been used to derive future farmgate price levels. Benni-
seed is an important scheduled crop in the area, and in the absence of IBRD
forecasts, current NPMC export price estimates have been used but pegged to
general IBRD forecasts for oil seeds.
14.       A summary of farmgate prices is given in Table 1 and is presented
in terms of economic prices, financial prices fully costed and financial
prices at market level, the latter representing the difference between guar-
anteed or domestic price levels and those derived by considering current and
projected world market prices. A more detailed description of the domestic
marketing system and assumptions used in price forecasting are contained in
Supplement 11.



NIGERIA
PLATEAU STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Forecast Farmgate Prices 1/
(Expressed in 1976 Constant Naira)
Economic                   Financial at Factor Cost          Financial at Market Prices
Basic                Units         1976        1980        1985        1976         1980         1985       1976        1980        1985
Annual Crops
yams                        Domestic Retail            Tons            74         67          67          68           61          61          68          61          61
Cassava                     Domestic Retail                           23          22          22          20           19          19          20          19          19
Rice                        Import Substitution                       99         143.5       143.5        91          135.5       135.5       202.5        -           -
Early Maize                 Import Substitution                       93          92          92          91           90          90          91          90          90
Early Millet                Domestic Retail                          103          99.5        99.5        95           12          92          95          92          92
Early Melon                 Domestic Retail                          310         291         291         288          268         268         288         268         268
Sorghum                     Import Substitution                       98.5        95          94.5       101.5         98          97.5       101.5        98          97.5
Late Maize                   Import Substitution                      97          96.5        96.5        95.5         94          94          95.5        94          94
Cowpeas                     Domestic Retail                          188         181         181         174          167         167         174         167         167
Benniseed 2/                Export Parity                             175         175        225         158.5        158.5       208.5       257.5 2/    -            -
Crop Inputs
Calcium Ammonium Nitrate   Importation                 Tons           134.5      150.5       154         150          165.6       169          30 3/       -           -
Triple Super Phosphate      Importation                              156         183         188.5       171          198         203.5        30 3/       -           -
Muriate of Potash            Importation                              124        127         126         139          142         141          30 31       -           -
Seed Dressing 4/            Importation                kg.            15          15          15          15           15          15          15          15          15
Yam Dressing S/              Importation                                1.2        1.2         1.2         1.2          1.2         1.2         1.2         1.2         1.2
Storage Dressing 6/         Importation                                 1          1           1           1            1           1           1           1           1
Sprays 7/                   Importation                ha             13.5        13.5        13.5        13. 5        13.5        13.5        13.5        13.5        13.5
1/ See Supplement 14 for details of calculation.
2/ Represents guaranteed purchase price by marketing boards after deducting assembly costs.
3/ Represents Government subsidized fertilizer prices.
4/ Basis Aldrex T.
5/  Basis Aldrin 2.5.
{/ Basis Gammalin A.
71  Basis Endosulfan; total per hectare includes sprayer depreciation and battery costs.
July 27, 1976



ANNEX 13
NIGERIA
BENUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Justification
1.        Costs and benefits used in calculating the economic rate of return
to the project are given in Table 1. The project's rate of return is 27%.
Table 2 shows the results of the sensitivity analysis.
2.        The following assumptions and methods were used in calculating cost
and benefit streams:
(a)  Project life:  Project life is assumed to be 21 years (start-up
year; five project investment years during which development
activities will be initiated and substantially completed, and
15 subsequent years). No residual value is attributed after
the project period.
(b) Project costs:
(i)  project costs during the investment period are identical
to those in Annex 10;
(ii) price contingencies have been excluded but project physi-
cal contingencies have been included during the project
development period;
(iii) identifiable taxes and duties have been excluded;
(iv) incremental economic costs have been used and any
existing Government expenditure in the area is not
included;
(v)  since APMEPU's services are shared by other projects,
only 25% of APMEPU's costs have been charged to this
project during the project's development period;
(vi) costs of extension, farm advisory services and management
and administration have been assumed to remain at 100% of
Year 5 level until Year 10 and 50% from Year 10 onwards;
on the basis that in the later period of the project's
life farmers will require less support to maintain output
at projected levels;
(vii) costs of seed multiplication have been assumed at Year 5
level throughout the remainder of the project life;



ANNEX 13
Page 2
(viii) costs of livestock extension have been discontinued
after Year 5;
(ix)  costs of maintenance of pole and fuelwood plantations
and fishing lagoons have been inlcuded during the life of
the project, but other forestry and fishery extension costs
have not been taken into account after Year 5;
(x) costs of road maintenance have not been taken into
account as it is assumed that these are offset by addi-
tional road benefits;
(xi)  costs of training and evaluation have been assumed to
gradually decline to zero in Year 10, and no further
research costs have been taken into account after Year 5;
(xii) farm labor in the farm budget economic return calculations
has been shadow priced at N 1.00 per manday compared with
an estimated rural wage rate of N 1.40 per manday; this
adjustment reflects the seasonal nature of onfarm wage
levels in the project area;
(xiii) fertilizers in the farm budget have been valued at economic
prices reflecting the deduction of taxes and profits in the
handling of these inputs.
(c) Project benefits:
(i) for the purposes of the projects economic cash flow analysis,
net incremental production benefits have been included, i.e.,
net economic margins for various crops as described in
Annex 2 have been multiplied by the relevant acreages
under these crops;
(ii)  economic farmgate prices are based on 1980 projections in
1976 constant terms (based on IBRD forecasts for rice,
maize and sorghum, and on retail value of Mlarketing Board
prices for other crops);
(iii) the values of yams, cassava, millet, melon, and cowpeas are
based on local consumption; the values of rice, maize and
sorghum are based on import substitution, and the value
of benniseed is based on export parity;
(iv)  no benefits for livestock development have been.taken into
account;



ANNEX 13
Page 3
(v) forestry benefits are based on the stumpage benefits of
pole/fuelwood plantations 1/; and
(vi) fishery benefits 2/ are based on increased catches from
lagoons.
3.        Based on these assumptions the project's overall rate of return is
27%. The rate of return is relatively insensitive to changes in costs and
benefits; a 50% increase in costs would result in a rate of return of 16% and
a 50% decrease in benefits in a rate of return of 9%; a simultaneous 20%
increase in costs and 20% decrease in benefits would result in a rate of re-
turn of 16%. A one-year delay in project benefits gives a rate of return of
21% and a two-year delay gives a rate of return of 17%. Project sensitivity
has been further tested to slower than assumed farmer adoption rates for
various crops; the project continues to be economically viable (12% ERR)
even when the area under improved production is proportionately reduced from
100,000 ha to 40,000 ha.
4.        A separate rate of return has been calculated for the fuelwood/pole
plantations, and for the bunded lagoons. The rates of return are 10.4% and
22% respectively. In addition, a rate of return has been calculated for the
Basic Services Package (BSP) provided under the project. This calculation
takes only crop production benefits into account and excludes the costs of
livestock, forestry and fishery development, research and evaluation (both
project and APMEPU). 3/ The resultant rate of return was 35% for the BSP
provided under the project.
1/   For detailed forestry ROR calculations, see Supplement 5.
2/   For detailed fishery ROR calculations, see Supplement 6.
3/   Conversely, it includes all items marked in Table 1 (and as physical con-
tingencies are about equal to identifiable taxes, neither has been recal-
culated for the BSP calculation exercise.



NIGERIA
BENRIE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits
Referenc      Y                                                                                                                         Year 10
Table!-    Year 0    Year 1       Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5           Year 6      Year 7      Year 8      Year 9      Year 19    Year 20
Economic Costs
* Crop Development                            A 2.8        839.9      698.2       616.4       793.6       995.9    1,042 1  2'    1,000.0    1,000.0    1,000.0    1,000.0             500.0       500.0
* Farm Advisory Service                       A 2.9        659.2      701.8       621.0       665.3       545.2       469.3  2/       470.0       470.0        470.0       470.o       235.0       235.0
Livestock Development                       A 3.1        165.2      599.8       185.3       146.6       182.3       19653  O           -           -           -           -           - 
Forestry Development                        A 4.2          -        377.1       164.2       213.0       238.0       2051 -1/          9.0          9.0         9.0        12.6        12.6        12.6
Fisheries Development                       A 5.1          -        296.6       291.2       269.1       330.4       212.2            10.5         10.5        10.5        10.5        10.5        10.5
* Roads and Water Development                 A 6.2        575.6   1,624.3        800.4       810.3       804.7       672,3 1/-                                  -           -           - 
* Management and Administration               A 7.1        581.1   1,272.7        590.0       5o4.4       488.4       370.4           370.0       370.0        370.0       370.0       185.0       185.0
* Seed Multiplication                         A 7.5        200.6      256.4       156.5       204.8       183.2       167.2           165.o       165.o        165.0       165.0       165.0       165.0
Research                                    A 7.6          -        199.6        62.4        67.4        83.4        67.4
* Training                                    A 7.7        117.9      462.3       268.4       235.1       334.6       198.3 V         200.0       150.0        100.0        50.0
Evaluation                                  A 7.8        527.6      249.3       249.3       281.3       246.3       214.3           210.0        210.0       210.0       210.0
* Commercial Services                         A 8.4        446.1   1,966.4    1,455.9    1,215.4    1,127.3    1,056.5                  -            -           -           -           - 
* Other Overheads                            A 10.1          3.7      106.7       238.7       275.7       290.3       297.01/         300.0        300.0       300.0       300.0       300.0       300.0
Subtotal                                           4,116.9   8,810.2    5,699.7    5,715.0    5,850.0    5,i68.4              2,734.5    2,684.5    2,634.5    2,588.1    1,408.1    1,408.1
Physical Contingencies                     A 10.1        207.3      465.o       315.8       325.6       342.6       516.8              -           -           -           -
APMEPU Evaluation  L/                      S 15            -        367.1       260.9       298.8       361.5       283.3                                                              -
less Taxes  3/                                          (284.4)   (593-9)    (288.9)    (253.6)    (243.9)    (217.1)              (109.4)    (107.4)    (105.4)    (103.5)          ( 56.3)    ( 56.3)
* less Today': Expenses  S                   A  1.4       (520.0)   _2-)    (520.0)    (520.0)    (520.0)    (520.0) (520.0)                      (520.0)    (520.0)    (520.0)    (520.0)    (520.0)
TOTAL COSTS                                        3,519.8   8,528.4    5,467.5    s,565.8    5,790.2    5,031.4              2,105.1    2,057.1    2,009.1    1,964.6           831.8       831.8
Benefits
livestockp/                                 S 4
Fisheries                                      S 5         -          -           -          39.0       117.0       195.0           195.0       195.0        195.0       195.0       195.0       195.0
Forestry                                    s 6            -          -           -           -           -           -               -            -           -         175.0       175.0       175.0
Crops 8/                                   A 2.3           -     1,338.0    2,743.0    4,467.0       6,732.0      9,889.0         9,889.0    9,889.0       9,889.0    9,889.0    9,889.0    9,889.0
-     1,338.0    2,743.0    4,506.0       6,849.0   10,084.0         10,084.0   10,084.0   10,084.0   10,259.0   10,259.0   10,259.0
i/  A = Annex;  S = Supplement.
|   See Supplement 15; 25% of APMEPT costs charged to this project.
4/ Estimated at 5% of vehicles, 10% of other equipment, 10% of houses and buildings, and 20% of vehicle operating costs; after Year 5 estimated at percentage of total as calculated
in Year 5.
|   See Annex 1; present salaries amount to 9399,000; add 30% for other costs.
w No livestock development benefits taken into account, as component is very small and it is very difficult to relate benefits to improved veterinary services.
2/9N13,000 per bunded lagoon (N14,000, less an estimated 300 man-days and allowance for some other fishermen costs).
7   Although theoretically not correct, stumpage benefits of a eight-year cutting cycle have been averaged from Year 9 to 20.
2/ Economic margins as calculated in farm budgets multiplied by estimated cropping patterns, rather than commercial costs on cost side and incremental benefits on benefits side.
2/ At 100% until Year 9 and so, thereafter.
12/ Not further costed.
f/  Costs related to pole/fuelwood plantations, including average stumpage costs and maintenance from Year 9 estimated at N3.4/ha.
/   Maintenance costs of bunded lagoons (about 91700/lagoon/annum).
3   No maintenance costed, as these are assumed to at least equal selling of road benefits not taken into account.                                                                                    Ha.
14/ Gradually reduced until zero in Year 10.
N/ ot continued, as a margin vehicle which should cover commercial costs has been included in farmgate prices of inputs.                                                                              - i
/   Mainly maintenance of assets created by the project.
April 14, 1977



NIGERIA
BENUE STATE
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELPMENT PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis
RoR                       RoR                                 Assumed
Cost       Benefits        Overall Project        Basic Services Package    Overhead        Adoption Rate (BSP)       RoR
(area development)
100          100               26.75                      34.55                 K                K                   34.55
110          100               23.85                      30.95                 K                 90%                30.35
120         100                21.35                      27.95                 K                 80%                26.85
130         100                19.15                      25.35                 K                 70%                23.25
140          100               17.35                      23.05                 K                 60%                19.75
150         100                15.65                      21.05                 K                 50%                16.15
K                40%                12.45
100           90               23.55                      30.65                 K                 30%                 8.75
100          80                20.25                      26.65
100           70               16.85                      22.45
100          60                13.25                      18.15
100          50                 9.35                      13.65
F-.
110           90               20.85                      27.35
110          80                17.75                      23.65
120          90                18.55                      24.55
120          80                15.65                      21.05
April 14, 1977






' 3~~~4,                                                                                                                 777 OKc    "t !P7   X 
B.ENlh  \ . ?   --0                  ry            h   A            7W777777777' 7
{  0  0 0 0 \ ; 0 X ' > OKTO                                                                                                         N :>-. s
r~~~~~ ~~ ( fEA                                Xn$y    ,;0t   7t'WR_
- - E P   @       4   ;       ~       ~~~~~      A  E N  G  U       - A                            Q         Z       J    /             1  .    .                      '
S C9,1E90U E  G 0 S J Q +~~ . !,9 u 0.__ o/i i 1 
|    .   BXg t  of  B >nvn   E E(AN  G  E  LG    '  f      j U       U  dlF6g%~;: l= . .:',.!S- L--h:
* / ~~ C \0|1 Ae / y Qidi 0;, jf R .      EYJY;... "{hC
="'s Cs ' '4 V < At0250 , f 'w_ .000 C o A
J                                    .            ///         o      Brnzi                                                        =                                              _i






8BRD12328
[~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F                                                                                 L                               r   T EA l
LOKOa( 7'                                                                              Al8) IM 18
/ l~;'.j                                      5018C8 20R7 dG, ..k.E L.I
/ e /   D   t   K        I      N  \        ,   r         r       -    F                \0--S
P'R c1.d F                                                                           d               R \
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iIZI   Ioa , ,  0  /~I                                                           Str ba\ aa, e
\,\   <   t     1   9                |                    AIIomoO   PolmPrse              L   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.DStoosroboordas,s  J                                   P<            _
X    \ \ >   >   t                                                   EARNISE59 CECEN-ER; T LL;H.sM                                  ii~~~~~~o:9959  SaOas        ;      '            779000E
9 l 2 / M I t E b . A L A ~~~~0                                       0           70            0            50           so            I                       U,57        I   _ 



