JOFFI CIAL
LOAN MMBER 2032-AR
(Amendment)
Amending Agreement
to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements
(Refinery Conversion Project)
between
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
YACIMIENTOS PETROLIFEROS FISCALES
DatedtkA           2- , 1986


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2032-AR
(Amendment)
AMENDING AGREEMENT TO LOAN AND GUARANTEE AGREEMENTS
AGREEMENT, dated I14y                    , 1986, between THE
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Gua ntor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and YACIMIENTOS
PETROLIFEROS FISCALES (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement (Refinery Conversion
Project), dated October 2, 1981, between the Bank and the Bor-
rower (such agreement as amended to the date of this Agreement
hereinafter called the Loan Agreement), the Bank has made a loan
(hereinafter called the Loan) to the Borrower, in an amount in
various currencies equivalent to two hundred million United
States dollars ($200,000,000) on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, for the purposes of assisting in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement (hereinafter called the Project);
(B) by the Guarantee Agreement dated October 2, 1981,
between the Guarantor and the Bank (the Guarantee Agreement), the
Guarantor guaranteed the payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan as well as the punctual
performance of all other obligations of the Borrower under the
Loan Agreement;
(C) the Guarantor and the Borrower have requested the Bank
to provide additional assistance towards the financing of the
Project by increasing the amount made available -under the Loan
Agreement by an amount in var"-us currencies equivalent to one
hundred sixteen million dollars ($116,000,000); and
(D)  the Guarantor and the Borrower in consideration of the
Bank's providing the additional financing as requested, have
agreed to undertake certain additional obligations towards the
Bank, and the Guarantor, the Bank and the Borrower have agreed to
modify some covenants, agreements and obligations of the Loan and
Guarantee Agreements as set forth hereinafter; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to provide such additional assistance to the Bor-
rower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE I
Amendments of the Loan Agreement
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement is amended
by: (a) amending paragraph (c) to read: (c) "Pesos" and
"Australes" mean the currency of the Guarantor; (b) deleting the
"and" at the end of Subsection (h), substituting "; and" for "."
at the end of Subsection (h); and (c) adding the following new
paragraphs (i), (j) and (k):
"(i) "Amending Agreement" means the Agreement Amending
Loan Agreement (Refinery Conversion Project) between the
Borrower and the Bank, and the Guarantee Agreement (Ref'nery
Conversion Project) between the Guarantor and the Bank,
dated                   , 1986;"
"(j) "Financial Management Improvement Plan" means the
plan of action to improve the Borrower's accounting, cost
control and accountability systems referred to in Section
4.06 (a) of this Agreement, as such plan may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Bank and the
Borrower;" and
"(k) "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year
which begins on January 1 and ends on December 31."
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Loan Agreement is amended
to read as follows:
"Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Loan Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to three hundred sixteen million dollars ($316,000,000) in
two tranches, the first tranche being an amount in various
currencies  equivalent   to  two  hundred   million  dollars
($200,000,000) (the First Tranche) and the second tranche
being an amount in various currencies equivalent to one
hundred sixteen million dollars ($116,000,000) (the Second
Tranche)."
Section 1.03. Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement is amended
by adding the following new paragraph (d).
"(d) Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall other-
wise agree, all amounts withdrawn from the Loan Account


﻿-3-
or  made   subject  to  a  special  commitment  pursuant  to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall initially be
charged against the First Tranche until that tranche has
been exhausted, and shall thereafter be charged against the
Second Tranche."
Section 1.04. The first sentence of Section 2.04 of the Loan
Agreement is amended to read as follows:
"The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1987 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish."
Section 1 .05. A proviso is added at the end of Section
2.05 of the Loan Agreement reading as follows:
provided, however, that commitment charges on the
Second Tranche shall accrue from a date sixty days after the
date of the Amending Agreement."
Section 1.06. Section 2.06 of the Loan Agreement is amended
to read as follows:
"Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest at
the rate of nine and three fifths per cent (9.3/5%) per
annum on the principal amount of the First Tranche withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
(b) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Second Tranche withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period
equal to one half percent per annum above the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to
the commencement of such Interest Period.
(c) As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings for such  emester.
(d) For purposes of this Section:
(i) 'Interest Period' means the six-month period
commencing on each date specified in Sec-
tion 2.07 of this Loan Agreement, including
the Interest Period in which the Amending
Agreement is signed;


﻿(ii)  'Cost of Qualified Borrowings' means the cost
of the outstanding borrowings of the Bank
drawn down after June 30, 1982, expressed as
a percentage per annum, as reasonably deter-
mined by the Bank; and
(iii)  'Semester' means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year."
Section 1.07.   Article IV of the Loan Agreement is amended
by adding the following new Section 4.06:
"Section 4.06. (a) Not later than six months after the
date of the Amending Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare
and furnish to the Bank a plan of action to improve the
Borrower's accounting, cost control and accountability
systems, satisfactory to the Bark.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out the Financial ianage-
ment Improvement Plan in a manner and according to a time-
table satisfactory to the Bank.
(c) Starting on April 1 each year, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Guarantor and the Bank quarterly progress
reports on the execution of the Financial Management
Improvement Plan, such reports to be of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request."
Section 1.08. Sections 5.01 and 5.02 of the Loan Agreement
are amended to read as follows:
"Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations
and financial condition, including separate records and
accounts for the Project."
"Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall:
(i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank;


﻿-5-
(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year: (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited;and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning said accounts and financial state-
ments as well as the audit thereof and said
records, as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(b)  For all expenditures with respect to which with-
drawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
this Section, separate records and accounts
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the
Bank has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Loan Account was made, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing such expen-
ditures;
(iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine
such records; and
(iv) ensure   that   such  separate   accounts  are
included in the annual audits referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section and that the
report thereof contains, in respect of such
separate accounts, a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the proceeds of the
Loan withdrawn in respect of such expendi-
tures were used for the purposes for which
they were provided."


﻿-6-
Section 1.09. Section 5.05 of the Loan Agreement is amended
to read as follows:
"Section 5.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree:
(a) the Borrower shall not purchase, redeem or other-
wise acquire for value any shares in the Borrower's capital;
(b)  the Borrower shall: (i) maintain a quick ratio of
0.6:1; and (ii) not pay dividends (other than dividends
payable in shares in the Borrower's capital) or make any
equity investment in or loan to, any Subsidiary, or volun-
tarily prepay any loan other than the Loan, or prepay part
of the outstanding amount of the Loan or make any other cash
distribution, if after any such investment or loan or pay-
ment or cash distribution such ratio would be smaller than
0.8:1;
(c)   the Borrower shall, attain a debt/equity ratio
not greater than 68:32 in fiscal year 1987, 66:34 in fiscal
year 1988 and 60:40 in fiscal year 1989 and thereafter; and
(d)   the Borrower shall not incur any debt in any
fiscal year unless a reasonable forecast of the Borrower's
revenaes and expenditures shows that the projected net
revenues of the Borrower for each full fiscal year during
the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.4
times the projected debt service requirements in such year
on all debt of the Borrower. For purposes of this paragraph,
"a reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by the
Borrower in the fiscal year in which the debt in question is
proposed to be incurred and reviewed by the Bank, which both
the Bank and the Borrower accept as reasonable and as to
which the Bank has notified the Borrower of its accept-
ability; provided, however, that, if an event has occurred
since the Bank's acceptance of such forecast which would
have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or
future operating results of the Borrower, the Bank and the
Borrower shall revise such forecast and the revised forecast
shall be acceptable to the Bank.
(e) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) "debt" means any debt, incurred by the Bor-
rower and maturing more than one year after


﻿-7-
the date on which it is originally incurred,
and debt contracted for less than a year but
rolled over beyond one year;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (1)
under a loan contract or agreement, on the
date it is drawn down but only to the extent
that it is outstanding, and (2) under a
guarantee agreement, on the date such agree-
ment is entered into;
(iii) "equity" means the sum of      the Borrower's
unimpaired paid-in share capital, surplus and
free reserves; provided, however, that there
shall be excluded therefrom such items as
shall  represent   equity  interests  of  the
Borrower in any Subsidiary or of any Sub-
sidiary in the Borrower or in any other
Subsidiary;
(iv) "net revenues" means gross revenues from all
sources less all operating and administrative
expenses, and amounts paid or to be paid in
cash within the year on account of taxes;
provided that the operating and adminis-
trative expenses shall not include interest
and other charges on debt, and provision for
depreciation of avsets;
(v) "quick ratio" means the ratio of current
assets less inventories to current liabili-
ties, less debt contracted for less than a
year and rolled over beyond that period;
(vi)  "current liabilities" means accounts payable
within  twelve   months,  customer  advances,
amounts due for income taxes, dividends,
bonuses and all other liabilities due and
payable within twelve months;
(vii) "current assets" means cash, all assets which
could in the ordinary course of business be
converted into cash within twelve months,
including accounts receivable, marketable
securities and pre-paid expenses properly


﻿-8-
chargeable to operating expenses within the
next fiscal year; and
(viii) whenever it shall be necessary to value in
terms of pesos debt payable in foreign cur-
rency, such valuation shall be made at the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which
such foreign currency is, at the time of such
valuation, obtainable by the Borrower for the
purposes of servicing such debt."
Section 1.10 of the Loan Agreement is amended by adding the
following new Section 5.09:
"Section 5.09. (a) Not later than November 30 each
year, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a draft of
the Borrower's budget for the following Fiscal Year, such
budget to include investment and woxk plans and to have been
approved   in  principle   by  the   Guarantor  through   the
Ministerio de Economia and the Secretaria de Energia.
(b)   The Borrower shall afford the Bank a reasonable
opportunity to comment on such draft budget.
(c)  The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank not later
than March 30 each year its budget for such Fiscal Year
formally approved by the Guarantor through its Ministerio de
Economia, such budget to be balanced and to include reason-
able investment and work plans and be based on reasonable
assumptions of revenues and expenditures.
(d)  The Borrower shall carry out only the investment
and work plans contained in the budget referred to in para-
graph (c) of this Section, provided, however, that the
Borrower may amend its investment plans by a total amount
equivalent to not more than 10% of the aggregate value of
such investment plans in the budget referred to in para-
graph (c) above.
(e)   The Borrower shall furnish quarterly reports to
the Bank, within 30 days of the end of each quarter of each
Fiscal Year on: (i) the progress it has made in the carrying
out of the investment and work plans; and (ii) starting in
the first quarter of 1987 on the Borrower's cash flow situa-
tion."


﻿-9-
Section 1.11. Section 6.01 of the Loan Agreement is amended
by adding the following new paragraph (c):
"(c) The Guarantor, the Bank and the Borrower shall
have failed to agree on the content of the budget referred
to in paragraph (c) of Section 5.09 of this Agreement,
either because it disregards comments made by the Bank
pursuant to paragraph (b) thereof, or because such budget
differs substantially from the budget furnished to the Bank
pursuant to paragraph (a) of such Section."
Section 1.12. Section 6.02 of the Loan Agreement is amended
by substituting the words "in paragraphs (a) and (b)" by "in
paragraphs (a) or (b) or (c)."
Section 1.13. The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the
Loan Agreement is amended to read as set forth in Schedule 1 to
this Amending Agreement. The percentages of expenditures to be
financed as set forth in Schedule 1 to this Amending Agreement
shall be applicable in respect of payments made for expenditures
incurred on or after the date of this Amending Agreement.
Section 1.14. Paragraph 2 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agree-
ment is amended by designating the current definition of foreign
expenditures as paragraph (a) and adding the following new para-
graph (b):
(b) "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Guarantor.
Section 1.15. Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement is amended as
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Amending Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Amendments to the Guarantee Agreement
Section 2.01. The Guarantee Agreement is amended by adding
the following new Section 2.03:
"Section 2.03. The Guarantor undertakes to make capital
contributions to the Borrower in amounts satisfactory to the
Bank, for each Fiscal Year in order to allow the Borrower to
balance the budget for such Fiscal Year referred to in para-
graph (c) of Section 5.09 of the Loan Agreement."


﻿- 10 -
Section 2.02. The Guarantee Agreement is amended by adding
the following new Section 2.04:
"Section 2.04. (a) The Guarantor shall make capital
contributions to the Borrower in such amounts and dates so
as to enable the Borrower to pay, when due, the principal
amount of, and interest and other financial charges (includ-
ing any amounts payable by the Borrower for any taxes on
such interests and financial charges) on, its financial
external debt and its internal debt.
(b) For purposes of this Section:
(i) "financial external debt" means all debt
with foreign commercial banks and financial
institutions incurred by the Borrower other
than to finance the acquisition of fixed
assets,   such   amounts   estimated   to  be
$4,156,000,000 (four billion one hundred
fifty six million dollars), as of January 1,
1986."; and
(ii)  "internal debt" means    all  commercial and
financial debt incurred by the Borrower in
Argentina   on or before January 31, 1986, up
to an amount equivalent to A 1,000,000,000
(one billion Australes)."
Section 2.03. The Guarantee Agreement is amended by sub-
stituting the date in Section 3.07 by "December 31, 1986."
Section 2.04. The Guarantee Agreement is amended by adding
the following Section 4.06:
"Section 4.06. The Guarantor shall exchange views
with the Bank, through its Ministerio de Economia, on the
quarterly reports furnished by the Borrower pursuant to
Sections 4.06 (c) and 5.09 (e) of the Loan Agreement."
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination
Section 3.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become
effective until evidence satisfactory to the Bank shall have been


﻿- 11 -
furnished to the Bank: (a) that the execution and delivery of
this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Guarantor and Borrower
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary govern-
mental action; and (b) that the Guarantor has made arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank to provide the capital contributions
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Amending Agreement.
Section 3.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pur-
suant to Section 3.01 of this Amending Agreement, there shall be
furnished to the Bank an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the
Bank of counsel acceptable to the Bank showing, on behalf of the
Guarantor and Borrower that this Amending Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of, the Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in
accordance with its terms, and that the arrangements referred to
in Section 3.01 (b) of this Amending Agreement have been made and
constitute a valid and binding obligation upon the Guarantor,
which is enforceable by the Borrower under the laws of the
Guarantor.
Section 3.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force
and effect on the date upon which the. Bank dispatches to the
Borrower notice of its acceptance of the evidence required by
Section 3.01 of this Amending Agreement.
Section 3.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come
into force and effect by                                    , this
Amending Agreement and a          tion   o   'B parties hereunder
shall terminate, unless the Bank establishes a later date for
the purposes of this Section. If this Amending Agreement shall
terminate under the provisions of this Section, the Loan Agree-
ment shall continue in full force and effect, as if this Amending
Agreement had not been executed.


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Amending Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
ByAuthor                      ed Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By    C   a    I6)   "k      '     P
Regional Vic President
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
YACIMIENTOS PETROLIFEROS FISCALES
Bthorized Representative


﻿- 13 -
SCREDULE 1
Withdrawals of the Proceeds of the Loan
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Part A of the
Project:
(a) Engineering,           42,000,000     100% of foreign
Licenses and                          expenditures
start-up
assistance
(b) Equipment,
materials and
spare parts
(i) 90,000,000       100% of foreign
expenditures
(ii) 15,000,000      100% of local
expenditures
(c) Construction,         121,000,000      100% of foreign
erection and                          expenditures and
construction                          56% of local
supervision                          expenditures
(2) Goods and services          22,300,000     100% of foreign
for Part B of the                          expenditures
Project
(3)  Services for Part C           700,000     90%
of the Project and
training


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(4) PESA Initial Deposit        12,000,000      100%
(5) FESA Initial Deposit        13,000,000      100%
TOTAL                316,000,000


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
First Tranche
On each April 1 and October 1
beginning April 1, 1987
through   October 1, 1993                  13,335,000
On April 1, 1994                                 13,310,000
Second Tranche
On each January 1 and July 1
beginning January 1, 1989
through   January 1, 1994                   9,660,000
On July 1, 1994                                   -,740,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawals; see
General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.


﻿- 16 -
Premiums on Prepayment
of First Tranche
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a)   First Tranche of the Loan
Time of Prepayment                          Premium
Not more than three years                          2.05%
before maturity
More than three year but                           4.10%
not more than two years
before maturity
More than six years but                            6.85%
not more than ten years
before maturity
More than ten years but                            8.25%
not more than twelve years
before maturity
More than twelve years                             9.60%
before maturity


﻿- 17 -
(b)   Second Tranche of the Loan
Time of Prepayment                          Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percetage
per annum) applicable
to the balance out-
standing on the Loan
on the day of prepay-
ment multiplied by:
Not more than one year                             .17
before maturity
More than one year but                             .33
not more than two years
before maturity
More than two years but                            .50
not more than three years
before maturity
More than three years but                          .67
not more than four years
before maturity
More than four years                             1.00%
before maturity


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  d       day of        198
FOR SECRETARY


