FOFFICIAL
DOCURM    S    LOAN NUMBER 2032-AR
Guarantee Agreement
(Refinery Conversion Project)
between
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                                 18 a  2  , e


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2032-AR
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     6                             , 1981,
between THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (hereinafter called the Guarantor)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (here-
inafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales (hereinafter
called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a
loan in various currencies equivalent to two hundred million
dollars ($200,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree
to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such
loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower and of the
Borrower's agreement to pay to the Guarantor the fee referred to
in Section 5.06 of the Loan Agreement, has agreed so to guarantee
such obligations of the Borrower and to carry out Part E of the
Project;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth
in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasnable cause to
believe that the funds available to the iorrower will be
inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the
carrying out of Parts A to D of the Project, to make arrangements,
satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower or
cause the Borrower to be provided with such funds as are needed
to meet such expenditures.
ARTICLE III
Execution of Part E of the Project
Section 3.01. The Guarantor shall carry out Part E of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for Part E of the Project.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Guarantor in carrying
out Part E of the Project, the Guarantor shall employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall duly perform all its
obligations under the contractual arrangements referred to in
Section 3.01 (b) of the Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving any provision thereof.


﻿-3-
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Guarantor shall cause all services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan transferred to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for Part E of the Project.
Section 3.05. The Guarantor shall: (a) maintain records
adequate to record the progress of Part E of the Project
(including the cost thereof) and to identify the services financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan transferred to it by the Borrower;
and (b) furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning Part E of the Project, the expendi-
ture of such proceeds and the services financed out of them.
Section 3.06. The Guarantor shall cooperate fully with the
Borrower -in the preparation of the report referred to in Section
3.04 (d) of the Loan Agreement.
Section 3.07. The Guarantor shall, not later than
December 31, 1982, furnish to the Bank the recommendations of the
study included in Part E of the Project and a plan of action to
carry them out.
Section 3.08. Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract
for services for Part E of the Project to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost to the
Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest


﻿-4-
and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating
or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express
provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any
constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be made
with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its political
or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall promptly and
at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public
assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central
bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Guarantor.
Section 4.02. The Guarantor shall, from time to time, take
all action required on its part to ensure that the ex-refinery
prices of the Borrower's products are adequate to provide the
Borrower, operating efficiently, with funds sufficient to cover
all its costs and expenses before interest, to earn a reasonable
return on its revalued net fixed assets in service and to allow it
to meet the financial ratios set forth in Section 5.05 of the Loan
Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Guarantor shall exchange views with the
Bank with regard to any proposed expansion of petroleum refining
capacity in Argentina.
Section 4.04. The Guarantor shall, as and when needed,
take all measures necessary to provide the Borrower with such
supply of utilities as shall be required for the adequate utili-
zation of the facilities included in Part A of the Project.


﻿-5-
Section 4.05. The Guarantor shall compensate the Borrower for
any losses incurred by the Borrower on account of changes between
the rate of exchange of the dollar and any other currencies in
which the principal of the Loan withdrawn by the Borrower from the
Loan Account is repayable.
ARTICLE V
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 5.01. The Ministro de Economla, Hacienda y Finanzas
of the Guarantor is designated as representative of the Guarantor
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministerio de Economla, Hacienda y Finanzas
Hip6lito Irigoyen 250
Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA                121952 AR
Baires
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-6-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By                                    0
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  2       day of i  d, 198 L.
FOR SECRETARY


