Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4709-IN 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for Rajasthan Water Sector Restructuring Project) 
 
between 
 
INDIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated May 21, 2010 
Page  2
2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 4709-IN 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated May 21, 2010, entered into between INDIA 
 
(“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for activities related to 
the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Recipient and 
the Association hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
twelve million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 12,400,000) 
(variously, “Credit” and “Financing”) to assist in financing the project described 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
 
2.05.     The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07.     The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
 
Page  4
2
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Recipient’s 
State of Rajasthan in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions and the Additional Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
EFFECTIVENESS, TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that 
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Additional Project Agreement, 
other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement, shall have been 
fulfilled. 
 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is any of the following: Secretary, Additional 
Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the 
Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Recipient. 
 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Secretary 
Department of Economic Affairs 
Ministry of Finance, Government of India 
North Block  
New Delhi 110001, India 
 
Facsimile: 
91-11-23092039 
Page  5
3
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Facsimile: 
 
1-202-477-6391 
 
AGREED at Jaipur, India, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INDIA 
 
By /s/ 
Anuj Arora 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ 
R. S. Pathak 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
4
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description 
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) strengthen capacity for strategic planning 
and sustainable development and management of the surface and ground water resources 
in Rajasthan; and (b) increase the productivity of irrigated agriculture through improving 
the performance of surface irrigation systems and strengthening agriculture support 
services and increased involvement of users and the private sector in Rajasthan. 
 
The Project consists of the Original Project and the following parts, subject to 
such modifications thereof as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objective: 
 
Part A: 
 
Water Sector Institutional Restructuring and Capacity Building 
 
Strengthening of Rajasthan’s existing hydrological information systems. 
 
Part B: Improving Irrigation System Performance  
 
Scaling up of dam safety and canal rehabilitation/modernization works (including 
works in Rajasthan’s Bhakra canal system), and installation of an automatic 
water measurement and recording system in Gang and Bhakra canal system in 
Rajasthan. 
 
Part C: Project Management
 
Carrying out of Project related water sector studies. 
 
Page  7
5
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements 
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the
 
Recipient shall make the proceeds 
of the Financing available to Rajasthan, in accordance with the Borrower’s 
standard arrangements for development assistance to the States of India. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall protect the interests of the Association to accomplish the 
purposes of the Financing 
 
B. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and the GAAP. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and shall 
cause Rajasthan to prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the Key Performance 
Indicators.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of six (6) months, and 
shall be furnished to the Association not later than one (1) month after the end of 
the period covered by such report. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
cause Rajasthan to prepare and furnish to the Association not later than  
forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, Interim Unaudited 
Financial Reports (IUFR) for the Project covering the quarter, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association. Said IUFRs will also serve as a basis 
for disbursement of the Credit for Eligible Expenditures incurred during said 
calendar quarter. 
Page  8
6
3. 
The Recipient shall have the Designated Account and the Project’s Financial 
Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the 
General Conditions.  Each audit of the Designated Account and of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one (1) financial year of the Recipient, 
commencing with the financial year in which the first withdrawal under the 
Project was made.  The audit for the Designated Account and audited Financial 
Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Association not later 
than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General 
 
1
.
Goods and Works
.
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services
.
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
3. 
Definitions
.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional 
provisions agreed upon from time to time between the Recipient and the 
Association. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
 
Page  9
7
Procurement Method 
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set 
forth in the Procurement Plan
 
(b) Shopping 
(c) Direct 
Contracting 
(d) 
Community Participation in Procurement 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) 
Quality Based Selection 
(b) 
Selection Made Under a Fixed Budget 
(c) 
Least Cost Selection 
(d) 
Selection Based on Consultant’s Qualifications 
(e) 
Single Source Selection 
(f) 
Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Association. 
Page  10
8
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the 
Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed   
(inclusive of Taxes
)
(1) Works 
5,357,000 
90% 
(2) Goods 
5,866,000 
85% 
(3) Consultants’ 
services 
and training (including 
workshops) 
1,162,000 100% 
(4) Operating 
costs 
15,000 
20% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
12,400,000 
 
For purposes of this Section IV: 
 
(a) 
the term “training” means non-consultant expenditures incurred in 
connection with the provision of training, including training institution fees, logistics, 
materials, and the reasonable cost of travel and per diem of trainers and trainees; and  
 
(b) 
the term “operating costs” means the incremental costs of maintenance 
and operation of the PMU, including office expenses, vehicles, salaries and allowances of 
incremental PMU staff and other staff working for the Project, and travel costs incurred 
for the purposes of carrying out the Project. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
Page  11
9
1.
 
The Closing Date is March 31, 2013. 
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each March 15 and September 15: 
 
commencing September 15, 2020 to and including 
March 15, 2030 
1.25% 
commencing September 15, 2030 to and including 
March 15, 2045 
2.50% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  12
10 
 
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
4. 
“ESMF” means Rajasthan’s Environmental and Social Management Framework, 
dated January 15, 2010, governing all social and environmental aspects of Project 
implementation, including mitigation and adaptive measures to offset, reduce to 
acceptable levels, or eliminate any adverse social and environmental impacts 
under the Project, all as prescribed in the Project's Resettlement and 
Rehabilitation Policy Framework, the Tribal Development Strategy and the 
Integrated Pest Management Plan, as said framework may be updated from time 
to time by agreement between the Association and Recipient. 
5. 
“Financial Management Manual” means the Financial Management Manual, set 
forth in chapter 5.0 of the PIP (as hereinafter defined), which provides for the 
financial management and institutional arrangements and obligations under the 
Project, as such Manual may be amended from time to time by agreement 
between the Association and Recipient. 
6. 
“GAAP” means the Governance and Accountability Action Plan set forth as 
Annex 23 of the Project Implementation Plan (as hereinafter defined), which 
identifies key governance issues and sets forth mitigation measures to address 
said issues in respect of the carrying out of Project activities, as said Plan may be 
amended from time to time with the concurrence of the Association. 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006). 
8. 
“IUFR” means Interim Unaudited Financial Report, a report prepared by 
Recipient and submitted periodically to the Association which reflects all Project 
activities, financing, and expenditures, which report may be used to support 
disbursement requests under the Project. 
 
Page  13
11 
 
9. 
“Key Performance Indicators” means the indicators for monitoring and 
evaluating progress towards the attainment of Project objectives. 
 
10. 
“M&E Agency” means the Monitoring and Evaluation Agency of the Project, 
established under the Original Project (as hereinafter defined). 
 
11. 
“Original Credit Agreement” means the development credit agreement for a 
Rajasthan Water Sector Restructuring Project between the Recipient and the 
Association, dated March 15, 2002 (Credit No.3603-IN). 
12. 
“Original Project Agreement” means the project agreement between Rajasthan 
and the Association, dated March 15, 2002 in connection with the Original Credit 
Agreement. 
13. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Credit Agreement. 
14. 
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit for the Project, established under 
the Original Project. 
15. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006. 
16. 
“Procurement Manual” means the Procurement Manual set forth as chapter 4 of 
the PIP (as hereinafter defined), which Manual sets forth the procurement 
management and institutional arrangements and obligations under the Project as 
such Manual may be amended from time to time by agreement between the 
Association and Recipient. 
17. 
“Procurement Plan” means Rajasthan’s procurement plan for the Project, dated 
March 2, 2010 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines 
and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated 
from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
18. 
“Project Implementation Plan” or “PIP” means Rajasthan’s plan for 
implementation of the Project  dated February 2,2010, as said plan may be 
amended from time to time by agreement between the Association and the 
Recipient.
 
