Report No. PID9134
Project Name                     Uganda-Road Development Program, Phase II (@)
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Highways
Project ID                       UGPE65436
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF WORKS, HOUSING AND
COMMUNICATIONS/RAFU
Ministry of Works, Housing and Communications (MOWHC)
P. 0. Box 10, Entebbe, Uganda
Contact Person: Permanent Secretary/Director
of RAFU
Tel: 256-41-320101/9/256-41-232814
Fax: 256-41-320135
Email: Rafu@infocom.co.ug
Environment Category             A
Date PID Prepared                May 1, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         February 15, 2001
Projected Board Date             July 3, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Since the late 1980s, Uganda has been one of the fastest growing economies
in Africa. The government has developed a comprehensive policy and
institutional reform program designed to deregulate the economy, eliminate
direct state involvement in all but the essential public services, and
improve institutional efficiency; and has embarked on a major
privatization program, a comprehensive civil service reform and public
expenditures reform, for both development and recurrent budgets, and a
decentralization process.As part of the overall strategy to promote growth
and poverty alleviation, the Government has prepared a 10-year Road Sector
Development Program (RSDP- 1997/8-2006/7) for main roads which aims to
provide an efficient, safe and sustainable road network in support of
market integration and poverty alleviation; to improve the managerial and
operational efficiency of road administration; and to develop the domestic
construction industry. Overall, projected total expenditure under RSDP is
estimated at US$ 1.8 billion. Expenditures under the first phase (FY
1997-2001), estimated at US$ 904 million, reflect a strategy focusing on
the preservation and selective upgrading of existing road assets. IDA is
supporting this first phase of RSDP with an Adaptable Program Loan (APL)
in four phases over eight years. The first phase is under way; this PID
describes the second phase (RDPP2), which has an implementation period of
five years.
2. Objectives
The objective of the Project is to improve access to rural areas and
economically productive areas and to gradually build up road sector
planning, design and program management capability, as well as road safety
management. These objectives complement the objectives of the Phase 1



project in meeting the overall objectives of the Program
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
An important source of value added by Bank support is its comparative
worldwide experience in the preparation and implementation of major
capital expenditure programs. The donor community active in Uganda has
acknowledged and recognized the Bank's leadership role during preparation
of the RSDP. The Bank also benefits from the experience, both positive and
negative, gained in implementing comprehensive road sector development
programs with institutional reforms in African countries such as Ethiopia,
Mozambique, Tanzania, and Zambia. Another source of advantage is the
Bank's experience in road sector reform in the Region gained over the last
ten years through the steering of the Road Maintenance Initiative (RMI).
This has provided the Bank with the goodwill of beneficiaries and donors
in creating a cooperative framework where sector reform has gradually been
shaped, implemented and monitored. The Bank has responded to the
Government's request by flexibly targeting, and quickly delivering, its
array of lending instruments (including a PPF and a technical assistance
credit (RSISTAP)), in support of a credible assistance strategy,
emphasizing sector and institutional reform prior to the commitment of
resources to finance physical components. The APL instrument is also
providing greater flexibility in adapting project design and financing to
client needs as they evolve as evidenced by the redesign of the Phase II
project components including the inclusion of NDF-financed components to
be administered by the Bank. The Bank's participation thus provides for
better continuity for the implementation of the long-term national
program.
4. Description
The Project comprises:
(i) upgrading and strengthening of the two high priority national roads;
(ii) improvement of safety at selected road black spots, and the
associated road safety enforcement and management
(iii) pilot studies of innovative technologies and non-conventional
materials in construction of low-volume-traffic roads;
(iv) consultancy services of the design and construction supervision of a
future proposed Road Agency headquarters building.
(v) feasibility study and detailed engineering design of new Road Agency
headquarters building
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT               23.58
NDF                      8.90
IDA                      64.52
Total Project Cost       97.00
6. Implementation
1. Administrative. The Ministry of Works, Housing and Communications
(MOWHC) would have the overall responsibility for the implementation of
the proposed Program. GOU is taking action to investigate needs for
establishment of an Road Agency by FY 2002 aimed at fostering improved
managerial capability through performance-based management and the
contracting-out of services, which can be more efficiently provided by the
private sector.    As a transitional measure, a Road Agency Formation Unit
-2 -



(RAFU) has been established with IDA support under RSISTAP. RAFU, through
its management divisions, forms the nucleus for the future Road Agency
during the transition period. RAFU has been mandated to be in charge of
(i) road network development and management; (ii) planning and management
of network maintenance; and (iii) overseeing the implementation of the
Program, with emphasis on technical and financial monitoring and
performance evaluation. MOWHC's new role will concentrate on technical and
economic regulatory functions, sector planning, environmental protection;
and budget programming and execution. 2. Financial Management and
Auditing. The Finance and Administration Division (FAD) of RAFU has been
established within the institutional framework of the Ministry of Works,
Housing and Communications (MOWHC), with responsibility for Project
financial management. 3. Monitoring and Evaluation. (i) A monitoring and
evaluation system has been developed under RDPP1 which will be continued
under Phase 2; (ii) semi-annual progress reports will be prepared on the
basis of the project implementation plan; and (iii) a completion report
will be submitted by the Government to IDA within six months of Credit
closing. Annual reviews of project implementation will be carried out
before the beginning of each fiscal year to facilitate annual program
budgeting. A mid-term review will be carried out 30 months after Credit
effectiveness.4. Implementation Period. The implementation period for
RDPP2 will be about five years. Pre-contract activities are being carried
out with the assistance of consultants.
7. Sustainability
The critical factor required for sustainability of Program and Project
benefits is continued Government commitment at the highest level to sector
and institutional reform. By involving, right from the start, key
stakeholders, including direct beneficiaries, lawmakers and the civil
society, the framework has been set for the sustained mobilization of
Government support. Another key element for sustainability is that
producers and road users, through improved accessibility and
infrastructure condition quickly realize benefits from the reforms. To
this end, RAFU will contribute to ensuring the successful and timely
implementation of the proposed project through its highly professional
staff. In addition, Government should strictly adhere to providing the
financial requirements for road rehabilitation and maintenance projected
under the TSIREP. Government should be prepared to evaluate alternative
financing, including private sector participation, in light of the
expanding investment in the road sector.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Experience from past projects in Uganda indicates that the main risk has
been the limited capacity of the implementation agency, in particular, the
ability of the agency to effectively address problems related to contract
management, contract administration, and financial and technical
monitoring. There have been substantial delays in the processing and
awarding of contracts, leading to substantially higher costs at the
initial stages of commencement and to delayed completion. The lessons from
the modest success of technical assistance provided to develop the
implementation and planning capacity of MOWHC is that major policy changes
need to be carried out prior to undertaking major investment programs, and
need full commitment by Government to ensure success. The structure of
road administration in Uganda has been subject to frequent changes,
resulting in confusion, poorly organized planning and administration, and
- 3-



ineffective long-term institutional and staff development. Therefore,
major institutional and policy changes, including reorganization and
institutional strengthening of road administration, as well as changes in
the decision-making process, have been undertaken by the Government. These
include an option for establishment of the proposed Road Agency by FY
2002, with RAFU in the interim. RAFU has so far facilitated sucessfully
the implementation of the increasing size of the road program under RDP
Phase 1. Other lessons are that inadequate engineering design and weak
documentation resulted in implementation delays and cost overruns. Steps
are therefore being taken during Program Phase 1 project implementation to
ensure the readiness and availability of completed contract documentation
before commencement of works. These steps include, inter alia, recruitment
by RAFU of the proper skill mix of highly professional staff with the
ability to manage and procure the works to be carried out by various
consultants and contractors.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues         : An environmental assessment was carried out for
each road project as part of the detailed feasibility studies. The main
purpose of the road specific EIAs was: (i) to prepare a comprehensive
investigation delineating any environmental impacts of the proposed road
works; (ii) to describe and quantify these impacts; (iii) to draw up
feasible mitigation measures for minimizing, eliminating, or offsetting
any adverse effects; and (iv) to recommend the most appropriate mitigation
and/or enhancement measures. Funds have been provided under RSISTAP for
the establishment of an environmental management/liaison unit within
MOWHC. This support will provide the needed capacity to coordinate and
monitor the environmental and social mitigation measures under the RSDP.
This would facilitate coordination between RAFU, MOWHC, NEMA and Uganda
Wildlife Authority (UWA) on the implementation and monitoring of the
mitigation measures. These teams would work closely with the Engineer,
the Contractors, members of the local communities that are affected by the
road rehabilitation and representatives of the respective Parks, QENP and
MFNP. Well defined mitigation measures will be implemented to control
construction activities and vehicle speeds. These mitigation measures
have been developed and agreed with the Uganda Wildlife Authority and Park
authorities. Particular care will need to be given to controlling and
restricting the extraction of construction materials, construction of camp
development, and restoration of construction sites to natural habitat. A
key mitigation activity will also be control of vehicle speeds and road
signing to limit the occurrence of wildlife kills as well as providing
some support to UWA for monitoring impacts of project activities. The
success of the proposed EMP rests with: (i) ensuring adoption of
appropriate work practices through their specification in a management
plan; (ii) contract documentation; (iii) costs and schedules; and (iv)
on-site monitoring. The relevant parties have agreed to the institutional,
financial, technical, legal, and logistical implications of the
implementation of the proposed mitigation measures. In addition,
MOWHC/RAFU have ensured that mitigation measures are incorporated in final
road designs and contract documentation, and that appropriate expertise is
included in the supervision consultants' staff to carry out such measures.
Road Sector EA: In addition to the road specific EIAs, a Sector
Environmental Assessment has been undertaken under the PPF to review the
- 4 -



environmental aspects of the RSDP with respect to (i) the adequacy of the
current national system of environmental policies and regulations
regarding environmental impact assessment, resettlement (framework),
policies and strategies, mitigation, monitoring, and management of road
work activities; (ii) the capacity of the MOWHC and the National
Environmental Management Authority (NEMA) to commission, facilitate and
implement future environmental assessments of road projects; (iii) the
identification of programs and organization of training courses targeted
to appropriate government staff and consultants in environmental
assessment techniques and methodologies for road projects, and (iv) an
assessment of local consultant capacity and training needs to conduct
relevant environmental assessments.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Yitzhak A. Kamhi
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202)-473-7858
Fax: 202-4738326
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending May 4, 2001.
- 5 -



