Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21471-UG
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF 50.9 SDR MILLION (US$ 64.52 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
FOR A
PROJECT IN SUPPORT OF THE
SECOND PHASE OF THE ROAD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
JUNE 7, 2001
AFTTR
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 31, 2001)
Currency Unit = Uganda Shilling
Ush 1670 = US$1
US$ = SDR I
FISCAL YEAR
July I -- June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL           Adaptable Program Lending
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
DMTFU         Disaster Management Task Force Unit
EIA/SIA       Environmental/Social Impact Assessment
EIRR          Economic Internal Rate of Retum
EU            European Union
GOU           Government of Uganda
ICB           Intermational Competitive Bidding
IDA           Intemational Development Association
MMIS          Monitoring and Management Information System
MOF           Ministry of Finance Planning and Economic Development
MOFPED        Ministry of Finance Planning and Economic Development
MOWHC         Ministry of Works, Housing and Communication
NDF           Nordic Development Fund
NEMA          National Environmental Management Authority
NPV           Net Present Value
NURP          Northem Uganda Rehabilitation Project
PEAP          Poverty Eradication Action Plan
PFP           Policy Framework Paper
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
PRSP          Poverty Reduction Strategy Program
PS            Permanent Secretary
RAFU          Road Agency Formation Unit
RDP           Road Development Program
RDPPI         Road Development Program, Phase I
RMI           Road Maintenance Initiative
RSDP          Road Sector Development Plan
RSISTAP       Road Sector Institutional Support Technical Assist. Project
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
TRP           Transport Rehabilitation Project
TSIREP        Transport Sector Investment and Recurrent Exp. Program
URC           Uganda Railways Corporation
Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:   James W. Adams
Sector Manager:    Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Yitzhak Kamhi



UGANDA
SECOND PHASE OF THE ROAD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
CONTENTS
A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective                                  Page
1. Program purpose and program phasing                                                3
2. Project development objective                                                      6
3. Key performance indicators                                                         7
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     7
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         7
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 9
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans                 10
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                14
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     14
3. Benefits and target population                                                    15
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     15
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                         17
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies        19
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                               20
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                  20
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       21
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          21
2. Financial                                                                         22
3. Technical                                                                         24
4. Institutional                                                                     25
5. Environmental                                                                     26
6. Social                                                                            27
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                28
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    29



2. Critical risks                                                                    30
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    30
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           30
2. Other                                                                             31
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         31
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        31
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         32
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   43
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        52
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary,                                                 54
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              59
Annex 5b: Financial Management Overview
Annex 5c: Fiscal Impact of RDPP2
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements Table A, Table B, Table C, Table D   72
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    77
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  78
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 79
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           81
Annex 11: Letter of Development Program from the Government of Uganda                   83
Annex 12: Summaries of Environmental Impact and Socio-Economic Assessment Reports       90
MAP(S)



UGANDA
SECOND PHASE OF THE ROAD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTTR
Date: April 25, 2001                               Team Leader: Yitzhak A. Kamhi
Country Manager/Director: James W. Adams           Sector Manager: Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard
Project ID: P065436                                Sector(s): TH - Highways
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)    Theme(s): Transport
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data:.                                                    ' '   '         . '   . . ..-.:.':
-Estim ated ''.    ........    .... ......   ......
APL             Indicative Financing Plan        Implementation Period           Borrower
(Bank   FY).. .............'
IDA             Others      Total    Commitment   Closing
US$ m     %      USS m       US$ m         Date        Date
APL 1        90.98    75.9    28.96      119.94       11/22/99   06/30/2004 The Republic of Uganda
Loan/
Credit__                                                                  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
APL 2        64.52    66.5    32.48       97.00    07/30/2001   06/30/2006 The Republic of Uganda
Loan/
Credit
APL 3       100.40    75.2    33.15      133.55     10/30/2002   06/30/2007 The Republic of Uganda
Loan/
Credit
APL 4       26.25    75.0      8.75       35.00     06/28/2003   12/30/2007 The Republic of Uganda
Loan/
C redit                            _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Total      282.15            103.34      385.49               __
[ I Loan    [X] Credit     1 Grant      [ J Guarantee     [O Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): TBD
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                          Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5%                              Service charge: 0.75%



Financing Plan (US$m): Source:                                  Loca..l.      Foreign         T
BORROWER                                                         23.58            0.00          23.58
IDA                                                               9.66           54.86          64.52
NORDIC DEVELOPMENT FUND                                           0.32            8.58           8.90
Total:                                                           33.56           63.44          97.00
Borrower: THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF WORKS, HOUSING AND COMMUNICATIONS/RAFU
Ministry of Works, Housing and Communications (MOWHC)
Address: P. 0. Box 10, Entebbe, Uganda
Contact Person: Permanent Secretary/Director of RAFU
Tel: 256-41-320101/9/256-41-232814                 Fax: 256-41-320135                  Email:
Rafu@infocom.co.ug
Other Agency(ies):
Road Agency Formation Unit (RAFU)
Address: P. 0. Box 28487, Kampala, Uganda
Contact Person: Director
Tel: 256-41-232814                Fax: 256-41-232807                 Email: rafuiinfocom.co.ug
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$m):
........ -iFY     2001      "2002::      20032   2004           005'      2006
Annual     0.00       12.00      22.00       16.00      10.00       4.52
Cumulative     0.00       12.00      34.00       50.00     60.00      64.52
Project implementation period: 60 months
Expected effectiveness date: 11/30/2001  Expected closing date:  06/30/2006
NOTE: Credit amounts for Phase 3 and 4 are indicative only, and will be confirmed during subsequent appraisals. The
start of Phase 3 and 4 will depend on implementation progress, and the achievement of agreed triggers, and financing
requirements and lessons learned during program implementation in Phase 1 and 2.
00$ MI PAD  FOt R.. 1Mh ZD2 -
-2 -



A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing:
General:
The transport infrastructure in Uganda comprises about 34,000 km, out of which national road network
10,000 Iam; district roads 21,000 km; and urban roads 3,000 km; a Railway system includes about 1350
Iam, wagon ferry services on Lake Victoria and air transport facilities including one international airport
and eleven domestic air fields.
Road transport is by far the most dominant mode of transport and it plays a pivotal role in supporting the
economic and social development programs. The roads in general carry over 90 percent of the country's
passenger and freight transport and provide the only form of access to most rural communities. The
classified roads which make up only 30% of the network, carry 80% of the total road traffic.
Uganda's road network also serves as a transit corridor linking the land locked regional countries of
Rwanda and Burundi, parts of Eastern DRC and southern Sudan to the sea. Centrally located in the East
African Region, the road network is of national and regional strategic importance, since it helps Uganda
play a crucial role in the region's economy and regional cooperation. Prior to 1974 Uganda had one of the
best highway networks in Sub-Saharan Africa. Between 1974-1985 the whole road network deteriorated
sharply due to neglect, mismanagement and lack of adequate maintenance as a consequence of civil strife
and disruption of civil administration at the time. The economic consequences of neglecting maintenance
took the form of increased transport costs, reduced transport fleets and an approximate 75% loss in road
network investment due to deterioration. Uganda during that period registered negative economic growth,
and declining agricultural and industrial production, while population growth continued at over 3% per
annum.
Since 1986, Government policy has focused on improved Transport and Communication infrastructure for
accelerated development, to revamp the economy and consolidate national unity and regional coooperation.
The 1986-1995 rehabilitation and maintenance efforts improved the condition of the road network from the
less than 10% in a good state of repair in 1986 to approximately 70% for the main roads and about 40% in
the case of feeder roads by 1995. This duly impacted the development of the national economy such that
Uganda registered average annual growth rates of 6% in the 10 years to 1995, with the economy 70%
larger than it was in 1986.
In 1995, the Government of Uganda (GOU) developed a 10-Year Road Sector Development Plan (RSDP -
1996/7-2005/6) for the national road network, which was endorsed by the participating donors in
November 1996. The objectives of the RSDP are: (i) to provide an efficient, safe and sustainable road
network in support of market integration and poverty reduction; (ii) to improve the managerial and
operational efficiency of road administration; and (iii) to develop the domestic construction industry.
Projected total expenditure under the RSDP over ten years was estimated at about US$1.5 billion in
constant end-1998 prices, whereas a further US$380 million would be allocated to the District feeder
roads, urban roads and other transport projects.
The RSDP did not include specific proposals for District (feeder), urban and community roads. However,
Government has completed a consultant's study to update its 1992 Feeder Road Strategy paper; following
which Government has prepared a final draft White Paper on Sustainable Maintenance of District (feeder),
Urban and Community Access Roads (October 2000), which was received by the Bank February 2001.
- 3 -



The White Paper is to be further disseminated and discussed among key local stakeholders and donors in
order to produce the final paper. Consultant's services will be procured to prepare a 10-year Plan for
rehabilitation and maintenance of these roads, including a possible 300 km of district (feeder) roads to be
upgraded to main road status.
The RSDP recognized the need to address weak MOWHC implementation and co-ordination capacity, and
the urgent need for major institutional reforms in order to coordinate, manage and implement the 10-Year
Plan, as well as sustainable financing for road maintenance. The institutional reforms put in place as a key
part of RSDP are based on the commercialization/contracting of technical services and the separation of the
procurement and implementation functions from those of planning and coordination; with 2 separate
technical bodies formed to be responsible for the respective functions. A Coordination Offfice was
established in the MOF with contracted technical staff, who advise a Steering Committee of representatives
of all ministries, under the chairmanship of the PS MOF (with plans to extend the committee to include
representatives of road users and the private sector). The Coordination Office is responsible for annually
up-dating the 10-Year RSDP and overseeing the financing and the performance of the Works and Services.
In addition, based on the recommendation of a study financed by IDA, a dedicated professional
procurement and implementation agency has also been established (with IDA support under RSISTAP) and
named the Road Agency Formation Unit (RAFU). RAFU was set-up to form the nucleus of a future
Ugandan Road Agency, the size and scope of which is to be determined based on the experience gained
from operating RAFU together with the findings of a special study carried out under the program. Both the
Coordination Office and RAFU have been professionally staffed, by open commercial recruitment (ICB), at
market rates, using renewable one year performance contracts. These institutional developments are
strictly in line with: (i) the civil service reform policy (calling for a reduction in the number of civil servants
and the reallocation of the savings to pay the reduced staff commercial salaries); and (ii) the CAS, which
supports privatization of services to meet the growing needs of the sector; with ministries honed down to
regulatory and policy making duties.
The above institutional arrangements have proven effective and are fully supported by all donors - each of
whom supports separate elements of the institutional arrangements. The Coordination Office is supported
by DANIDA, while EU is funding a number of the RAFU professional staff until it is fully established.
IDA is supporting the institutional development in the roads sector and particularly the creation and
operation of RAFU under the ongoing RSISTAP. The question of adequate funding for the sector was also
addressed by GOU within the RSDP through its commitment to provide for its annual road maintenance
requirements and for development projects through the yearly budget. The option of setting up dedicated
funding through a Road Fund was left for further study. GOU has consistently met all its maintenance
budget requirements, as well as counterpart funding needs. It has also given explicit undertakings to
sustain the maintenance funding as well as salary levels and conditions of employment offered by the
Coordination Office and RAFU when IDA financing ends - thus guaranteeing the sustainability of the
institutional arrangements. However, with a view to further possible institutional development, a succession
of sector studies have been carried out and to serve as the basis for establishing a Road Agency. The
studies conducted under the Program and under the RSISTAP comprise: (i) a Transport Sector Strategy;
(ii) an Update of District (Feeder) Roads Rehabilitation & Maintenance Strategy; (iii) an Environmental
Policy & Management Assessment; (iv) a study on the establishment of RAFU; and (v) a Road Sector
Management & Financing Study. In addition, the Program supports the Government's 10-year Road
Sector Development Plan (RSDP) by: (i) rehabilitating priority links of the national trunk roads network;
(ii) by upgrading or rehabilitating feeder roads in selected districts; (iii) by improving road safety with the
reduction of road-accident blackspots; and (iv) by reducing costs of construction of low volume traffic
roads.
-4 -



In addition, under the TRP, IDA and NDF have been supporting capacity building of the local construction
industry by conducting training of contractors under the District (Feeder) Roads Component, and creating
business opportunities for local participation. Local contractors, under the national roads component of
TRP for periodic and mechanized and manual routine road maintenance, have already undertaken more
than 70 contracts. DANIDA intends to direct some of its funds to RSDP for developing capacity in the
construction industry. DANIDA and EDF have projects to provide technical assistance to MOWHC.
The Program:
The GOU, with Bank assistance and in consultation with other donors, based on the successful
implementation of the institutional reforms and sound financial provisions to the sector, developed the
Roads Development Program (the Program/RDP) as an IDA-financed Adaptable Program Lending (APL)
instrument. The Program supports the implementation of part of the RSDP, over the 1999/00 - 2006107
period. Details of the RSDP are presented in Annex 2, with the financing arrangements presented in Annex
2, Table 1. Over the whole 10-year RSDP period, GOU has committed resources amounting to US$700
million, EDF US$223 million; IDA US$356 million' out of which US$ 282 million is being provided under
the RDP (of which the RDP Phase 2 (RDPP2) is to be the 2nd phase, following-on from RDP Phase I
(RDPPI)) with the remaining IDA financing provided under the ongoing Transport Rehabilitation Project
(TRP - Cr. 2587-UG), Road Sector Institutional Support Technical Assistance Project (RSISTAP -
Cr.2987-UG) and El Nino Emergency Road Repair Project (Cr. 3064-UG)); and various bilateral donors
the balance.
The Board of the Bank approved the IDA Credit for RDP Phase I on June 29, 1999 and the Development
Credit Agreement between Govenmment and the Association was signed on November 22, 1999. The
Credit became effective on February 1, 2000. The total revised APL Program amount is US$ 282 million
equivalent, of which the Phase I Credit is US$90.98 million. The overall RDP Program cost is shown in
Annex 2, Table 2, with the costs of the successive APL phases.
The scope and timing of components to be implemented under the Phases 2, 3 and 4 of the RDP have been
revised on the basis of the stage of fulfillment of the trigger indicators for appraising each Phase mentioned
in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) of June 3, 1999 for the RDPP1. In October 2000, during the
supervision mission for the Phase I project and the pre-appraisal of Phase 2, the readiness of the various
components was assessed and this has been reflected in the Phase 2 project description below (see also
Section B.4 below). Account was also taken of the completion of the National Road Safety Audit Study
and a 3-year Action Plan for implementing much needed road safety improvements. Based on these, IDA
agreed to a Government March 2000 request to finance Phase I of the National Road Safety Action Plan.
During the preparation mission in March 2000, the Nordic Development Fund (NDF) decided with the
Bank's consent to provide, under Phase 2, parallel financing for a pilot project component to demonstrate
the use of innovative technologies in the construction of low-volume traffic roads. In addition, NDF will, in
accordance with their May 2000 Board approval, finance the feasibility study, design and supervision of
the new Road Agency headquarters building, programmed for Phase 3 of the program. And in response to a
Government request in October 2000, IDA agreed to finance the Atiak-Moyo Road under RDPP3. (This
road was originally included in the El Nino Emergency Project but deferred due to the late commissioning
of consultants for the design.) The Program's development objectives will be achieved with steady progress
in four phases over a seven year period, and include the following phases:
The IDA US$ 356m includes USS 15m of the RDP $282m total which is to be spent outside the RSDP period.
- 5 -



Phase 1:     Upgrading of two highest priority national roads, Busunju-Kiboga-Hoima (143 Km) and
(RDPP1)      Karuma-Pakwach-Nebbi-Arua (Section Pakwach to Arua, 130 Km), including related
construction supervision. Carrying out sector policy and management studies, including
those related to district (feeder) roads (November 1999-June 2004);
Phase 2:     IDA-financed:
(RDPP2)       Upgrading of national roads to paved standard: Karuma-Pakwach-Nebbi-Arua Road
(Section Karuma-Olwiyo-Pakwach, 108 kIn) in 2 construction packages; and strengthening
National Roads Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Portal, Kasese-Kilembe and Equator Roads, in 3
construction packages (163 krn); Consultancy services for Construction Supervision;
Implementation of Phase I of National Road Safety Action Plan (NRSP) including
capacity building support to the National Road Safety Council (NRSC) and Traffic Police,
as well as the improvement of accident 'black spots', is intended to be taken up as part of
the road upgrading/strengthening program; and Preparation of a National Transport
Master Plan including plans for Greater Kampala metropolitan area;
(July 2001- June 2006).
NDF-financed:
Pilot project for demonstration of use of innovative technologies in construction of
low-volume traffic roads (Matugga-Semuto-Kapeeka, 39 km), including (i) Feasibility
Study, (ii) Detailed engineering designs, cost estimates and preparation of bidding
documents; (iii) Construction and supervision; (iv) Performance monitoring during and
after construction; and (v) Preparation of design manuals, specifications and guidelines;
and Feasibility Study and Detailed Engineering Design of new Road Agency headquarters
building.
Phase 3:     Upgrading of National Roads to paved standard; Kampala-Gayaza-Bugema-Zirobwe-
(RDPP3)      Wobulenzi (70 km) and Kapchorwa-Suam Road (70 kin) and construction supervision.
Upgrading of selected district (feeder) roads to national roads standard (about 300 kin);
construction of new Road Agency headquarters building and rehabilitation/regravelling of
Atiak-Moyo Road (92 kin) (October 2002 - June 2007); and
Phase 4:     Rehabilitation/improvement of selected district (feeder) roads (about 1,000 kIn) to be
(RDPP4)      identified by the National District (Feeder) Roads Study, and to be carried out under
RSISTAP (June 2003-December 2007).
2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objective of the Road Development Program, Phase 2 Project (the Project) is to improve
access to rural areas and economically productive areas and to progressively continue build up sustainable
road sector planning, design and program management capability, as well as road safety management. The
Project comprises: (i) upgrading and strengthening of the two high priority national roads; (ii) improvement
of safety at selected road accident black spots, and the associated, road safety enforcement and
management; (iii) pilot studies of innovative technologies and non-conventional materials in construction of
low- traffic volume roads, and consultancy services for the design and construction supervision of a future
proposed Road Agency headquarters building. These Phase 2 project objectives complement the objectives
of the Phase I project, in meeting the overall objectives of the Program.
- 6 -



3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key performance indicators include increased industrial and agricultural activity; increased traffic
growth; reduced travel time; and reduced transport rates and vehicle operating costs over the national road
network. Improvement and integration of the national road network under the Program is subject to an
appraisal process aimed at evaluating its technical feasibility and economic viability, as well as to learn
from previous phases. Trigger indicators have been presented in Attachment 2 of Annex I which provide an
assessment of readiness for implementation of subsequent phases, early identification of risks, and
implementation of corrective measures before undertaking Phases 2, 3 and 4 of the Program.
4. Program Development Objective:
The primary objective of the proposed Program is to improve access to rural and economically productive
areas by removing major constraints to transport services on the country's road network. The Program
would also support actions aimed at further strengthening of the road sector management. The Program
supports Government's 10-year Road Sector Development Program (RSDP) by supporting the
rehabilitation of priority links of the national roads network and district (feeder) roads to be upgraded or
rehabilitated in selected districts.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: IDA/R2000-187 (lFC/R2000-202)        Date of latest CAS discussion:
11/16/2000
The program is consistent with the Bank group's Country Assistance Strategy discussed by the Executive
Directors on November 16, 2000. A primary objective of IDA's assistance strategy to Uganda is to reduce
poverty, through a medium-term strategy focused on private investment-led growth and export
diversification. Lowering transport costs, and improving reliability of access to infrastructure, is assumed
in the CAS as a key element to facilitate business development and to support poverty reduction.
Regionally targeted public investment, mainly in the North, is also considered as a key element in IDA's
strategy.
The over-arching objective of the Bank Group's Country Assistance strategy is to support Uganda's
economic transformation and poverty reduction strategy spelled out in the Government's Poverty
Eradication Action Plan (PEAP) and Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) which was discussed by
the Board on May 2, 2000 (document number: IDA/SECN2000-145). The emphasis in assistance will
increasingly shift to the sector level and cross-cutting public sector management issues. Effectively
addressing these issues and facilitating economic transformation calls for broadening of the
decision-making process to involve all key stakeholders, particularly the sector ministries, local
govermments and civil society. It also calls for a change in the Bank's lending modalities. This would entail
moving away from the traditional combination of adjustment operations with discrete investment projects,
to supporting a comprehensive reform program through the govenmment's budget, via a series of Poverty
Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs). PRSC I Credit was discussed by the Board on May 30, 2001
(document number: IDA/R2001-45). In addition to PRSCs, the Bank would continue supporting some
self-standing projects for capacity building and large infrastructure investments (for example, power and
roads) which involve intemational competitive bidding, and, in the case of power, supporting a shift to
private sector participation.
-7 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The Bank prepared the last Transport Sector Memorandum in February 1991 (Report No 9346-UG). The
main conclusions and actions recommended were: (i) strengthen investment planning and program
prioritization across the various transport modes; (ii) maximize role of the private sector in transport
activities; (iii) balanced program of road rehabilitation and maintenance; (iv) preparation of a strategy for
air transport development; (v) commercial strategy for the Uganda Railways Corporation (URC); and (vi)
development of local construction industry. Many of these recommendations have been followed under the
ongoing IDA-financed TRP. In addition, IDA assisted GOU in the preparation of its 1992 Rural District
(Feeder) Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance Strategy document, which formed the basis for
Government, and donor assisted district (feeder) road programs included in the TRP.
During implementation of the TRP several positive developments have taken place and important lessons
were learnt, including: (i) selection and prioritization of transport sector investments and recurrent
expenditures within the framework of the Government's rolling three-year Transport Sector Investment and
Recurrent Expenditure Program (TSIREP); (ii) contracting out of road construction, rehabilitation, and
maintenance works for both national and district (feeder) roads; (iii) development of a national road
maintenance program, with Government contributions rising to US$32 million in FY00/01 from US$15
million in FY96/97; (iv) establishment of a Civil Aviation Authority carrying the responsibility for the
aviation sector; and (v) signing of a Performance Contract between URC and the Government, which
explicitly recognizes URC as a strategic but commercially oriented entity, and establishes Government's
obligation to compensate the URC for non-remunerative services that it is required to provide. Overall, the
Government has made progress in addressing the major issues identified in the past.
The areas where progress has been slower, or current issues still need to be addressed, are: (i) definition of
a policy for concessioning URC; (ii) establishment of a user financed, Road Agency and enhancing road
sector program management and project implementation capabilities; (iii) exploring alternative financing
sources and to ensure sustainable financing for the expanded road program; and (iv) comprehensive
coverage of district (feeder) road needs, including the need to improve the overall condition of the district
(feeder) road network to complement an improving national road network; and (v) improving management
and financing of district (feeder) roads maintenance at the district level for a sustainable road condition.
The Government has initiated action to address these issues, as detailed in its Letter of Development Policy
of May 1999 and January 2001. Specifically, altematives for private participation in URC and Uganda
Airlines Corporation are currently being considered. A major restructuring effort has also been initiated in
the road sector under RSISTAP, leading to the creation of RAFU as an intermediate step towards a
possibility for establishment of a semi-autonomous and commercially oriented Road Agency by the end FY
2002 if required. The establishment of RAFU is just beginning to show initial results and the expected
improvements to Government's road project management capabilities have become evident, thus creating
conditions for the effective implementation of the RSDP. To date, GOU has assured adequate budgetary
resources for roads development and maintenance through the provisions under the TSIREP. However, the
impact of the expanding road development program on these limited resources still needs to be carefully
monitored in order to allow the consideration of alternative sources of finance. In addition, Government has
also recently completed consultant studies to review the strategy for the Transport Sector and to update the
District (Feeder) Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance Strategy (the 1999 Strategy Report) for which a
Government action plan needs to be firmed up and implemented. Other studies have also started, to identify
district (feeder) roads for upgrading to main classified road standards, and establish an overall program to
address district (feeder) roads financing and expenditure requirements. In addition, GOU is finalizing
preparation of a "White Paper" outlying its policy and strategy for implementation of urban and district
- 8 -



(feeder) roads.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Of the sector issues identified above, the project is addressing the following main issues (i) establishment of
a sustainable and efficient autonomous or semi-autonomous Road Agency for professional road sector
program management and project implementation; (ii) alternative financing sources to ensure sustainable
financing for the expanded road program; and (iii) appropriate coverage of the district (feeder) road
network, as well as the need to improve the district (feeder) road network's overall condition, as well as its
management at the district level.
The strategic choices shown below were discussed and agreed with the Government in November 1996 and
January 1998. They have been reconfirmed during appraisal of the proposed Program and pre-appraisal of
the Phase 2 project.
(i) To maintain the existing institutional set-up of MOWHC, or create an user-financed Road Agency
focused on efficient implementation of the RSDP. The creation of an effective Road Agency by the end
of FY 2002 is being pursued under the RSISTAP through a study for the establishment of the Agency,
covering the statutory, legal and regulatory framework required for its establishment and operation. Prior to
the establishment of the Agency, consultant services for the study of a transitional institutional arrangement
within MOWHC were financed under the PPF for the Phase I project. The transitional RAFU has been
established. The institutional arrangement is already ensuring a more effective program management and
project implementation capability in the road sector.
(ii) To have proceeded with a Sector Investment Project which would have covered both institutional
and physical investments, or to phase IDA assistance under successive operations. The size and scope
of the RSDP requires an increased absorptive capacity in MOWHC to effectively manage and implement
the program. During an Identification Mission in November 1996, IDA agreed with the Government to
phase its assistance, beginning with an institutional credit (RSISTAP) to assist in setting up the RAFU and
finance initiating activities. This step was followed by investment projects in support of physical road
improvements and further enhancement of road sector management and implementation effectiveness under
the Program. IDA's Adaptable Program Lending Instrument was selected for program definition for its
flexibility and to facilitate this strategy.
(iii) To continue the provision offinancial resources for road programs from annual central budgets
with their inherent constraints, or explore alternative means and sources of financing, including
explicit road user charges and private sector participation. Studies are being undertaken to assess the
funding arrangements for the road sector and for the operation of the Road Agency, including the
possibility of a user-managed road fund. A Road Management & Financing Study financed under the
Program was just completed, suggesting that a revised approach to road financing may be viable through
user charges.
(iv)    To implement an overall national and district (feeder) roads network improvement under the
RSDP. Or separate district (feeder) road network needs and address them under complementary
programs, recognizing their unique characteristics and management requirements at the district leveL
As part of its decentralization strategy, the GOU has recently initiated a program of directly allocating
central revenues to sub-national levels of Government for rural infrastructure, including district (feeder)
roads, through conditional grants. Through their local representatives, beneficiaries are thus called upon to
play a more important role than hitherto in selecting expenditure priorities. Development planning and
program coordination and implementation performance auditing remain the primary responsibility of
MOWHC. Empirical evidence elsewhere also suggests that operation and maintenance of local
infrastructure facilities is better carried out through the direct involvement of beneficiaries, district
-9-



authorities and communities, rather than through central Govemment agencies. Government has completed
in February 2000, a consultant study to define district (feeder) roads strategy including an action plan for
the improvement and management of district (feeder) roads and is yet to formally present Government's
framework "White Paper". In this context, IDA under Phases 3 and 4 of proposed APL would assist GOU
in identifying district (feeder) road rehabilitation and maintenance requirements in selected districts.
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
The Program, through rehabilitation, strengthening and upgrading of the national trunk road network,
benefits the country economy and supports the major institutional reform in the sector related to
commercialization of the management and procurement functions of the implementation agency (MO WHC)
and the sustainable secured budgeted financing. The implementation of the Program's four phases are
based on the measured progress of these reforms and on the state of readiness of the technical
documentation for planned physical investments. The Program supports a total of 92 km of national road
rehabilitation; 163 km of national road strengthening and 451 km of national road upgrading, plus 1300 km
of development and rehabilitation of district (feeder) roads. In addition, the Program prepared sectorial
work in fields of road management and financing (national, district (feeder and urban) roads),
environmental and social impact assessment and mitigation, and road safety.
- 10 -



The triggers indicators have been developed for each of the Phases and their assessment and evaluation for
the Phase 2, is described below:
Assessing Project Strategy  Trigger Indicators                         Means of Verification
and Institutional Building
1. Experience from Phase 1    1 I RAFU key personnel in place and effectively 1.1.I RAFU strategy and action plan of October
indicates that the project's  handling the implementation process.     2000 for recruitment of technical staff
institutional arrangements                                             implemented.
reflect effective decentralized   1.2 Admninistrative arrangements permit
decision-making, build local    effective and timely approval and      1.2.1 FAD established and financial management
responsibility and          implementation.                            information technology requirements developed by
accountability, and implement                                          June 2000, prior to Phase 2.
an effective monitoring and
evaluation system.          1.3 The monitoring and evaluation system   1.3.1 Quarterly/Annual Cash Flow Forecast
pennits follow-up of project implementation and prepared by start of Phase 1, and updated for Phase
assessment of project objectives' achievement.   2.
1.3.2 External auditors appointed by December
1999. Receipt of acceptable FY99/00 financial
audit for RAFUJ received on time.
1.3.3 Bi-monthly evaluation reports made
available to al participating donors in RSDP.
1.3.4 Government prepares PIP for each Phase
detailing planned and actual achievements in
preceding phases.
1.4 Sub-projects meet economic, social, and  1.4.1 Base line established for VOC.
environmental eligibility criteria. Evidence of   1.4.2 Contract incorporates required mitigation
adequate implementation of environmental  measures.
mitigation measures designed in the Phase 1.
2. Overall strategy for the  2.1 Studies for updating of transport sector and  2.1.1 Studies for updating of transport sector and
transport sector and for district  district (feeder) road strategies and financing    district (feeder) road strategies and financing
(feeder) roads identified.  completed by GOU.                          accepted by GOU and IDA.
3. Government strictly adheres 3.1 TSIREP for 3-year rolling periods adequately 3.1.1 TSIREP updated every year in November and
to providing the financial  cover Sector requirements.                 accepted by IDA.
requirements for road                                                  3.1.2 Timely availability of counterpart funds.
rehabilitation and maintenance                                         3.1.3 Performance audits of maintenance budgeted
projects under the TSIREP.                                             resources including physical road condition to be
carried out by independent consultants.
4. Government capacity      4.1 Procurement specialist in place and    4.1.1 Procurement specialist is in place and unit
building in procurement and    procurement unit established within RAFU.  established. Procurement and Implementation are
disbursement for major civil                                           being effectively managed, without delays.
works.
4.2 Design documentation prepared and contract 4.2.1 Detailed Designs and bidding documents
documents ready for bidding.              accepted by IDA.
4.2.2 Pre-qualification of contractors and short
listing of consultants conmmenced.
- 11 -



Evaluation of the Triggers indicators for moving to Phase 2
The following represents the assessment of actions taken with regard to the above triggers in
establishing the readiness of the Phase 2 project for implementation.
1. Institutional & Administrative Arrangements
1.1.1 Recruitment of RAFU additional staff is proceeding according to plan, and the terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank. With effect December 31, 2000, RAFU has 18 technical staff and this is
expected to increase to 44 technical experts by June 30, 2001 with: (i) interviews for the
Engineering Division Manager, one senior project engineer and 16 project engineers - completed
April 2001; and (ii) the arrival of two technical teams of four experts each, in April 2001.
1.2.1The Finance and Administration Division (FAD) of RAFU has been established within the
institutional framework of the MOWHC with responsibility for Project financial management.
FAD's financial management system has been developed in accordance with the Financial
Management Action Plan that was prepared jointly by the Government and the World Bank during
RDP Phase I appraisal.
Bank Accounts have been opened with CITIBANK Uganda Ltd. in respect of the US Dollar
Special Account and the Counterpart Funds Account (Project Account). An initial deposit in the
amount of UShs 6,736,664,000 ($4.5m) has been lodged to the Project Account in compliance with
Section 3.04 of the DCA. Authorized signatories have been notified to the World Bank.
Counterpart funds have been made in accordance with requirements.
With the above actions, since the end of June 2000, the Financial Management System (including
quarterly reporting and cash flow management) is functioning satisfactorily and the Information
Technology Requirements will be finalized to support the same.
A well-documented Financial Management Manual has been developed for the Project. The
Manual outlines internal control procedures as well as financial reporting arrangements (interim
and final) to Government and the World Bank. The Accounting System, based on Excel, is
operational; Interim and Final reports and Cash Flow Forecasts have been prepared and a Fixed
Assets Register has been established using Excel. In addition, the composition and terms of
reference of the Financial Management Sub-Committee (FMSC) have been finalized and members
appointed. Furthermore, procurement of a "state of the art" accounting system is well advanced.
This is in line with the Action Plan agreed by IDA during Phase I appraisal.
1.3.2 External auditors have been selected. The first audit for RDP, Phase 1 was completed and the
Auditor General's Report was submitted to IDA in January 2001. RAFU's audit for the financial
year ending June 2000 was completed. The final audit report was submitted to the World Bank in
March 2001.
- 12 -



1.3.3 Bi-monthly evaluation reports have been made available to all participating donors in RSDP
through the coordination office. The Coordination Unit was established in the Ministry of Finance
under Danida Funding. The Coordinating Unit has assumed its functions as the Secretariat of the
RSDP Steering Committee, monitoring and evaluating the RSDP as well as reviewing and
updating the Program. The Steering Committee overseeing the work of the office is chaired by the
Permanent Secretary of Finance.
1.3.4 A PIP for Phase 2 was prepared by RAFU in November 2000 and was submitted to IDA during
pre-Appraisal.
1.4.1 TOR for the establishment of the baseline for VOC have been agreed. The services of a consultant
commenced by the end of October 2000. The Final Report is expected by July 2001.
2.  Project Preparation. Sector Studies
2.1.1 All the studies for updating of transport sector and district (feeder) road strategies and financing
are now completed. These studies have been accepted by GOU and IDA, except for the Road
Management & Financing Study which has been approved in April 2001. In addition, the GOU
"White Paper" confirming various recommendation for district (feeder) and urban roads strategy
and policy are expected to be finalized in May 2001.
3.  Program Budgeting and Maintenance Performance Audits
3.1.1 TSIREP for FY2000/01-2003/04 was issued in October 2000 to reflect the budget which was
issued for FY2001/02. The TSIREP was reviewed and updated in March 2001.
3.1.2 In view of concems expressed by the March 2000 preparation mission regarding the timely
availability of counterpart funds, a Quarterly Status of Funds Statement and Quarterly Cash Flow
Forecast will be included in the Quarterly Project Report that is submitted to the Bank. Note that
this trigger is also a requirement for Phases 3 and 4 of the Project.
3.1.3 Performance audits of budgeted resources for the maintenance of the national road rehabilitation
program, including physical road conditions, have been carried out by independent consultants
recruited under DANIDA funding. The Govemment and all donors at the Steering Committee
meeting for RSDP held on March 9, 2000 had agreed the TOR for the assignment The
assignment commenced by the end of June 2000 and a final report was submitted at the end of
October 2000.
4.  Procurement Processing
4.1.1 RAFU has taken steps to complete its recruitment of experts, inculding procurement specialist, for
its establishment, in accordance with the agreed Action Plan. Evaluation reports on the various
procurements are being submitted on time, as evidenced by the timely submission of bidding
documents and prequalification documents for the four construction packages and consultancy
services under the RDP Phase 1 Project For example, Bank approval has already been given for
proceeding with contract negotiations for all civil works contract packages under RDPP I for which
recommendations were sent to the Bank in November 2000. All construction supervision services
contracts have been awarded, and services commenced January 2001.
- 13 -



4.2.1 Consultants have prepared detailed designs and bidding documents for the Phase 11 projects. The
documents incorporated required mitigation measures against adverse social and environmental
impacts. (Preparation of detailed designs and tender documents for black spot improvement and
pilot project for construction of low volume roads will be perforned under Phase 2 of the
Program).
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- A                   ..''''' ,.......,.., - .......   .....
..   ......              tica  etnk- i%~
;.r , -,,,f,~~~., ...........   . ................             ,-.N.,    ,-          0;0. .  ...... .     . . . . . .
Road Upgrading/Strengthening                                72.47        85.0      54.35        84.2
Construction Supervision                                     5.08         6.0       4.06         6.3
ROAD SAFETY                                                               0.0                    0.0
Black Spots Improvement                                      2.78         3.3       2.08         3.2
Design & Construction Supervision                            0.30         0.4       0.24         0.4
Institutional Support                                        1.69         2.0        1.36        2.1
Equipment                                                    0.30         0.4       0.30         0.5
NATIONAL TRANSPORT                                                        0.0                    0.0
PLAN/KAMPALA
Master Plan                                                  2.66         3.1       2.13         3.3
Total ProJect Costs                      85.28      100.0       64.52      100.0
Total Financing Required                        85.28       100.0      64.52       100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The main sector policy reforms or complemented by the Program are aimed at building on those supported
under RSISTAP and the Phase I Project, and include:
(i) improving road sector management through the establishment of a sustainable and effective
implementation and procurement capability developed around RAFU;
(ii) ensuring sustainability of funding for road improvements and maintenance;
(iii)increasing the effectiveness and involvement of private contractors in road works through strengthening
project management and contract administration;
(iv) improving the environmental and traffic safety management of the road network; and
(v) defining overall transport sector strategy and updating the policy framework and strategy for district
feeder roads development, maintenance and financing.
- 14 -



3. Benefits and target population:
The road paving and strengthening works would lead to substantial savings in vehicle operating and
infrastructure maintenance costs, as well as reductions in travel time and transport costs for road users in
the rural population. Since the identified subprojects are part of a comprehensive countrywide investment
strategy for road development, they would contribute to fostering economic growth and poverty reduction
through improvements in market integration and accessibility. These anticipated impacts are consistent with
the objective of strengthening economic infrastructure, which has been identified in the CAS as a key
element in GOU's growth and poverty eradication strategy. The roads selected for inclusion in the Program
have all been subjected to feasibility economic analyses carried out on all components proposed for
inclusion in the RSDP (summary results of the economic analyses are given in Annex 4). Each road is also
being subjected to final technical and economic analysis under RSISTAP before being included in the
proposed Program.
The components covering sector strategy review and update studies and institutional strengthening financed
through the PPF are directly targeted at rationalizing road sector management, thus addressing the pressing
need for improvement of public sector implementation capacity. They wiUl build on the institutional
restructuring already started under RSISTAP. By identifying activities which can better be performed by
the private sector (project management and execution), and target capacity building initiatives for the
activities which wil continue to be discharged by the state (road safety, environmental protection, budget
management), these components would contribute to the Government's civil service reform program. These
objectives have also been identified in the CAS as a central element to be pursued in capacity building
efforts. The consultant services, being provided under RSISTAP, are expected to lead to benefits from a
reduction in road subproject costs and from availability of improved facilities to road users.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
I.    Administrative. The Ministry of Works, Housing and Communications (MOWHC) would have the
overall responsibility for the implementation of the proposed Program. Recognizing the limitations of
MOWHC's capacity to manage the expanded road program under the RSDP, studies are being conducted
to determnine the viability and merits of establishing a Road Agency and the contracting out of road
services, which can be more efficiently provided by the private sector. As an initial measure, a Road
Agency Formation Unit (RAFU) has been established with IDA support under RSISTAP. RAFU, through
its management divisions, will form the nucleus of the future Road Agency. RAFU has been mandated to
be in charge of (i) road network development and management; (ii) planning and management of network
maintenance; and (iii) overseeing the implementation of the Program, with emphasis on technical and
financial monitoring and performance evaluation. MOWHC's new role will concentrate on technical and
economic regulatory functions, sector planning, safety and environmental protection; and budget
programming and execution. A RAFU Desk has been established within the MOWHC and is staffed by a
TA consultant financed by DANIDA. The Desk provides secretariat services to the RAFU management
committee. The MOWHC has also set up a dedicated unit within the Ministry to increase its effectiveness
in providing planning and programming, administration and management support to local govenmment in
developing and implementing a national strategic plan for district (feeder) roads development and
maintenance.
Donor coordination functions have been established. An RSDP Steering Committee (SC) has been
constituted, comprising Permanent Secretaries and senior officials of the Ministry of Finance Planning and
Economic Development (MFPED), Ministry of Public Service (MPS) and Ministry of Works Housing and
Communications and major donors. The PS MFPED chairs the SC. The SC has the functions of: (i)
coordinating the planning and implementation of the RSDP and the inputs and requirements of the
- 15 -



program; (ii) monitoring and evaluation of the program's performance; (iii) disseminating plans and
progress information to the public and stakeholders; as well as (iv) organizing donor consultative group
meetings. The committee is to be assisted in its work by the Coordinating Office. The committee has been
meeting regularly.
The RSDP Coordinating Office has also been set up with DANIDA funding and is located in the Ministry
of Finance, Planning and Economic Development (MOFPED). The leader of the coordinating office and a
technical adviser and the other technical staffs (transport economist and civil engineer) are at post. The
Coordination Office is, on behalf of the Steering Committee, carrying out the following functions: (i)
collection, analysis and disseminating of program management information; (ii) executing quarterly and
annual program technical and financial performance evaluation and financial audits; (iii) annual reviews
with proposals for any required RSDP structural adjustments, and updating of the RSDP document
including the Pluriannual Expenditure and Financing Plan; (iv) preparing issues to be discussed with the
SC, and any required studies and progress reports for quarterly and annual review meetings; and (v) issue
information bulletins for dissemination as directed by the SC.
2.    Implementation Period for RDPP 2. The implementation period for the RDPP 2 will be about five
years, and about eight years for all phases of the RDP. Pre-contract activities are being carried out with the
assistance of consultants recruited with financing provided under the RSISTAP. Award of contracts for the
construction of the various roads included in the RDPP2, following international competitive bidding, will
be made as and when the detailed engineering designs and environmental and social action plans, bid
documents and contractor prequalification reports have been completed. The Project Implementation Plan
(PIP) prepared by RAFU includes the program of contract awards. In this regard, the detailed designs and
prequalification documents have been prepared.
3.    Financial Management and Auditing. The Finance and Administration Division (FAD) of RAFU
has been established within the institutional framework of the Ministry of Works, Housing and
Communications (MOWHC) with responsibility for Project financial management
FAD's financial management system is presently being developed in accordance with the Financial
Management Action Plan that was prepared jointly by the Government and the World Bank during
appraisal of the RDP Phase I project. The following summarizes the present status of the key activities
outlined in the Action Plan.
(a)    The Finance and Administration Manager (FAM) assumed duty on 8 March 1999. Other
relevantly qualified and experienced accounting, administrative and support staff have also been
appointed (i.e. Senior Administration Officer, Accountant, Personnel Officer, Administrative
Officer, Secretaries and Office Assistants).
(b)    A well-documented Financial Management Manual for the Project was developed and adopted
December 1999. The Manual outlines internal control procedures as well as financial reporting
arrangements (interim and final) to Government and the World Bank.
(c)    An Accounting System, based on Excel, is operational. Cash Flow Forecasts have been prepared
and a Fixed Assets Register has been established using Excel. It is to be upgraded to a fully
computerized Financial Management System based on a conventional accounting package. The
procurement process for a financial management information system software is well advanced and
the system is scheduled to be operational by August 2001.
(d)    The Financial Management Sub-Committee (FMSC) was appointed by MOWHC 17 June 1999 in
accordance with the agreed terms of reference.
- 16 -



(e)    Bank Accounts have been opened with CITIBANK Uganda Ltd. for the Phase I project in respect
of the US Dollar Special Account and the Counterpart Funds Account (Project Account). An
initial deposit in the amount of UShs 6,736,664,000 ($4.5m) was lodged to the Project Account in
compliance with Section 3.04 of the DCA. Authorized signatories have been notified to the World
Bank.
FAD's financial management system, in accordance with the Financial Management Action Plan presented
in Annex 5b, is expected to facilitate the introduction of PMR-based disbursements during Phases I and 2.
Relevantly qualified, experienced and independent extemal auditors were appointed for FY 99/00 and their
report was submitted December 2000 and received by the Bank Janaury 2001.
4.    Disbursement of IDA Funds. Disbursement from IDA will be made on the basis of incurred
eligible expenditures. IDA will make advance disbursement from the proceeds of the Credit by depositing
into a Borrower-operated Special Account to expedite Program implementation. The advance to a Special
Account will be used by the Borrower to finance IDA's share of Program expenditures under the Credit.
Another acceptable method of withdrawing funds from the Credit is the direct payment method, involving
direct payments from the Credit to a third party for works, goods and services upon the Borrower's request.
Payments may also be made to a commercial bank for expenditures against IDA special commitments
covering a commercial bank's Letter of Credit. IDA's Disbursement Letter stipulates a minimum
application value for direct payment and special commitment procedures.
Upon credit effectiveness, MOWHC will svbmit a withdrawal application for an initial deposit to the
Special Account, drawn from the IDA Credit, in the amount agreed to in the DCA. Replenishment of funds
from IDA to the Special Account will be made upon evidence of satisfactory utilization of the advance,
reflected in the SOEs and/or on full documentation for payments above the SOE thresholds. Replenishment
applications should be submitted regularly on a monthly basis. If ineligible expenditures are found to have
been made from the Special Account, the Borrower will be obligated to refund the same. If the Special
Account remains inactive for more than six months, the Borrower may be requested to refund to IDA
amounts advanced to the Special Account.
5.    Monitorinr and Evaluation. (i) A monitoring and evaluation system has been developed under the
RDP Phase I Project which will be continued under Phase 2; ii) semi-annual progress reports will be
prepared on the basis of the project implementation plan; and (iii) a completion report will be submitted by
the Govermment to IDA within six months of Credit closing. Annual reviews of project implementation will
be carried out before the beginning of each fiscal year to facilitate annual program budgeting. A mid-term
review will be carried out 30 months after Credit effectiveness.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Major Program altematives considered include institutional reform and restructuring, infrastructure
expenditure strategy, and detailed subproject design
1.    Institutional Reform. One altemative considered was to carry out institutional restructuring and to
implement all the physical components of the RDP for the classified road network and feeder roads under
one project. This was rejected in favor of starting with the institutional reform under RSISTAP, which
ensured implementation arrangements were established in the form of RAFU, to serve as the basis for a
possible future Road Agency. This ensured that sustainable and effective program management would be
- 17 -



full functioning before implementing an expanded roads improvement program.
2.    Infrastructure Expenditure Strategy. Pre-investment strategies for the national road network, as a
whole (10,000 Km), were considered as a basis for the development of the RDP. These were initially
rejected, since they did not meet one (or several) of the following screening criteria: (i) compatibility of the
expenditure level with macroeconomic targets, both in terms of the impact of the inflow of foreign
exchange and the possibility of raising domestic revenue to fund counterpart expenditures; (ii) balanced
allocation of resources for investment and recurrent expenditures; (iii) a minimum 12% estimated EIRR,
the value assumed for the opportunity cost of capital; and (iv) capacity of the road administration to
manage effectively. As a result of the above analysis, specific roads were identified for further technical
and economic feasibility, with detailed engineering design studies to be carried out under RSISTAP for
implementation under the proposed Program. The overall RSDP was also reviewed and updated during
appraisal of the proposed Project.
3.    Road sub-component Design and Implementation. The altematives considered included updating
the feasibility and detailed engineering studies for all selected roads before implementation as opposed to a
phased implementation. The former was rejected by GOU, IDA and other development partners in favor of
the latter to allow for the expected slower speed of the build up of institutional capacity and the associated
procurement processing through an Adaptable Program Lending (APL) instrument Consequently,
implementation of each road sub-component will be contingent on the fulfillment of the following criteria:
(i) economic viability established through an EIRR of 12% or above; (ii) completion of bid documents for
contract award; and (iii) an environmental/resettlement mitigation plan satisfactory to IDA. These criteria
will be tested during preparation of each subsequent phase and fulfilled prior to proceeding with
implementation.
- 1 8-



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
LAtest Superv,lon
Sector Issue                        Project                    (PSR) Ratings
____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ___ .  :__ ._._-_-_._-__ :_-_:_-_    (R nk--rinaiced    cr eltc     on)v    -
Implmenbrtion    Development
Bank-financed                                                         Progess (IP)   Objective (DO)
National Roads Strengthening and     Fourth Highway                       S              S
improvement
Road rehabilitation, maintenance and   Transport Rehabilitation (TRP)     S              S
strengthening of district feeder road
maintenance capacity, and private
contractor development
Institution building                 RSISTAP                              S              S
National Roads improvements and      RDP, Phase I Project                 S              S
Sector Institutional Reform
Emergency restoration of damaged     El Nino Emergency Road               U              U
roads and bridges                    Repair
Other development agencies
Nordic Development Fund:              District (Feeder) Roads
Building of district road rehabilitation   Component of TRP
and maintenance capacity
African Development Fund:             District Roads Maintenance
Building of district road rehabilitation   Project
and maintenance capacity, contractor
training
European Union, Feeder Roads         Ditto
DANIDA, Feeder Roads                 Ditto
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
Note: the unsatisfactory rating for the El Nino Emergency Road Repair credit reflects lack of capacity and expertise
within MOWHC establishment (not including RAFU) and a new tax law which complicated and delayed contract
awards.
- 19 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Experience from past projects in Uganda indicates that the main risk has been the limited capacity of the
implementation agency, in particular, the ability of the agency to effectively address problems related to
contract management, contract administration, and financial and technical monitoring. There have been
substantial delays in the processing and awarding of contracts, leading to substantially higher costs at the
initial stages of commencement and to delayed completion. The lessons from the modest success of
technical assistance provided to develop the implementation and planning capacity of MOWHC is that
major policy changes need to be carried out prior to undertaking major investment programs, and need full
commitment by Government to ensure success. The structure of road administration in Uganda has been
subject to frequent changes, resulting in confusion, poorly organized planning and administration, and
ineffective long-term institutional and staff development. Therefore, major institutional and policy changes,
including reorganization and institutional strengthening of road administration, as well as changes in the
decision-making process, have been undertaken by the Government. These include the creation of RAFU,
to form a nucleus of a possible future Ugandan Road Agency, the size and scope of which is to be
determined on the basis of experience gained from operating RAFU and the findings of a special study.
Other lessons are that inadequate engineering design and weak documentation resulted in implementation
delays and cost overruns. Steps are therefore being taken during Program Phase 1 project implementation
to ensure the readiness and availability of completed contract documentation before commencement of
works. These steps include, inter alia,recruitment by RAFU of the proper skill mix of professional staff
with the ability to oversee the work of the various consultants preparing the designs. The latter is in
progress under the RSISTAP.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Three main factors are indicative of the Borrower's commitment to the Program. First, the Government
considers the availability of basic road infrastructure as a key strategic element in the implementation of
Uganda's economic program. Second, the Ministry of Finance has consistently allocated the agreed
resources for road maintenance since 1993/1994, showing commitment to the sustainability of the proposed
investments. Third, it is the Government's decision to initiate a major sector restructuring including the
road sector institutions. The Director of RAFU and key staff (16) have been appointed with the additional
managerial and professional staff expected to be on board by June 2001.
- 20 -



5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
An important source of value added by Bank support is its comparative worldwide experience in the
preparation and implementation of major capital expenditure programs. The donor community active in
Uganda has acknowledged and recognized the Bank's leadership role during preparation of the RSDP. The
Bank also benefits from the experience, both positive and negative, gained in implementing comprehensive
road sector development programs with institutional reforms in African countries such as Ethiopia,
Mozambique, Tanzania, and Zambia. Another source of advantage is the Bank's experience in road sector
reform in the Region gained over the last ten years through the steering of the Road Maintenance Initiative
(RMI). This has provided the Bank with the goodwill of beneficiaries and donors in creating a cooperative
framework where sector reforms have gradually been shaped, implemented and monitored. The Bank has
responded to the Government's request by flexibly targeting, and quickly delivering, its array of lending
instruments (including PPF preparatory studies and technical assistance under RSISTAP), in support of a
credible assistance strategy, emphasizing sector and institutional reform prior to the commitment of
resources to finance physical components. The APL instrument is also providing greater flexibility in
adapting project design and financing to client needs as they evolve, as evidenced by the redesign of the
Phase 2 project components - including the inclusion of NDF-financed components to be administered by
the Bank. The Bank's participation thus provides for better continuity for the implementation of the
long-term national program. In addition, despite employment of professional services on the Program, the
Bank continues to make critical interventions regarding quality assurance in the procurement and technical
fields.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
t. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$9. 1 million; ERR = 12 % (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
Road investments under the proposed Program are part of the RSDP, a comprehensive planning exercise
carried out by MOWHC in 1996/7. The RSDP reflects investment requirements and economic priorities,
and respects macroeconomic constraints, such as overall spending ceilings and inflows of foreign
assistance, as well as domestic counterpart funding. Overall, the road expenditure program is balanced, and
adequate priority is given to the selective upgrading of roads to paved standards, rehabilitation, and
maintenance of existing roads, as well as district (feeder) road development. Investments to be undertaken
under the RSDP would yield an EIRR above 12%, the value assumed for the opportunity cost of capital in
Uganda.
Investments in the four roads included in Phases I and 2 of the proposed Program were subject to specific
cost-benefit analysis during appraisal. Basically, the benefit stream comprises the vehicle operating costs
and time savings accruing to road users through improved road condition. The cost stream comprises the
costs to the road agency arising from the proposed investments, net of any incremental maintenance cost
savings. In order to carry out the analysis, traffic projections for various categories of vehicles were
prepared, based on 1998/99 base-line traffic counts and on the govemment's GDP and population growth
projections. The interaction between traffic, road condition, and vehicle operating costs through time was
then modeled using the Bank-developed Highway Design and Maintenance Model (HDM 111).
For purposes of analysis, the two roads under RDPP2 (Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Portal, Kasese-Kilembe &
- 21 -



Equator roads; and Karuma-Olwyio-Pakwach road) were split into five homogeneous sections, to reflect
varying road conditions and other physical characteristics, as well as different traffic levels and
composition. Several investment and maintenance alternatives were generated and evaluated for each road
section, and the one yielding the highest NPV (at a 12% discount rate) was selected. As a result, the
investments proposed under Phase 2 of the proposed Program would yield a consolidated NPV estimated at
US$9.1 million, with no investment in any road section yielding an EIRR below 12.5%.
Each of the Phase 2 road sections was then subjected to sensitivity analysis. To this extent, construction
costs were increased by 25% and benefits separately decreased by lowering traffic level in a way that was
deemed the most adequate for each section of roads. In this respect, traffic growth for the first six years
was halved for Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Portal, Kasese-Kilembe & Equator roads, and traffic growth for the
first ten years was halved for Karuma-Olwyio-Pakwach. Overall, results of the sensitivity analysis indicate
that returns on investments are highly sensitive to both construction costs and traffic variations, with an
integrated NPV of respectively minus US$3.5 million and plus US$0.5 million. On the one hand, two
sections yield negative NPV with higher construction costs as well as with lower traffic levels: (i)
Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Portal and (ii) Karuma-Olwyio. On the other hand, two sections yield positive
NPV with higher construction costs as well as with lower traffic levels: Kasese-Kilembe (with healthy
EIRR respectively of 17.4% and 17.2%), and Olwiyo-Pakwach (with an EIRR of respectively 13.5% and
13.6%).
Results of the stochastic analysis and sensitivity analyses indicate that there is a relatively high likelihood
that the Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Portal Road might fail to yield an ElRR above 12% (between 60-63%
likelihood)' . However, concerning Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Portal, the mean expected EIRR is only
marginally below 12% and adding expected mean NPVs from the two other sections of roads forming the
network (Kasese-Kilembe and Equator Roads), total NPV is positive at U S$ 1.61 million (corresponding to
above 12% EIRR). For Kasese-Kilembe and Equator roads, the results of the stochastic analysis and
sensitivity analysis are strong, and there is above 100% likelihood that the project will achieve an EIRR
greater than 12%. For the Karuma-Olwiyo-Pakwach road, the relative weakness of the mean expected
EIRR is above 12% for both sections, with a combined NPV of more than US$3 million. Furthermore, this
section of road should not be taken separately from the rest of the network under the study (Pakwach-Arua
under RDPPI and Olwiyo-Pakwach under RDPP2), which has positive results. Added to the fact that
results from the base case economic analysis are above 12%, it is therefore recommended that investment
on both these sections go ahead as planned under RDPP2.
The economic analysis rests on the overriding assumption that the overall security situation in Uganda will
not worsen. Furthermore, and specifically for the Karuma-Olwyio-Pakwach road sections situated in the
NW Region, the key assumption is that economic and social activities, including traffic flows, will regain at
least their 1995 levels.
On the basis of the Consultant's approach to risk analysis (using symmetrical input data), the probability of the Katunguru-Fort Portal road achieving
an IRR of less than 12% is down to 32%.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 0 million; FR1R = 0 % (see Annex 4)
The financial implications of the Government's road sector program have been presented in its Budget
Framework Paper discussed during its public expenditure review May 1999. As stated in that paper,
Government's Poverty Eradication Action Plan identifies six critical sectors that require substantial budget
expenditures if the objective of eradicating poverty is to be achieve. Of these, main roads, rural feeder
roads and agriculture are seen as directly contributing to increasing rural incomes and supporting the
- 22 -



private sector. The paper confirms that the road sector continues to be one of Government's fastest growing
program, with GOU spending increasing from about US$ 45 million in 1996/97 to a projected US$95
million in 2001/02 (see Table 5.1, Annex 5). This represents a percentage increase of more than 100% over
a five-year period. Simultaneously, the sectoral allocation to roads and works would rise to a projected
9.7% in 2001/02 from 5.8% in 1996/97 (see Table 5.2, Annex 5). The medium-term sectoral allocations
are also shown in Annex 5a, Table 5.2. This level of expenditure has been discussed with IDA and is
considered acceptable, subject to future annual review of public expenditure.
Fiscal Impact:
The fiscal impact of RDPP2 can be briefly assessed as follows (a more detailed analysis is provided under
Annex 5.c)
I.     The incremental taxes that would result from  the project and during its life-time can be
summarized by the taxes received from the construction of the following construction projects : (i)
Katunguru-Kasese-Fort   Portal,   Kasese-Kilembe   and   Equator   Roads,   162   km    ;  (ii)
Karuma-Olwyio-Pakwach  Road, 107  km  ; (iii) black  spot improvement, 71   mt ; and  (iv)
Matugga-Semuto-Kapeeka, 39 km. The details of these taxes are given below:
Years 2000101   2001/02  2002103  2003/04  2004/05   2005106  2006107
Taxes from construction            -           -      4.68     3.00     3.82     1.28     1.37
-Karuma-Otwyio-Packwach Rd.                           2.06     1.25     1.25     0.33     0.54
-Kat.-FP, Kilembe & /Equator Rds.                     2.62     1.59     1.59     0.41     0.69
-Black spot Improvement                            l           0.17     0.24     0.06  I
-Matugga-Semuto-Ka peeka Rd.                       l                    0.75     0.48     0.14
Note: the level of taxation has been assumed to be 17%, 10% representing net VAT paid by contractors and 7% representing
levies, mostly on imported goods. No subsidies are expected to result from the Project.
2.     No increase in recurrent costs are expected from the Project because during the construction phase
the construction costs are in lieu of the recurrent expenditures related to the respective roads; and the only
apparent marginal increase in recurrent costs as forecast in the TSIREP are associated with the possibility
of higher recurrent costs of the paved roads as compared to gravel, and the project's upgrading of 107 km
of gravel road to paved - which would have minimal effect.
3.     The Govemment's medium term macroeconomic objectives are to: (i) maintain macroeconomic
stability, especially low and stable inflation (5 per cent or less) to sustain rapid and broad based economic
growth of 7 per cent per year; (ii) enable incomes and reduce poverty, (iii) maintain sufficient foreign
reserves, equivalent to about five months of imports of goods and services, (iv) provide a buffer against
external shock and (v) ensure that the private sector's demands for credit are not crowded out by
government borrowing.
The Government's fiscal strategy entails maintaining strict budgetary discipline in order to mininmize
government borrowing from the domestic banking system, which would either be inflationary or would
crowd out private sector borrowing. This has meant that Govemment must maintain tight control over its
aggregate expenditures.
Budgetary policies also aim to improve the supply side of the economy and therefore to boost economic
growth in the medium term, through two channels. Firstly, the expenditure policies are focused on
expanding the provision of public goods and services which cannot be supplied by the market but
-23-



complement private sector investment or enhance the productive capacities of ordinary people, through for
example, the construction of rural feeder roads, agricultural research and extension, education and health
services, and secondly, the tax policies aim to promote efficient resource allocation by ensuring that tax
induced distortions are minimized and that the tax system is conducive to private investment. Direct and
indirect tax rates are very competitive both regionally and intemationally, and there are generous
depreciation allowances for capital investment in plant and machinery and the degree of horizontal equity in
the tax system is high.
4.     The overall level of recurrent costs required to operate the sector adequately and the volume of
financing provided by the Government in the recent past can be derived from the Transport Sector
Investment and Recurrent Expenditures Program (TSIREP) dated October 2000. This report states that in
order to optimize the investment made in roads, Government has highly prioritized national road
maintenance, to preserve and reinstate the road network to the required level of services. Financing of main
road maintenance is basically the responsibility of the Govemment. Government has committed itself to
continue increasing funding for maintenance by an equivalent in US$ 4 million annually. Govemment will,
in principle, finance all routine maintenance costs by 2001, and seek donor support in road rehabilitation
and periodic maintenance operations.
The Table below shows funding commitments in US$ to main roads maintenance programs and recurrent
expenditures from the beginning of the 10-Year RSDP: 1996/97 to 2003/04 for both the Government and
the Donor Community:
_____________Actual      Provision I Budget    Prjections (TSIREP     96-04
96/97    97/98    98/99    99/00    00/01    01/02   02/03    03/04    Grand
USS 1=  1,020    1,080   1,200    1,500    1,622   1,800   1,800    1,800    Total
Maintenance (in 1998 S)   l_l_l                   _l
GOU                  15.24    17.58    19.05    28.73    32.01    43.99    44.00    46.00    246.60
Donors                6.89     11.50    13.60   17.20    17.28    19.00    20.90    2299    129.35
Total Maintenance   22.12    29.08   32.65   45.93    49.29   62.99    64.90    68.99   375.95
Recunrent maint. element    3.24  5.10    8.521  9.56     9.63    13.85    19.741   29.61   99.24
5.     The Government has demonstrated its commitment to provide the necessary counterpart funds for
the project and indeed for the entire roads sector over the medium term. This is clearly illustrated in the
Government's Medium Term Budget Framework (MTEF) which is a mechanism for determining
Government medium term expenditure priorities and allocating these funds through the budgetary process.
The MTEF gives three-year expenditure projections, which are revised annually as part of the budget
process. The commitment to allocations to the roads sector are also shown in the TSIREP, developed by the
Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development.
3. Technical:
The main component of the Project comprises civil works and consultant services in respect of upgrading
and strengthening of national roads to paved (bitumen) standard. GOU, with the assistance of consultant
services provided under RSISTAP and TRP, had already prepared detailed designs, economic feasibility
analyses and environmental impact assessment (EIA) reports for several of the roads proposed for
consideration which were reviewed by IDA during Project pre-appraisal. In many cases, the economic
feasibility analyses comprised of review, verification and update of existing designs and EIA reports. The
final designs are based on Ugandan national road design standards and specifications including safety,
- 24 -



satisfactory to IDA. Under the same feasibility and detailed design services, contract documents were
prepared. The project costs have been arrived at on the basis of the substantially completed detailed designs
and the engineer's estimates compared with available cost data for ongoing contracts. Construction
supervision will be carried out by consultants. Civil works in all phases will be implemented sequentially
following satisfactory completion and acceptance of the results of economic and environmental feasibility
analyses. The site for the Pilot Project was selected based on the following criteria: (i) GOU priorities; (ii)
suitability of location and site materials; and (iii) length of section to facilitate experimental tests.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The project builds on the existing institutional arrangements and will contribute to a sustained effort of
institutional strengthening. As discussed under Section C.4, overall responsibility for Project
implementation rests with MOWHC. The main executing agency is envisaged as a Road Agency which
could be established by the end of FY 2001/02; the form, size and scope of which is to be determined as a
result of the RAFU performance/experience gained and from the findings of a special study, which started
in March 2001. In the interim, RAFU will serve as the institutional nucleus set-up for the formation of the
possible Road Agency. The Director of RAFU and other key technical staff have been appointed, with the
remaining key technical staff expected to be on board by June 2001. At which time, RAFU will be fully
capable of meeting all the procurement and implementation demands of RDP phase 1 and 2, being
responsible for processing and managing all construction and supervision consultancy contracts, as well as
the consultancy services for the various studies.
4.2 Project management:
Project management will be carried out under RAFU until full responsibility has been transferred to the
possible Road Agency after it is formed by the end of FY 2001/02. Financial and Procurement
Management Systems were reviewed during project preparation stage and action plans have been developed
to ensure that the RAFU will operate efficiently until its absorption into the planned Road Agency.
4.3 Procurement issues:
There are no major procurement issues. RAFU has employed qualified procurement staff and a detailed
procurement plan has been prepared. The RAFU procurement management under Phase I has been
efficiently and professionally implemented within the given timetable, while meeting necessary quality
requirements.
4.4 Financial management issues:
There are no financial management issues. The Finance and Administration Division (FAD) of RAFU has
been established within the institutional framework of the Ministry of Works, Housing and
Communications (MOWHC) with responsibility for Project financial management. FAD's financial
management system, in accordance with the Financial Management Action Plan presented in Annex 5b, is
expected to facilitate the introduction of PMR-based disbursements during Phases I and 2. Suitably
qualified and experienced independent external auditors have been appointed on approved terms of
reference, and an acceptable audit report was submitted by the auditors December 2000 and received by the
Bank January 2001.
- 25 -



5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: A (Full Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
An environmental assessment was carried out for each road project as part of the detailed feasibility
studies. The main purpose of the road specific ElAs was: (i) to prepare a comprehensive investigation
delineating any environmental impacts of the proposed road works; (ii) to describe and quantify these
impacts; (iii) to draw up feasible mitigation measures for minimizing, eliminating, or offsetting any adverse
effects; and (iv) to recommend the most appropriate mitigation and/or enhancement measures.
The potential environmental impacts along the proposed road sections include: stripping of top soil and loss
of vegetation due to the creation of borrow pits, soil erosion on road cuts and fills and stripped borrow
areas, silting of road side ditches and subsequent sedimentation downstream of water, soil contamination
and water pollution due to the spillage of toxic materials, slope stability problems and slopes affected by
erosion, poor drainage, various forms of temporary land take, and impacts on human settlements (spread of
HIl VAIDS and other infectious diseases, increased levels of accidents). In addition, the potential impact on
wildlife along the sections of road passing through the two national parks were considered, prompting the
change of category from B to A and to provide adequate controls to protect the animals.
In addition to the road specific ElAs, a Sector Environmental Assessment has been undertaken under the
PPF to review the environmental aspects of the RSDP with respect to (i) the adequacy of the current
national system of environmental policies and regulations regarding environmental impact assessment,
resettlement policies and strategies, mitigation, monitoring, and management of road work activities; (ii) the
capacity of the MOWHC and the National Environmental Management Authority (NEMA) to commission,
facilitate and implement future environmental assessments of road projects; (iii) the identification of
programs and organization of training courses targeted to appropriate govemment staff and consultants in
environmental assessment techniques and methodologies for road projects, and (iv) an assessment of local
consultant capacity and training needs to conduct relevant environmental assessments.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Funds have been provided under RSISTAP for the establishment of an environmental management/liaison
unit within MOWHC. This support will provide the needed capacity to coordinate and monitor the
environmental and social mitigation measures under the RSDP. This would facilitate coordination between
RAFU, MOWHC, NEMA and Uganda Wildlife Authority (UWA) on the implementation and monitoring
of the mitigation measures. These teams would work closely with the Engineer, the Contractors, members
of the local communities that are affected by the road rehabilitation and representatives of the respective
Parks, QENP and MFNP.
The success of the proposed EMP rests with: (i) ensuring adoption of appropriate work practices through
their specification in a management plan; (ii) contract documentation; (iii) costs and schedules; and (iv)
on-site monitoring. The relevant parties have agreed to the institutional, financial, technical, legal, and
logistical implications of the implementation of the proposed mitigation measures. In addition,
MOWHC/RAFU have ensured that mitigation measures are incorporated in final road designs and contract
documentation, and that appropriate expertise is included in the supervision consultants' staff to carry out
such measures.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
- 26 -



Date of receipt of final draft: April 2000 and May 2000
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) enironmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Key stakeholders including NEMA, UWA, RAFU, and MOWHC were involved in the process. A
certificate of approval for the environmental assessment has been issued by the National Environment
Management Authority (NEMA). The conditions for approval were integrated into the EA, together with
the management and monitoring plans.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
An environmental and social monitoring plan has been developed outlining the nature, location and
methodology of monitoring that should take place during the construction and operational phases. An
evaluation has also been made of the bodies/offices responsible for supervising the monitoring tasks. The
environmental management/liaison unit within MOWHC will have the overall coordinating role in
monitoring the mitigation measures. RAFU, NEMA and the Uganda Wildlife Authority (UWA) will work
closely with the Engineer, the Contractors, members of the local communities, and the representatives of
the respective Parks, QENP and MFNP.
Additionally, environmental specialists will be part of the Engineer's teams and RAFU to monitor the
implementation of mitigation measures. Construction related mitigation will be part of the routine
inspection of contractor's work which will be included in contract documentation. As the mitigation
measures were developed and agreed with the UWA, NEMA and Park authorities, they will be involved in
monitoring activities. Some support will be provided to UWA and Park authorities for monitoring impacts
of project activities. Particular care will need to be given to controlling and restricting the extraction of
construction materials, construction of camp development, restoration of construction sites to natural
habitat and control of vehicle speeds and road signing.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Social assessment for the physical components has been conducted prior to pre-appraisal in conjunction
with the EIA for the roads to be implemented under Phase 2. The EIA team included social and
environmental scientists providing a multi-disciplinary approach to preparing the EIA. Preliminary
socioeconomic data have been collected and analyzed from each of the areas where the roads are to be
improved. This also included an analysis of the temporary and localized microeconomic impacts resulting
from construction activities, as well as the potential for involuntary resettlement. A resettlement and land
acquisition policy framwork has been prepared and will be revised to include the quantification of the
number of dwellings to be removed, the associated relocation of households, as well as the principles and
procedures for compensation. Individual resettlement action plan will also be revised. These analyses
concluded that there is no involuntary resettlement. Road safety audits have been carried out under the
RSISTAP, which would further provide a basis for road safety education programs to the public, as well as
safety considerations in road design, construction and maintenance.
Minimizing the adverse impact of HIV/AIDS: HIV/AIDS is associated with the extensive network of
truck/bus rest stops and terminals as well as with contractors camps during construction stages of the
- 27 -



project. The issue has been addressed within the sector strategy and within each individual contract. An
HIV/AIDS project currently under appraisal, deals with all sectors and their related Ministries, who will
assume leadership and responsibility for implementing these strategies with professional and technical
support of health agencies. In addition, each of the physical components included in the Phase 2 Project
include provisions for qualified on-site clinic screening and counseling for HIV/AIDS and STD, and
awareness and training programs for workers and local people, with associated costs included in the
construction contracts. Treatment of the STD cases will also be provided by the on-site clinics, with the
HIV/AIDS treatment coordinated through the national program.
6.2 Participatory Approach: Elow are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Key stakeholders including NEMA, UWA, RAFU, MOWHC, concerned groups and local communities
participated through public consultations, field visits, and surveys for the project. In addition the Road
Safety Study results have been publicly discussed at various seminars including government (traffic police
and hospitals), private stakeholders and NGOs.
6.3 How does the project involve consultationis or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The project involves consultations through meetings and public forums including workshops and seminars
to discuss the results of various studies. Consultations with local representatives, women's groups and
youth groups have shown that upgrading to bitumen surfacing of the Karuma to Pakwach to Arua Road is
very strongly supported.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
see 5.5
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in tenns of social development outcomes?
see 5.5
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
..  . ... ...   ..........   ...............   ... ......... ... ........ .. . . ..   ... . . ..
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            0 Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    * Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Mitigation measures associated with the impacts are addressed in the environmental and social management plan.
The institutional, financial, and contractual arrangements have been articulated in this plan. In particular, the
implementation of an environmental liaison unit within the MOWHC, the appointment of an environmental
manager in RAFU and the establishment of a working relationship with relevant parties will contribute to the
overall environmental and social management of the program.
- 28 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The critical factor required for sustainability of the Program and Project benefits is continued Government
commitment at the highest level to sector and institutional reform to establish effective management,
coordination and implementation, and assure provision of funds and other resources required for
maintaining the road network. By involving, right from the start, key stakeholders, including direct
beneficiaries, lawmakers and the civil society, the framework has been set for the sustained mobilization of
Government and public support. Another key element for sustainability is that producers and road users,
through improved accessibility and infrastructure condition quickly realize benefits from the reforms. To
this end, RAFU will contribute to ensuring the successful and timely implementation of the proposed
project. In addition, Government should strictly adhere to providing the financial requirements for road
rehabilitation and maintenance projected under the TSIREP. Government should be prepared to evaluate
alternative financing, including private sector participation, in light of the expanding investments in the
road sector.
- 29 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Ainex 1):
Risk~ Risk ~RatigRsMtiaineur
From Outputs to Objective
Projected level of agricultural and         N         Government to implement agricultural and
industrial production will not be attained.           industrial development programs, with annual
data collection and analyses to provide updates
on performance.
Uganda Road Agency or RAFU's                S         Frequent review and analysis of implementation
permanent establishment constituted.                  progress with Govemment.
Adequate budgets will not be released       S         Annual commitment of funds by GOU through
the TSIREP.
Appropriate financing arrangements will     M         Adoption of findings from Road Mgmt. &
not be approved by GOU and agreed with                Financing Study and workshops for altemative
road users                                            sources of financing.
Annual national road network                M         Annual agreement on targets and an independent
maintenance program will not be                       technical audit review of progress as part of
implemented as scheduled                              supervision.
From Components to Outputs
RAFU's independence to carry out its        M         Obtain commitment and supportive action from
responsibilities will be compromised                  highest level of Govemment
RAFU expedite monitoring and                M         Arrangements in place, including periodic donor
implementation, and studies are not                   meetings, for review and discussion of progress.
completed on time
Counterpart funds will not be adequately    M         Annual review during GOIU/PER discussions.
budgeted for, and funds not released in a
timely manner
Security problems in some project areas     S         Government to provide protection in affected
inhibit surveys, detailed engineering                 areas during studies and works execution
designs and eventual construction
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
1. the Borrower has established the Project Account and deposited therein the initial deposit of US$ 3.0
million equivalent;
2. the Borrower has furnished to the Association evidence that it has:
- 30 -



(i) committed adequate counterpart funds for the carrying out of the Project in the Financial Years 2001/2
through 2003/4; and
(ii) established an accounting system satisfactory to the Association;
3. the Borrower has: (i) adopted the Financial Management Manual, in form and substance satisfactory to
the Association; (ii) completed the computerization of the financial management system; and (iii) prepared
quarterly and annual cash flow forecasts for the Financial Years 2001/2 through 2005/6; and
4. the Borrower has furnished to the Association (i) a revised Resetdement and Land Acquisition Policy
Framework, satisfactory to the Association, and (ii) a revised Resettlement Action Plan for civil works
related to upgrading and strengthening of the national roads, to be carried out during the first year after the
Effectiveness Date.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
H. Readiness for Implementation
Z 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
l I 1. b) Not applicable.
D 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
(A 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
El 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
X 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
C1 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Yitzhak A. Kamhi                              lessis-Fraissards
Team Leader                       Sector Manager                    Country ManagerlDirector
- 31 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
UGANDA: SECOND PHASE OF THE ROAD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
., 0 ; ,~~~~~.    '''  ' : ' '-.  ,    . .  0.. ,     . ,  .... .    -.  , ..............  .....   ....      ..-........,...
Kespi  ff iObJ,plv.              I: ..- -i.      !    nonlte- :  i   -EvaFipeln--Lin -rds Asupi.1
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
To achieve effective market  Increasing volume of    - Annual Economic          - Effective market integration
integration by removing    agricultural, commercial and  Review;                will lead to additional
existing constraints to road   industrial goods nationally in  - ESW (periodic)  economic growth and the
transport services.        all seasons.                                         improvement of critical
poverty indicators.
Program Purpose:          End-of-Program Indicators: Program reports:           (from Purpose to Goal)
To remove existing         1. High percentage of     - Annual Public Expenditure
constraints to road transport  primary, secondary, tertiary,  Review;
services, and achieve an  and district (feeder) roads in  - Survey of industrial and
efficient, safe and sustainable  traffic worthy condition at all agricultural product flows;
road network by end-2006.   seasons.                 - Bank supervision and
Program Phasing:                                     evaluation mission reports.
Phase 1: Sector reforms,   2. Low incidence of
policy and management     reported road bottlenecks in
studies (including distric  all seasons (nationally).
(feeder) roads); upgrading of  3. Reduced number of
two national gravel roads    .            . .
sections to paved standards;
Phase 2: Upgrading and
strengthening of two national
roads sections; Phase I Road
Safety Action Plan;
preparation of National
Transport Plan and Greater
Kampala Master Plan; Pilot
project for demonstration of
use of innovative technologies
and materials in construction
of low-volume traffic roads;
feasibility study and detailed
engineering design of new
Road Agency headquarters
building
Phase 3: Upgrading and
strengthening of two national
roads;
rehabilitation/regravelling of
one national road in North;
secondary and district (feeder)
roads upgrading; construction
of Road Agency Offices;
Phase 4:
Rehabilitation/improvement
of district (feeder) roads in
selected districts.
- 32 -



KyPeromance
: . . . ,. .. :: : : : : : ::::::: ::: :. : : .: .
Kieraihy of ObjeCtives -         I--1icaOr    :      Mnitrn    : Evaut n : - C Itia As          pios -
Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Purpose)
Objective:                Indicators:
To widen sector and       1. RAFU fully operational by - IDA supervision and    - GOU completes the
institutional reforms, and  December 2001'.          evaluation mission reports   recruitment of RAFU staff
upgrade the condition of the   2. Reduction in average  (including mid-term review    with full transfer of
national roads between major travel time on national roads  and ICR);           management functions for
urban areas, and improve low  compared to baseline;  - Travel time survey reports;  national roads from MOWHC
traffic road designs and road  3. Reduction in transport and - Regular and annual data   to RAFU;
safety management.        vehicle operating costs    collection and review of   - Government provides
compared to baseline;     transport prices and vehicle  funding; the Public, including
4. Social assessment of   operation costs (VOC).     NGOs, actively support Road
stakeholders' preferences.    - Baseline surveys of  Safety Program.
indicators 2, 3, 4 not later
than 6 months after
commencement of works
contract;
- Final indicator surveys
within 6 months after
completion of the works
contracts
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:           {from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Existing national roads    1. 108 km of gravel road    - Quarterly review of  - Projected level of
upgraded to paved (bitumen)  upgraded; and 163 km of    implementation progress  agricultural and industrial
standard or strengthened;  paved road strengthened by   reports and IDA supervision  production attained;
construction well supervised;  June 2005;            missions;                  - Total annual development
2. Road Safety Action Plan,   2. Road black spots on 2  - Progress and final study    and recurrent budget
Phase 1 implemented;      major trunk roads identified  reports;                estimates for 2002/03 - 2004 -
3. National and Greater   and reconstructed by June  - National Road Safety     2005 (TSIREP) in accordance
Kampala Area Transport    2004.                      Reports.                   with projections;
Plans approved and agreed;   3. National and Greater                            - Annual road network
4. Innovative low-traffic  Kampala Area Transport                               maintenance program
roads designs identified and   Plans approved and agreed by                     implemented as scheduled;
adopted.                  June 2004;                                            - GOU is willing to adopt
5. Road Agency building   4. Innovative design prepared,                        alternative road financing
designs completed and     constructed and tested by June                        including user sources in case
adopted                   2006.                                                 of budget shortfalls;
5. Road Agency Study                                 - Uganda Road Agency
completed under RSISTAP by                           established by the end of FY
December 2001                                        2002/03, if required;
- Adequate support for user
fees (fuel levy) among road
users if necessary as source of
financing.
-33 -



ti0iHierarchy efObjectives h-4 -   1dgiert               Mont oring &      uti          ritIcal Asum o
Project Components I        Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:             (from Components to
Sub-components:             component)                                               Outputs)
IDA-Financed                                            - Disbursement reports       - GOU counterpart funds will
l.a. national gravel roads  l.a. US$ 72.47 million      (quarterly);                 be budgeted and released on
upgrading, and paved roads                               - Implementation progress   time;
strengthening;                                          reports (quarterly);         - Detailed studies of
l.b. Consultancy services for  1. b  US$ 5.07 million                                individual roads confinn the
construction supervision.                                                            economic viability of selected
roads;
2. Road Safety:                                                                      - Minimal interference to the
2a. Black Spots Improvement, 2a. US$ 2.78 million                                    establishment of RAFU and
Civil Works                                                                          the staff selection and
2b. Design & Construction    2b. US$ 0.30 million                                    appointment process;
Supervision;                                                                         - RSISTAP and RDP Phase 1
2c. Institutional Support;  2c. US$ 1.70 million                                     studies completed in a timely
2d. Equipment.              2d. US$ 0.30 million                                     manner.
- Security problems in some
3. National Transport                                                                project areas do not inhibit
Plan/Greater Kampala Master 3. US$ 2.66 million                                      surveys, detailed engineering,
Plan.                                                                                and construction.
- NDF Credit approved, and
NDF-Financed                                                                         negotiated.
4. Pilot Low Traffic Road
Studies
4a. Civil Works             4a. US$ 8.55 million
4b. Consultancy Services    4b. US$ 2.24 million
5. Road Agency Offices
5a. Consultancy Services    5a. US$ 0.92 million
RAFU has been established under RSISTAP. The Road Development Program, Phase 1, is now under implementation by RAFU while its fill
establishment continues.
- 34 -



Annex 1
Attachment I
Development of District (Feeder) Roads and Community Roads
1.1    District (Feeder) Roads, Economic Development and Poverty Alleviation
Government policy maintains District (Feeder) Roads (DFR) and Community Roads (CR) as essential for
the country's overall economic growth, and should form part of a viable and integrated road system. DFRs
and CRs provide access to the rural productive areas of the country where presently over 80% of the
country's population live and derive their income mainly from agriculture. Agriculture contributes nearly
70% of the GDP and accounts for over 80% of export earnings. The district (feeder) roads provide links to
crop production centers and markets, as well as rural industries, health centers, educational institutions and
administrative centers and services. In addition, they provide the first viable access to markets in urban
centers, and enhance the economic prospects for the poor. The 1998 Poverty Alleviation Program of the
Government therefore accorded top priority to the rehabilitation and maintenance of district (feeder) roads
and community access roads.
1.2    Developing the Strategy for District (Feeder) Roads and Community Roads.
Since 1987, the Government of Uganda has carried out an extensive district (feeder) road rehabilitation
effort. In this context, a Strategy Document for Rural District (Feeder) Roads Rehabilitation and
Maintenance (1992 - 1997/8), was prepared by the Engineering Department of the MOLG. The strategy
document elaborated the policy framework and action plan for the sub-sector. It also provided the basis for
implementing a program for district (feeder) roads reconstruction, rehabilitation and maintenance carried
out by Government, or with the assistance of various donors including IDA. The objectives of IDA's
support to districts (feeder) roads under the 1994/95 Uganda Transport Rehabilitation Project were derived
from the 1992 Strategy paper. In addition, Government, together with several donors including (ADB,
DANIDA, Germany, Irish Aid and USAID), has implemented programs of district (feeder) roads
rehabilitation as part of its overall strategy. About 9000 km (30%) of the RFRs have so far been
rehabilitated and or maintained, although many CRs are still inaccessible. Important lessons have been
learnt which provide the basis for updating Government strategy. The evidence suggested the following
strategic directions:
(i)    Expansion of the program of road rehabilitation and maintenance using labor-based
technologies and construction methods.
(ii)   Firming up institutional arrangements including building the capacity of MOWHC/RAFU
for district (feeder) roads program development and management and providing support to
DAs for implementation;
(iii)  Increasing the use of private contractors and consultants in program execution;
(iv)   Developing sustainable revenue sources for financing district and community roads
maintenance.
- 35-



Consultancy services for a study to review and update the District (Feeder) Roads Rehabilitation and
Maintenance Strategy have been completed. The main objectives of the study were to: (i) review the 1992
Strategy Document in light of new government policies, and identify new and potential constrains and
functional deficiencies which have existed or are likely to exist and which have not been completely
addressed or implemented in the 1992 Action Plan; (ii) explore new strategies and elaborate on the new
operational framework, which also includes urban and community access roads; (iii) develop realistic
medium-to-long term strategies which identify responsibilities, appropriate institutional set-ups, resources,
time frame, etc. for implementation.
The consultant has addressed and made recommendations on the following aspects regarding district and
urban roads: (i) rehabilitation and maintenance needs and benefits, where the consultant recommends
investing US$65 million/year over seven years to improve the condition of the district and urban road
network to less than 15% in poor and bad condition, and the community access roads to less than 50% in
poor and bad condition; (ii) strategies in terms of (a) institutions, (b) funding, (c) human resources
capacity, execution policy, (d) equipment and support services, (e) planning and programs, (f) community
and access roads, and (g) urban roads; and (iii) government policies, in which the consultant supports,
among other things, (a) the Decentralization Policy (Local Government Act of 1997), (b) the strategy of
contracting out maintenance and rehabilitation work and the development of local contractors, and (c) the
use of labor-based technology. An action plan for each of the main strategies has also been proposed.
Following the above study, Government has prepared a final draft White Paper on Sustainable
Maintenance of District (Feeder), Urban and Community Access Roads (October 2000), which was
received by the Bank February 2001. The White Paper is to be further disseminated and discussed among
key local stakeholders and donors in order to produce the final paper.
2.0    Development of a 10-year District (Feeder) Roads Development Plan.
In November 1996, the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communications (MOWTC) presented to the
donors a 10-Year Road Sector Investment Plan covering the period 1997/98 to 2006/07. The plan did not
include rural district (feeder), urban and community roads. However, an initial analysis was undertaken for
20 districts for which studies had earlier been completed or information had been compiled into the DFRs
planning database. A study will be conducted with the aim of selecting about 300 km of roads out of
pre-detenmined length of priority district (feeder) roads which qualify for reclassifying and upgrading to the
national road network on the basis of an analysis of their network functions and their economic viability.
The upgrading of these roads will be carried out under Phase 3 of the proposed RDP. The selection of
roads for reclassification will be made from an overall assessment of district (feeder) roads development
and transport needs, as well as its related institutional capacity and resource needs. A complementary
10-year district (feeder) roads improvement plan will be prepared, for which further detailed engineering
designs will be carried out. The full details of the district (feeder) roads Plan will be confirmed by the
consultant studies and Bank's appraisal of the projects for implementation in the RDP Phases 3 and 4.
2.1    Scope of IDA support to District (Feeder) Roads Under the RDP.
During the appraisal of the RDP a review was carried out on possible IDA support under the program that
would include the following activities:
(i) Rehabilitation of about 300 km of district (feeder) roads reclassified as part of the national road system
as well as its associated construction supervision to be implemented under Phase 3 of the RDP. These are
expected to be constructed to national roads design standards, i.e., pavement widths of 6m and shoulders
1.5m each.
- 36 -



(ii)   An estimated 72 man-months of technical support (Transport Economist/Planner and a
Roads/Transport Engineer) will be provided through the MOPWH or RAFU beginning in Phase 3. The
objective will be to strengthen the existing institutional capacity, and increase the effectiveness of RAFU in
providing planning and programming, administration and management support to district administrations in
implementing a national strategic plan for district (feeder) roads development and maintenance, and for the
planning and promotion rural transport services. The proposed scope of the support will be implemented in
close coordination with other planned donors financed advisory services currently under discussion.
(iii) Rehabilitation and improvement of about 1000 km of high priority district (feeder) roads in about 10
districts. The actual length of roads will be confirmed during the ongoing study in accordance with GOU's
poverty alleviation policy as well as traffic volume, proximity to national roads network, and service to
greater economic opportunities.
2.2    Program Cost Estimates.
Preliminary estimates of program costs were made during the pre-appraisal of Phase 2 project after
reviewing the costs of from ongoing donor-financed district (feeder) roads programs, viz., the IDA financed
Transport Rehabilitation Program (TRP), AfDF, DAN IDA, Irish Aid, and U SAID supported district
(feeder) road improvement programs. The estimated summary District (Feeder) Roads costs are indicated
in Table 2, while the overall IOY RSDP District (Feeder) Roads Development Financial Plan is shown in
Table 2 of the Annex 1, Attachment 1.
- 37 -



Annex I
Attachment I
Table I
UGANDA ROAD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
District (Feeder) Roads Rehabilitation
Program
Estimated Program Costs                  Key Assumptions
(S million)                 Unit      LengtAV   Unit cost
MM          S/km
Item                 Category   Local   Foreign    Total
Phase 3
1. Upgrading FR to Classified gravel  Civil Works  15.0    28.00   43.00    kmn              300  143,000.00
Std.
(About 300 Ian)
2. Supervision of Works          Consultant       0.3         2.7     3.0
Services
3. Technical Support to Districts  Consultant     0.1         1.3     1.4   MM                72   20,000.00
Services
Phase 4
4. Rehabilitation of feeder roads  Civil Works   11.7        14.3    26.0  L/Based          1,000     26,000
kIn
(About 1000 km - 10 districts)                                           Other - km
5. Supervision of works          Consultant       0.2         1.5     1.7
Services
Sub-Total                                        27.3        47.8    75.1
Contingencies (Physical (10%) and                 7.2        12.7    19.9
Price (15%))
TOTAL                                            34.5        60.5    95.0
- 38 -



Attachment 1
Table 2
10-Year RSDP Feeder Roads Development
FINANCIAL TARGETS (in M of conatant 1996 USO)
-   -            ~~~~~~~USD iniflation rates/Exchan5  rates:  2%   1,020  2%   1,080       2%   1,200        2%   1,500        2%   1,623
_                 _          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Actual              Provisional         Budget
Code               Feeder Roads                Donos D~onors GOU    13nsIGU I Donors GOU DonQra              GOU            1~,0*GOU
TR16 (DI Reha. - IAD3E                          GOU                 120902                   :     0 .67  t M           (A 8
TIRIB (E0  Rehab. - IFADE                       GOU                                  0.7ag             0.67                                )7
TR16 (H  Rehab. -ERCI                                                                                                   1.3                1.29
TRI6 Q)Feeder Roads Management Unit             GOU             j0.28                Oi                 .40.07
TR16 (J1) improvements - EDF                    GOU                             j 910.72               0.6              0670.67
TR31 (J) RDP ImprovementIC
TR35 (B  TRP Rehab. & Maint.                    IDA_02                      .1.6    0.20    O9         0.67   ~1`8    0.60        3~D      0.22
TR61 (A  Road Equipment for District Unit       GOU                                                    101911.38
TR72 (B  Six District Road Netw ork             Danida                                                          .7      0.05      I '5a    0.12
TR75(Aj AA MP Rehab. Distic Rds                 ADF                                                   ...   ..... 012.   03
Other Proj. c/std
Recurrent Expenditure for Rest of Netw o GOU              5.00             46                 .97.43                       - 11.10
Total Feeder Rod:        400   11.56       4.82   10894     2a5   17.28       xll1#    16.03    ItS     16.90
continuie...
USD inflation rates/Exchange rates: 2%         1,707      2%   1.820        2%   1.911       2%   2.000       2%   2,100
_________________________________                     ~~~~~~~~~Estimates                     t  ....     ...   ....
__________________________         ~~~2002/3         2003/04          200,4105          2008/6             pq 
Code              Feeder Roads            Donors  tVoitq  low        Dono0, 00M]W   I  OW1   GMs6     1W Doorsit lou            GMU 
TRIG f)  Rehiab. - IpFAD                    GIU                                                                                      2.40 
TRIG (')  Rehaeb. & MaiL                    AD                                                                                       10.66
TR1B(G)  Reab*. -JICA I                     GMO                                                                                       106 
TR16(H    Reha, ERC t                       GOU:                                                                                      566.
TR15 0)   Feeder Roads Maragemeri Unkt      GMOU5
TR16(J)  irnpmveniels.EDF                   GU36
TR31 (.   tDRP lmpuovernelt                 IA    ~      4~ 46                     .258                               .2
TFM B   TFt Paha. & Makit                   __A_
TROl (A)  Road Equimentfor eDAd UnitQt                                                                                                60
TR2()Six DNeict Road Network           Drd                                                                                             ... .
TR7S(A)   AAMP' Rehob. Distrid Rds                       601 0                                                                         3
- OlherPfojects         tbd          0.07     1.75     4.51~~~ 1.52     6.74    1.89   1fItS     3.15131                  40
___RecurrentExpenditure for Rest ofNetwork GIOU            i 1167        j 12.22118                            13.47             B
Total Feeder Roads:    hIAg   18.631   22.311 19.56I   24.41  20.54    2114   20.54   %#*          66 
- 39 -



Annex I
Attachment 2
Trigger Indicators under the Adaptable Program Lending Instrument
It is envisaged to implement the program for road development in four phases, each phase being
constituted by a new group of roads. The Bank will support each phase distinctly through a new Credit.
The project described in this PAD refers to the second phase of the Road Development Program (RDP,
Phase 2) as in the logical framework matrix in Annex 1. The Phase 2 project, and each new phase, is
appraised in order to evaluate its technical, economic, social and environmental feasibility, in accordance
with criteria satisfactory to IDA, as well as to factor in the experience gained during implementation of the
previous phase. This approach of learning by doing allows for continuous adjustment of the individual
project design, early identification of risks, and the implementation of corrective measures, before
geographic coverage expands. An assessment has been made of the triggers defined previously for Phase 2
to determine the appropriateness and readiness for starting a new Phase.
The focus on the second phase of the program and thus the triggers for Phase 3 are based on
evidence that the road sector management through the establishment of a sustainable and effective
implementation and procurement capability is taking place as planned. As the program rolls out and
implementation results are available, triggers for Phases 3 and 4 will be monitored on the basis of
indicators spelled out in the logical frameworks of previous phases.
-40 -



Phase m
Assessing Project Strategy and       Trigger Indicators                  Means of Verification
Institutional Building
Experience from previous phase    RAFU key personnel in place and  Bi-monthly evaluation reports made available
indicates that the project's   effectively handling the         to all participating donors in RSDP.
institutional arrangements reflect  implementation process.
effective decentralized
decision-making, build local   Administrative arrangements pernit  Government prepares PIP for Phase 3
responsibility and accountability,  effective and timely approval and  detailing planned and actual achievements in
and implement an effective    implementation.                   preceding phases.
monitoring and evaluation system.
The monitoring and evaluation    FAD established and financial management
system permits follow-up of project   information technology requirements
implementation and assessment of    developed by June 2000.
project objectives achievement.
Quarterly/Annual Cash Flow Forecast
prepared by start of Phase 1, and updated for
Phase 2.
Sub-projects meet economic, social,   Base line established for VOC.
and environmental eligibility criteria.
Evidence of adequate implementation External auditors appointed.
of environmental mitigation measures
designed in the Phases 1 and 2.  Receipt of acceptable financial audit for
RAFU by December 2000; and subsequent
years.
Overall strategy for the transport   White Paper on district (feeder) roads White Paper implementation plan and line of
sector and for district (feeder)  prepared                      action adopted.
roads identified.
Studies for updating of transport sector and
district (feeder) road strategies and financing
accepted by GOU and IDA.
Government strictly adheres to  TSIREP for 3-year rolling periods    TSIREP updated every year in November and
providing the financial        adequately cover Sector requirements. accepted by IDA.
requirements for road
rehabilitation and maintenance                                  Performance audits of maintenance budgeted
projects under the TSIREP.                                      resources including physical road condition
to be carried out by independent consultants
from end April 2000.
Government capacity building in   Design documentation prepared and   Detailed Designs and bidding documents
procurement and disbursement for contract documents ready for bidding. accepted by IDA. Contract incorporates
major civil works.                                              required mitigation measures.
Procurement specialist in place and   Pre-qualification of contractors and short
procurement unit established within  listing of consultants commenced.
RAFU.
Procurement evaluation reports professionally
continue to be prepared on schedule.
- 41 -



Phase IV
Assessing Project Strategy and       Trigger Indicators                  Means of Verification
Institutional Building
RAFU to remain or convert to a    Uganda Road Agency or RAFU's  Legislation prepared and approved by
fully established dedicated Road   permanent establishment constituted.  National Assembly.
Agency in charge of managing
and operating the road network.
Effectiveness of matching scheme  District program and financial  FAD financial system operational with
for financing district (feeder) roads management capacity (resources) and  support to districts for implementing
maintenance and rehabilitation,   systems assessed and developed; and  appropriate systems compatible with central
and introduction of a financially                               systems; including budget framework
sustainable scheme through, e.g.,                               development systems implemented under the
fostering community-based                                       decentralization process;
revolving funds for maintenance.
Each district demonstrates a     Bi-annual evaluation report carried out by
substantial adoption of proposed  independent consultant in every district
finalized scheme.                incorporating analysis of results.
Agreement with beneficiaries and the
implementation agencies.
Priority district (feeder) road  The implementation capacity in the
candidates for rehabilitation in    districts is adequate to provide for
selected districts identified and    timely usage and operation of the
maintenance program prepared.   district (feeder) roads network.
-42 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
UGANDA: SECOND PHASE OF THE ROAD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
1.    GOU's 10-Year Road Sector Development Plan (RSDP) and the Proposed Road
Development Program (RDP)
1.1    A key element in the implementation of the Government's sector strategy is the RSDP for the
national road network which was endorsed at a Donor's Conference held in Paris on November 20, 1996.
The primary aims of the RSDP are to provide an efficient, safe and sustainable roads network in support of
market integration and poverty alleviation; to improve the managerial and operational efficiency of road
administration; and to develop the domestic construction industry. Overall, a projected total expenditure
level under the RSDP is estimated at US$1.5 billion for the national road network over 10 years, and
US$380 million for the District (Feeder) Roads over the same period (see Table I attached). IDA
assistance under the proposed RDP is being provided to support a part of the RSDP (see Table 2 attached).
1.2    Expenditures under the RSDP reflect a strategy focusing on the preservation and selective
upgrading of existing road assets. Improvement of main paved and gravel roads would account for some
46% of total expenditures, followed by maintenance for national roads (28%), upgrading and maintenance
of district (feeder) roads (16%), and urban roads (4%). Capacity building and studies mostly account for
the remaining 5%.
Expenditures over the period of the RSDP are estimated at US$1.88 billion. Of this amount, projects worth
more than USS I billion would be financed through commitments from donors. The Govemment presented
to IDA its proposal for assistance over the period, which after screening of the physical components,
amounts to a total cost of about US$380 million. This includes funds under the ongoing Transport
Rehabilitation Project, RSISTAP, and El Nino Emergency Road Repair Project (total amount
approximately US$100 million), with the balance being provided under the proposed Road Development
Program (RDP).
2.    Road Development Program, Phase 2
Objectives
The objectives of the Road Development Program, Phase 2 Project (the Project) is, just as it was for Phase
1, to improve access to rural areas and economically productive areas and to gradually build up road sector
planning and management capabilities. The project comprises: (i) upgrading of one of the highest priority
national roads to paved standards, Karuma-Olwyio-Pakwach (108 kIn); (ii) strengthening a major
North-South axis, Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Portal, Kasese-Kilembe and Equator Roads (163 kim), including
consultancy for construction supervision; (iii) improving road safety by investing in present black spots,
including consultancy services and the provision of equipment to the Police; (iv) elaborating a National
Transportation Plan and Kampala Transportation Master Plan; (v) a pilot project for the use of innovative
technologies in construction of a low traffic volume road (Matugga-Semuto-Kapeeka), including feasibility
study and detailed engineering design, construction supervision and project monitoring and manuals; and
(vi) consultancy services for the creation of the Road Agency.'
The pilot project and the consultancy services for the read agency are to be fnanced by NDF.
-43-



By Component:
Project Component I - US$72.47 million
Upgrading of National Roads to Paved (Bitumen) Standard and Strengthening of Paved Roads
Karuma-Pakwach-Arua Road. Section: Karuma-Olwvio-Pakwach (108 km)
The road comprises the following sections: Karuma-Olwiyo, 45.6 kim; Olwiyo-Pakwach, 62.4 km;
Pakwach-Nebbi, 53.7 kmn; and Nebbi-Arua, 76 km. During the RDPP1 appraisal, it was determined that
due to insecurity in certain areas along the road, feasibility and detailed engineering could only be carried
out for only the Pakwach-Arua section (130 km) for inclusion in the Phase 1 program. Since this time there
have been no reported incidents affecting security along the road. The entire gravel road provides the
national trunk road access to the districts of Arua, Nebbi and Moyo in the north west of Uganda. This is a
very important road for the social and economic integration of the West Nile area with the rest of the
country. The road passes through the northern edge of Murchison Falls National Park and traverses rich
agricultural areas growing tobacco (Uganda's major growing area), coffee, cotton, tea, maize. groundnuts,
simsim, millet, wheat, rice, potatoes and timber. It forms part of the north west trunk road system
connecting the towns of Arua and Pakwach to Kampala and is the main outlet to Sudan and North Eastem
Congo Republic. The road classification is also class 11 bitumen standard. No major resettlement problems
are anticipated and the road would have positive impacts by helping to increase the use of the area as an
active trading region with countries neighboring Uganda. The construction of the Karuma-Pakwach section
is estimated at US$ 31.86 million including physical and price contingencies but excluding supervision
costs, and construction will be divided into packages: Karuma to Olwiyo and Olwiyo-Pakwach.
Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Portal, Equator & Kilembe Roads (163 km)
The road between Katunguru and Fort Portal is 113 km in length and is in generally good condition, due to
abnormally high levels of periodic maintenance. Repair works (comprising some 16-km of reconstruction
and 40,000 m2 of resurfacing) were undertaken in 1996 on the section south of Kasese. No visual evidence
of insufficient pavement strength was noted. In terms of geology across which the route is located, the road
could be broadly divided into two. Within the southem section, to about 62 km, (10 km north of the Hima
cement factory) the route predominantly crosses sands, clays and gravels associated with formation of Lake
George to the east. To the north of Fort Portal, the route predominantly crosses Gneissic rocks of varying
degrees of weathering.
The Equator Road is 38 km in length of which the first 20 km has been repaired / reconstructed in line with
the work carried out recently north of Kasese towards Fort Portal. To the west, as far as the border with the
Congo, the road rapidly deteriorates to a completely failed state, with little intact continuous surfacing. In
terms of geology the initial 18 km crosses predominantly volcanic rocks, comprising tuffs and some lava.
Further to the east, the existing road is located upon sands, clays and gravels probably associated with
Lake Edward to the south.
The Kasese-Kilembe Road is 12 km in length. Over the initial 5 km, as far as the security gate, the road is
in fair condition. Beyond, the road deteriorates becoming heavily potholed, but not to the extent of the
western section of the Equator Road. The geology of the area around Kasese is sands and clays. The road
passes across-some 2 km of predominantly Quartzite before passing onto Gneissic rock. The mine area is
shown as comprising sandstone, slate and schist.
- 44 -



The first 20 kn of the Katunguru to Kasese section as far as the Equator Road junction passes through
Queen Elizabeth National Park (QENP) while the remainder follows the boundary of the Kahendero area of
the Park. Consequently, this section is not heavily settled with the exception of four centers at Katunguru,
the Equator Road junction, Mohokya and Kasese. Most of the section north of Kasese is characterized by
small settlements, but these are generally scattered away from the road, the exceptions being trading centers
such as Rwimi and Kibito.
From the junction with the national Katunguru to Kasese road, the first section of the Equator road has few
settlements, partly because the southern side is within the QENP. From Munkunyu secondary school the
area becomes relatively well settled with increasing density towards Bwera Township close to the Congo
border.
The Kasese to Kilembe road passes through settlements all the way to Kilembe town. The economic
activities in the area are connected with agriculture, industry and tourism.
The project area has great agricultural potential, which is favored by good climate and fertile soils.
Agriculture is the main economic activity with the large majority (approximately 75%) of the population
depending on agriculture to produce enough food both for subsistence and surplus for sale.
The areas main active industrial plant is the Hima cement works, which is understood to currently produce
16,000 tons of cement per month, intended to increase to 25,000 tons by 2000/2001.
Resources for the attraction of tourists include the game in the Queen Elizabeth National Park, which has
experienced steadily increasing visitor numbers over the past decade. It is understood that tourists have
expressed some surprise at the presence of a tarmac road passing through the Park.
By far, the largest employment sector is agriculture as the majority of the people still live in the rural areas
On the whole output is still low. There is little value added and as such these commodities command low
prices. The major problems affecting agriculture include poor technology, lack of infrastructure
development, lack of markets and unfavorable factors such as uneven rainfall, floods, diseases, pests and
inability to get produce to markets particularly in rainy seasons.
The construction of the Project roads is estimated at US$ 40.61 million including physical and price
contingencies, but excluding supervision costs.
Project Component 2 - US$5.08 million
Road Safety Improvement and Audit Study Action Plan
The study was awarded under RSISTAP (Cr. 2987-UG). The findings of the study were discussed by all
stakeholders. As a result, the final report including a 5-year Master Plan and a 3-year Action Plan was
issued by October 2, 2000. Phase I of the Action Plan to be implemented under the RDP Phase 2 Project,
has been identified and agreed as follows:
1.    Civil Works: Accident blackspot improvements (Estimated Total Cost US$2.78 million)
Construction of safety improvements at identified accident blackspots on major corridors in general and in
particular on the rural highway sections of the Jinja Road (71 kIn) and Entebbe Road (37 kIn).
-45-



2.    Consulting Services (Estimated Total Cost US$2.00 million). This will include:
(i)    Design and Construction Supervision of the civil works blackspot improvements. (Estimated Total
Cost US$0.30 million)
(ii)   Institutional Support and Capacity Building (Estimated Total Cost US$1.70 million), comprising:
(a) Complete revision of the road safety sections of the Road Design Manual (sections 4, 5 and 6)
and the General Specifications for road works; development of a manual for traffic signs and
road markings; development of a manual for safety when working on the road;
(b) Training and/or workshops for MOWHC and RAFU staff in the use and application of the
above manuals and database system;
(c) Technical assistance for the National Road Safety Council;
(d) Police: Provision of enforcement equipment for speed control and breath alcohol
measurement, and training for establishment of the Traffic Highway Patrol Unit;
(e) Education: Development of a Road Code; and curriculum for Driving Instructors and Driving
Schools; development of road safety as a subject within the Primary School curriculum; and
(f) Health: Technical assistance to the Ministry of Health in research of the epidemiology of
road traffic injury trauma and identification of interventions required to reduce its impact as a
public health problemn.
-46 -



3.     Enforcement Equipment for the Police (Estimated Total Cost US$0.30 million).
Provision of enforcement equipment for speed control and breath alcohol measurement, and training for
establishment of the Traffic Highway Patrol Unit.
Project Component 3 - US$ 2.66 million
Preparation of a National Transport Master Plan and Transport Master Plan for Greater Kampala
Metropolitan Area
The component include Preparation of the National Transport Master Plan and will include also the
Greater Kampala Metropolitan Area. The study will also analyze and propose organizational set-up for
implementation of the National Master Plan.
Project Component 4 - US$10.79 million
Pilot Projectfor Demonstration Use of Innovative Technologiesfor Construction of Low Volume
Traffic Roads
The objectives of the project are to assist GOU in demonstrating the suitability of selected innovative
construction technologies in use elsewhere in the world for low traffic volume roads, and to further their
research and development for use in Uganda, including the preparation of related design manuals,
specifications, and guidelines. The research will focus on different methods of stabilization of the local
materials (with poor properties) for use in construction and use of different methods and types of sealing
materials.
Scope of Work. The assignment will consist of: (i) Feasibility Study, including socioeconomic and
environmental impact assessment, costs and potential cost benefits, and detailed project monitoring
program during and after construction; (ii) Based on approval of the Borrower and funding agency,
preparation of detailed designs for all proposed methods of construction, including confidential cost
estimates and bidding documents; (iii) Construction; (iv) Consultant supervision during construction; (v)
Monitoring program during and after construction; and (vi) Preparation of design manuals, specifications,
guidelines, etc. based on detailed analysis of data obtained through monitoring program.
Proposed Sites. Based on the consultants site visits and discussion with GOU officials, the following sites
were selected for the pilot project implementation:
(1)    Matugga-Semuto (approx. 28 kin)
(2)    Semuto-Kapeeka (approx. 11 km)
The foreseen works on the above national roads with low volume traffic are characterized by reconstruction
of the existing alignment and road structure, including related drainage works.
- 47 -



Since the project represents a multi-complex assignment including research, training and actual
construction, the detailed costs can be developed only after preparation of the feasibility study and detailed
design. However, for the purpose of defining possible length of the road to be developed, the following
basic costs have been estimated:
(1)    Construction cost:   US$300,000/km
(2)    Consultancy, including research and design costs: approx. 30% of the construction costs
The total length to be constructed on the above two mention road sites would depend on the estimated cost
per kilometer ratio obtained from the detailed designs.
Project Component 5 - US$0.92 million
Feasibility Study and Design of a National Road Agency Building
This will cover consultancy services for feasibility study, detailed design and construction supervision for
the proposed Road Agency headquarters building.
Project Component 6 - US$5.07 million
Consuldng Services for the Supervision of Civil Works
This component will comprise consultant services for the supervision of the civil works included in the
project Experts specialized in environmental management will be included in the staff of supervision
consultants to ensure that environmental and social adverse impact mitigation measures are carried out.
- 48 -



Annex 2 Table I
GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA - RSDP - USES AND SOURCES OF FUNDS, 1999/97-2005/06
(in constant 1998 USD)                          _____                _____
Adual                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Prov~ion1al  BLip  Pmi~ TSIREP
Maintuiano.                       19919             1997196            199619             1999'0O            20019               2001/2
_ _ __r_b_omDornom  GOU                         Dornom  GOUJ       Donom GOU         Doo G(OU           Doorw, (OU          Donor,  (OU
I9W                             2.92     2.97      237      3.53     1.00     2.18      2o0      3.31      3.39      4.93       4.04     4A4
IDA                             157      2.47      1.58    2Z37      2.05     2.63      1.86     2.57      1.30      4A4                    -
EDF                             0.13     4.83      4.29     3.82     557      3.51      9.00     631       948       6.17                6.1 1
ORID                            2.16     1.73 I    326      276 i 4.8         2231    3.98       357 1    &11        4103       1.80     359
ADI                                              -               I       - I          -             -              -            4.81      1.121
GOCJ                                     3.24         -     5.10        -     8.52         -    12867         -     11.54  __ -          15.521
cEt,epr*dts                        -                           -I-                                                      -       8.55    12911
Totil Mairtnm~cs:     659   15.24       11.501   17.88  I 1.60    19.06      17.20    218,73    1729      32-01      19.00    43.99
k~~~~~~~~AuIx                                       ProvvionuI            udgt            Proj. TS.REP
inyrovwrw1996197                            1997/96197 1919991I                                     2000101             2001/92
ConbfbubomDoroom  (IOU                   Donorm  (IOU      Donom, GOU         Donom  (Gou      I Donor,(ou           Donors  GIO
Ogidia                          0.16    12.00      2.81     3.51     9.16     9.06      9.835    837       9.77      3.56       5.71     024
ADF                             5.91     1.85      2.02     0.50     0.80     0308      0.05     3.52      6.00      236        7.A8     2.52
KFW                             2.02     0.35      024      0.16        -     0.57  ___-         157       623       2865       8.08     0.58
EDF                                                      -    -                         0.64        -      135          -1      3.00     8.72.
IDA                             8.78     0.38      9.05     0.48     3.13     1.031    5.44      038    -18.20       6.19      26.7      751
RDP                                                                                        1.568    8.05      16.66       6.47
NDF                                -        -         -        -        --                          -                   -       020      0.06
BADEA                              --                          -        -        -         -        -                   -       0.25     0.14
GOU                                -        -         -     4.84        -     4.40         -     4A7                 6 883         -    1259
Total mpivwmmnts:    14.85           14.57 113      9.48    1289    15.44      15.98    18.31    41.55     21.391    599        30.33
TOTAL MAIN NETWORK,    21.74    29.80        25.612    27.061  26,491  34.49      33.19    47.04     58.m      53A4 1      9.99     74,321
__________________   ____________  ~~AeNdProvihional                                           Budio             Pr  TSIREP
Feeder Roads                      1906197           1197/98            1997/96            19990              200610              2601/2
Cnrbtfm                     onrs,- OU  I     Donrs it           Dok_   _O_         Dono     __X   oo-o    _O _            Dobm G
ADF                             18631   2271    2.76        1.85     1.96     2.35      0.30     3.14      6307      1.38       5.00     0.53
IDA                             237      0.26      1586     0.20     0.69     0.67      1.18     0.60      3.50      022                    -
ROP
Daida                              -        -         -                          -      1.70     035       158%      0.12       158         -I
GOkJ                               -     9.04         -     8.78        -    14.27         -    12.241              15.18 I        -    12221
CVfir Pmrecta                               -         -        -                                    - I                         5.80      5.001
Total Feadw Roacta              4.00    11.56      4.62      10.841   265    17.26      3.18    16.03     11.15     16.90      13.38    17.T4
___________________                    ~~~~~~~~~AdajmI                    Provinlonal          Budgot            Pnoj TSIREP
Insti Cap. kldg & Studis          199697             19796             199719             199961             20090               2001/92
r*nt1bLAors                 Donom, (IGO        Donor, (IOU        Donom, GOU         onr  GOU          Donorm  (IO         Donorm ]GO
ADF                             1.48     0.02         -     aoi1        -     0.18         -        -                   - .
IDA                             0.01     0.03      031      0.02     240      023       4.00     0.19      4,45      0.52       8.17     214
RDP                                                                     1.91      0.00     0.22     0.06      2.23       10.56
Dalicia  ~      ~         -        -      0.10        -     0.10        -      0.71     0.03      053       0.07       0O2       0.061
Other                              -        -         -        -        -        -         -                  -         - 
Tot. InstCap.BIdg & S.    1A47     0.051    OAI       0.03     25        .0       4.71     0.23      5.08      0-59       6.79     222
TOTAL RSDP      23.21    2985    263.03    27.09    29         3.9      37.169    4727     6291      X558        X717     776
Adual                              ProvIsIonal                            Pro ~ tSIE
Urban & O8w Tmrssport             199619      I      99I/861997196                        1"98910            2060                20011/92
Coritributomr                 Donors IGOU    IDonors  GOU    IDonors GIOU            Dornom  GIOU       Donors IGO          Doniom   (IOU
JIICA                              -1    1.431____          1.351   5.03      0.531    8.15      2.00      4.79      2.94       5.15      1.58
IDA                                                                     -                                      ,        -       0.17     0.08
ROP                                                                                                           0.17        0.06
GOIJU-                                      -         -        -        -                                                          -     2A44
OdterPmj                                                                -        -         -        -          .- 
Total Urb. & Oth. Tmnsp            -     1.43         -     1.35     5.03    0353       6 .151   2.00 1    4.79      2.941      5.32     4.06
_TOTAL ROAD S6CTORI 22               4295      38885    39.28    36.67    5271      49.221  6530 1 79.88    7.9 9           95.48    97.881
-49 -



Annex 2 Table I (continued)
GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA - RSDP - USES AND SOURCES OF FUNDS, 1999/97-2005106
_______________                        ~~(in_constant_1998_USD)                              _________
_______________________                       ~~~~~~~Estimates_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                    1996197  - 2005106
Maintenance                      2002103             2003104              2004/05            2005106              Total          GRAND
Contributors                Doo.GOU              Door       OU      Donor. IODU         Donors IGOU        Donors  GOU          TOTAL
KFW                             0.58     5.83           -    4.11          -     2.00         -        -      18090    33.31       50.21
IDA                                -        -           -        -                   -                         8.25     14.48      22.73
EDF                                -     8.17           -    5.17          -     3.00         -        -      28.56    47.08       75.64
DFtD                               -    6.27            -    5.82          -      1.50        -        -      15.17    32.80       81.88
ADF                             3.33     0.81        3.25-   0.79       2.36      0.57     0.73     0.18      14.28      3.46      17.14
GOU                                -   21.24            -   30.17          -    39.97              47.96          - 195.91        195.91
Other Projects                  8.0       .8        1.7      014      2-2.93-    0.98    26.64      1.86      94.86     17.57     112.43
Total Maintenance:      2.0      400         22.99   46.00 1 25.29    48.00    27.31    50.00    182.02   344.60            526.62
Estimates                                           1996197 . 2005106
niprov.mAents                    2002103             2003104             2404105            2005106              Total          GRAND
C~ontributors                Dnrs  GOU           Donors  GOU         Donors  GOU        Donors lGou         Donors  GOU          TOTAL
Danide-                         3.26     0.89        3.10    0.33          -                           -      43.82    37.95       81.77
ADF                             3.45     1.03        0.88    0.21          .                           -      28.38     12.07      38.45
KFW                             1.31     2.83           -        -         .                                  17.88     9.00       2898
EDF                            80.73     5.58       58 18    2.78      39.41              13.20        -     194.57    18.08      209863
IDA                            48 87    18 13       38.73   13.18      31.23    10.23    18.30      5.34    201.98    80.82       282.79
RDP             47.11      18.19    38.94       13.23   34.90      11.38    18.12    5.91      171.40    59.24     23063
NDF                             0.24 1 0.08          0.21 10.07         3867     1.15      1.82     0.57       8.14      1.90       8.04
BADEA       -4~58                        1.58        311   1 102           -         -        -        -       7.94     2.72       10886
GOU                                -    8.82            -I       .         -     2.98         .        -42.73                      42.73
Other Projects                     -        -       24.21   13.90      39.38    13.98    77.85    22.41    141.44    50.28        191.70
Total Imnprovemnents:'   140.44    34.56      126.40   31.41    113.76    28.32   1109.116    28.32    640.14   232.50       812.73
TOTAL MAIN NETWORK:    161.34    78.56            149.39   77.47    139.05;    78.32   136.53  1 8'.32      822.16   577.191       1.399]
_______________________                      ~~~~~~~~Estlnnates  _ _ __1996197  - 200506
Feeder Roads                     2002103             2003104             200410S            2005106              Totls           GRAND
Contributors                Donors  GOU          Donors  60U        Donors laou         Donors GOU         Donors  GOU          TOTAL
ADF                             5.00     0.53           .                                     .               22.12     12.04      34.78
IDA                            14.33     4.89       -17.80    5.82     17.80     5.82    12.00      3.92      71.53    22.20        93.73
ROP             14.33      4.69     17.80       5.82    17.80      5.82     12.00    3.92      61.93      20.25    $2.18
Danida                             .        .                    -         -         .                         4.88     0.18        5.04
GOU                                .   1187             .   12.22               12.8.3        . ~13.47            -   121.92      121.92
Other Projects                  0.07     1.75        45      1.2        6.74     1.89    13.18      3.15      31.28    13.31       44.59
Total Feeder Roads:            194H86                23      95        24.54    20.54    25.16    20.54    103        16.4        300.04
_______________________   _______             ~~~~Estimates    _  _ __   _ _ __ISSOtOT_- 200506
unstit. Cap. Bldg & Studies      2002103             2003104             2004105             2005108             Total          GRAND
Contributors                 Donors IGOU         Donors  GOU         Donors  GOU         Donors GOU         Dnoors lGOU          TOTAL
ADF                                -        -           -                                                      1    i48  0.21       1807
IDA                             3.25     1.58        3.12     1.56      0.22     0.08      0.22     0~08      24.15     8.35       30.50
RDP             0.22       0.08     0.22        0.08    0.22       0.08     0.22      0.08     524        0.83     607
Osnilda                         0.41     0.08           .                                                      2.57      0.27       2.84
Other Projects                  6.53     2.81       11.14    4862      14.04      8.12    14.04    6812       454       19.68      8542
Tot. tnst.Cap.Bldg & St.     10.19     4.45                14.6 81   146       61       14.26     6 18     739       261        104
TOTAL RSDP        `171.53    63.99     163.65   8413    1531        824 11             6494    890         068         1500
____________________ __   _______   _________ Estimnates       _  _ __1996197  - 2005106
Urban & Other Tranasport         2002103             2003104              2004105            2005/06              Totaf          GRAND
Contributors                 Donors  GOU         Donors  tlOU        Donors joou         Donors GOU         Dornors  GOU         TOTAL
JICA                               .      .ill          .        .          4        -        .        .      23.12     10.92      34.04
IDA                             0.21     0.07        185 0.53    2.8510.86   1.68 0.54                      6.382 2.08              8.42
ROP             0.21       0.07     1 85        0,53    2.85     J0.88      1.68      0.54     8.36       2.08      . 42
GOU                                .    3.08                  294          .j-       2.92-    .    3.06           -     14.42      14
Other Projects                  5.15     0 19        4.38    1.71       4.38      1.57     438      1.43      16.28      49         31
Total Urb. L Othn. Transp.      5.36     4.43        6.03    5.19       7.03      5.35     6.08     9.03      47.76    3.0         80
TOTAL ROAD SECTOR          156.29 1107.011   191 99 1108.89 T18-4.88   108.83 1179.91 11.1    1,071.24   886                      .8
Notel1: Expenditures are net of taxes, except for RDP
Note 2: Total IDA contribution for RDP is USD 238 million (discrepancy with total amount of credit due to: i) final costs lower than previously estimated
coats, for anl amrount of $29 M.; and ii) expenditure periods going beyond 30 June 2006, for an amount of $15 M.).
Note 3: Total RSDP includes maintenance and improvements for the national road network as well as institutional capacity building expenditures; Total
Road Sector includes Total RSDP, plus district (feeder) roads, urban & other transport expenditures
- 50 -



Annex 2, Table 2
ROAD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Phase 4 Total RDP    DA    IDF   GOU
Phase I
1. Busunju-Kiboga-Hoima Road (ind. spn)      68.08                             68,08    51.28   -     16.80
2. Pakw ach Arua Road (ind. spn)             48.96                             48.96    36.88   -     12.08
3. Extemal Auditing Services                  0.40                              0.40     0.32   -      0.08
4. PPF Studies                                 2.50                             2.50      2.50   _      -
Sub-total:  119.94                          119.94    90.98   -     28.96
Phase 2
1. Kat.-Kas.-Ft. Portal, Kilembe & Equator Roads (incl. spn)  43.45            43.45    32.73         10.72
2. Karuma Pakw ach Road (ind. spn)                   34.09                     34.09    25.68          8.41
3. Road Safety (incl. consultancy & spn)              5.08                      5.08     3.98   -      1.10
4. National Transport Master Plan & KCC               2.66                      2.66     2.13   -      0.53
5. Pilot Project for Constr.of low traffic Vol. Rds (incl. spn)  10.79         10.79      -    8.16    2.63
6. Road Agency Offices - Consulting Services          0.92                      0.92      -    0.74    0.18
Sub-total:         97.00                     97.00    64,52  8.90   23.58
Phase 3
1. Kapchorw a-Suam Road (ind. spn)                           34.60             34.60    26.06   -      8.54
2. Kampala-Gayaza-Wobulenzi Road (incl. spn)                 20.35             20.35    15.33   -      5.02
3. Feeder Roads Upgrading Program for 300 km (ind. spn)      60.00             60.00    45.00   -     15.00
4. Atiyak-Moyo Road                                          10.00             10.00     7.50   -      2.50
5. Road Agency Offices - Construction                         7.50              7.50     5.63   -      1.87
6. Extemal Audit Services                                     1.10              1.10     0.88   -      0.22
Sub-total:                133.55            133.55   100.40   -     33.15
Phase 4
1. Feeder Roads Rehabilitation Program for 1000 km (incl. design & spn)  35.00    35.00  26.25   -     8.75
Sub-total:                          35.00    35.00     26.25         8.75
Grand Total:                                  385.49   282.15  8.90   94.44
- 51 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
UGANDA SECOND PHASE OF THE ROAD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
. . ...............~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......    ...  . ...................... - ..   ;......   . ....   .....    . . .   ..............----    -i
~~~~~~~.....,,,. ...... - 0
Civil Works (i) Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Portal, Kasese-Kilembe  13.42      20.14         33.56
& Equator Roads (162 km)
(ii) Karuma-Olwyio-Parkwach Road (I07 Ian)                  9.14         17.19         26.33
Construction Supervision                                    0.84          3.35          4.19
ROAD SAFETY                                                  0.00          0.00         0.00
Black Spot Improvement                                      0.69           1.61         2.30
Design & Construction Supervision                           0.05          0.20          0.25
Institutional Support                                       0.28           1.12         1.40
Equipment                                                   0.00          0.25          0.25
NATIONAL TRANSPORT PLAN/GT. KAMPALA MASTER                   0.00         0.00          0.00
PLAN
Consulting Services                                         0.44           1.76         2.20
Total Baseline Cost                                        24.86         45.62         70.48
Physical Contngencies                                      2.48          4.57          7.05
Price Contngencies                                         2.73          5.02          7.75
Total Project Costs              30.07         55.21         85.28
Total Financing Required               30.07         55.21         85.28
Note: IDA's financing
- 52 -



Annex 3, Table 2
IDA Comoonent
1. Road Upgradlngllmprovement
A. Civil Works
(i) Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Portal, Kasese-Kilembe
& Equator Roads (163 km)                                           13.42         20.14          33.56
(6) Karuma-Olwyo-Parkwach Road (107km)                              9.14         17.19          26.33
B. Construcdion Supervision                                         0.84          3.35           4.19
11. Road Safety
A. Civil Works
(i) Black Spot Improvement                                          0.69          1.61           2.30
S. Consulting Services
(i) Design & Construction Supervision                               0.05          0.20           0.25
(ii) Institutional Support                                          0.28          1.12           1.40
C. Equipment                                                           -          0.25           0.25
111. National Transport Plant Gt Kampala Master Plan
A. Consuitina Services                                              0.44          1.76           2.20
Total Baseline Cost                                                24.86         45.62          70.48
Contingencles
(i) Physical Contingencies (@ 10%)                                  2.48          4.57           7.05
(ii) Price Contingencies (@10%)                                     2.73          5.02           7.75
Total Project Cost                                                 30.07         55.21          85.28
Cornonent to be flnanced by NDF
IV. Pilot Project for Constructfon of Low Traffic Volume
Road
A. Civil Works
(i) Matugga-Semuta-Kapeka (39 km)                                   2.56          5.99           8.55
B. Consultant Services                                              0.45          1.79           2.24
V. Road Agency Offices
A. Consultant Services                                              0.93          0.45           0.92
(feasibility & detailed eng.; construction supervision; project
monitoring & manuals)
Total Project Cost                                                  3.49          8.23          11.712
TOTAL PROJECT COST (IDA + NDF Comoonentsl*                         33.56         63.44           97.0
* Includes physical and price contingencies **On rounding
Note: IDA and NDF is financing total refunded project costs
Identtifiable taxes and duties are 24.25 IUS$n) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 72.75 (USSrn). Therefore, the project cost sbaring ratio is 88.69%
of total project cost net of taxes.
- 53 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
UGANDA. SECOND PHASE OF THE ROAD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The proposed investments are expected to yield substantial direct benefits to road users, through
considerable reduction in vehicle operating costs. Since the trucking industry in Uganda is competitive and the
roads under the Program serve areas of good agricultural potential, at least part of the vehicle operating costs
savings are expected to be passed through time to agricultural producers and consumers. Furthermore, the privately
provided bus services are highly competitive in Uganda, and have already shown their capability to quickly extend
coverage and improve frequencies to more remote areas in reaction to improvements in road condition. To this
extent, vehicle operating cost savings are also expected to ultimately benefit low-income bus users leading to
improvements in their accessibility to markets and in their availability of social services.
Base Case                       Anyas
No. ADT ADr Econonic Costs (11 NPV W12D%  IERR |1ctveosli'. oSI          IrADT
Road Section        Km  19 2002 ih. USDkfmI SCF   riiLUSD        %   !NPV(Q22/. IR                   ERR
K-MmSasmseFort Para (2)  1 2J6  56  707  X      2    0.80        1.15  12          (5.40 JX          J( )
Kasese-Kiesbe (2)          12.0  44  555        112  0,80        1.18   21.3%/      0.82        <    0    i2
Eoat rR-d (2)              38.0  301  3         140  0.80        1.34   14.9%D|     (0.05) 11.90      0.40 129%
KamarnaCWyo (3)            45.6                 264  C3          162   14.6%o |     (0) 311'         (0Zi1
A      l--ach (3)          62.5   8             237  0.83        3.81   16.8%J      1.42 13i5aV        1.18 i3.6V
I  :   : TOT-U_ I 27061 |i    -9.1(11                              3
Note 1: Ecmnomic costs indude consudion supervisson costs as defined by the Constalnt and physcl oonirgences
Noie Z ADT 98 = wAgNed average fnrm: (i) Katun -asese = 393, (ii) Kasese-Hima = 855; and (ii) Hkia-Fort Portal = 580;
Crv) Kasese+a;m = 789; (v) +5m4(mbe = 466;
Serf-Aty analysis: HiKw Construckn Cost = +25%; Lower Traffic = - 500/0 of traftic g h for the ibst six years
pision calaaed as being 7.5% of emsxsudion cost eslimates
Note 3: Sensitivity anaysis: Higher Costucon Cost = +25%; Lower Traffic = - 50% of traffic grwh for thefrst 10 yeas
aJpersion cabAated as being USD 2.315 nilion for each sedkbn, or rspediey 19% and 15% of mnshbion cost esTiates
Main Assumptions:
1.             Methodology
The economic analysis methodology for road investments under the Project is based on the
Bank's Highway Design and Maintenance Model (HDM, Release lll). The HDM-lll allows for the
modeling, through time, of the interaction between traffic volume and composition, road condition and
vehicle operating costs. As roads deteriorate, reflecting vehicle usage and weather conditions, the vehicle
operating costs increase. Investments targeted at improving road condition will, therefore, contribute to
reducing vehicle operating costs and to slowing the rate of deterioration of road infrastructure. The
life-cycle costs of road usage (to be directly born by vehicle operators) and up-keeping (to be directly bom
by the Highway Administration) can then be estimated through time, under alternative investments
- 54 -



strategies. These strategies cover the trade-offs between mutually exclusive rehabilitation, periodic
maintenance, and other road intervention alternatives. The selected investment strategy would be the one
yielding the highest NPV for a discount rate of 12%, the value assumed for the opportunity cost of capital
under the RSDP.
2.           Pluriannual Expenditure and Funding Program
Regarding the national road network, the HDM-Ill framework has been initially used at a
more aggregate and strategic level. At this level of analysis, network-wide traffic projections and
pre-engineering investment costs are considered, whereas traffic levels and road conditions would also be
averaged-out throughout parts of the network. Results of this analysis lead to the preparation of an
economically justified pluriannual expenditure program. This allowed for the identification of a portfolio of
national road subprojects, and the associated investment requirements (i.e. paving, strengthening) capable
of meeting the economic screening criteria under the RSDP and to be considered under the Program.
The national network-wide analysis, initially developed in 1996, was updated during
appraisal for RDPPI by RAFU in a report dated April 1999, in consultation with the mission, for the
period 1996/97-2005/2006. Within the exogenously assumed US$1.5 billion budget constraint for national
roads under the RSDP, uncommitted resources amounting to US$512 million were allocated to road
expenditures, in order to maximize investment efficiency. Basically, a discrete modeling approach was
followed, in which multiple maintenance and improvement strategies were initially generated and selected
for each network link. For both paved and unpaved roads, these embrace various routine maintenance,
periodic maintenance, and upgrading options. The resulting expenditure program, basically covering the
2002/2003-2005/2006 period, and which includes the road subprojects under the proposed Program, is
summarized in financial and physical terms in the Table I of this Annex 4. Overall, the study has found
that investments under this program are expected to yield a consolidated NPV of about US$ 873 million for
the road improvement, and the periodic and recurrent maintenance components.
3.     Specific Road Subprojects under the Proposed Program
For the identified national road subprojects, specific traffic counts and projections, as well as
preliminary engineering designs, were prepared with a view to appraise their economic feasibility. Separate
consultant studies cover the four roads identified under the different phases of the proposed APL. For the
road subprojects under Phase 2, final engineering design and a revised economic analysis were
subsequently prepared. The final reports for the consultant feasibility studies, as revised by RAFU and
reviewed of the Bank mission, is available in the Project File (Annex 8). At this level of analysis, the
methodology used was also based on the Bank-developed HDM-Ill. Only investments yielding an EIRR
estimated at above 12% would be considered eligible for financing under the Program. The economic
analysis of the proposed subprojects was subjected to sensitivity and stochastic risk analysis.
- 55 -



Traffic Projections
For the base year 1998/99 traffic, RAFU have basically used the results of the Consultants' own
surveys, cross-checked, as needed, with MOWHC traffic data base. Traffic growth rates reflect GOU's
GDP and demographic projections, and have been disaggregated on a regional basis. From 2010 onwards,
a constant growth rate of three percent per annum was assumed and applied to all traffic and vehicle
categories countrywide. These growth-rates have been applied to normal and to diverted traffic. Generated
traffic estimates were directly taken from the Consultant's studies.
Road Costs
The unit construction and maintenance costs are based on engineering design estimates prepared by
the Consultants and were reviewed during appraisal. Construction costs considered in the analysis include a
10% allowance for physical contingencies and an allowance of 7.5% for supervision costs. A two-year
implementation schedule for physical works was assumed. The economic vehicle operating costs are based
on RAFU's estimates based on the MOWHC database. Financial infrastructure costs were converted into
economic costs by applying a standard conversion factor going from 0.80 for Katunguru-Kasese-Fort
Portal, Equator & Kilembe Roads to 0.83 for Karuma-Olwyio-Pakwach. Prices were assumed at their last
quarter of 1998 level (exchange rate US$ I=UGS 1,300).
Alternatives
For purposes of analysis, the two roads under RDPP2 (Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Portal,
Kasese-Kilembe & Equator roads; and Karuma-Olwyio-Pakwach road) were disaggregated into five
sections, to reflect varying road condition and other physical characteristics, as well as different traffic
levels and composition. Several investment and maintenance altematives were generated and evaluated for
each road section, and the one yielding the highest NPV (at a 12% discount rate) was selected. As a result,
the investments proposed under Phase 2 of the proposed Program would yield a consolidated NPV
estimated at USD 9.1 million, with no investment in any road section yielding an EIRR below 12.5%.
Sensitivty analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Each of the Phase 2 road sections was then subjected to sensitivity analysis. To this extent,
construction costs were increased by 25% and benefits separately decreased by lowering traffic level in a
way that was deemed the most adequate for each section of roads. In this respect, traffic growth for the first
six years was halved for Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Portal, Kasese-Kilembe & Equator roads, and traffic
growth for the first ten years was halved for Karuma-Olwyio-Pakwach. Overall, results of the sensitivity
analysis indicate that returns on investments are highly sensitive to both construction costs and traffic
variations, with an integrated NPV of respectively minus USD 3.5 million and plus USD 0.5 million. On
the one hand, two sections yield negative NPV with higher construction costs as well as with lower traffic
levels: (i) Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Portal and (ii) Karuma-Olwyio. On the other hand, two sections yield
positive NPV with higher construction costs as well as with lower traffic levels: Kasese-Kilembe (with a
healthy EIRR respectively of 17.4% and 17.2%), and Olwiyo-Pakwach (with an EIRR of respectively
13.5% and 13.6%).
- 56 -



Risk Analysis
In order to factor uncertainty into the economic evaluation, risk analyses were conducted by the
Consultants using triangular-type probability distributions for two variables considered to mostly influence
the project's net benefits: (i) investment costs and (ii) traffic growth. For the construction costs, the lowest
and highest possible values were assumed at 90% and 125% of the engineering estimates (most likely
values) while for traffic growth the range was from 75% to 110% of the base scenario values. "What if'
scenarios were then generated for each road section, combining the likely values for the two selected
variables. As a result estimated probability distribution for the EIRR were obtained for each road section.
The table below summarizes the results from the risk analysis as the Consultants performed it:
Expected Mean
Road Sections           NPV ($ mil.)       EIRR (%)
Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Portal             -0.42             11.8
Kasese-Kilembe                            1.07             20.2
Equator roads                             0.96             14.1
Karuma-Olwyio                             0.55             12.9
Olwyio-Pakwach                            2.47             15.0
Results of the stochastic analysis and sensitivity analyses indicate that there is a relatively high likelihood
that the Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Portal Road might fail to yield an EIRR above 12% (between 60-63%
likelihood)' . However, concerning Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Portal, the mean expected EIRR is only
marginally below 12% and adding expected mean NPVs from the two other sections of roads forming the
network (Kasese-Kilermbe and Equator Roads), total NPV is positive at USD 1.61 million (corresponding
to above 12% EIRR).
- 57 -



Experience with tender prices obtained for contracts under Phase I shows prices are well within 1O% of the
cost estimates. Hence the probability distribution of construction costs is more likely to be symmetrical
than skewed adverselyas assumed in this case. For Kasese-Kilembe and Equator roads, the results of the
stochastic analysis and sensitivity analysis are strong, and there is above 100% likelihood that the project
will achieve an EIRR greater than 12%. For the Karuma-Olwiyo-Pakwach road, the relative weakness of
the mean expected EIRR is above 12% for both sections, with a combined NPV of more than US$3
milUion. Furthermore, this section of road should not be taken separately from the rest of the network under
study (Pakwach-Arua under RDPPI and Olwiyo-Pakwach under RDPP2), which has very strong results.
Added to the fact that results from the base case economic analysis are above 12%, it is therefore
recommended that investment on both these sections go ahead as planned under RDPP2.
Annex 4 Table I
Main Road Network
Financial and Physical Targets, 2002/03 - 2005/06
(expenditures in constant end-1998 million of US$, length in kIn)
Total
EXPENDITURES            2002/03    2003/04    2004/05    2005/06   (2002/03-2005/06)
Improvements                 175         158        142        137               613
Periodic Maintenance          45          39        33          29               147
Routine Maintenance (1)       20          30        40          48               138
[Total Expenditures    ]      240        227        215        215               897
LENGTH
Improvements (2)              70l         63|       57|         55              245 |
Periodic Maintenance (3)   2,245       1,950      1,665      1,468             7,328
Routine Maintenance (1)                         All network                         1
Note 1: including patching, spot regravelling and grading
Note 2: based on an average of $250,000 per km
Note 3: based on an average of $20,000 per km
On the basis of the Consultant's approach to risk analysis (using synimetrical input data), the probability of the Katunguru-Fort Portal road achieving
an IRR of less than 12% is down to 32%.
- 58 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
UGANDA: SECOND PHASE OF THE ROAD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
l.     The financial implications of the Government's road sector program have been presented in its
budget Framework Paper discussed during its public expenditure review May 1999. As stated in that
paper, Government's Poverty Eradication Action Plan identifies six critical sectors that require substantial
budget expenditures if the objective of eradicating poverty is to be achieve. Of these, national roads, rural
feeder roads and agriculture are seen as directly contributing to increasing rural incomes and supporting the
private sector. The paper confirms that the road sector continues to be one of Government's fastest growing
program, with GOU spending increasing from about US$45 million in 1996/97 to a projected US$95
million in 2001/02 (see Table 5.1 below). This represents a percentage increase of more than 100% over a
five-year period. Simultaneously, the sector allocation to roads and works would rise to a projected 9.7% in
2001/02 from 5.8% in 1996/97 (see Table 5.2).
As indicated below, in the future the Government will be assuming an increasing share of the road
maintenance budget, with budget allocations increasing by more than 100%  for national roads from
1996/97 to 2001/02. National road improvement is only expected to account for about a quarter of
Government financed expenditures in 2001/02, compared with a third in 1996/97. Increasing priority will
also be given under the Government budget to district (feeder) road maintenance and improvements, with
allocations increasing by 50% from 1996/87 to 2001/02. In the process, it will be important that the current
detailed accountability and effectiveness measures in place for monitoring development spending should
also be implemented for spending funded under the recurrent budget.
Table 5.1 Government's Expenditures for Roads
In constant end 1998 US$ million
pmlementation                1996/97  1997/98  1998/99   1999/00    2000/01    2001/02
fRSDP _                      Actual  Actual  Actual  Provisional   Budeet   Proiected
OUFunded                                  T       TTlI
National Roads Maintenance      15      18       19         29        32         44
National Roads Improvements     15       9      15          18        21         30
3 CaDacitv Buildinz              0        0       0          0          1          2
4District (Feeder)              12       11      17          16        17         18
SUBTOTAL GOU FUNDED
national & district(feeders)  41    38       52         63         71        94
UBTOTAL DONOR FUNDED
national & district(feeders)  27    31       32         41         75        90
DTHER GOU                         I       I        1          2          3         4
DTHER DONOR FUNDED                                 5          8          5         5
rOTAL GOU                        43      39       53         65         74        98
IOTAL DONOR                      27      31       37          49        80         95
- 59 -



Table 5.2
Medium Term Sectoral Allocatlons
Wages, non wage recurrent and GOU funded development expenditures
Excluding contingencies, arrears and promising notes
Exchange Rates (UGS per USD)  1000    943      1020    1080      1200     1500      1623     1707
1994195 1995196 1996/97  1997/98  1998199  1999/00  2000101  2001102
SECTORAL TOTAL (UGS BILLION, NOMINAL)  actual  actual  actual   actual   actual   provis.  budget  project
Security                                      103     130      145      127      164      194      215      245
Road & Works                                  25       28       44       44       71      123      138       160
Agrculture                                     14       7       10       10       18       21       26        31
Education                                     118     119      173      204      251      343      388      437
Health                                         39      42       55       58       73       84       96       116
Law & Order                                    66      67       72       67       77       86       98       114
Economic Functions/Social Services             54      40       41       43       46       86       89       109
Public Administration (excluding election costs)  118  153     168      154      207      260      277      288
Interest Payments Due                         47       54       56       76       82       89       97    -A00
ALL SECTORS                                   584     640      764      783      989    1,286    1,424    1,600
1994/95 1995196 1996/97  1997/98  1998199  1999100  2000/01  2001/02
SECTORAL SHARES (%l                          actual  actual  actual   actual   actual  provis.  budget  project
Securty                                       17.6%   20.3%    19.0%    16.2%    16.6%    15.1%    15.1%    15.3%
Road &Works                                    4.3%    4.4%     5.8%     5.6%     7.2%     9.6%     9.7%    10.0%
Agriculture                                    2.4%    1.1%     1.3%     1.3%     1.8%     1.6%     1.8%      1.9%
Education                                     20.2%   18.6%    22.6%    26.1%    25.4%    26.7%    27.2%    27.3%
Health                                         6.7%    6.6%     7.2%     7.4%     7.4%     6.5%     6.7%      7.3%
Law&Order                                     11.3%   10.5%     9.4%     8.6%     7.8%     6.7%     6.9%      7.1%
Economic Functions I Social Services           9.2%    6.3%     5.4%     5.5%     4.7%     6.7%     6.3%      6.8%
Public Administration (excluding election costs)  20.2%   23.9%    22.0%    19.7%    20.9%    20.2%    19.5%    18.0%
Interest Payments Due                          a.0%    &4%      7.3%     9.7%     8.3%     69 %     6.a%      1.3%
ALL SECTORS                                   100%    100%    100%       100%    100%      100%     100%     100%
Source: Ministry of Finance, Planning & Economic Development Budget Framework Paper, May 21, 2000
- 60 -



Annex Sb: Financial Management Overview
UGANDA: ROAD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM PHASE 2
Overall GOU Financial Management Environment
A World Bank team carried out a Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) of Uganda with
the participation of a government counterpart team. The CFAA report was issued in January 2001 and
provides an analysis of the strengths and weaknesses in the financial management environment at both the
central government and local government levels and the private sector. Specific areas addressed in the
report included, budgeting and planning, accounting and financial reporting in the public sector, oversight
arrangements (including the Office of the Auditor General and the Public Accounts Committee),
accountability in Local Governments and Ethics and Integrity, covering the Govermnent's Anti corruption
strategy. The report comments on current government efforts to address identified weaknesses and contains
an action plan that provides a description of how the identified fiduciary risks are to be mitigated by
agreed upon actions by the government. The major recommendations have been incorporated in the
Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) as actions on which satisfactory progress is expected before
approval of PRSC 11. The tightening of financial management under the Roads Development Program (11)
is fits into the overall financial management framework that is described in the CFAA.
1.    General
The Finance and Administration Division (FAD) of the Road Agency Formation Unit (RAFU) - within the
institutional framework of the Ministry of Works, Housing and Communications (MOWHC) - will be
responsible for ensuring that financial management and reporting procedures for RDPP2 will be acceptable
to the World Bank and Govermment of Uganda.
FAD's financial management system (FMS) supports management in their deployment of limited resources
with the purpose of ensuring economy, efficiency and effectiveness in the delivery of outputs required to
achieve desired outcomes. Specifically, the FMS must be capable of producing timely, understandable,
relevant and reliable financial information that will enable management to plan, implement, monitor and
appraise RDPP2's overall progress towards the achievement of its objectives.
Although there have been satisfactory improvements in the establishment of FAD's financial management
system, FAD is not yet ready for PMR-based disbursements, as discussed in the World Bank's Loan
Administration Change lnitiative Handbook (LACI, September '98). Thus, in the short-term, existing
disbursement procedures, as outlined in the World Bank's Disbursement Handbook, will be followed i.e.
Direct Payment, Reimbursement and Special Commitment.
However, the development of FAD's financial management system will be complete once it is futly
computerized. The introduction of PMR based disbursements is solely dependent upon this.
2.    Financial Management Sub-Committee
Reporting to the Management Committee, (which will be chaired by the Minister of MOWHC), a
representative FMSC (under the chairmanship of the Permanent Secretary of MOWHC) has been
appointed to review the Project Management Report (PMR) every quarter. The PMR will comprise:
- 61 -



Financial Statements, as discussed below. Members of the FMSC will review and approve
Quarterly and Annual Financial Statements; they will also examine material variances between
budget/actual figures - seeking remedial action, as appropriate, within an agreed timeframe.
*     Project Progress i.e. Output Monitoring Report. The format and details of the OMR will need
to be developed. An important aspect of the OMR will be the accompanying narrative interpreting the
project's progress with agreed financial performance indicators and how costs to date relate to that planned
at appraisal, and its likely effect on the program at its completion.
*     During the period before commencement of disbursement of the IDA Credit on the basis of PMRs,
the FAD will prepare on a regular basis quarterly reports and forecasts that are required under PMR-based
disbursements and will submit them to IDA for review. These will be produced manually until the time of
full computerization of the proposed Programs Financial Management System. The transitional PMRs will
be used to assess progress towards meeting the requirements of PMR-based methods of disbursement. At
the time of conversion, the project will prepare a reconciliation of project expenditures, disbursements
received, and Special Account movements up to the proposed date of the conversion.
Staffing/Capacity Building
The FAD is headed by a Finance and Administration Manager (FAM) who will direct and guide the
financial management operations of RDPP2. He is assisted by a Senior Finance and Administration
Officer. The department has also appointed qualified and experienced accounting, administrative and
support staff.
Reporting and Monitoring
Financial reports generated by the financial management system must be effectively communicated to the
Financial Management Sub-committee.
To achieve this, written reports will be augmented by regular meetings in order to discuss the reports and
their ramifications.
Internal Controls
FAD's internal control procedures are documented by the Finance and Administration Manager in the
Financial Management Manual (FMM).
The activities of the Project will be periodically reviewed by the Internal Audit Unit of the Ministry of
Works, Housing and Communications (MOWHC).  That Unit will report to the Permanent
Secretary/Secretary to Treasury via the Internal Audit Department of the Ministry of Finance, Planning and
Economic Development (MOFPED).
- 62 -



Information Technology
The overall Program's financial management information technology requirements (hardware, software and
training) will be developed by Extemal (Systems) Consultants by 31 December 2001 in consultation with
the IT Division Manager, the Finance and Administration Division Manager, the Engineering Division
Manager, the Head of Procurement, the Director of RAFU, MOWHC and MOFPED. As a transitional
arrangement, the accounting records of the Project will be maintained using a conventional spreadsheet
package.
Planning and Budgeting
The Finance and Administration Manager, in consultation with the FMSC and the Director of RAFU, will
be responsible for preparing the Project's Quarterly/Annual Cash Flow Forecast and Budget Estimates.
Members of the FMSC, in conjunction with the Management Committee, will review and approve
Quarterly and Annual Project Financial Statements; they will also examine material variances between
budget/actual figures - seeking remedial action within an agreed timeframe.
The Management Committee is responsible for approving RAFU's budget.
Bases of Accounting - Cash Versus Accruals
As RAFU is an integral part of the MOWHC, the Project must meet the Treasury's requirement for cash
accounting in accordance with Treasury accounting procedures.
In due course, for management reporting purposes, the FMSC/Management Committee will decide whether
to convert to an accruals basis of accounting.
Procurement of Goods, Works and Consulting Services
The Finance and Administration Manager and members of staff are conversant with Govemment and
World Bank procurement procedures, as internal control issues and the incurring of liabilities on behalf of
RDPP2 will be matters of particular concern to the financial management function - specifically,
Government procedures in relation to incurring contractual commitments must be strictly observed.
A Quarterly Procurement Management Report (showing the status of procurement, civil works, contract
commitments and consulting services) will be prepared by the Head of Procurement/Engineering Division
Manager for consideration by the FMSC.
Procurement procedures, which must comply with World Bank and Government requirements, are
documented in RAFU's FMM.
Banking Activities - Flow of Funds
For IDA and Government funding, the MOWHC (through FAD) will maintain 3 bank accounts as follows:
Special Account in US doliars at a commercial bank acceptable to IDA.
Current Account in UShs (Part 2 Account) at a commercial bank acceptable to IDA to which Counterpart
- 63 -



Funding by Government will be deposited. Initially, a three months float will be provided and it will be
replenished thereafter in compliance with Govemment procedures. The inital deposit to be made by GOU
is US$3.0 million equivalent.
Bank statements for the 2 accounts will be reconciled to the Project's accounting records on a monthly
basis. Reconciliations will be approved by the Finance and Administration Manager on a timely basis.
identified differences will be expeditiously investigated. Control Procedures and further details on the bank
accounts are documented in the Financial Management Manual.
World Bank - Withdrawals/ Disbursements
While the FAD is not yet ready for PMR-based disbursements as discussed above, existing disbursement
procedures, as outlined in the World Bank's Disbursement Handbook, will be followed i.e. direct payment,
reimbursement and special commitment The computerization of FAD's financial management system is
expected to facilitate the introduction of PMR-based disbursements within about 12 months of credit
effectiveness.
Fixed Assets, Consulting Services and Civil Works
A Fixed Assets Register will be designed and maintained, regularly updated and checked.
Regarding Construction/Capital Work in Progress, controls will be established over the awarding of
contracts as well as for ensuring that payments are made in a timely and orderly manner in respect of
certified work. Contract Status Reports will be prepared quarterly by the Engineering Division Manager
for consideration by the FMSC as part of the Procurement Management Report referred to in Appendix 1.
Control procedures over fixed assets, consulting services and civil works are documented in the FMM.
Financial Reporting (Monthly and Quarterly/Annually)
Monthly
The Finance and Administration Manager will be responsible for preparing a Monthly Status of Funds
Report for the Chairperson of FMSC/Director of RAFU.
Quarterly/Annually
The Financial Statements, following determination by the FMSC and the Management Committee, will
include:
A Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds by Loan Category/by Activity;
Program Balance Sheet as at the reporting date;
Notes in respect of: significant accounting policies and accounting standards adopted by management when
preparing the accounts; and any supplementary information or explanations that may be deemed
appropriate by management in order to enhance the presentation of a "true andfair view ".
Special Account Statement/Reconciliation showing deposits and replenishments received, payments
- 64 -



substantiated by withdrawal applications, interest that may be earned on the account and the balance at the
end of the fiscal year;
SOE Withdrawal Schedule (pending the introduction of PMR based disbursements), listing individual
withdrawal applications relating to disbursements by the SOE Method, by reference number, date and
amount;
A Cash Forecast for the next 2 quarters.
Indicative formats for Financial Statements are outlined in RAFU's Financial Management Manual.
External Audit
Relevantly qualified, experienced and independent auditors have been appointed for RAFU on acceptable
terms of reference. The external auditor will also be expected to prepare a separate Management Letter
giving observations and comments, and providing recommendations for improvements of accounting
records, systems, controls and compliance with financial covenants.
Conclusion
Although the current financial management arrangements satisfy the Bank's minimum requirements under
OP/BP1O.2, they are not yet adequate to provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely
information on the status of the Project as required by the IDA for PMR-based disbursements. The
arrangements do not therefore meet the requirements for PMR-based disbursements, as outlined in the
World Bank's Loan Administration Change Initiative Handbook (LACI, September 1998). A detailed
financial management assessment was carried out and the completion of the computerization of the
financial management system was identified as being required to strengthen financial management
arrangements are. This will enable the disbursement of the IDA Credit to be made on the basis of Project
Management Report (PMRs).
- 65 -



Annex 5c: Fiscal Impact of RDPP2
UGANDA: ROAD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM PHASE 2
The first part of this analysis deals with the budget issues : (i) Govemment fiscal situation ; (ii) overall
level of recurrent costs required to operate the sector adequately and the volume of financing provided by
the Government in the past; and (iii) availability and certainty of counterpart funds for the project.
The second part of the analysis focuses on the direct impacts of the road construction projects under RDP,
Phase 2 : (i) incremental revenue from taxes linked to construction projects, (ii) increase or decrease in
recurrent costs resulting from the strengthened or upgraded roads; (iii) increase or decrease in maintenance
costs resulting from the strengthened or upgraded roads; (iv) prospects for financing additional expenses
linked to recurrent and/or maintenance expenditures, if any ; and (v) need to service the debt incurred to
build the road.
The construction projects taken into consideration in the fiscal impact analysis are: (i)
Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Portal, Kasese-Kilembe and Equator Roads, 162 km; (ii)
Karuma-Olwyio-Pakwach Road, 107 km; (iii) black spot improvement, 71 km; and (iv) Pilot project for
Matugga-Semuto-Kapeeka Road, 36 km.
I. Present Fiscal Situation
The Government present fiscal situation can be derived from the "Background to the Budget 2000/01"
produced by the Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development (MoFPED) in June 2000. This
report states that "Owing to the need to keep inflation low in light of the intemal and extemal shocks to the
economy during 1999/00, Government continued with a tight fiscal policy stance. Prudent fiscal
management enabled the Govemment to deliver macroeconomic stability, robust real economic growth and
a relatively stable exchange rate. The resource envelope (that is, domestic revenue plus grants) had a
shortfall of about UGS 160 billion during 1999/00 mainly on account of a sharp shortfall in domestic
revenue. In view of the sharp shortfall in domestic revenue collection relative to the budget estimate, total
Government spending was reduced by UGS 60 billion, consistent with the need to keep inflation low.
Domestic revenue (excluding Govemment payments but including appropriations in aid) is projected at
UGS 987.8 billion during 1999/00, UGS 134.5 billion below the budget estimate for the year. In real
terms, domestic revenue fell from 12.2% of GDP in 1998/99 to 11.5% of GDP in 1999/00. The decline in
domestic revenue as a ratio of GDP in 1999/00 was partly due to weaknesses in tax administration, partly
due to the impact of the terms of trade shock on real purchasing power, and perhaps partly due to a shift in
expenditure towards relatively less taxed goods.
The impact of the sharp fall in revenue on Government spending and the overall deficit was to a greater
extent reduced by the large inflow of giants, which increased by 46% in 1999/00 over the previous year.
External budget support in the form of grants was equivalent to UGS 595 billion in 1999/00 as compared
to UGS 407 billion a year earlier. Total government expenditures are projected to amount to UGS 1,779
billion in 1999/00, equivalent to 20.7% of GDP. Excluding externally funded development expenditure,
domestic expenditure increased by about 2 1 0 billion during 1999/00 over the previous year.
Because the revenue shortfall was not fully covered by external grants and borrowing from domestic banks
would have been inconsistent with the inflation target of 5.0% p.a, Government domestically funded
expenditures had to be cut by UGS 83 billion from the programmed level. However, the magnitude of the
- 66 -



expenditure cut was less than the shortfall in domestic revenue and grants combined so that the budget
deficit, excluding grants, widened from 7.0% of GDP in 1998/99 to 9.2% of GDP projected for 199/00. A
further cut in expenditures was not possible because of the need to finance poverty reduction programs in
agreement with multilateral donors on the use of additional resources arising from the HIPC Debt Relief
initiatives. The budget deficit was non-inflationary because it was wholly financed by external grants and
highly concessional loans.
During 1999/00, Government, through a consultative process with stakeholders prepared a comprehensive
strategy to deal with the major constraints to private sector development called the medium term
Competitive Strategy (MTCS) for the Private Sector (2000-2005). The key elements of the private sector
MTCS include reforms in infrastructure provision particularly the utilities; strengthening the financial
sector and improving access to credit; reforms in the commercial justice sector; institutional reforms which
include dealing with corruption, reforms in public procurement simplifying administrative procedures, and
improving tax administration; and strengthening the export sector".
- 67 -



Provisional Budget Outturn for the Fiscal Years 1998/99 and 1999/00
Outturn      Estimate      Outturn        Deviation     Performance
1998/99      1999100       1999100        Ratio
Revenue and grants                 1,358.210     1,743.606      1,582.967         -160.64     9018%
- Revenue I/                        951.273      1,122.301       987.805         -134.50      88.0%
- Grants                            406.936       621.305        595.162          -26.14      95.8%
Total Expenditure                  1.501.173     1,838.311      1,778.644          -59.67     96.8%
- Recurrent Expenditure             863.786      1,017.391       993.853          -23.54      97.7%
o/w Salaries 7 Wages              341.163        391.156       389.900           -1.26      99.7%
Interest                     68.841        84.130         85.522            1.39     101.7%
Other recurrent2/           388.801       440.626        415.539          -25.09      94.3%
Transfer to URA              29.659         35.00         32.391           -2.61      92,5%
Statutory                    35.322        66.480         70.501            4.02     106.0%
- Development Expenditure           635,067       805.720       776.843           -28.88      96.4%
o/w Domestic                      144,667        271.920       227.243           -44.68      83.6%
Extemal                     490,400       533.800        549.600           15.80     103.0%
- Net Lending                         2.319        15.200          7.948           -7.25      52.3%
Overall Balance (commitment)       (142.964)      (94.705)     (195.676)          -100.97    206.6%
- Excluding grants                (549.900)     (716.010)      (790.839)          -74.83     110.5%
Outturn      Estimate      Outturn        Deviation     Performance
1998/99      1999/00       1999/00        Ratio
Change in arrears 3/               (145.532)     (138.195)     (148.300)           -10.11    107.3%
Adjustment to cash 4/               (42.006)       (5.000)       (19.668)          -14.67
Overall defcit/surluslcash)        (246.490)     (237.901)    (363.6345)          -125.74    152.9%
Financinp                           246.490        237.901       363.645           125.74    152.9%
- Foreign (net)                     263.239       331.895        315.345          -16.55      95.0%
- Domestic                         (16.749)      (93.994)         48.300          142.29     -51.4%
Banking System                   0.552       (84.044)        59.100           143.14     -70.3%
o/w BankofU anda8/              24.152 |    (112.552)       -22.900            89.65      20.3%
Commercial Banks 9/        (23.600)       28.508         82.000           53.49     287.6%
Non-bank                       (17.301)       (9.950)       (10.800)           -0.85     108.5%
Memo 1: GDP at factor cost         7816.240      88l300         8,573.654
Memo 3: as %/oage of GDP
- Domestic Revenue                   12.3%          13.4%         11.9%
o/w excl. Gov't payments          12.2%          12.7%         11.5%
- Expenditure                        19.2%         20.7%          20.7%
- Deficit (commitment)              -1.8%          -1.1%         -2.3%
-Deficit (Excl. grants)              -7.0%         -8.1%          -9.2%
Deficit (cash basis)                  -3.2%         -2.7%         -4.2%
Source: Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development.
1/      excludes tax refunds and Government payments
2/      non-debt, non-wage recurrent, including defense, PPAs, etc.
3/     includes reduction of external and domestic arrears
4/      check float and residual
- 68 -



The overall level of recurrent costs required to operate the sector adequately and the volume of financing
provided by the Government in the recent past can be derived from the Transport Sector investment and
Recurrent Expenditures Program (TSIREP) dated October 2000. This report states that "in order to
optimize the investment made in roads, reinstate and preserve the road network to required level of services,
Government has highly prioritized national road maintenance. Financing of national road maintenance is
basically the responsibility of the Government. Government has committed itself to continue increasing
funding for maintenance by an equivalent in USD 4 million annually. Government will, in principle, finance
all routine maintenance costs by 2001, and seek donor support in road rehabilitation and periodic
maintenance operations.
The Table below shows funding commitments to national roads maintenance programs and recurrent
expenditures from 1998/99 to 2003/04 for both the Government and the Development Partners:
i___   Actual            Provision   Budget   Proj etions (TSIREP)  96-04
96/97    97/98    98/99    99/00    00/01   01/02   02103   03/04    Grand
USD I    1,020    1,080   1,200    1,500    1,622   1,800   1,800    1,800    Total
Malntenance (hin98S) I r_ 
GOUl                        15.24    17.58_  19.05    28.73    32.01   43.99   44.00    46.00   246.60
Donors                      6.89    11.50   13.60     17.20    17.28   19.00   20.90    22.99   129.35
Total MaIntenance |     22.12    29.08   32.65    45.93    49.29   62.99   64.90    68.99   375.95
Recun_t matenance element   3.24             8                 9.63   13.85   19.74    29.61    9924
The following funds have been committed by the Development Partners for the maintenance of the road
network: (i) USD 14.5 million for Road Maintenance in Eastern Uganda by KFW, to expire by 30 June
2002; (ii) USD 13.1 for TRP national Roads Maintenance, by IDA, to expire by 31 December 2001; USD
30.1 million for Southem-Western Roads Maintenance Project, by EDF, to expire by 30 June 2001; and
USD 13.4 million for Upgrading Gravel Roads in Western Uganda, by DFID, to expire by 30 June 2003.
As mentioned earlier, these funds should slowly decrease overtime as GOU commits itself to take charge of
aLl maintenance expenditures as far as the National Road Network is concerned.
The Govemment has demonstrated its commitment to provide the necessary counterpart funds for the
project and indeed for the entire road sector over the medium term. This clearly illustrated in the
Govenmment's Medium Term Budget Framework (MTEF) which is a mechanism for determining
Govemment medium term expenditure priorities and allocating these funds through the budgetary process.
The MTEF gives three-year expenditure projections, which are revised annually as part of the budget
process. The allocations to the roads sector are shown in the TSIREP.
- 69 -



11. Fiscal Impact
The second part of the analysis focuses on the direct impacts of the road construction projects. The
incremental revenue from taxes linked to construction, the increase or decrease in recurrent expenditures
and maintenance costs resulting from the strengthened or upgraded roads and the need to service the debt
incurred to build the road are enumerated in the attached Table shown below.
The following assumptions described below have been used:
(i), the years under review were those pertaining to the credit period, that is from 1 July 2001 to 30 June
2007;
(ii), the only fiscal impact regarding the disbursement of the loan relevant to this analysis is the credit
inflow of capital as reimbursement of both the principal and the interests will not take place during the
period of analysis;
(iii), the level of taxation has been assumed to be 17%, 10% representing net VAT paid by contractors and
7% representing levies, mostly on imported goods;
(iv), there is only a very small increase in the level of recurrent expenditures, that is expenditures which are
implemented at least once a year, because there is no new roads being built, but only existing roads being
strengthened or upgraded. The following additional costs have been calculated: additional routine
maintenance costs = 300,000 UGS'/ x 107 km from upgrading Karuma to Pakwach Section to paved
standards = USD 0.017 million with an exchange rate of 1850 UGS to the dollar; UGS 300,000/km is the
difference of routine maintenance costs between unpaved and paved roads, as per 10 Year RSDP Update
dated April 99.
(v), there is no change in periodic maintenance costs as the roads under review will not incur any
substantial maintenance investment during the period of analysis.
- 70 -



FISCAL IMPACT OF RDPP2 (up to the closinq date of the credit)
YEARS  2000101  2001102  2002103  2003/04  2004/05  2005106  2005/07
REVENUES
Loan Disbursement (1)                          3.00    11.00    20.00    16.00      8.50     4.60
Taxes from construction (2)            -        -       4.68      3.00     3.82     1.28     1.37
- Karuma-OhA*o-Pakwach RD.                              2.06      1.25     1.25     0.33     0.54
- KaL-FP, K.mbe & Equator Rds.                          2.62     1.59      1.59     0.41     0.69
- Blockspot lmp,ovement                                           0.17     0.24     0.06
- Matugge.emuto-Kapeeks Rd.                                                0.75     0.48     0.14
Decrease in recurrent costs (3)                          -        -         -        -        -
Decrease in maintenance costs (4)      -        -        -        -         -        -        -
TOTAL REVENUE                  3.00    15.68    23.00    19.82      9.78     5.97
YEARS  2000101  2001/02  2002/03 2003104  2004105  2005106  2006107
EXPENSES
Debt Service (1)                       -        -        -        -         -        -        -
Increase in recurrent costs (3)        -                                            0.02     0.02
Increase in maintenance costs (4)                        -                           -        -
TOTAL EXPENSES         -             -             -                 0.02     0.02
Note 1: Because there is a 10 year grace period, no reimbursement of interest or capital was included
in this analysis
Note 2: Assuming 17% taxes
Note 3: There is only very minor changes in recurrent expenditures as investments occur on existing roads
Note 4: Changes in maintenance costs will not appear before the end of the credit period
-71 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
UGANDA: SECOND PHASE OF THE ROAD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Procurement
Procurement Capacity of RAFU
1.    The procurement capacity assessment of RAFU was carried out in December 1998 and March
1999. The action plan drawn to build RAFU's procurement capacity called for the establishment of a
procurement unit within RAFU. The same has been established, and is fully operational since January
2000. Currently, there are 8 procurement specialists employed in the unit; another 2 will be employed by
June 2001 which will bring the total staff strength to 10.
2. RAFU's procurement performance has been found to be satisfactory. RAFU has produced with the
assistance of consultants bidding documents, as well as pre-qualification documents, for the four major
civil work contracts under RDPPI on schedule.
Procurement Implementation Arrangements
3.     Supervision of execution of the civil works will be done by consultants provided under the project.
Similarly, the National Transport Plan/Kampala Master Plan will be prepared with the help of consultants.
The institutional support for Road Safety will also be provided by consultants provided under the project.
Equipment for Road Safety will be procured by RAFU through intemational shopping.
Procurement Plan
4.    A procurement plan for the project has been prepared by the Borrower as part of the PIP, which
was finalized during negotiations.
Use of Bank Guidelines
5.     For civil works and goods, procurement will take place in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines
for procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA credits (January 1995, lastly revised January 1999). The
Bank's Standard Bidding Documents, the Standard Pre-qulification Documents and the Standard Bid
Evaluation Forms will be used for the procurement of civil works contracts.
6.     For consulting services, procurement will take place in accordance with the Bank Guidelines for
the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, lastly revised in
January 1999). The Bank's Standard Request for Proposals and Sample Form of Evaluation Report for
the Selection of Consultants will be used.
7.    A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be prepared and issued upon Board approval in the
United Nations Development Business listing all civil works contracts (above US$ 200,000) and large
contracts for consultants services (above US$ 200,000) to obtain expression of interest. The GPN will be
updated annually for those contracts still to be let.
Procurement Methods (Table A)
- 72 -



Civil Works
8.     Contracts for upgrading of Karuma-Olwiyo-Pakwach section of Karuma-Pakwach-Nebbi-Arua
Road (divided into 2 lots) and strengthening of Katunguru-Kasase-Fort Portal, Kasese-Kilembe and
Equator Roads (divided into 3 lots), estimated at US$ 72.47 million, wiU be procured thtough ICB.
Contracts for black-spot improvements, estimated at US$ 2.58 million, will be procured through NCB
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Goods
9.     Equipment for Road Safety, estimated at US$ 0.30 million, will be procured through Limited
lnternational Bidding by inviting quotations from at least three specialized suppliers in two different
countries.
Consulting Services
10.   Contracts for consulting services for: (i) construction supervision of road upgrading and
black-spot improvement works (estimated at US$ 5.37 million); (ii) institutional support for Road Safety
(estimated at US$ 1.69 million); and (iii) National Transport Plan/Greater Kampala Master Plan (estimated
at US$ 2.66 million) will be procured following Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) method.
Services for tasks that meet requirements set forth in paragraph 3.8 to 3.11 of the consultant guidelines
may with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured on single source basis.
Prior Review Thresholds (Table B)
11.   Procurement documentation for civil work contracts above US$ 250,000 and consultancy contracts
above US$100,000 for firmns and US$ 50,000 for individuals will be subject to prior review by IDA. The
Borrower will obtain IDA's no-objection to technical evaluation of consultant's proposals before
proceeding to public opening of the financial proposals. Goods contracts above US$ 250,000 will be
subject to prior review by IDA. Post review of the contracts below the above thresholds will be carried out
selectively by IDA supervision missions and/or independent auditors. Terms of Reference for all
consultancy contracts, as well as single-source appointments, irrespective of their cost, will be subject to
prior review by IDA.
- 73 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Expefidltw. Category           ..; ,,,            NC             0her~           N 8 . .... .v.:.:. '' '"  '0''0''; " ;:'''0; 0 W   "       ' " ' ;t................:.................. ... .t..
1. Works                              72.47            2.78            0.00            8.55          83.80
(54.35)         (2.08)          (0.00)          (6.50)         (62.93)
2. Goods                               0.00            0.00            0.30            0.00           0.30
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.30)          (0.00)          (0.30)
3. Services                            0.00            0.00            9.73            3.16          12.89
(0.00)          (0.00)          (7.79)          (2.40)        (10.19)
4. Miscellaneous                       0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)           000)
Total                              72.47            2.78           10.03           11.71          96.99
(54.35)         (2.08)          (8.09)          (8.90)         (73.42)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA and NI:DF credits. All costs include contingencies
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through international shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating
costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
- 74 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection- Method::
'-x eatg'y'-CS:Q B.   --L''-CQ'. ...    .....                   ....    ..    ...    .  .....  .... ....
Expenditure Category, :'QCBS:   OS     SF8.   LCS:    C          0 Othe   .BF TtlCot
A. Firms               9.73     0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    3.16      12.89
79)_() (-)(7.79    (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)  00)   (2.40)   (10.19)
B. Individuals         0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00
(0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)    (0.00)
Total  9.73     0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    3.16      12.89
(7.79)   (0.00)   (0. 00)  (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)  (2.40)   (10.19)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS  Quality-based Selection
SFB  Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. - Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value:                               ContrOat Subject to
Threshold     .        Procurament :..po .--. w
ExKniditure Cae oy        (US$ thousands)      -
1. Works                    $250 and above               ICB                       All
Less than 250              NCB*                      None
2. Goods                    $250 and above               LIB                       All
3. Services              $100 and above (firms)         QCBS                       All
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
* Contracts for blackspot Improvements estimated to cost less than
$250,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$ 2.58 million, may
be procured through National Competitive Bidding.
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 18 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
- 75 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
.Expend; Witure CMOW Amount n .inancini .reage 
Civil Works                               51.63                        75%
Goods                                      0.29                    100% of foreign
Consultant Services, training and audit    7.40                        80%
fees                                                    ____________________
Unallocated                                5.20
Total Project Costs                       64.52
Total                                     64.52
Disbursement
The IDA Credit would be disbursed against the categories of given in Table C on the basis of the
schedule of disbursements shown below. Disbursements would be made against standard documentation.
To facilitate payments from the Credit, a Special Account would be established and would be operated and
maintained on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The account would have an initial authorized
allocation of US$3.0 million, and would be replenished following application for reimbursement by
MOWHC together with appropriate supporting documentation. The amount of IDA replenishment would
not exceed the authorized allocation. The Credit closing date would be June 30, 2006, with physical
completion of works expected 6 months before that date. The Borrower will open and maintain a project
account in Uganda Shillings in a commercial Bank will an initial deposit of US$ 3.0 million equivalent.
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs): Disbursements for contracts of works and goods estimated to
cost up to US$250,000 equivalent and consulting contracts with firms costing up to US$100,000
equivalent, and consulting services for individual consultants costing US$50,000 or less, would be made
against statement of expenditures.
Estimated IDA Disbursements (US$ m):
IDA FY         FYO1        FY02       FY03        FY04        FY05       FY06
Annual          0.0        12.0        22.0        16.0       10.0         4.52
Cumulative      0.0        12.0        34.0        50.0       60.0        64.52
- 76-



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
UGANDA: SECOND PHASE OF THE ROAD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Pr*it Sche4uI             . ii. .  .             :- Ple.I                     : : . . . .
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)             03/13/2000                    03/13/2000
Appraisal mission departure                      02/15/2001                   01/19/2001
Negoiations                                     04/23/2001       _  __        04/25/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    11/30/2001
Prepared by:
Ministry of Works, Housing and Communications
Preparation assistance:
Road Sector Institutional Support Technical Assistance Project (RSISTAP) (Cr. 2987-UG) for US$30
million
Bank staff who worked on the proJect included:
-e  .i .-  ; ---                         Sp*cIality
Yitzhak Kamhi                     Team Leader and Senior Transport Engineer, Procurement
John Riverson                     Senior Highway Engineer
David Rudge                       Hfighway Engineer
Satdev Kathuria                   Peer Reviewer/Highway Engineer, Procurement, Consultant
Victor Labite Ocaya               Civil Engineer
Anthony Hegarty                   Senior Financial Management Specialist
Joseph Kizito                     Financial Management Specialist
Anil Bhandari                     Peer Reviewer, Highway Adviser / Economics
Nina Chee                         Environmental Specialist
Charlotte Jones                   Operations Analyst
Nadege Thadey                     Program Assistant
Aberra Zerabruk                   Senior Counsel
Modupe Adebowale                  Senior Financial Management Specialist
- 77 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
UGANDA: SECOND PHASE OF THE ROAD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
A. Project Implementation Plan
December 2000
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
10-Year Road Sector Development Program, Government of Uganda, November 1996.
Government of Uganda Proposal for Road Sector Program, February 1996.
Consultants Reports: Final Feasibility and Design Studies for Karuma-Pakwach Road (May 2000) and
Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Portal Road (April 20, 2000) included in the Program.
Financial Management and Procurement Assessment of Implementing Agency, including Action Plan for
improvements and five table for its implementation, December 1998.
Aide-Memoire of October 2000 Pre- Appraisal Mission
Progress Reports of Road Sector Program (Nos. 1, 2, 3 ,4, 5 and 6).
Feasibility Studies, including Environmental impact Assessments and Social Impact Assessment, for
Karuma-Pakwach and Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Portal roads.
Report on the Ten Year Road Development Programme (RSDP) Update, April 1999.
Environmental Policy and Management Assessment Study for RDP, April 1999.
Detailed Designs and Bidding Documents for roads included in Phase 2 of the Program: Karuma-Pakwach
(September 2000), Katunguru-Kasese- Fort Portal, Kilembe and Equator Roads.
Road Safety Audit Final Report (October 2, 2000).
TOR for the Pilot project for use of innovating technologies, and construction of MOWHC and RAFU
H/Q.
Draft GOU " White Paper " on policy and strategy for feeder, community and urban roads.
TSIREP for 1999/2000-2003/2004 (October 5, 2000).
Certificates of Approval of Environmental Impact Assessment from NEMA for Karuma-Pakwach-Arua
(May 2000) and Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Portal Road (October 2000).
*Including electronic files
- 78 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
UGANDA: SECOND PHASE OF THE ROAD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Mar-2001
Diflerence between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                               disbursements
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                         IBRD         IDA                  GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.         Orig   Frm Revd
P072482        2001 HIVIAIDS Control Projet                             0.00      47.50                  0.00       0.00      48.54       0.00      0.00
P050439        2001 PRIVATIZATION & UTIUTY SECTOR REFORM                0.00      48.50                  0.00       0.00      47.43       0.00      0.00
P002992        2000 LOCAL GOV DEVE.PROGRAM                              0.00      80.90                  0.00       0.00      65.06      -9.17       0.00
P044679        2000 Second Economic and Fin. MgmL Project               0.00      34.04                  0.00       0.00      28.97       8.04       0.00
P059223        1999 NAKIVUSO CHANNEL REH                                0.00      22.40                  0.00       0.00      19.S9      1Z75       0.00
P059127        1999 AGRICRES & TRNG. It                                 0.00      26.00                  0.00       0.00      22.46       5.09       0.00
P044213        1999 FIN MKrS ASSISTANCE                                 0.00      13.00                  0.00       0.00      12.59       9.57      0.00
P002941        1999 ICB-PAMSU                                           0.00      12.40                  2.00       0.00       5.22       220       0.00
P002970        1999 ROADS DEVT PROGRAM                                  0.00      90.98                  0.00       0.00      83.39       9.02      0.00
P049543        1998 ROAD SECTANST.SUPP                                  0.00      30.00                  0.00       0.00      22.93      24.55      0.00
P057007        1998 EL NINO EMERG RD REP                                0.00      27.60                  0.00       0.00      23.36      24A9       0.00
P040551        1998 NUTRIT.CHILD DEV                                    0.00      34.00                  0.00       0.00      23.90       6.46      0.00
P046870        1997 LAKE VICTORIA ENV.                                  0.00       9.80                  9.80       0.00       5.69       348       000
P046836        1997 LAKE VICTORIA ENV.                                  0.00      12.10                  0.00       0.00       456        1.85      0.00
P002987        1997 SAC Itt                                             0.00     125.00                  0.00       0.00      64.81      42.66     42.13
P035634        1996 PRIV. SECTOR COMPET1                                0.00      12.30                  0.00       2.18       2.41       5.63      000
P002978        1996 ENVIRONMENTALMGMT&CAPACITY BLDG                     0.00      11.80                  0.00       0.00       1.58       2.94       2.00
P002976        1995 INST. CAPACITY BLDG                                 0.00      36.40                  0.00       0.00       3.13       5.45      0.00
P002971        1995 DISTRICT HEALTH                                     0.00      45.00                  0.00       0.00       5.81       3.39       0.00
PW2957         1994 SMALLTOWNSWATER                                     0.00      42.30                  0.00       0.00       6.13       7.01      0.00
P002963        1994 SEXUALTRANS.IN                                      0.00      50.00                  0.00       0.00       4.70       5.45      0.00
P002977        1994 COTTON SECTOR DEVELO                                0.00      14.00                  0.00       0.00       0.41       0.60      -0.38
P002953        1993 PRIMARY EDUC. & TEAC                                0.00      52.60                  0.00       0.00       3.50       3.44       1.78
P002929        1991 POWER III                                           0.00     125.00                  0.00       0.00      17.08     -11.15     223.15
Total:        0.00    1003.62               11.80         2.18      52323      163.75    268.69
- 79 -



UGANDA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Mar-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Coanpany                     Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
2000               CelTel Uganda                 4.00    0,70    0.00    0.00    2.40    0.70    0.00    0.00
1994               Celtel                        0.43    0.64    0.80    0.00    0.43    0.64    0.80    0.00
1984/92           DFCU                           0.00    0.60    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.60    0.00    0.00
1993              Jubilee                        0.00    0.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.10    0.00    0.00
1996              Kasese Cobalt                 12.00    3.60    0.00    0.00   12.00    3.60    0.00    0.00
1998              Tilda Rice                     2.28    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.78    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995/96           Uganda Leasing                 1.16    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.56    0.00    0.00    0.00
1983              Uganda Sugar                   5.08    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.08    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996              AEFAgro Mgmt                   0.60    0.40    0.00    0.00    0.55    0.40    0.00    0.00
1992              AEF Clovergem                  0.84    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.84    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997              AEF Conrad Plaza               1.13    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.13    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998              AEF Exec. Invmnt               0.97    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.97    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999              AEF Gomba                      1.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.40    0.00    0.00    0.00
2001               AEF Kaboja                    0.35    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998              AEF Kampala Flwr               0.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               AEF Kasambya                  0.99    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
AEF Kiwa 11                   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997              AEF Ladoto                     0.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.80    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               AEF LongFreight               0.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               AEF Mosa Court                0.64    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.64    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998              AEF Nile Roses                 0.16    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.16    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993              AEF Polypack                   0.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.10    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994              AEF Rainbow                    0.79    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.79    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995              AEF Rwenzori                  0.35    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.35    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993              AEF Skay Electro               0.22    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               AEF Skyblue                   0.51    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.51    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994              AEF White Nile                 0.28    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.28    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998              AEF Wstern Hgh                 0.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999
Total Portfolio:       36.88    6.04    0.80    0.00   30.77    6.04    0.80    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitmnent
FY Approval       Company                          Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic
1998              AEF Rain Oil                  1000.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Comnritment:    1000.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
-80 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
UGANDA: SECOND PHASE OF THE ROAD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Saharan       Low-
Vuanda      Africa   income       Development diamond
1 999:
PoDulation. mid-vear(mlWons)                            21.5        642     2.417                   Life expectancy
GNP ter caDita (Attas mefhod. US$)                       320        500       410
GiNP fAiA.S metheod  USS lilionm8) RR                               321       PtRR
Averaos annual arowth. 1993-99
tda*i.i f!10                                            2.19       2.8       1.9
Lalir force (f4l                                         2.7        2.8        2.3      GNP                               Gress
Most-recenttrnatr"tatltstaarava11abl 1993-991                                                                            prier  prmary
esene  ..a.es. veer ava,.a~~~~~~~.,e. ~capita                                            rnt,t
Povertv tX4 of nonulation below national Dovehv line )    44
Urban ocoulation 1% of total Donufationl                  13         34        31
I exr ,sntannt; at. birth ivearsl                         42        fif        An
Infant mortalitv -fer 1.0001ivehbirths)                   97         92        77
Child manittirithrn (94 of chiidren under 51              2fi        32        43                 Access to safe water
Aress tn imnrovtd wtstfer sosurce (% of conulationi       41         43        84
liriteracv 1% of non tijtion ace 15+1                    38         39        39
G.rnsr nrimarvy nrmiltment ( of school-noe nooul8fioni   122         78        9fi              -Uganda
Male                                                   129         85       102             ----------Low-income group
FpMamts                                                114         71        RR
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS arnd LONG-TERM tRENDS
1979     1989       1998      1999
Economic ratios
(3139 tUSS bitt onsl                                     8 3        . fi      8.R4
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                            11 1      150        1 B4                      Trade
Fxnnrtsnfnond and servines/Gl7P                          8.0       10.3       11. 
Gross domestic savinossGDP                                1.0       5.6        4.9
,rnAsA national RavinrsGflnP                              1 9       13.4      10, 
Current account balancelGDP                             f-9        104        116        o                            nt
Interest natvnment;st  -np                                          0.8        0.8     SinInvestsent
Tnfal dbhtnGOP                                          Rif 32     53 fi      54.3 i               -
Total debi servicele)Dorts                       -.                25.5       23.1
Prerent vniiien(itehtlG1lP                                         35n.       27.3
Present value of debftleoorts                                     350.6      225.3
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99     1998       1999   1999-03
(averare annual orowthi
GDP                                   3.4       7.1      56         7.4        8.3                    Ugganda
GNP oer cavita                        0.9       4.1      2.8        4.3        3.3             --------- Low-income group
Exoorts of noods and services          1.2     14.8    -14.g       33.0        6.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(94 of GDP)                                   1979      1989       1998      1999      Growth of investment and GOP (%)
Anri,idtr,rA                                            8.i R      4.48       44 4     60
Industrv,                                               10.7       17.6       17.8     40
Mani,fa-.ftirinn                               r.       .          8.q       R.7     20          4_
Services                                                32.5       37.8       37.8      o'        _
Private r-nnq.mntinn                                    972n       84 .       R8.2    .20      996   97   Oa   99
General oovernment consumotion                            7.0       9.6        9.9                G    GDI --Do-GDP
Imnnors nf nonsd Anti serviC A                           18.1      1q.7       22.q
(averac1e annual rowt9  198999                                     1998      1999      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
Acriculture                                     2.7       3.7        1.9       6.9    60
lndustrv                                        6.4      12.1      11.5        9.1    40
Manufacturino                                 3.6      13.5       14.4      11.3
Services                                        3.2      8.1        6.6        7.2    20
Private consumDtion                             3.4      6.3        8.6        0.8      0
General novernment consumotion                  0.6       8.2       8.0       17.4            9.   9s   96   97              9
Gross domestic Investment                      13.1      8.2        3.7        9.0    -20
ImDorts of noods and services                   7.3       9.0       3.1        2.8                -Exports    -Impnorts
Gross national Droduct                          3.5      7.3        5.8        7.3
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicalors in the countrv fin bold) comoared with its inCome-croUD averane. It data are missino, the diamond wili
he inanmnleta.
- 81 -



Uganda
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989      1998      1999      Inflation /Y)
Domestic prices                                                                      30
(% change)
Consumer prces                                        1310         5.8      -0.2     20
Implicit GDP deflator                           ..   115.4        10.7       4.4
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                           S    95    95   ST
Current revenue                                         5.5       10.3      10.9    .10
Current budget balance                          ..    -1.3         0.9       0.9              G OP deflator  -CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..    -4.8        -5.6      -5.9
TRADE
1979     1989      1998      1999       Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                     282        458      549      1.500
Coffee                                         ..    276         269       307
Cotton                                         ..       .,        11        11     1.000
Manufaciures                                   ..
Total imports (cif)                                     562      1,411     1,376
Food                                           ..0
Fuel and energy                                ..      76         84        65
Capital goods                                                                         a .._
93   94  95  90i  97   98  99
Exoort once index 11995-100.                             92         74       67
Imnort rnceindex(1995=100)                               79        106      101                   e Expo7s      *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100J                       ..      117         70       67
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
i979     1989      1998      i999      Current account bsalnce to GDP (%)
fUSS millions)
Exports of goods and services                           304       634       726       a
Imports of goods and services                   ..      712      1,871     1,834
Resource balance                                 ..   -408      -1,237    -1,107      3
Net income                                               6           9        14      -
Net current transfers                                   114        539      375
Current account balance                          .    -360        -706     -746
Financing items (net)                            .      342       840       780
Changes in net reserves                                  I a      -34        -33     159
Memo:
Reserves includino oold (USS millionsl           ..      46       750       748
Conversion rate (DEC IOcalUSSI                  .    170.4    1.149.7   1362.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998      1999
fUSS mnilljonsl                                                                      Composition of 1999 debt (US$ rmill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                  1,903      3,631     3,480
IBRD                                                   24         0         0                      F: 58
IDA                                            ..     605      1,971    2,042             E: 6
Total debt service                              ..        ..       172      179
IBRD                                           .        5         0         0
IDA                                           ..        5        24        25
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               36      177       433       277                                      B:2,042
Official creditors                                      .       220       188
Private creditors                                       0          1        4
Foreign direct investment                      2        2       200       230            C: 351
Portfolio equity                                        0         0         0
World Bank program
Commitments                                    0      141       172       267      A- IBRD                      E- Bilateral
Disbursements                                         100       242       148      B - IDA    D - Other mutilateral  F - Private
Principat repayments                                    4         10       10      C -IMF                       G -Short-term,
Netflows                                               96       231       138
Interest payments                              .        6         14       15
Net transfers                                 ..       90       217       123
Development Economics                                                                                                    9/9/00
- 82 -



Additional
Annex l1
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
(As forwarded fonnally by GOU to the Country Director)
01/17/01
Ref. ED/C/1541/11
1.    The following describes the Government of Uganda's medium term Strategy for the Transport
Sector and is to serve as the agreed framework within which the Government intends to implement the
Road Development Program (RDP) 1999 - 2006, which is a component of Govemment's 10-Year Road
Sector Development Programme.
General Principles
2.     The Government's medium term transport strategy hinges on the promotion of cheaper, efficient
and reliable transport services as the means of providing effective support to increased agricultural and
industrial production, trade, tourism, social and administrative services. This would ensure an efficient
transport sector and would play a critical role for the development of an integrated and self-sustaining
economy to promote growth in line with Government's strategy of poverty eradication and the economic
development throughout the country.
3.     To implement this, emphasis will be placed on the provision of a technically sound, economically
justified and financially sustainable infrastructure through the active participation of the private sector.
4.     The Government will not, as a rule, directly participate in the provision of transport services,
except in the case of strategic activities and investment in public goods. Its role with respect to the supply
of transport services is to provide policy guidelines a clear legal framework and efficiently exercise its
non-economic regulatory powers ensuring the establishing of a level playing field for the competitive
provision of services.
5.    In this context, the Government will continue the policy of de-facto free access to the transport
sector market and of letting market forces determine tariffs. The Government will also continue to place
emphasis on the implementation of Axle Load Control and transport safety measures for reduction of road
damages and accidents respectively. These will be co-ordinated with neighbouring countries through the
East African Co-operation Arrangement and the Northem Corridor Transit Agreement to ensure efficient
and safe use of the road infrastructure.
6.     However, the Government will continue to play a dominant role in the provision and cost-effective
development of transport infrastructure. In order to sustain this effort, appropriate priority is given to the
preservation of existing infrastructure assets. For roads, the implementation of Government strategy would
also lead to an increased participation of the private sector in the preparation, execution and supervision of
road works, in tandem with efforts to develop the domestic construction and consulting industry.
- 83 -



Issues and Actions
Transport Planning
7.    The Public Investment Plan (PIP) defines all Government sector investment priorities. The Plan is
reviewed annually and inclusion of new projects is made after thorough analysis of the socio-economic,
technical, and financial considerations taking into account safety precaution, environmental factors and
gender issues. The selection criteria used in considering projects are biased towards their direct impact on
poverty eradication.
8.    PIP is linked to Government's Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) that ensures
macroeconomic stability and the sectoral allocation or public expenditure with strategic priorities. MTEF
gives the overall government budget strategy in the medium term with the objective of:
*     Promotion of rapid broad-based economic growth by enabling the private sector to play the role as
engine of growth; and
*     Reduction of poverty by implementing the Poverty Eradication Action Plan.
9.    MTEF has provided the budgetary framework in which to fund priority initiatives such as roads.
Over the last two years, the Governmuent has been able to increase spending in three priority programmes
namely; roads, primary education and primary health care. In line with the three year rolling MTEF, the
Government will continue to select and prioritise transport sector investments and recurrent expenditure in
a rational manner, within the available resource constraint to ensure that expenditures are within the sector
budget ceiling.
10.   Government has already commenced on the process of establishing a long-term multi-modal
transport master plan to guide the rational and complementary development of all the transport modes,
namely: road, rail, water and air transport. The process will examine the realistic complementarily and the
appropriate maintenance and improvement measures of the various transport modes in terms of safety,
efficiency, and cost effectiveness for the mobility of people and their goods.
The Road Network
11.   The key element in the implementation of the Government's Transport Sector Strategy is the
10-Year Road Sector Development Programme (RSDP) (1997 - 2006). The RSDP, is reviewed and
updated on an annual basis, focuses on (i) providing an efficient, safe and sustainable road network in
support of market integration and poverty alleviation over a 10-Year period from Fiscal Year 1996/97 -
2005/06; (ii) improving managerial and operational efficiency of road administration; and (iii) developing
the domestic construction industry. The RSDP has been developed after a thorough optimisation and
rationalisation process by viewing road network maintenance and improvement as a single process aimed at
minimising total transport costs in the road sector.
12.   Realistic and efficient implementation mechanisms have been developed to ensure maximum
implementation efficiency of the programme's managerial and operational functions. The full RSDP for the
national roads component is estimated to cost approximately US$1,500 million and its expenditure and
financing programme reflects investment requirements and economic priorities in the context of the
macro-economic constraints as expressed in terms of domestic counterpart funding and inflows of donor
- 84 -



assistance. The RSDP has the following three major components:
i)    National Road Maintenance and rehabilitation to optimise the investment in roads and to reinstate
and preserve the road network to required level of services;
ii)    Improvement of parts of the National road network to meet traffic demand, safety and
environmental requirements; and
iii)    Capacity building in road administration and the local construction industry.
National Roads Maintenance
13.   In order to optimise the investments made in roads and preserve the road network to the recquired
level of service, Government has prioritised National road maintenance. The financing of national road
maintenance is the responsibility of the Govemment. Government is committed to continue increasing
funding for maintenance and will in principal finance all routine maintenance costs by 2001, and seek
donor support in road rehabilitation and periodic maintenance operations. The table below indicates the
financing plan of the RSDP National Roads Maintenance Component.
Funding Commitment to National Roads Maintenance Programme
In US$ million
1998/99     1999100       2000/01      2001/02        2002/03       2003/04
Actual     Provisional    Budget       Projected     Projected     Projected
GOU          20.79       32.00         36.00         40.00         44.00         44.00
Donor        9.55         25.26        14.94         12.02          2.72          1.22
TOTAL         30.34        57.26        50.94         52.02         46.72         45.22
14.   Government will continue to release budgeted national roads maintenance funds through the
budget.
Feeder Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance
15.   It has been recognised that an efficient feeder road network is at the core of the poverty eradication
strategy and of enhancing rural incomes. In this respect, the Govemment is pursuing in the first instance
improvement of selected roads to all weather road surface standard, countrywide. Priority will be given to
those roads which could first unlock areas with potentially high agricultural surplus and also enable the
rural populace the access basic social services.
16.   The responsibility for maintaining feeder roads is already vested in the respective districts. The
Central Government will continue to provide financial resources for local feeder roads maintenance through
conditional and unconditional grants to the districts. The strategy for feeder roads rehabilitation and
- 85 -



maintenance has been updated under the RSDP to bring it in line with the recent constitutional and
legislative changes. A prioritised feeder and urban roads' investment plan will be developed based on the
developed strategy.
National Road Improvement Strategy
17.   Under the RSDP, parts of the road network will be upgraded and improved as economically
justified to standards commensurate with the projected traffic demand, safety and environmental protection
requirements. The programme puts emphasis on drawing up of a feasible, integrated maintenance and
improvement programme for the road network, which is consistence with the overall national development
objectives. Under the programme the following measures will be undertaken:
(i)    Capacity improvement to ease congestion;
(ii)   Strengthening of weak pavements;
(iii)   Upgrading from gravel to bitumen standards;
(iv)   Upgrading of about 2000 km of priority feeder roads to the classified road network standards;
(v)    Strengthening of bridges; and
(vi)   Provision of road safety facilities.
(vii)   A new by-pass of Kampala will also be constructed.
Institutional Arrangements
18.   The role of the Government in the development and management of transport infrastructure is
mostly discharged through MOWHC, and in the case of rural feeder and community roads, provides policy
guidance in liaison with Ministry of Local Govemment (MOLG) to the districts.
19.   In line with Government policy of rationalising the management of sector agencies and of
reforming the civil service, the potential for the commercialisation of road administration, including the
involvement of users and other stakeholders in road management and financing, is being assessed. As a
result, the Government has already decided to establish an autonomous Road Agency/Authority in 2002.
20.   The Agency will be responsible for the management, operation, development and maintenance of
the road network in Uganda. However, as an immediate step towards the establishment of the Road
Agency/Authority, the Government has established a Road Agency Formation Unit (RAFU). The RAFU is
a transitional institutional set up until the establishment of the Road Agency. RAFU is established outside
the present organisational set-up of the MOWHC but accountable to the MOWHC. Recruitment of staff
into the unit is being carried out on a competitive basis and the staff salary pledged at market rates. In
addition, the Unit is supported by commercially hired management consultant personnel. RAFU will finally
transform itself into a fully-fledged autonomous Road Agency/Authority by 2002.
Domestic Construction Industry
21.   Efforts to develop the domestic construction industry include implementation of measures
conducive to market creation through contracting out of road works including maintenance. Currently, all
manual routine maintenance and 60% of mechanised maintenance and all periodic maintenance is by
contract.
22.   Targets for the share of contractor executed road maintenance works as contrasted to Force
- 86 -



Account Works are as tabulated below:
Private Sector share of the total road maintenance operations budget
1999/2000    2000/01     2001/02        2002/03       2003/04
Actual     Planned      Projected     Projection    Projection
55%         75%         80%            85%           85%
23.   To improve the domestic contractors access to equipment measures to facilitate equipment pooling
on a commercial basis and plant acquisition through leasing arrangements will be implemented.
Program Development Objectives
Road Development Programme Purpose
24    Road Development Programme is in support of the RSDP, which reflects a strategy focussing on
the preservation and selective upgrading of existing road network. At present, committed expenditures
under the RSDP are estimated at US$ 610 million for GOU, the EDF would finance investments amounting
to US$ 200 million; IDA US$ 380 million (of which $ 282 million is under the proposed Program and the
remainder under the on-going Transport Rehabilitation Project (TRP), Road Sector Institutional Support
Technical Assistance Project (RSlSTAP-G-2987-UG) and El Nino Emergency Road Repair Project (Cr.
3064-UG); and various bilateral donors the balance.
25.   The  on-going   Road   Sector  Institutional  Support  Technical  Assistance  Project
(RSISTAP-G-2987-UG) IDA, supports the institutional capacity building in the road sector by the creation
of a professional dedicated Road Agency Formation Unit (RAFU) to manage and operate the road network
until the establishment of a fully fledged Road Agency in 2002. In addition, the IDA-TRP completed in
December 2000, supported capacity building of the local construction industry by conducting training of
contractors and creating business opportunities for local participation.
Program development objective and Program phasing
26.   The Road Development Program was developed as an IDA-finance Adaptable Program Lending
(APL) instrument. IDA Credit for Phase I Project (worth US$ 90.98 million) was approved by the Bank in
June 1999 and the Development Credit Agreement between Government and IDA was signed in November
1999.
27.   The primary objective of the Program is to improve access to rural and economically productive
areas by removing major constraints to transport services on the country's road network. The Program
would also support actions aimed at further strengthening of the road sector management. The Program
supports the implementation of the RSDP by supporting the rehabilitation of priority links of the national
trunk roads network and feeder roads to be upgraded or rehabilitated in selected districts. The Program's
development objectives will be achieved with steady progress over a six-year period, and would include the
following phases:
- 87 -



Phase 1:     Upgrading of two priority national roads, Busunju-Kiboga-Hoima (143km) and
(RDPP1)       Karuma-Pakwach-Nebbi-Arua section: Pakwach-Arua (130km), and related construction
supervision, Carrying out a number of sector policy and management studies, including
analytical work for feeder roads policy and strategy, (November 1999-2004);
Phase 2:     Upgrading of national roads to paved standard: Karuma-Pakwach-Nebbi-Arua section:
(RDPP2)      Karuma-Pakwach (108km), and strengthening the national road Katunguru-Kasese-Fort
Portal-Kilembe Road (155 km), and related construction and supervision. Implementation
of phase I of the National Road Safety Action plan; Preparation of the National Transport
Master Plan; and Pilot project on use of new materials for stabilization of low cost roads
(July 2001-June 2006).
Phase 3:     Upgrading of national Roads to paved standard:
(RDPP3)      Kampala-Gayaza-Bugema-Zirobwe-Wobulenzi (72 km), and Kapchorwa-Suam (85 km);
Upgrading of about 300 km of selected feeder roads to national roads standard;
construction of new Road Agency headquarters; and rehabilitation/regravelling of
Atiak-Moyo road (92 km) (March 2002 - June 2006); and
Phase 4:     Rehabilitation and maintenance of about 1,000 km of selected feeder roads to be
(RDPP4)      identified by the National Feeder Roads Study to be carried out under RSISTAP (June
2002 - December 2006).
Project development objective
28.   The objective of the Road Development Program, Phase 2 Project (the Project) is to improve
access to rural areas and economically productive areas and to gradually continue to build up road sector
planning, design and program management capability, as well as road safety management. The Project
comprises (i) upgrading and strengthening of the two high priority national roads; (ii) improvement of
safety at selected roads black spots, and the associated, road safety enforcement and management; and (iii)
pilot studies of innovative technologies and non-conventional materials in construction of low-traffic
volume roads, and consultancy services for the design and construction supervision of a future proposed
Road Agency headquarters building. The Phase 2 Project objectives complement the objectives of the Phase
I Project, in meeting the overall objectives of the Program.
Key performance indicators
29.   The key performance indicators include increased industrial and agricultural activity; reduced
travel time; and reduced transport and vehicle operating costs over the national road network. Improvement
and integration of the national road network under the Program is subject to an appraisal process aimed at
evaluating its technical feasibility and economic viability, as well as to leam from previous phases. Trigger
indicators will be used to assess readiness for integration, early identification of risks, and implementation
of corrective measures before undertaking subsequent phases of the Program.
Indicative Financing Plan
30.   IDA would allocate an amount of US$ 282 million in support of the implementation of the four
phases indicated above. The funds would be progressively committed under a succession of four Credits as
determined by progress in the program implementation. The Credits would support the implementation of
- 88 -



each of the four phases indicated above. The corresponding indicative financing plan is shown in Table
below.
Indicative Financing Plan for the Road DeveloDment
Phase          IDA     NDF   GOU         Total    Estimate
US$ m  US$    US$ m   US$ m   Imolementatio
Period
Phase 1        90.98   -       28.96    119.94   1999-2004
Phase 2        64.55   8.90   23.55    97.00    2001-2006
Phase 3        100.40  -       33.45    133.55   2001-2006
Phase 4        26.25   -       8.75      35.00    2002-2006
Total          282.18  8.90   94.41    385.49
On
282     9       94       385
Note: Costs include physical and price contingencies
Conclusion
31.   The Governments medium term strategy hinges on the promotion of cheaper, efficient and reliable
transport services as the means for providing effective support to increase agricultural and industrial
production, trade, tourism, social and administrative services. This would ensure an efficient transport
sector and would play a critical role for the development of an integrated and self-sustaining economy to
promote growth in Government's strategy of poverty eradication and economic integration of the country as
a whole.
32.   In addition to the substantial support already provided through earlier programs, by supporting
Government in the Road Development Program, the World Bank would be promoting the above
Government's policy.
- 89 -



Additional
Annex 12
Uganda - Road Development Program Project, Phase 2
Summaries of Environmental Impact & Socio Economic Assessment Reports
Karuma-Pakwach-Arua Road, Karuma-Pakwach Road Section
1.    Introduction
An environmental impact assessment (EIA) has been undertaken in order to identify the likely beneficial
and detrimental environmental and social consequences that may arise as a result of the upgrading of the
existing gravel road from Karuma to Pakwach to Arua to bitumen paved standard. This EIA has been
carried out with the primary aim of recommending appropriate actions to mitigate any adverse effects on
the physical, biological and human environment
Part of the project road passes through the northern part of the Murchison Falls National Park (MFNP)
and as a consequence the project was classified as Category A for environmental and social impact
analysis. Ugandan EIA guidelines for carrying out Category A studies as well as those contained in the
World Bank Operational Directive 4.01: Environmental Assessment - October 1991, have been followed.
In addition, a certificate of approval of the environmental assessment has been issued by the National
Environment Management Authority (NEMA). The conditions for approval were integrated into the
assessment and the management and monitoring plans.
An environmental and social monitoring plan has been developed outlining the nature, location and
methodology of monitoring that will take place during the construction and operation phases. An
evaluation has also been made of the bodies/offices designated to supervise the monitoring tasks.
2.    Project Description
The aim of the project is to construct a high standard bitumen surfaced road to replace the existing gravel
road connecting Karuma to Pakwach, Nebbi and Arua. The existing route is essentially well engineered and
generally fits well into the undulating topography. As a result there is no engineering requirement to design
any major road realignments. The Karuma to Pakwach section of road is approximately 107 km long. The
first 42 km of the road lies just within the north-east boundary of the Murchison Falls National Park. The
existing road surface is typically rough and deeply rutted in places.
Road upgrading involves construction of a carriage-way 6m wide with paved shoulders 1.5 m wide
Typically the existing road reserve is sufficiently wide to allow construction of the upgraded road without
acquiring any additional land. The section through the MFNP is however, the narrowest section of the
existing road and will require some additional land for upgrading. In general, the new road will follow the
existing alignment as closely as possible, which will minimize the amount of cut and borrow material
required to upgrade the road. The upgraded road will also incorporate greatly improved and deepened side
drainage. Covered road drains will be constructed in settlements.
The programmed start date for construction of the works is the beginning of the year 2001 (Phase 1). The
road project will be constructed as four separate contracts. Phase 1 comprises of Pakwach to Nebbi (54km)
- 90 -



and Nebbi to Arua (76km). The Karuma to Olwiyo (53km) and Olwiyo to Pakwach (54km) sections wi1l
be constructed during Phase 2.
3.     Alternative Routes around Murchison Falls National Park
A section of the project road between Karuma and Olwiya passes through the northern edge of the MFNP
and separates approximately 4% of the area of the park, which has a total area of 3,860 sq. km. The area
of the MFNP to the north of the existing road was until quite recently sparsely inhabited. Consequently
there has been a very low density of game in the area of many years. This has been exacerbated recently by
the presence of security forces (there are now less than 10 wild mammals per km2 according to a 1997
survey).
The assessment of the impact of constructing a high standard bitumen road through a section of National
Park is considered to be a key environmental issue associated with the upgrading works. The engineering
and environmental studies have therefore reviewed the possibility of realigning the section of road in the
Park outside the northern boundary.
Two alternative alignments, which do not encroach on the MFNP, were selected for detailed consideration
along with the existing alignment. The first alternative route runs along the line of the ridge to the north of
the Adibu River and the second pursues a route through the valley immediately to the north of the river.
The benefits and potential adverse impacts of realigning Karuma to Olwiyo road outside the MFNP
boundary or along the existing alignment were examined. The studies concluded that the potential adverse
impacts associated with the construction of new alignment (through predominantly undisturbed natural
habitat) are significant, not least because it will encourage ribbon development along the Park boundary
with possible poaching and firewood collection problems in the Park.
it was recommended that the existing route through the Park is upgraded, but that well defined mitigation
measures are implemented to control construction activities and vehicle speeds. These mitigation measures
will be developed and agreed with the Uganda Wildlife Authority and MFNP authorities. Particular care
will need to be given to controlling and restricting the extraction of construction materials, construction of
camp development, and restoration of construction sites to natural habitat. A key mitigation activ:ity will
also be control of vehicle speeds and road signing to limit the occurrence of wildlife kills as well as
providing some support to UWA for monitoring impacts of project activites.
4.     Socio-economic and Cultural Environment
The main source of household livelihood in the project area is predominantly subsistence farming. An
average of 80% of the total households grow various crops on small-holdings using rudimentary methods
and relying on family labor especially women and children. Incomes from activities such as petty trading
and formal employment typically are used to augment the assured income from subsistence fanning. The
project area is potentially a highly productive agricultural region, which will greatly benefit from the
upgraded road. Improvement to the project road will greatly improve access and trade to hitherto remote
and less developed parts of the West Nile region. Improved access to markets will make it worthwhile for
farmers to invest in traditional agriculture cash crops (cotton , tobacco etc).
- 91 -



At present visits to the best equipped health facilities is restricted by road transportation difficulties that
will be alleviated through the road upgrading. Literacy levels in the three districts of the project area are
low. Literacy is expected to increase as a result of the Government's Universal Primary Education (UPE)
Program. With improved accessibility and increased literacy due to the UPE program, the number of
unemployed youths is expected to decrease.
As a special group, women will be affected in a number of ways, by the proposed road upgrading. The
positive impacts include: improved mobility to health care facilities and markets; increased income from
their produce; improved job opportunities; increased dealings with other areas of the country and their
women's groups. Women, may experience some negative impacts such as a reduction in the availability of
firewood.
The project area supports a number of intemally displaced people and refugees from Sudan and the Congo.
The upgrading of this road will greatly improve accessibility to the refugee camps and protected areas for
relief agencies. The road has long been a problem to relief organizations dealing with refugees in northern
Uganda. Investigations show that this project will not directly affect any known sites of archaeological or
cultural importance. Also there are no resettlement works involved.
5.    Environmental and Socio-economic Impacts and their Mitigation
Bitumen sealing and upgrading the existing Karuma to Pakwach to Arua road will be associated with some
minor adverse social and environmental impacts. However, implementing appropriate mitigation measures
as summarized below will minimize these undesirable impacts:
Land take and Material Sources: The upgrading of the project road, which will be almost entirely
restricted to its existing alignment, will involve very little additional land take. The area traversed by the
road is sparsely populated and there is not expected to be a need for any resettlement. The majority of the
project lies within the road reserve (right of way), which will be sufficiently wide to construct the road
without acquiring additional land. In places in the National Park, trees are to be found within the road
reserve. Clearly the National Park landscape must remain as little affected by human intervention as
possible, which will be best achieved by tree preservation. Therefore wherever possible trees within the
reserve will be left intact. Elsewhere, outside the National Park, crop cultivation may have encroached into
the road reserve. Adequate compensation will be paid for any crops affected by the road upgrading and
borrow pit development.
Borrow pits and quarries will be operated in accordance with a management plan that ensures
environmentally sympathetic development, use and reinstatement of the land. Spoil materials generated
during the upgrading works wi1l be placed in worked out borrow areas when possible swamps will not be
filled in without consideration for the impact on the local wetland ecology.
Proposals for the development of construction material sources in the MFNP were forwarded to Uganda
Wildlife Authority (UWA) in August 1999 for their review. The UWA requested that an EIA be prepared
for materials extraction in the MFNP. Site specific details of materials extraction proposals in the MFNP
along with provisions for environmental protection and mitigation have been prepared and accepted.
All material sources will be operated in accordance with a management plan to be agreed between the
contractor and the resident engineer in advance. Each plan will include:
- 92 -



*     arrangements for consultation with the farmer/land-user, and otier affected parties;
*     the extent of each pit/quarry should be marked on the ground;
a compensation agreement must be signed with the farmer/land owner,
access arrangements must be agreed;
*     a working plan must be agreed, giving an outline of the direction, timing and depth of works;
*     a reinstatement plan must be agreed, giving details of the final profile, method of achieving the
final        profile, drainage     and sediment control, re-soiling and re-vegetation measures.
Pollution of Water Courses and Drainage: The most likely source of water course pollution is from loose
soil being washed into rivers and streams. This hazard is not thought to be serious, but appropriate
precautions will be implemented to prevent soil, lime or fuel pollutants from entering water courses. For
example, if there is a risk of serious pollution, the engineer will instruct the contractor to construct silt traps
to address the problem.
Erosion of Earthworks Slopes: Previous experience in the project area shows that climatic and other
conditions are favorable for natural - re-vegetation of slopes. The contractor's responsibilities for
re-vegetation should if possible, extend over two growing seasons to ensure full establishment
Construction Camps: Though covering a relatively small area, contractor's camps can cause significant
environmental damage for a considerable time if not controlled. The major causes are pollution (due to all
forms of waste), indiscriminate fuel wood collection, soil erosion, spillage of oils and fuel, land take, dust
noise of construction traffic. Many of the impacts can be prevented or mitigated. The contract
documentation will make clear the contractor's responsibilities with respect to the operation and
reinstatement of construction camps and workshops. In MFNP construction camps will be located on the
site of the present army camps. The will help to reduce environmental damage and will provide additional
security.
Road Safety: Improvement of the road will encourage more traffic and higher vehicular speeds. A major
part of the traffic will be long-distance haulage trucks to and from southem Sudan and eastern Congo.
Increased traffic speed due to a better standard of road will have an effect on animals within the National
Park and on road safety for pedestrians, cyclists, livestock and their owners.
The existing road has a poor safety record therefore particular attention has been given to designing
measures that will increase road safety along the rehabilitated road. The main safety improvements include:
*      road widening and improved junction lay-outs
*     provision of bitumen sealed shoulders, bus bays and parking spaces in settlements
*      improved road signs and road marking
*      all new bridges will be constructed with 1.5 meter wide raised footpaths on both sides of the
carriage-way
Proliferation of Disease: Spread of diseases such as AIDS and other infectious diseases along the project
road could have a significant social impact. Strengthening the medical facilities and improving people's
awareness based on current active programs, will help in reducing the rate of infection. The level of
awareness in Uganda with regard to unproved health is now relatively high, therefore disease control is
improving.
- 93 -



Scarcity of Fuelwood and Roadside Trees: In the vicinity of settlements fuelwood consumption along the
project road is likely to increase when it is upgraded. The main reason being that new and enlarged Wrading
centers are likely to develop along the road. Since electric power is not widely available, these communities
will use fuelwood for most of their energy requirements.
The end result will be that the now well-vegetated areas along the proposed road will be targeted for
charcoal production. Strengthening afforestation programs and supporting the use of fuel saving cook
owVe Owls #pOtfvWy oon*uw towmdv Xc mitissoi  of ineeassed fulwood demand.
It is proposed that a program of tree planting is implemented under the contract. Roadside tree planting will
have the following objectives: mitigation for unavoidable removal of trees; to enhance the landscape and
possibly mask construction activities such as quarry development; to enhance urban environments; and to
prevent soil erosion on susceptible natural and cut slopes. Provision has been made for the planting of
2,000 trees between Karuma and Pakwach. Avenue planting will be inappropriate in the National Park.
Tree planting will therefore be primarily restricted to borrow pit sites, where locally indigenous trees should
be placed. The cost of planting, protection and maintenance of trees over the period of the construction
contract is estimated at $ 12 per tree.
6.     Environmental Management Plan
Many of the recommended mitigation measures are simply good engineering practice and should not be
considered as "extras to the construction cost. Areas of expenditure for mitigation and monitoring include:
compensation for land take, loss of crops and resulting income; reinstatement of borrow pits and quarries;
vegetation of earthworks slopes; establishment, management and reinstatement of contractor's camps;
provision of road safety measures; road safety education; tree planting; and monitoring team fees,
subsistence and transport costs.
Mitigation measures that can be implemented as part of the construction contracts will be provided for
under the Contracts. Where appropriate, clauses will be written into the contract documents that ensure
that the contractor is aware of his responsibilities and enviromnental controls.
The main "extra" contract cost will be for tree planting ($ 24,000) which is included as an ancillary work
item in the breakdown of construction costs. It is expected that each contractor will need to allow up to
about US $ 70,000 for material source reinstatement which he will include in his build up of construction
rates.
A significant cost will be associated with the monitoring of mitigation measures. There is a requirement for
a full-time monitor who will be based in Kampala to liaise with a ful time environmental / social expert on
each of the four contracts who will be part of the Resident Engineer's staff on site. It is recommended that
this monitor is supported by three full-time district liaison officers. The environmental/social monitoring
team will work closely with the engineer, the contractors, and members of the local communities that may
be affected by the road rehabilitation works. The monitor will liaise with NEMA, UWA, MOWHC and all
interested stakeholders.
Assuming Phase 2 starts 12 months later than Phase 1, the full time expert should therefore serve a 5 year
period on the phased construction. Table 1 summaries the costs associated with environmental monitoring
during Phases 1 and 2. The monitoring costs for the two contracts forming Phase 2 (Karuma to Olwiyo and
- 94 -



Olwiyo to Pakwach) are considered to be 50% of the total cost.
7.    Conclusion
A comprehensive management plan has been proposed that is designed to enable effective environmental
and social monitoring throughout the project cycle and to facilitate effective implementation of measures
required to mitigate potential negative impacts.
Consultations with local representatives, women's groups and youth groups has shown that upgrading to
bitumen surfacing of the Karuma to Pakwach to Arua Road is very strongly supported. Indeed, it is thought
to be long over due because the West Nile region has no good road connection to Kampala (unlike other
regions). Undesirable impacts are considered to be of little significance by comparison to the major benefits
expected to arise from upgrading the road. The environmental management/monitoring plan will be
implemented and monitored in accordance with a certificate of approval issued by NEMA in May 2000.
A cost estimate has been prepared for environmentalsocial monitoring (see Table 1 below) which totals US
$ 981,000 for supervision of the 4 contracts over a project period of 5 years. This amounts to a cost per
contract of approximately US $ 250,000. These costs should be included in the design and supervision item
in the breakdown of construction costs.
Complete details of the environmental and social management are included in the final environmental and
social impact assessment study.
Table 1 Estimated Costs for Environmental/Social Monitoring
1) Full-Time Expert                                                    US $
Full-Time Expert @ $6,000/month for 60 man-months                360,000
Accommodation in Kampala @ $3,000/month for 60 man-months         180,000
Transport and travel costs @ 50%                                  180,000
Sub-total    720,000
Contingency 15%      108,000
Full-Time Expert Total    $ 828,000
2) Support for Full-Time Expert                                    U Shs'000
4 Liaison Officers (one for each contract) @ 800,000/month for 36  115,200
man-months
Transport and travel costs 50% for 36 man-months                   57,600
Sub-total    172,800
Contingency 15%       25,920
Support Total UShs    198,720
Support Equivalent in US$ (1$ = 1,300 Ushs)    $ 153,000
- 95 -



Uganda - Road Development Program Project, Phase 2
Summaries of Environmental Impact & Socio Economic Assessment Reports
Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Portal, Kasese-Kilembe & Equator Roads Section
1.    Introduction
The works under this project will comprise of on-line improvements focussed on the following activities
from Katunguru to Fort Portal via Kasese, from Kasese to Kilembe, and Equator road:
reconstructing, strengthening and sealing of existing carriageways, and shoulders;
*     localized widening of the carriageway within the current road reserve;
*     sealing of verges;
*     clearing of ditches;
*     replacement of three bridges; and
*     repair of existing, and construction of additional, drainage infrastructure.
Construction is expected to extend over 2-3 years and employ 2-300 men. The works will be undertaken in
three packages using a combination of manual labor and mechanized plant. Various sites have been
identified for the sourcing of murrum and sand and for spoil disposal. Several work camps will be required
as well as storage areas along the project roads. Temporary land take will also be required for working
widths, diversions and parking/storage areas. In general these will be accommodated within the road
reserve.
An environmental and social monitoring plan has been developed outlining the nature, location and
methodology of monitoring that should take place during the construction and operation phases. An
evaluation has also been made of the bodies/offices designated to supervise the monitoring tasks. In
addition, a certificate of approval of the environmental assessment has been issued by the National
Environment Management Authority (NEMA) in October 2000. The conditions for approval were
integrated into the assessment and the management and monitoring plans.
2.    Summary of Findings
Effects on the biological and physical environments: Since no realignments or new sections of road are
proposed, the effects of the proposals on the physical and biological environments will be relatively
minimal. However, the route does pass through the Queen Elizabeth National Park (QENP), which is a
nationally designated area and is therefore particularly sensitive to environmental impacts during
rehabilitation and subsequent use of the road.
The engineering works associated with the rehabilitation of the three sections of road considered in this
study are likely to comprise on-line improvements and localized widening within the current road reserve.
In addition, for the largest section of improvements (Katunguru to Fort Portal) the rehabilitation is unlikely
to increase the number of vehicle movements that would otherwise occur since it is not changing the nature
of the road but rather mininiizing the need for ongoing intensive maintenance. Therefore, the environmental
effects of such proposals will be relatively minimal. In addition, outside the Park there may be potential for
some environmental impacts, particularly during the construction period. The key findings are summarized
below.
- 96 -



Queen Elizabeth National Park: During construction, the main source of impacts are likely to be
associated with the presence of a workforce, the results of which may include poaching, removal of
firewood, increased fire risk, inappropriate waste disposal etc. In addition, there may be general
disturbance to wildlife due to construction activities and the potential for spills etc. during work activities.
The land take associated with the needs for a working width greater than the existing road pavement, local
diversions, extraction of murram and disposal of spoil could also threaten the resources within the Park.
In the longer term the main threat to the Park will arise from an increased risk of road kills as a result of the
high speeds of cars traveling on the straight section of road through the Park. At night this problem would
become compounded by the blinding effect of headlamps on animals. The potential for road kills is
considered to be the single greatest threat presented by the current engineering proposals and the
recommended mitigation measures (i.e. measures to reduce speed) are therefore the most important ones
that will need to be incorporated into the design to make it environmentally acceptable. If these are not
implemented it is considered that the scheme may have a considerable detrimental effect on the Parks
resources and integrity. Other long term effects could result from interruption of views across the road as a
result of the creation of embankments and spoil disposal, severance of crossing points through the creation
of deep ditches and disturbance to visitors to the Park as a result of increased traffic movements and
speeds.
It is considered that such effects could be avoided or reduced to acceptable levels through the incorporation
of appropriate measures. These have been discussed in the main body of the report but the key ones
include:
*     accommodating the construction workforce away from the QENP;
*     ensuring adoption of appropriate work practices through their specification in a construction
management plan, contract documentation and on-site monitoring;
*     no road widening where the road passes within the Park;
no diversions, spoil disposal, extraction of murram or aggregate within the Park;
*     reinstatement of any temporary land take required for increased working width and adoption of
appropriate slopes on shoulders to avoid erosion;
*     reduction of vehicle speeds within the Park through the introduction and maintenance of
rumble strips and speed bumps and clear sign posting; and
*     construction of deceleration lanes at the three main intersections within QENP would also help
reduce the risk of accidents in the Park.
Effects on social, cultural and economic resources: Outside the Park area key impacts are likely to be
associated with effects on local communities. While it is anticipated that any road widening or temporary
requirement for working widths will be within the existing reserve, there could be a requirement for
temporary land take at certain location for local diversions, working width for works, storage areas etc. It is
important that appropriate planning is made for such land take and that commensurate compensation is
made for any temporary land loss or loss of crops. In addition full reinstatement should be undertaken
following completion of works. Although considered unlikely, if the need for any realignment of sections of
road is identified, there is potential for detrimental environmental effects associated with permanent loss of
agricultural land. In the longer termn, faster traveling vehicles could present a threat to other road users
including bicycles and pedestrians.
- 97 -



Various mitigation measures have therefore been recommended and include:
informing affected communities and farmers of nature and timing of works;
identification and clear definition of any temporary land take required, assessment of
environmental consequences of such land take, modification if appropriate to avoid
affecting                   sensitive resources;
agreement reached prior to commencement of works on levels of compensation, method of
reinstatement and monitoring to ensure this is undertaken;
environmental input in the selection of borrow pits, quarries and disposal sites, methods of
extraction/disposal as well as in plans for their reinstatement and proposal of compensation and
mitigation measures to be undertaken prior to completion of the detailed design;
placement of speed bumps and signs at sensitive areas like towns, schools etc.; and
reinstatement of access points to roadside properties.
3.     Potential Beneficial Effects
Although the rehabilitation works has potential, if inappropriately undertaken, to present a threat to the
environment, there are also considerable benefits to be gained. These include:
*     reduced risk of erosion and risk of malaria as a result of improved road drainage;
*     sealing of verges in areas where traffic movements could pose a risk to cyclists;
*     reduction in frequency of maintenance activities and hence disturbance to flora and fauna
within the QENP, to human communities adjacent to the road and road users;
*      opportunity to apply a consolidated approach to design of the highway and control of vehicle
movements through the Park; for example, through the development of a strategy for
placing              and maintaining of signs and speed bumps and for designing new access roads to
Park from the               national road;
e      opportunity 'o introduce safety measures in the vicinity of towns and settlements e.g. speed
controls, sealed verges, signs etc.; and
*      economic benefits through provision of an improved and reliable infrastructure to transport
passengers and goods. This should encourage economic activity and also, in the longer
term,                may' result in additional community benefits e.g. improved access to schools,
medical centers             etc.
4. Environmental Management Plan
An environmental management plan has becn prepared which itemizes the required mitigation measures and
identifies the agencies responsible for implementing and monitoring these measures during design,
construction and operation of the proposed works.  The monitoring requirements have also been
determined. Provisions for such measures will be included in tender documents and the construction
management plan. An overview of the responsibilities, resources available, capacity of agencies involved
for environmental management and monitoring is included. Areas for enhanced capacity, increased
resources and interagency co-ordination are also identified. In particular, the implementation of an
environmental liaison unit within the MOWHC, appointment of an environmental manager in RAFU and
the establishment of a working relationship would benefit the environmental management for this operation
as well as for future operations.
- 98 -



5. Consultation
Consultation has been undertaken with statutory bodies and specific interest groups. These included LIWA
in order to determine specific practices during construction within the QENP, and to agree locations for
speed bumps and signs and issue other restrictions within the QENP. In particular, early consultation was
undertaken with the UWA regarding their proposed changes to the Park access from the national road.
Consultation was also undertaken with representatives of local government to determine and agree
proposals for compensation, signs and speed control measures in towns, etc. If land loss is likely to be an
issue (which is only likely to be the case there are realignments) then public consultation may be necessary
amongst affected communities. There is also ongoing liaison between engineering and environmental teams
to ensure that issues continue to be identified and addressed as they occur. The adoption of such an iterative
approach is ensuring an environmentally acceptable solution.
Complete details of the environmental and social management are included in the final environmental and
social impact assessment study.
- 99 -



I
0
-A



MAP SECTION






7                        36                               __  bE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RD_3027y
30o                                                   3'2                                                 314'                                                 36                                        R   >x
S U D A N 
-4'                  '_.                                                                                          //   ')                                                        UGANDA                                      4
t-\v:  _.                                                        \ _    . %---.                tx                        ROAD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
-  .  ,  _ PROGRAM ROADS PRIMARY)
____PRIMARY ROADS
G U [                            1                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SECONDARY ROADS
DEMOCRATIC    T.A6a /- -  RAILROADS
REPUBLIC                 Jw.wOe  ' j    . j                       b               bmv    G  ,\               '                     t                         oo   SELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGES
ko    * Macplo              ~~~~~DISTRICT CAPITALS
OF   CONGO  (L  PK~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -  -   A                                                                   * ~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL CAPITAL
1 '~~              - - - - ~~DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
OCNig\ REGION BOUNDARIES
2-  /K.           Royardoego   -                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
o          50          I SO        150
~~~~01                      c,                46d." ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
TbI-scp-ps prdcd -bytrho MoIPDc gc Uni.tf Tl,Word Bo-k.
othiopdo    oply- othpoolTheWo  oB-1, G-pr oy
jud"gmtc ihelgocricolcyocIyAoyedcs    r
K ABARARA
Sn$  <    ~  I      KALANGALA 
ToRuher~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~er ~~~~~TANZAN  IA                                                         30N
RWANDA                                               I
30~~~~~~~~~~~~  !'21                                   34'                                                  36'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MT19






E BRD 31 397
,c'                                                3                                                   349   '                                              6
'IN                                     S U  D  A  N                                              7
A                 \_,                                                                                         //                                                            UGANDA                                     4" 
-  _s    N  To                                /!    .                                 ROAD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
\  ~ga-i  '\<00<   -    1 XMaaOpe t\>  , '-~ r9,\j                                             PHASE 11 PROJECT
000   Ocek                       0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pod he, I'60
DU         AleA,KTU                                -     00tDO
M    arS         , 7          /iAd;mfai ->>g    9=/   >    >  Kb  tV=),   j      .     KA 7 d tNPRIMARY ROADS, PROGRAM PHASE 11
/'WRUA                                                                                                         J %tak ! > e .................. gK NOT  G U M , , ............   K -"""-dPRIMARY ROADS
DEMOCRATIC    ToAbo  7'  ,f    GI~~~~~~~LL~~NJ,t~~'U    I  y'j'cI~~~         1~~      ,~                                 SECONDARY ROADS
DEMO RATC    T  A              Ki K k                                                                                               RAiLROADS
REPUBLIC-                         Go 'I                     o                                                                    ,                        O    SELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGES
OF    CO N G O                       eS0peu                                                                            ,",Ror ch \  ldgr !    -  ;   Iffi>- 4  M oa to  o  DISTRICT CAPITALS
f 50vb p                                                                           o       (0>                                      NATIONAL CAPITAL
0.r                      ';  b_- - D IS T R IC T   B O U N D A R IE S
REGION EGUNDARIES
-2 /t   ge rvE  >           Ar  T   AdK  V"I  obiioaAf w                       ---   INTERNATIONAL   BOUNDARIES                    2 >
01   '    /" j   o50    s oT      150
_______                            ~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
~~ococrroccQ ~~~~10  ~ ~   N    ,/OI~~~         Tlrismopoco prooccd by the tep D-ig,, Uoifto`The Word Roo,
.OGAi ','       _,,  ', , 1    '  '-   kAF~ZL~1N"                                                   The boondomes, coors deroroieoriorserT--y.t4-6rotiooo-
(         I I   I Iothei mop do ro ip o rh port .Te World Eon Grp, ,ry
> . r t  .  $         A               l. G k e { v^ c t   |         | y  | <                                                S         ( R    UCAN$p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~odoetorhoegl rbsoFno tritry o oyeroremeto
B0.Tdb~to1F   Roltngri                        K      oo.........  4o t0    ,        I        TlEr.......o j  J                                              orcoptorice oF1 r>h_
30  ttOQI9   KABAROL                   R        2 F, j ONO                                       ,                                                     5 To Roo0omo0
To    p  KM   E  y            X      JNrooNtt~             ~            J0%L           jpKENYA
Rool  "I)  3   /  /            AOtOTOMDULi E                              cc                                                                               F-  lh - "-. 9-" ,0
Fo.oe9~-@                                                                               ?  ~&/
'I  '  bcsheT>r /              c~~~~k ON                  KT.GL                      ~1
'i  0KTNZNA                                                                                         0                              N
30 X,                                            I--T N                                                                                                                                           PRLSO



