RP103
November 2001
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
MINISTRY Oi: WORKS, HOUSING AND COMMUNICATIONS
ROAD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME PHASE 2
RESETTLEMENT / LAND ACQUISITION POLICY FRAMEWORK
NOVEMBER 2001
PREPARED BY:
ROAD AGENCY FORMATION UNIT
P.O. BOX 28487,
KAMPALA.
17_ . l_.13



TA BLE OF CONTENTS                                          PAGES NOS
1.0   INTRODUCTION                                                7
1.1   Background                                                  7
1.2   Purpose of the project                                      7
1.3   Purpose of resettlement/land acquisition                    7
1.4   Resettlement as development                                 8
1.5   Political commitment to resettlement                        8
1.6   The project, affected sites and potential new resettlement  9
2.0   INSTITUTIONAL AND LEGAL FRAMEWORK                           9
2.1   Institutional responsibilities                              9
2.2   Legal Framework, laws, and regulations                       10
2.2.1  The Uganda Constitution ( 1995)                             10
2.2.2 The Land Act (1998)                                          10
2.2.3  Land Acquisition Act (1965)                                 10
2.2.4  The Roads Act 1964                                         11
2.2.5  The Town and Country Planning Act 1964                      12
2.2.6  The Local Government Act 1997                               12
2.2.7  The Access to Roads Act 1965                                12
2.2.8  By Laws                                                     12
2.3   World Bank Safeguard Policy on resettlement                  13
2.4   Differences between Uganda Laws and the World Bank Policy    14
3.0   SOCIO-ECONOMIC PROFILE: BASELINE SURVEYS                    15
3.1   Identification of project affected people                    15
3:2   Demographic information                                      15
3:3   Land tenure regimes                                          16
3.3.1  Customary tenure                                           16
3.3.2  Freehold tenure                                             17
3.3.3  Mailo tenure                                                17
3.3.4  Leasehold tenure                                            17
3.3.5  Licence' or'Share cropper'                                  17
3.4   Farming and additional/other income-generating activities    17
3:5   Host community                                               18
4.0   COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION                                      18
4.1   Stakeholder analysis                                         18
4.2   Community mobilization and participation strategy            18
4.3   Office services, information and documentation               19
4.4   Involvement of the local government.                         20
4.5   Involvement of NGOs                                         20
5.0    COMPENSATION SYSTEM                                        21
5.1   Inventory of impact of individual and communal properties   21
5.2   Criteria and strategy for compensation for land, houses, crops  21
other property
5.2.1  Criteria and eligibility for compensation                  21
5.2.2 Land                                                        22
5.2.3 Structures and Assets                                       22
2
C: Resettement LAFramework 3d Nov.



5.2.4  Crops and Trees                                            23
5.3   Strategy for income restoration                             23
5.4   Training and manual labor opportunities                     23
5.5   Conflict resolution and grievances system                   23
6.0   IMPLEMENTATION iOF RESETTLEMENT/COMPENSATION                24
6.1   Resettlement Impacts and Mitigation measures                24
6.2   Provision of infrastructure and services                    25
6.2.1  Individual houses                                          25
6:2:2  Drinking water systern                                     25
6.3   Environmental Manaclement                                   26
6.4   Payment procedures of compensation                          26
6:5   Rehabilitation of incornes                                  26
6:6   Assistance to vulnerable people                             27
6:7   Time schedule: summary of activities                        27
6.10  Outline for Resettlement Action Plan                        28
7.0   RESETTLEMENT BUDGET                                         30
7.1   Financial responsibilities                                  30
7.2   Approximate cost breakdown                                  30
7.2.1  Component Compensation Costs                               30
7.2.2  Direct compensation items                                  31
7.2.3  Resettlement Costs                                         31
7.2.4  Administrative Costs                                       31
8.0   MONITORING AND EVALUATION SYSTEM                            31
8.1   Monitoring the resettlement process                         31
8.2   Evaluation of the actual results                            32
9.0    CONCLUSION                                                 35
10.   APPENDICES
Appendix 1: Map of Uganda showing major road development projects
Appendix 2: World IBank Directive 4.30 - Involuntary Resettlement
Appendix 3: Sample format for monitoring resettlement activities
3
C: Resettlement LAFramework 3d Nov.



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
1.0   Introcduction
The Govemment of Uganda (GOU) is implementing a Ten Year Road
Development Programme (1996/97 - 2005/06) for the classified road
network. The primary objective of Road Development Programme
Phase2 (RDPP2) is to improve access to rural and economically
productive areas by removing major constraints to transport services
on Uganda's road network. The road investment expenditures include
contribution by Uganda's development partners. All RDPP2 Projects
must comply with GOU as well as Donor safeguard policies. This
brings into focus the need for Uganda to have a Resettlement
Frame work that takes into account these requirements.
The main objective of land acquisition and resettlement is to ensure
that the displaced people receive benefits from the displacing project.
Compensation should aim to minimise social disruption and assist
those who have lost assets as a result of a road project to maintain
their livelihood through income restoration.
Effective and efficient resettlement of people requires a good
resettlement policy, appropriate legal framework, suitable institutional
arrang9ments, adequate resources and planning guidelines.  The
purpose of this Resettlement Policy Framework is to present an
appropriate approach to resettlement planning for road projects in
Uganda.
2.0   Institutional and Legal Framework
In the context of the road sector in Uganda, there are at least three
actors involved in resettlement. These are the Ministry of Water,
Lands and Environment (compensation), the Prime Minister's Office
(resettlement) and RAFU (Lead Agency). RAFU, as the Lead Agency
of the RDPP2, will take responsibility for resettlement and identifying
and coordinating all the other players in resettlement.
The position of the govemment of Uganda in relation to compensation
to be paid if damage is caused to land is clear under the 1995
Constitution and other Ugandan laws.  The following constitute the
legal framework within which resettlement and compensation should
take place. The laws include:-the Uganda Constitution ( 1995); the
Land Act (1998); Land Acquisition Act (1965); the Roads Act 1964;
the Town and Country Planning Act 1964; the Local Govemment Act
1997; and By Laws
World bank Operational Directive OD 4.30 on '"Involuntary
Resetilement' requires that displaced persons should be
compensated   at  full  replacement  cost,  assisted  with
relocation/resettlement and during transition period. The developer
shoukl be encouraged to offer replacement land rather than cash
4
C: Resettlement LAFramework 3d Nov.



compensation when the residual land holdings are not economically
viable.
There are some differences between the World Bank Policy and the
Ugandan Laws on Resettlement and Compensation. While for
instance the Ugandan Laws restrict themselves to fair, adequate and
protript compensation (which is interpreted to mean cash), the World
BanA policy extends it to providing altemative land and resettling the
persons.
3.0   Socio-Economic Profile: Baseline Surveys
It is important that comprehensive baseline surveys of affected
populaitions/communities are done. Inadequate baseline data can
result in project planners lacking a realistic picture of the numbers or
the social and economic organisation of the people affected by the
road  development.  A   comprehensive  survey   of  affected
populations/communities should cover the following: Identification of
project affected people; Demographic information; Land tenure
regimes; Farming and additional/other income-generating activities
and the:
4.0    Community Participation
Public involvement will assist in the following:-
* Identifying cultural and communal property;
* Identifying cultural/social groups which should move together;
* Sensitisation of both host and resettlement communities. This
should be done well in advance;
*  Identification of various resettlement alternatives;
* Identification of vulnerable groups, which should be protected.
Such groups will include disadvantaged women, the disabled, the
landless, the orphans, and other minorities;
As a matter of strategy, public consultation and involvement should be
an ongoing activity taking place through out the entire /project cycle.
They should be consulted in planning resettlement, and should play a
key role in implementation at grass roots levels. NGOs with
experience, knowledge of, and contacts with PAPs can assist a
resettlement agency effectively in many ways.
5.0   Compensation System
Affectecl persons irrespective of their status (whether they have formal
title, legsalizable rights, non-legalizable) are eligible for some kind of
assistance if they occupied the land before the entitlement cut-off
Compensation covers: Land, Structures and Assets, and Crops and
Trees, R?esettlement plans must target restoration of lost incomes due
to the rcad projects.
5
C: Resettement LAFramework 3d~ Nov.



It is envisaged that a number of issues (grievances) will come up as a
result of land acquisition by the project. A system must be put in place to
settle these issues amicably through recognised institutions such as
local councils, land boards and land tribunals to the satisfaction of
involved parties.
6.0   Implementation of Resettlement/Compensation
Resettlement losses most often arise because of land acquisition,
through expropriation and the use of regulatory measures, to obtain
land. To ensure that some people are not disadvantaged in the
process of development, it is important to avoid or minimize
resettlement effects. If resettlement is unavoidable, the Govemment
shoula help restore the quality of life and livelihoods of those affected.
Community infrastructure must be replaced and ideally improved in
situations where it was deficient. This includes installation of sanitary
and waste product facilities, electricity generation systems, road links
and provision of water.
It is essential that a resefflement timetable, which is well coordinated
with proposed roadworks activities, is put in place so that the
resettlement exercise is not left to be implemented towards the end of
the roaid project..
7.0   Resetilement Budget
It is necessary to prepare an adequate budget to meet the costs of
resettlement.  If the budget is too low, then the funds will be
inadequate and this will lead to delays in implementing the RDP:
SecondIly, if the budget is excessive, it may discourage donors from
investing in that particular road, and the Government may not be able
to afford such costs.
8.0   Monitoring and Evaluation System
The evaluation of results of environmental and social mitigation of the
effects of road development can be carried out by comparing baseline
data collected in the planning phases with targets and post-project
situations. Monitoring and Evaluation will be carried out by RAFU.
9.0   Conclusion:
Good practice in resettlement planning and implementation are the
key to fulfilment of objectives of involuntary resettlement.  It
encompasses among others the following:- minimizing or eliminating
involuntary resettlement, carrying out social economic surveys and
census of people affected early in the project preparation; involvement
of all stakeholders, compensating all affected persons and appropriate
income restoration programs.,
6
C: Resettlement LAFramework 3d Nov.



1.0   INTRODUCTION
1.1   Background
The Government of Uganda (GOU) is implementing a Ten Year Road
Development Programme (1996/97 - 2005/06) for the classified road
network. The road investment expenditures include contribution by
Uganda's development partners. Among them are the World Bank,
European Union, African Development Bank and Nordic Fund. Each
has pre-requisite resettlement standards. All RDP Projects must
comply with GOU as well as Donor safeguard policies. This brings
into focus the need for Uganda to have a Resettlement / Land
Acquisition Policy Framework for the road sector that takes into
account these requirements.
This framework puts forward a procedural guide for reseftlement/land
acquisition, against the current legal and policy framework in Uganda.
Also included in the document are guidelines for public participation
and consultation, which are fundamental requirements when issues of
compensation and resettlement arise.
1.2   Purpose of the projects
The Road Development Programme (RDP) covers road network
improvement, road network administration and capacity building. The
primary objective of RDPP2 is to improve access to rural and
econornically productive areas by removing major constraints to
transport services on Uganda's road network. The programme, which
consist:s of 4 phases, including RDDP2 will also support actions aimed
at strengthening further road sector management and the
implermentation of other Road Sector Development Programme
activities.
1.3   Purpose of resettlementland acquisition
Under the road improvement component (i.e upgrading, rehabilitation
and maintenance), it is likely that communities will be affected. This is
particul!arly true of areas where roads will pass through people's
properlies and dwellings. This may lead to involuntary displacement
of people and to the need for land acquisition, resettlement, and
compeiisation. Because involuntary displacement disrupts and
impoverishes communities, it should be avoided, or at least minimised.
If displacement is inevitable then displaced persons should not only be
adequately compensated for their losses, but they should be given
opportunities to share in road project benefits, and assisted in
improving their livelihood.
The main objective of land acquisition and resettlement is to ensure
that thE. displaced people receive benefits from the displacing project.
7
C: Resettiement LAFramework V~ No..



Involuntary resettlement, therefore, should be an integral part of the
RDPP2 projects and should be handled 'at the onset of the project, i.e
at the planning and feasibility stages, and throughout the project cycle.
When communities or individuals are displaced, it is likely that
production systems are dismantled, kinship groups may be scattered,
jobs rnay be lost, and social networks may collapse leading to a
number of other socio-economic problems.    The involuntary
resettlement plan should consider all these socio-economic aspects of
the affected people.
Article 26 of the 1995 Constitution of Uganda, states that compulsory
deprivation of one's property is prohibited except when taking
posses;sion or acquisition is necessary for public use. If this is proved
to be the case, as for a road, then acquisition is subject to prompt
payment of fair and adequate compensation. Compensation should
aim to minimise social disruption and assist those who have lost
assets as a result of a road project to maintain their livelihood through
income restoration.
1.4   Resettlement as development
The concept of programming resettlement as development is
increas,ingly gaining appreciation. In this respect, good practices are
those that (a) focus on means of livelihood rather than on assets
(b)  assume    an   inclusive  relationship  between  people
and assets, and (c) admit negotiated just compensation. The record
indicates that in cases where compensation packages were negotiated
with project affected people and other stakeholders, the process has
resulted in better outcomes for the resettlement process as a whole.
This is mainly because people tend to feel more satisfied, as a result
of the negotiation process.
1.5 Political ,commitment to resettlement
Successful resettlement with development is a fundamental political
commitment and responsibility of the state. Effective and efficient
resettleiment of people requires a good resettlement policy,
appropriate legal framework, surtable institutional arrangements,
adequate resources and planning guidelines.
A study leading to the development of a "National Resettlement Policy
and Institutional Capacity for Resettlement" was carried out in 1995.
With the promulgation of the new Constitution of the Republic of
Uganda in 1995 and enactment of the Land Act in 1998 much of what
the study covered has been converted into law. The policy and
guideliness remain relevant and can be used as a guide.
A new tNational Resettlement Policy, covering all sectors, is currently
under development by the Commissioner responsible for Resettlement
in the Office of the Prime Minister. However, there are policies and
laws/regulations with respect to land tenure, local governance and
environrnent, all of which have a bearing on resettlement and can be
applied as and when necessary
8
C: Resettlement LAFramework 3d Nov.



1.6   The project, affected sites and potential new resettlement
Under RDPPII July 2001 - June 2006 are:
*   the upgrading of main roads to paved standard: Karuma -
Pakwach-Nebbi - Arua road (Section Karuma - Olwiyo -
Pakwach, 108 km) in 2 construction packages;
*   Strengthening Main Roads Katunguru - Kasese - Fort Portal,
Kasese - Kilembe and Equator Roads, in 3 construction
packages (163 km);
All the roads in the program are existing roads. Earth and gravel
roads have been repeatedly scraped over the years such that the
actual road corridor is about 10 metres wide. Local governments
employ "slashers" to keep grass and bush low beside the roads to a
distance of about 5 meters (depending on slopes and other obstacles).
There is very little intrusion of crops or structures into these strips
along the roadways.  Some of the roads carry telephone and/or
electricity transmission lines alongside the road, from about 5 metres
away from the scraped roadway to a much deeper setback. Except
where some slight realignments will be done, construction activities will
take place almost entirely within the scraped roadway and adjacent
slashed strips.  However, construction yards and storage zones,
camps for engineers and skilled labourers, borrow pits and quarries
are armong the additional land that will be required temporarily or
permanently and form part of the total "foot print" of the project roads.
2.0   INSTITIUTIONAL AND LEGAL FRAMEWORK
2:1   Institutional responsibilities
In the context of the road sector in Uganda, there are at least three
actors iinvolved in resettlement. These are the Ministry of Water,
Lands and Environment (compensation), the Prime Minister's Office
(resettlement) and RAFU (Lead Agency). RAFU, as the Lead Agency
of the RDPPII, will take responsibility for resettlement and identifying
and coordinating all the other players in resettlement. RAFU should
also liaise with the MOWHC on these matters.
All organisations that have a role to play in the implementation of a
project resettlement plan should be identified during the planning
stage and should have the opportunity to contribute their points of view
as to how their function is best carried out and what constraints there
might be. There should be no surprises during plan implementation.
9
C: Resettlement LAFramework 3d Nov.



2:2   Legal framework, laws and regulations
The position of the government of Uganda in relation to compensation
to be paid if damage is caused to land is clear under the 1995
Constitution and other Ugandan laws. The following sections describe
the legal framework within which resettlement and compensation
shoulcl take place.
2.2.1  The Uganda Constitution ( 1995)
Article 237(1) of the Constitution vests all land in Uganda in the
citizens of Uganda.   However, under Article 237(1) (a), the
Govermment or Local Government may acquire land in public interest.
Such acquisition is subject to the provisions of Article 26 of the same
Constitution, which gives every person in Uganda a right to own
property. The Constitution also prescribes the tenure regimes in
accordance with which rights and interest in which land may be held
(Customary, Leasehold, Mailo, Freehold). It provides procedures to
follow during the acquisition of land for public interest and provides for
the "prompt payment of fair and adequate compensation" prior to
taking possession of land. The Constitution however does not make
resettlement a right.
2.2.2  The Land Act (1998)
The 1998 Land Act addresses land holding, management control and
dispute processing. The developer should seek to enter into mutual
agreement with the occupier or owner of the land upon payment of
compensation. The Act creates a series of land administration
institutions consisting of Uganda Land Commission (ULC), District
Land 13oards (DLB), Parish Land Committees (PLC) and land
tribunals. Section 78 of the Act gives valuation principles for
compensation i.e. compensation rates to be yearly approved by DLBs.
The basis for compensation are depreciated replacement costs for
rural properties and market values for urban properties.
2.2.3   Land Alcquisition Act (1965)
This Act makes provision for the procedures and method of
compulsory acquisition of land for public purposes whether for
temporary or permanent use. The Minister responsible for land may
authorise any person to enter upon the land and survey the land dig
or bore the subsoil or any other thing necessary for ascertaining
whether the land is suitable for a public purpose.
The Government of Uganda is supposed to pay compensation to any
person, who suffers damage as a result of any action. Any dispute as
to the compensation payable is to be referred to the Attorney General
or couit for decision.
The Land Acquisition Act stops at payment of compensation. It is not
a legal requirement to purchase alternative land for the affected
people by the project. Once they are promptly and adequately
compensated, then the obligations stop there. The Government
10
C: Resettlement LAFramework 3d Nov.



through the Ministry of Lands, Water and Environment, will pay the
compensation to the affected persons.
There is no requirement or provision in the law that people need to
be moved or that alternative land be made available or bought. Each
affected person entitled to be compensated, on receipt of his/her
compensation is expected to move and has no further claim.
2.2.4  The Roads Act 1964
The Roads Act of 1964 is a critical piece of legislation with respect to
these projects. It defines a road reserve as that area bounded by
imaginary lines parallel to and not more than fifty feet distant from the
centreline of any road, and declared to be a road reserve. The Act is
silent on whether such land is 'taken" for the state, but states that no
person shall erect any building or plant, trees or permanent crops
within a road reserve. It also allows the roads authorities to dig and
take materials from the road reserve for the construction and
maintenance of roads.
The MAinister or, with the consent of the Minister, a District
Commissioner, in relation to any road within or passing through any
government town or an Administrator in respect of any area not being
in a government town, may by order:
a)    prescribe the line in which buildings shall be erected in such
town or area or
b)    prescribe the distance from the centre of the road within, which
no building shall be erected in such town or area.
The road authority is required to give written notice to the owner or
occupier of the land on which prohibited activities have been carried
out:
i)    to pull down or remove the building or erection; or
ii)   to cut down or uproot the trees or crops; or
iii)  to alter or repair the cattle path, bicycle track side road or
entrance or means of access or to close the same.
The Act allows a road authority to dig and take away materials
required for the construction and maintenance of roads in any part of a
road reserve approved by the district commissioner without payment
to any person.
In recent months, a series of meetings involving the Ministry of
Works, Housing and Communications, Ministry of Water, Land and
Environment, Ministry of Justice and Constitutional Affairs, and RAFU
have been held to discuss issues pertaining to the road reserve. It was
decided that:
* The road reserve be preserved for planning purposes only, but
should not be acquired as this would be unnecessary, expensive
and disruptive.
* In order to minimize land acquisition, only land required for road
construction purposes (the "Site") be acquired.
11
C: Resettlement LAFramework 3~ Nov.



* This would be that land sufficient for the permanent works plus a
3rn strip on either side.
2.2.5  The Town and Country Planning Act 1964
The Town and Country Planning Act of 1964 gives broad powers to
planning authorities at the national and local level to take land, against
compensation, for public purposes within an approved planning area.
Further, such authorities can determine set back lines 'beyond which
no building may project" into a roadway including the road reserve
area.
2.2.6  The Local Govemment Act 1997
The lIocal Governments Act provides for the system of local
governments, which is based on the district. Under the district there
are lower local governments and administrative units. This system
provid,es for elected councils. The chairman nominates the executive
commiittee of each council. The functions of this committee include:
i)    Initiating and formulating policy for approval of council;
ii)   Overseeing the implementation of the government and
councils' policies, and monitor and coordinate activities
of non-government organisations in the district; and
iii)  Receiving and solving disputes forwarded to it from
lower local governments.
2.2.7  The Access to Roads Act 1965
The Access to Roads Act seeks to ensure that a private landowner
who has no reasonable means of access to public highway may apply
for leave to construct a road of access to a public high way. This law
also establishes a mechanism of applying for such a road. It also
establishes a legal regime to ensure the safety of the neighbouring
environment.
The Act permits the owner of any land who is unable through
negotiations to obtain leave from adjoining land owners to construct a
road of access to the public highway, to apply to a magistrate for leave
to construct a road of access over any land lying between his land and
the public highway. This law also provides for means by which an
order for the construction of an access road can be revoked.
The Act further provides for maintenance of the access road in a good
and eflicient state of repair, and for payment of compensation in
respect of the use of the land, the destruction of crops of trees and
such ot1her property.
2.2.8 By Laws
Finally, byelaws were enacted in the 1960s in many local areas of
Uganda, especially for the regulation of "trading centres," which were
the typical local embryonic urban centres across the country.
Typically, these byelaws had provisions for shops to be built not closer
12
C: Resettlement LAFramework 3d Nov.



than '50 feet from the centreline of the road. They did not take land,
but th,sy reinforced the Town and County Planning Act and the Roads
Act by creating a building restriction on any given plot of land.
2:3   Donor Safeguard Policies on resettlement
World Bank Operational Directive OD 4.30 on "Involuntary
Resetl:lement",  requires  that  displaced  persons  should  be
compensated   at   full  replacement  cost,  assisted  with
relocation/resettlement and during transition period. The developer
should! be encouraged to offer replacement land rather than cash
compensation when the residual land holdings are not economically
viable.
The main features of this directive are as follows:-
* All viable alternative project designs should be explored to
avoid or minimise the need for resettlement and when it cannot
be avoided, to minimise the scale and impacts of resettlement;
*  Resettlement measures are to be conceived and executed as
development activities providing sufficient resources to give the
persons displaced the opportunity to share in project benefits.
Assistance should be given to the community in their efforts to
improve former production levels, incomes, earning capacity
and living standards or at least restore them to the levels they
would have without the project;
* Displaced persons should be:-
-  Compensated at full replacement cost prior to the
actual move;
-  assisted with relocation;
-  assisted and supported during the transition period;
*  Particular attention should be given to vulnerable groups;
*  Communities should be given opportunities to participate in
planning, implementing and monitoring their resettlement.
*  Resettlers should be helped with integration into their host
community.
The above requirements are also applicable to projects funded by
other donors, including European Union (EU), African Development
Bank   (ADB), and Nordic Fund. However, ADB recognises that
involuntary resettlement is a sensitive area involving competing
economic, social, and political interests that may be difficult to
balance in the best of circumstances.  Accordingly, the Bank
cautions that any proposed policy and planning principles should be
introduced and implemented with sensitivity to the particular political,
legal, economic, social and cultural contexts of a country.
13
C: Resettlement LAFrsmework 3d Nov.



2.4    Differences between Uganda Laws and the World Bank Policy
There are some differences between the World Bank Policy and the
Uganidan Laws on this matter. While the Ugandan Laws restrict
thermselves to fair, adequate and prompt compensation (which is
interpreted to mean cash), the World Bank policy extends it to
providing alternative land and resettling the persons. A comparison
of Uganda law and WB requirements regarding compensation is
given in Table 2.1
In a number of cases, as shown in Table 2.1, the WB requirements
are rnore favourable to PAPs than the provisions of Uganda Law.
The G3overnment of Uganda does not wish to set precedents as to
compensation amounts. However, GOU is strongly committed to
fulfil 'WB requirements. Appropriate compensation approaches are
therefore needed, with a first part of compensation meeting Ugandan
Law -equirements, and an additional uplift aiming at complying with
WB requirements where they are not complied with by the sole
Ugandan provisions.
Table 2.1: Comparison of Ugandan Law and World Bank requirements regarding
compensation
Category of    Ugandan Law                    WB requirements
PAPs/
Type of lost
assets
Land Owners    Cash compensation based upon  Strongly recommend land-for-
market value of unimproved land  land compensation. Other
and disturbance allowance (15%)  compensation is at replacement
cost.
Land Tenants   Entitled to compensation based  Must be compensated whatever
upon the amount of rights they  the legal recognition of their
hold upon land                 occupancy
Land           Not entitled to compensation for  No specific provisions as to land
Sharecroppers  land, entitled to compensation for  compensation, but income must
crop                           be restored.
Owners of "Non  Cash compensation based upon  Recommend in-kind
permanent"     rates per m2. established at   compensation or cash
Buildings      District level and disturbance  compensation at full replacement
allowance (15 %) - Rates are   cost including labour
based on depreciated market
value.
Owners of      Valuation by Valuer and        Recommend in-kind
"Permanent"    disturbance allowance (15%).   compensation or cash
buildings      Valuation is based on depreciated  compensation at full replacement
market value                   cost including labour
Perennial Crops Cash compensation based upon
rates per m2./bush/tree/plant
established at District Level and
disturbailce allowance (15%)   Requirements not specified
Rates are calculated as the one
year net agricultural income.
14
c: Resettiement LAFramework 3rd Nov.



Annual Crops   No compensation. 6 month       No specific provision. Income
notice to harvest crops.       restoration. Land for land
compensation allows people to
re-establish annual crops
immediately.
Business       No compensation. 6 months      Establish access to similar
Income         notice to vacate premises      opportunities.
3.0   SOCIO-ECONOMIC PROFILE: BASELINE SURVEYS
It is important that comprehensive baseline surveys of affected
populations/communities are done. Inadequate baseline data can
result in project planners lacking a realistic picture of the numbers or
the social and economic organisation of affected people.
In the past, topographic maps/surveys have been used to assess
baseline socio-economic characteristics.  This method should be
discouraged, because often these topographic maps are outdated and
their information does not exactly correspond with the ground truth.
Socio-economic issues are normally considered during Environmental
Impaci Assessment. However, most times it is not sufficient to be
relied on completely during resettlement. A comprehensive survey of
affected populations/communities is required.
3:1    Identification of project affected people
Projecl: Affected Persons (PAPs) are defined as those who stand to
lose, as a consequence of the project, all or part of their physical and
non-physical assets, including homes, communities, productive lands,
resources such as forests, range land, fishing areas, or important
cultural sites, commercial properties, tenancy, income earning
opportunities, social and cultural networks and activities.  Such
impacts may be permanent or temporary. The most often loss occurs
through land expropriation, using eminent domain or other regulatory
measures. They have no option but to re-establish elsewhere. People
can also be affected through exposure to health and safety hazards
which then force them to relocate.
The affected people are determined by the project area ear-marked by
the developer (RAFU) with the consent of the communities to be
affected. The project area is then surveyed to establish boundaries.
The people whose land lies within the demarcated land are some of
the persons directly affected by the project.
3:2   Demographic information
A survey of the individual plots should be carried out to establish the
number of households affected, the area and the sizes of those plots
taken by the project. After the survey, a map of the project area
showing the individual plots should be produced.
15
C: Resettlement LAFramework 3d No\.



It is essential that the project resettlement plan is based on the most
recent information about the scale and impact of the displacement.
The baseline survey should include:
i)    An up to date field-based census of the number of people
who will be displaced, the magnitude of displacement, income
levels and assets and some idea of occupational categories.
Distinguish between Seriously Project Affected Families
(PAF} and Project Affected Families (PAF)
ii)   An assessment of encroachment on to the road reserve;
iii)  Information on the full resource base of the affected
population;
iv)   Extent to which groups will experience total or partial loss of
assets;
v)    Public infrastructure and social services that will be affected.
vi)   Formal and informal institutions (e.g CBOs, NGOs, churches,
etc..) that can assist designing and implementing the
resettlement programmes;
vii)  Names of affected families should be recorded as early as
possible to prevent in-flows of population ineligible for
compensation.
3:3   Land tenure regimes
Article 237 of the Constitution, 1995 vests land in the citizens of
Uganda and defines 4 land tenure systems, namely:-
* Customary;
* Freehold;
* Mailo; and
* Leasehold
The incidents of these systems are detailed under section 4 of the
Land Act, 1998. Those relevant to the RDP are the following:-
3.3.1  Custornary tenure
*    Is governed by rules generally accepted as binding and
authoritative by the class of persons to which it applies (in
other words " customary regime is not governed by written
law")
*    Is owned in perpetuity;
*    Customary occupants are occupants of former public land,
and occupy the land by virtue of their customary rights; they
have propriety interest in the land and are entitled to
certificates of customary ownership;
* - Certificates for customary ownership may be required, through
application to the Parish Land Committee and eventual
issuance by the District Land Board;
16
C: Resettlement LAFramework 3ra Nov.



3.3.2 Freehold tenure
*    Derives its legality from the Constitution and its incidents from
the written law;
*    Involves the holding of land in perpetuity or for a period less
than perpetuity fixed by a condition;
*    Enables the holder to exercise, subject to the law, full powers
of ownership;
3.3.3 Mailo lenure
*  Has roots in the allotment of land pursuant to the 1900 Uganda
Agreement;
*  Derives its legality from the Constitution and its incidents from the
written law;
* Involves the holding of land in perpetuity;
* Peirmits the separation of ownership of land from the ownership of
developments on land made by a lawful or bona fide occupant;
* Enables the holder to exercise all the powers of ownership, subject
to lhe rights of those persons occupying the land at the time of the
creation of the mailo title and their successors;
3.3.4 Leasehold tenure
* Is created either by contract or by operation of the law;
* Is a form under which the landlord of lessor grants the tenant or
leasee exclusive possession of the land, usually for a period
defined and in return for a rent;
* The! tenant has security of tenure and a prioprietary interest in the
land;
3.3.5 'Licence' or 'Share cropper'
Although only these later forms of tenure are legally defined under the
Land Act, the context of common law also recognises the statute of
"Licensee" or Sharecroppers", these terms having similar meanings in
practice. Licensees are persons granted authority to use land within
for agricultural production. Traditionally, such production would be
limited io annual crops. Licensees have no legal security of tenure or
any propriety right in the land. Their tenure is purely contractual.
3:4   Farming and additional/other income-generating activities
Crops &nd trees may either be damaged during feasibility studies in
preparaliton for RDPP2 projects or left by the affected communities
when they move to other areas due to displacement. Both young and
mature crops will have to be compensated for. The variation of ages of
the crops and trees will have to be taken into account such that older
crops/trees are worthy more than young ones.
In Uganda, each District Land Board adopts its own compensation
rates. As a result, variation exists among the different districts. The
rates are reviewed every year
17
C: Resettlement LAFramework 3'0 Nov.



3:5   Host community
Although, in the first instance the planning is for the resettlers, the host
population should be taken into account.  They may be making
available land resources or may share their infrastructure. In some
cases host communities welcome the arrival of settlers under the
impression that 'development' which is supposed to come with
relocates will also benefit them. In other cases the majority of the host
commrunity may curtail the availability of land in the future. In rural
areas in particular, the host population should receive some benefits,
not necessarily on an individual household basis but on community
basis. Situations where the resettlers will be perceived as being better
off than the hosts should be avoided.
4.0   COMMAUNITY PARTICIPATION
Community participation and consultation are essential elements of
environmental management of roads that ensure that the community
is included in the decision making process. It is therefore necessary to
develop procedures and skills for informing the public and other
interested parties about proposed road projects.
4:1   Stakeholder analysis
The resettlers, RAFU/RA and the Resettlement study team must begin
dialogue as soon as it becomes apparent that resettlement may be
necessary, ie at the time of project planning or the feasibility stage.
Public involvement will assist in the following:-
*  Identifying cultural and communal property;
*  Identifying cultural/social groups which should move together;
*  Sensitisation of both host and resettlement communities. This
should be done well in advance;
*  Identification of various resettlement alternatives;
*  Identification of vulnerable groups, to be protected. Such groups
will include disadvantaged women, the disabled, the landless, the
orphans, and other minorities;
Community involvement should include the following:
*  Informal leaders and representatives;
*  LC Officials;
*  Other formal leaders;
*  Local NGOs and CBOs;
*  FRSP officials (MOWHC);
*  Representatives of the various categories of PAPs
4.2   Community mobilization and participation strategy
The major strategy evolves around the provision of a full opportunity
for involvement of all stakebolders who include the project
18
C: ResetUement LAFramework 3d Ncv.



beneficiaries, those likely to be adversely affected and other
stakeliolders who may have an interest in the road development
programme for one reason or another. Because of the difficulty in
identilying the public, care must be taken in deciding who participates
to ensure that a fair and balanced representation of views is obtained
from those directly affected, the poor, minority groups as well as
influential members of the public.
As a rnatter of strategy, public consultation and involvement should be
an ongoing activity taking place through out the entire project cycle
and should include the following:
*  Public consultation before the inception of the project and before
the environmental and social study is done.
*  Public consultation during the environmental and social impact
sludy and during the project design.
*  Consultations after the environmental and social impact study has
been done.
*  Holding of public hearing if RAFU (the Lead Agency) should find it
necessary as well as appropriate notification regarding the
hearing.
4:3   Office services, information and documentation.
Depending on the scale of likely impacts, a resettlement field
uni/officet may be required. Projects with limited land acquisition
affecting only a few families or having limited adverse impacts may not
require a resettlement unit. In these cases, the Project management
should identify the existing institutional arrangements, with appropriate
lines of accountability within the existing institutional framework.
These may include district/local administrations or urban councils.
If the scope of resettlement is large, a separate resettlement field
unit/office within the project entity will probably be required to deal with
issues conceming compensation and rehabilitation of PAPs. In this
case the Project Team, during the project preparation stage, should
address the following issues:-
* the forrn and size of the resettlement unit/office;
* the mandate of the resettlement unit;
*  the financial and administrative authority of the resettlement project
director/manager/coordinator
*  staffing and budget; and
* the req uirements for training and capacity building.
The form and size of the resettlement unit where applicable will
depend on the severity of impact and the scale of displacement and
resettlement. The Project Team should determine the institutional
options for resettlement implementation. The Team Leader should
pay special attention to both administrative and disbursement power of
the organization head to ensure proper implementation of resettlement
operaticins. The head of the resettlement unit should be a senior
officer with appropriate financial power and authority to carry out all
functions, including co-ordinating meetings with other departments.
19
C: Resettlement LAFramework 3rd Nov.



A resettlement coordination unit will be established by RAFU. This
allows the agency to coordinate all resettlement activities, including
land acquisition and compensation payments to the PAPs, that are
normally carried out by various agencies (e.g, land department or local
administration). Resettlement unit staff can also maintain systematic
and closer links with the main project and thus can contribute to faster
and improved decision making and deployment of resources.
A separate resettlement agency, independent of RAFU, may carry out
large-scale resettlement operations. This will entail creating a defined
legal and administrative authority to perform all resettlement activities
or to clirect other departments and line agencies to carry out needed
tasks. When an independent resettlement agency is used, then clear
mechanisms   are  required  for coordination  among  different
departments involved in the resettlement operations  (e.g, land
department, local administration, labour department, education and
health departments, and public works for infrastructure development in
relocalion sites). It is not yet clear as to whether the proposed
National Disaster Management Commission will be suitable for this
role.
4:4   Involvement of the local government.
Districi authorities manage most of the land in the rural areas. These
institutions are stakeholders in settlement activities. They should be
consulk.ed in planning resettlement, and should play a key role in
implementation at grass roots levels.  LCs should participate in
managing resettlement activities.
During the planning stages of the project it will be necessary to assist
local authorities in dealing with project impacts. The involvement and
gradual capacity building of local authorities is a good option. This
ensures transparency and a degree of community participation in
project planning and implementation. The National Environmental
Statue (1995) provides for Local and District Environmental
Committees as part of the EIA procedure. However, the resettlement
study team should. identify and specify the appropriate local
government organs to be involved and how.
4.5     Involvement of NGOs
NGOs with experience, knowledge of, and contacts with PAPs can
assist a resettlement agency effectively in many ways. Involvement
of NGOs in resettlement projects is considered particularly useful
in the following areas:-
* gathering and sharing information and avoiding potential problems;
* planning and implementing income-generating schemes;
* developing information campaigns and community participation;
* strengthening local institutions and community self-reliance; and
* delivering services to reach communities in a more efficient and
cosi -effective manner.
20
C: Resettlement LAFramework 31d Nov.



Ugan,da's experience since the 1980s has shown a steadily increasing
level of NGO involvement at all stages of project processing cycle and-
project implementation. It is advisable to involve NGOs and CBOs at
an early stage of project preparation.
There are different kinds of NGOs in Uganda, ranging from advocacy
groups to relief and charity organisations.  The Team Leader should
take the initiative during the fact-finding mission to identify an NGO/
CBO (in consultation with the RAFU) appropriate to the tasks and
having a developmental focus.
The following criteria should be used in selecting NGOs for
resettlement work. The NGO should:
*  be from the project-affected area or have prior work experience in
the area:
*  have a good track record in terms of program planning and
implementation in areas like rural development, poverty, gender
issues, environment, and community participation;
*  have appropriate staff with technical and social skills in
resettlement or community development and participation,
including familiarity with the local language(s) and customs;
*  be registered with the government as an NGO with good standing
ancl sound financial condition for project implementation purposes;
ancl
*  not be involved with any political or religious groups directly or
indirectly.
5.0   COMPENSATION SYSTEM
5:1   Inventory of impact of individual and communal properties
This entails a complete count and description of all property that will
be acquired or lost as a result of relocation. The land inventory
specifies the type of land (dry-land irrigated, perhaps soil type), its use
(agriculitural, types of crops, business) size and location, so that each
can be correctly valued. The physical inventory lists each asset,
includin(g structures (homes, animal pens, store houses) and
infrastrLictures (e.g wells) and other assets e.g trees by type (fruit or
timber) age and size, for valuation purposes.
The study team should pay special attention to the current values of
assets and should value each asset individually. Eligibility criteria for
the affected people/household must be established. The study should
also take note of changes in price and values of assets between
valuation and compensation.
5:2   Criteria and strategy for compensation for land, houses, crops
other property
5.2.1  Criteria and eligibility for compensation
Affected persons irrespective of their status (whether they have formal
title, legalizable rights, non-legalizable) are eligible for some kind of
21
C: Resettlement LAFramework 3rd Nov.



assistance if they occupied the land before the entitlement cut-off The
entitlement cut-off refers to the time when the assessment of persons
and their property in the project area is carried out. Thereafter, no
new cases are entertained. The following categories will be eligible for
compensation.
(i)   People who are indirectly affected by the project
(ii)  People whose houses/structures will be affected by land
acquisition.
(iii)  People who borrow land for cultivation and their crops or trees
will be removed or damaged due to land acquisition activities.
(iv)  Any other group of persons that has not been mentioned
above but is entitled to compensation according to the laws of
Uganda and World Bank policies.                             L
(vi)  Persons who encroach the area after the Resettlement survey
(census and valuation) are not eligible to compensation or any
form of resettlement assistance.
5.2.2. Land
Land management and control of its transactions are decentralised at
District and Parish levels through District Land Boards and Parish
Land Committees respectively. Fixing the value of land in Uganda
depeinds on whether it is public (Government owned) or privately
owned according to land tenure types indicated in the section on land
regimie. If it is public land, the Chief Government Valuer's office will
fix the rates of compensation. If owned privately, the developer
(RAFLJ) will negotiate with the owner and agree on the amount to
pay for the land to be acquired.
In both instances, the value of land varies from one  location to
another. For example, land in Hoima District will not have the same
value as that in Nebbi District due to agricultural productivity and
population density.
5.2.3  Structures and Assets
In Uganda, it is the responsibility of the developer to engage a
professional valuer to carry out an assessment of all structures and
assets in the affected area. However, rates of structures/ buildings in
urban areas are fixed by the Chief Government Valuer's office.
Rates of structures which are located on land which has a Title Deed
are normally negotiated with the owner of the structure. Rates for
structires on land that lacks a Title Deed are fixed by the District
Land 13oard just like crops and trees. However, in World Bank funded
projects, ownership and occupancy are treated equally. Therefore in
both cases the affected people are entitled to the same
compensation and have the same opportunity to negotiate.
The affected people should be provided with full replacement cost for
the lost structures so that they are able to build their own houses
without difficulties The construction of a replacement house will be
offered whenever a building has to be removed. This may either be
on remaining land of the plot if it is deemed viable and the affected
household agrees to such solution, or on another resettlement plot.
22
C: Resettlement LAFramework 3d Nov.



In the process of valuation of affected structures, the methods of
replacement cost, comparable market price and a combination of these
two are usually used by professional valuers to get compensation
rates. When valuation of individual structures is completed, detailed
compensation rates for different structures will be included in the
resettlement action plan.
5.2.4  Crops and Trees
A number of trees and crops will be left by the affected communities
when they move to other areas due to displacement. Crops and trees
will also be damaged during feasibility studies in preparation for
RDPP2 projects.   These (young and mature) will have to be
compensated for.
5.3   Strategy for income restoration
The plan to restore lost incomes for affected persons must include
livelihood restoration. Since the majority of people in Uganda depend
on the land for income and subsistence, agricultural extension,
intensification and improvement of agricultural production and other
interventions should form part of a comprehensive livelihood plan.
Monitoring beyond the project construction period will be necessary in
order to ensure income generation targets are met.
Resettlement plans must target restoration of lost incomes due to the
road project. In densely populated areas, costs for compensation and
resettle!ment will be substantial. The desirable plan to restore lost
incomes must include compensation costs, resettlement costs,
admini.strative costs, rehabilitation costs and costs of lost local
government or Central Government public assets. To minimise losses
to the community, it is essential that compensation is paid up front and
compensation timetable/programme is put in place.
5.4   TrainingI and manual labor opportunities
If the baseline survey indicates that the resettlers cannot get the same
employment opportunities as before then the plan must include
alternative employment strategies for the displaced people. It may be
necessary to institute vocational training, employment counselling,
extension of credit and any other as may be identified.
5:5   Conflict resolution and grievances system
It is envisaged that a number of issues (grievances) will come up as a
result ol land acquisition by the project. A system must be put in place
to settle these issues amicably through recognised institutions such as
local councils, land boards and land tribunals to the satisfaction of
involved parties.
Although affected people will be given an opportunity to review the
survey results and compensation policies during the process of
resettlernent planning and implementation, a number of issues will
arise up among the settlers. If a person is not satisfied with the
23
C: Resettlement LAFramework 3YO Nov.



compensation or rehabilitation measure given, he could raise his
complaint through the mechanism that will have been put in place.
In order to address the above concerns, RAFU is to ensure setting up
of small field offices by the supervising consultants in the contract
sites before implementation to receive complaints and channel them to
both RAFU and the relevant authorities. The local councils (LCl, LC2,
LC3) will hear the grievances as applicable, with the Chief
Government Valuer intervening where necessary and appropriate.
If the person complaining does not agree with the decision of the
Councils he/she could appeal to the District Land Tribunal. If he/she
still does not agree to the decision, he could go to court as a last
option
6.0   IMPLIEMENTATION OF RESETTLEMENT/LAND ACQUISITION
6.1   Resettlement Impacts and Mitigation measures
Road projects change patterns of use of land, water, and other natural
resources and cause a range of resettlement impacts. Resettlement
losses most often arise because of land acquisition, through
expropriation and the use of regulatory measures, to obtain land.
Housing, community structures and systems, social networks, and
social services can be disrupted. Productive assets, including land,
income sources, and livelihoods can be lost. Cultural identity and
potential for mutual help may be diminished. Loss of resources for
subsistence and income may lead to exploitation of fragile
ecosystems, hardships, social tensions, and impoverishment. The
people affected have no option, and must try to rebuild their lives,
incomes and assets base elsewhere.
To ensure that some people are not disadvantaged in the process of
development, it is important to avoid or minimize resettlement effects.
If reseillement is unavoidable, RAFU should help restore the quality of
life and livelihoods of those affected. There may also be opportunities
to impirove the quality of life, particularly for vulnerable groups. All
kinds of resettlement losses need mitigative measures, as set out in
Table 6.1.An integrated approach to impact management is preferred.
Table 6.1:     Major types of Resettlement Impacts and
Mitigation Measures Required
Type of Impact                Mitigation Measures
Loss  of productive Compensation    at  replacement  rates,  or
assets, including land, replacement, for lost incomes and livelihoods.
income and livelihood. Income substitution during re-establishment plus
income restoration measures in the case of lost
livelihoods.
Loss   of   housing, Compensation for lost housing and associated
possibly      entire assets at replacement rates; relocation options
community structures, including relocation site development if required;
24
C: Resettlement LAFramework 3' Nov.



systems,        and  plus measures to restore living standards
services.
Loss of other assets  Compensation  at  replacement   rates  or
replacement
Loss  of community Replacement if possible, or compensation at
resources,   habitat, replacement rates; restoration measures.
cultural  sites  and
goods
6:2   Provision of infrastructure and services
The objective of resettlement is that a community is replicated on a
socially and economically viable basis.  Therefore, community
infrastructure must be replaced and ideally improved in situations
where it was deficient. This includes installation of sanitary and waste
product facilities and electricity generation systems. Road links should
also be established. The provision of water is key as without adequate
supplias of water the community is not viable. This is particularly
imporlant when new lands are being settled, without a previous history
of settlement. The availability of water should be assessed before
people are relocated to a new site. Services such as education
(Primary and Secondary Schools and health facilities (dispensaries
and clinics) should also be established in the new communities at the
time people are settled. In cases where PAPs are actually resettled,
infrastructure should be provided for in the plan.
6:2:1 Individlual houses
Buildings are officially categorised for valuation purposes as
"temporary" (i.e built with mud and wattle and grass), "semi-
permanent" with mud and wattle walls and corrugated iron roofs and
permanent (brick or concrete walls). In accordance with the with recent
GOU policy decisions, compensation is payable on replacement basis.
The affected people are entitled to compensation through negotiation.
They should be provided with full replacement cost for the lost
structures, and should be treated as provided for in 5.2.3. If people
chose to build their own houses, they should receive compensation
equivalent to the cost of materials plus labour, hired or their own.
However, it is not recommended that people build their own houses,
unless they insist on doing so.
6:2:2  Drinking water system
In the event that access to drinking water supplies is affected
temporarily or permanently, RAFU (the developer) should be
committed to providing access to alternative sources. Facilities can be
provided either from boreholes or pumped supplies from a river, lake
or wherever necessary. Consultations should be held with the relevant
authorities over the most appropriate form of provision.
25
C: Resettlement LAFramework 3d Nov.



6.3   Environmental Management
Road Development Projects are bound to have their own
environmental impacts, which should be identified during planning.
The resettlement component may be subject to an environmental
impact assessment depending on its nature and extent.
The environmental management arrangements ought to include;
i)    clear identification of key stakeholders
ii)   definition of roles and responsibilities
iii)  provision of resources for implementation.
6:4   Payment procedures of compensation
All parties involved will sign a compensation certificate. Signatories to
the compensation certificate will include, the recipient, Local Council
representatives, member of the Parish Land Committee and a RAFU
representative
Compensation of amounts more than Ushs 100,000/= will be made by
cheque. Payment below Ushs 100,000/= may be made in cash. On
payment a receipt (based on a standard form) will be signed upon by
the saime parties as above. Peasant communities are often unable to
properly manage large sums of money following compensation. Where
applicaible, the RAP should provide for training and assisting these
communities to manage money, including facilitating them to open and
manage bank accounts. Such training is under the responsibility of
RAFU
The resettlement study team, should draw up a payment plan which
will ensure that payments are not delayed. The study should establish
the best criteria for payment either in instalments, or re-season or
lump sum, depending on the socio-economic characteristics of the
society in question.
6:5   Rehabilitation of incomes
Relocatees should become the first beneficiaries of a project. Every
effort should be made to ensure that their previous income levels are
restored after relocation and that as a result of the resettlement their
standards of living improve. In other words, those that are to make
way for a project should be better off, not worse off after the project
has been implemented. This is the fundamental objective of the
resettlement task.
6:6   Assistance to vulnerable people
Vulnerable groups include sectors of the population such as female
headed household, the elderly, children, the handicapped, indigenous
people, forest dwellers, squatters, or the poorest of the poor. It is
important that vulnerable groups are identified early in the
resettlement planning process and their specific needs and aspirations
26
C: Resettlement LAFramework 3"d Not.



examined. Resettlement often provides an opportunity to enhance
their e!conomic and social conditions.
While all affected people should be treated fairly, this does not mean
that thiey all be treated equally. The needs of vulnerable groups might
be such that special provisions may have to be planned. In other
words, special attention should be given to these groups.
6.7 HI V/AIDS Mitigation
Because of the characteristics of road projects, there is potential for
increased presence of HIV/AIDS in the project areas During the
constrjction phase, the project will introduce new workers to the
different areas. This will mean that there will be a higher frequency of
interaction between the local people and construction/project workers.
Further, through the improved network, the project will provide for
increased communication and contact between people in villages and
in cities/towns. This will result in a higher rate of HIV infection. The
RAP should therefore provide for mitigation measures, including
informaition campaigns, creation of awareness of the risk of HIV/AIDS
and other STDs associated with mobile work force and its interaction
with local people, and provision of condoms.
6.8    Altemratives for resettlement sites
With regard to alternatives for resettlement sites, the resettlement
study team needs to:
iv)   identify possible alternatives together with the host and
resettlers;
v)    identify the productive potential of alternative sites as
well as availability of other sources of income;
vi)   identify the comparable employment opportunities,
infrastructure, services and production opportunities;
vii)  identify and prepare relocation sites and drawing up
timetables and budgets for resettlement
RAFU, with the assistance from MOWHC, will put in place legal
arrangements for land title ownership and for guarding against land
speculation.
6:9   Time schedule: summary of activities
It is essiential that a resettlement timetable, which is well coordinated
with proposed roadworks activities, is put in place so that the
resettlenient exercise is not left to be implemented towards the end of
the road project.
It is desirable that a sound schedule for executing the resettlement
operation spreads evenly over the duration of RDPP2 road projects
requiring resettlement is put in place so as to avoid "end-bunching".
The resettlement plan should include an implementation schedule for
each activity covering the initial baseline and preparation, actual
relocation and post relocation. The Resettlement timetable should
27
C: Resettlement LAFramework 3d Nov.



provide for phased resettlement to allow construction/improvement
works and resettlement to take place at minimal cost.  Thus
resettlement can be synchronised with the gradual advance of the
road works, especially in densely populated areas.
6.10 Outline for Resettlement Action Plan
* Table 6.2 outlines the contents of a RAP for RDPP2 projects. This is a
full Table of Contents and each project context and degree of impacts
will define whether all elements are required and to what extent. This
outline conforms to best practice.
Table 6.2 Recommended Contents of the
Resettlement /Land Acquisition Plan
1T'pic                        Contents
Executive Summary                 Significant findings and
Executive SLummaryi. 
l__________________________ i      recommended actions
Overview of main goals and
objectives of Plan.
Introduction                 *  The project location and affected
sites.
*  Methods/approach of social
assessment.
*  Outline of institutional framework
and recommended institutional
strengthening strategy
*  Identification of institutional tasks
Institutional legal and         and responsibilities, ensure clear
Policy framework                division of responsibilities.
*  Review of relevant laws,
regulations and policies, including
issues relating to resettlement and
eligibility for compensation.
*  Account of baseline survey results
including identification of project
affected people (PAP) and likely
losses.
Social-economic baseline
information (tiasis for     *   Demographic information,
planning)
I   *   Land tenure regimes,
*  Livelihood activities, agricultural
;   __I  production, resource usage,
28
C: Resettiement LAFramework 3d Nov.



. Present state of services and
infrastructure
*  Host Community - status and
attitudes.
,I  *  Presentation of project impacts on
the environment
Project Impacts             * Steps taken to minimise land
acquisition and resettlement
impacts.
*  Stakeholder analysis.
*  Community participation and
Community Participation  j     consultation strategy.
and Consultation
i   * Involvement of local
government(s).
*  Involvement of NGOs and CBOs
lI  * Inventory of affected individual
I ,j   and community properties.
lIl  *  Criteria and strategy for
compensation.
*  Income restoration strategy.
lCompensation System 
Coo Se  Training programmes and labour
opportunities.
*  List of PAP and summary of
I !    compensation per individual or
family.
*  Grievances redress
system/mechanism
* Infrastructure works/social
improvement
Il  l  *  Payment procedures
lImplementation of      l..'
Impresettlementcompsation of  g *  Rehabilitation of incomes
resettlement/compensation
l   * Attention to vulnerable groups
* Time schedule and summary of
l    activities
29
C: Resettlement LAFramework 3d Nov.



.  Financial responsibilities.
i   Approximate breakdown of all
costs for resettlement and Social
I !    improvements.
Budget                  '      .  Contract process and form of
payment
*  Specify process of payment
*  Monitoring mitigation measures e.g
relocation of persons, affected
people's incomes and their general
: Monitoring and Evaluation j  welfare and food security
*  Evaluation of actual results
A   Maps. Designs, agreements, legal
documents, summaries of studies
7.0   RESETrTLEMENT BUDGET
It is necessary to prepare an adequate budget to meet the costs of
resettlement because inadequate financial resources for resettlement
prograimmes lead to their failure.
7.1   Financial responsibilities
To ensure the overall attractiveness of RDPP2, adequate resettlement
finances will have to be provided by RAFU.  Inadequate financial
resources for resettlement programmes leads to their failure.
Therefore it is necessary to prepare an adequate budget to meet the
costs cf resettlement/compensation.
There are two aspects to preparing the resettlement budget: Firstly, if
the budget is too low, then the funds will be inadequate and this will
lead to delays in implementing the RDPP2. Secondly, if the budget is
excessive, it may discourage donors from investing in that particular
road, and the Government may not be able to afford such costs.
7.2   Approximate cost breakdown
7.2.1 Component Compensation Costs
The component costs of compensation can be summarised as
follows: -
* Compensation for land
*  Compensation for crops
30
C: Resettlement LAFramework 3'a Nov.



* Compensation for assets
* 15% or 30% disturbance allowance depending on notice
given (15 % of notice is 6 or more months, and 30% of
notice is less than 6 months)
These exclude any potential uplift paid by the developer
7.2.2. Direct compensation items
Other items of direct compensation include:-
* Costs of relocating cultural properties (if any)
* Temporary loss of income
* Provision of water supplies and other infrastructure.
* Community development projects
7.2.3 Resettlement Costs
This covers the cost of items such as:
* Physical movement of families and their belongings
* Preparation of the new site
* Maintenance of families until new the new site is productive
* Necessary household or community infrastructure
* Individual or community rehabilitation
7.2.4 Administrative Costs
Project implementation will also involve administrative costs for the
following items:-
* Office rent and operating expenses
*  Salaries
*  Payment for specialist services
* Transportation costs
8.0   MONITORING AND EVALUATION SYSTEM
8.1   Monitoring the resettlement process
The following are indicators for monitoring of the participation process
involved in RDPP2 projects.
*  Number and percentage of affected households consulted
during the planning stage
*  Levels of decision-making of affected people
*  Level of understanding of project impacts and
mitigation/resettlement options
*  Effectiveness of local authorities to make decisions
*  Frequency and quality of public meetings
*  Degree of involvement of women or vulnerable disadvantaged
groups in discussions
The following are social indicators for monitoring of the
implementation of mitigatiQn plans for RDP projects.
31
C: Resettlement LAFramework 3da Nov.



*  Agricultural output and income of affected peoples
*  Height-weight ratio for children to measure nutritional
status and food security
*  Waste disposal from camps and trading centres as well as
rubbish disposal and sanitation arrangements for camps
*  Water use and availability of safe drinking water
*  Conditions of local dispensaries and staffing
*  HIV testing and prevention programme for project area and
camps
* Quality of buildings in project area and temporary dwellings
for worker camps
*  Availability of schooling, attendance and teacher per
student ratio
*  Inflation and availability of essential goods in local markets
*  Effectiveness of compensation payments and procedures
*  Effectiveness of resettlement of affected families and
procedure - provisions for support in relocation
*  Traffic safety
*  Worker safety, referral system to hospitals and work site
inspections
*  Involvement of local authorities and NGOs in project-
related activities
*  Employment of local people on site
e  Population influx and general security in the project area.
The monitoring should include, for each indicator:
i) schedule for monitoring
ii) responsibilities for monitoring
iii) types of resources needed and their sources
8.2   Evaluation of thVe actual results
The evaluation of results of environmental and social mitigation can be carried
out by comparing baseline data collected in the planning phases with targets
and post-project situations.
For social issues it is possible to identify some basic targets for RDPP2
projects. Table 8.1 covers many indicators that may not be relevant for all
RDPP2 project but could function as a checklist for monitoring, especially
long-term monitoring of a project area. Possible targets are filled in whenever
possible but these would have to be defined and related to the baseline data
collected.
Monitoring and Evaluation will be the responsibility of RAFU .
32
C: Resettlement LAFramework 3T Nov.



Indicator                                       Target
Village access to roads                          Roads maintained or improved
Consumer price index                             Stable
Real GNP per capita                             Exceed national average
Calorie intake
Headcount index                                  Reduction of poverty and food poverty lines
Poverty gap index                                No increase in poverty gap
Cultural heritage                                No loss of cultural heritage site or full replace of
sites
1. LIVELIHOOD
Desegregated (ethnicity, gender, village income strata)  Need to be enough so as to provide basic needs
imputed income summation of livelihood components  (food, shelter, health, education) and savings for
(hunting/gathering, arable cropping, tree cropping,  investment.
livestock husbandry, forestry, handicrafts, other
commercial activities, wage labour)
Sustainability analysis                          For sustainability (i.e. compliance with the
requirements of environmental and ecological
integrity, social equity and legality)
Food staple sufficiency                         Less than 2,100 calories per capita, per day,
considered to constitute food poverty (UNDP, 1999)
Livestock holdings                               Defined number of cattle equivalents per hectare of
arable crop land
Land holdings (by category)                      Proportionate to family labour availability
Agricultural equipment                           In accordance with agricultural practice
requirements
House size and type                              Not less than average floor space per capita than in
project surrounding area
Household assets (proxy, as a measure of savings)  Savings target of 10% annual imputed income
Crop yields (by land type)                       Not less than average yields for region
2.  INCOME GENERATION
Amount and number of small enterprise loans      Possible increase depending on demand and local
disbursed/repaid                                 economy
Number of small enterprises                     Increase during construction in project area
Number of skilled labourers                      Increase during construction in project area
Unemployment                                     Decrease during construction in project area
Number of unskilled wage earners                Increase during construction through employment of
local labour
Number of skilled wage eamers                   Increase during construction through employment of
local labour
Unskilled rural wage                             Increase in average wages due to increase in
demand during construction
Skilled rural wage                               Increase in average wages due to increase in
demand during construction
Credit and Savings groups established            Establishment of groups in project area
3. EDUCATION
Villages with complete primary school
Primary school enrolment
Lower secondary school enrolment
Primary school completion rate
33
C: Resettlement LAFramework 3'1 Nov.



Lower secondary school completion rate
Adult literacy
Skills training                                 Improvements in project areas
GENDER ISSUES
Women in administrative positions at local level  Possible increase depending on positions and
promotion
Women in professional and technical positions   Possible increase depending on demand and local
economy
Amount and number of small enterprise loans disbursed  Possible increase depending on demand and local
for women                                       economy
Number of small enterprises for women           Increase during construction in project area
Number of female skilled laboureis              Increase during construction in project area
Female unemployment                             Decrease during construction in project area
Number of female unskilled wage earners         Significant increase during construction through
employment of local labour
Number of female skilled wage earners           Significant increase during construction through
employment of local labour
Unskilled rural wage for women                  Increase in average wages due to increase in
demand during construction
Skilled rural wage for women                    Increase in average wages due to increase in
demand during construction
Credit and Savings groups established for women  Establishment of groups in project
Female literacy                                 Increase during project
4. HEALTH
Maternal mortality                              Significant improvements
Infant mortality                                Significant improvements
Under 5 mortality                                Significant improvements
Calorie intake                                  Significant improvements
Dietary diversity                               Adequate balance between staples, proteins and
Igreens'
Public expenditure on health related services   Significant increases
Access to health care                            Access for all households in project affected areas
Population per nurse/health assistant            Increase in ratio due to recruitment and training of
local personnel and upgrading of facilities
Population per doctor                           Increase in ratio due to recruitment and training of
local personnel and upgrading of facilities
Access to clean drinking water                   Improved access
Access to sanitary means of human waste disposal
(toilets)
Immunisation of children (DPT)
Immunisation of children (Measles)
Life expectancy at birth                        Improvements
Under 5s severe malnutrition
Deaths from pneumonia per 1000 live births
Percentage of births unattended by trained health  Attended births for all women in project affected
personnel                                       areas
Availability of contraceptives                   Increase as part of health awareness (STD
prevention)
Contraceptive use                               Increase as part of health awareness (STD
prevention)
34
C: Resettlement LAFramework 3d Nov.



9.0 CONCLUSION:
* In conclusion, good practice in resettlement planning and
implernentation are the key to fulfilment of objectives of involuntary
resettlement. It encompasses the following:-
*   Taking steps to minimize or eliminate involuntary resettlement where feasible by
exploring viable alternative design options.
* Defining the parameters of likely resettlement at the ISA stage, and include
appropriate TORs in the Feasibility Study.
*   Conceptualizing and implementing resettlement measures as development
programs, to be part of projects,
* Completing social economic surveys and census of people affected early in the
project preparation
* Involvement of all stakeholders in a consultative process,
*   Resettling or Compensating all affected persons,
* Establishing appropriate income restoration programs.
* Providing a social preparation process for people affected
10. APPENDICES
Appendix 1: Map of Uganda showing major road development projects
Appendix 2: World Bank Directive 4.30 - Involuntary Resettlement
Appendix 3: Sample format for monitoring resettlement activities
35
C: RA -MOIIT it I AFr rownrk  < Nnv



.J pjJ-liUlLi I
                               7p
4w~ ~~~/ 01w I_ _ iG >e 
4' ~ ~ ~ ~ -
7j       7 vr  q 
/1  ~~ - -  a --
7e //    J          2Ra
FM     f                   /  Unpv --
t.->           r    .-Ep=
L Nodes & R,vs
Road Development Program Phase    a Roads
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rs ff Clsife Roa Newr
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A Ugnd bou-da 'y
* itc N o ndaes e
Road Development Program Phase 2~~~~~~~~~~RDPPhae Roads



APPENDIX 2
THE W ORLD BANK OPERATIONAL MANUAL                             OD 4.30
Operational Directive
This directive was prepared for the guidance of staff of the World Bank and is not
necessarily a complete treatment of the subjects covered.
Involuntary Resettlement
Introduction
1. This directive describes Bankl policy and procedures on involuntary resettlement,
as well as the conditions that borrowers are expected to meet in operations involving
involuntary resettlement.2 Planning and financing resettlement components or free-
standing projects are an inlegral part of preparation for projects that cause
involuntary displacement. Any operation that involves land acquisition or is screened
as a Category A or B project for environmental assessment purposes3 should be
reviewed for potential resettlement requirements early in the project cycle (para. 20).
2. Development projects that displace people involuntarily4 generally give rise to
severe economic, social, and environmental problems: production systems are
dismantled; productive assets and income sources are lost; people are relocated to
environments where their productive skills may be less applicable and the
competition for resources greater; community structures and social networks are
weakened; kin groups are d'ispersed; and cultural identity, traditional authority, and
the potential for mutual help are diminished. Involuntary resettlement may cause
severe long-term hardship, impoverishment, and environmental damage unless
appropriate measures are carefully planned and carried out.5
Policy Objectives
3. The objective of the Bank.'s resettlement policy is to ensure that the population
displaced by a project receives benefits from it. Involuntary resettlement is an
integral part of project design and should be dealt with from the earliest stages of
project preparation (para. 281), taking into account the following policy considerations:
(a) Involuntary resettlement should be avoided or minimized where feasible,
exploring all viable alternative project designs. For example, realignment of roads or
reductions in dam height maiy significantly reduce resettlement needs.
(b) Where displacement is unavoidable, resettlement plans should be developed. All



involuntary resettlement should be conceived and executed as development
programs, with resettlers provided sufficient investment resources and opportunities
to share in project benefits. Displaced persons should be (i) compensated for their
losses at full replacement cost prior to the actual move; (ii) assisted with the move
and supported during the transition period in the resettlement site; and (iii) assisted
in their efforts to improve their former living standards, income earning capacity, and
production levels, or at least to restore them. Particular attention should be paid to
the needs of the poorest groups to be resettled.
(c) Community participation in planning and implementing resettlement should be
encouraged. Appropriate patterns of social organization should be established, and
existing social and cultural institutions of resettlers and their hosts6 should be
supported and used to the greatest extent possible.
(d) Resettlers should be integrated socially and economically into host communities
so that adverse impacts on host communities are minimized. The best way of
achieving this integration is for resettlement to be planned in areas benefiting from
the project and through consultation with the future hosts.
(e) Land, housing, infrastructure, and other compensation should be provided to the
adversely affected population, indigenous groups,7 ethnic minorities, and pastoralists
who may have usufruct or customary rights to the land or other resources taken for
the project. The absence of legal title to land by such groups should not be a bar to
compensation.
Resettlement Planning
4. Where large-scale8 population displacement is unavoidable, a detailed
resettlement plan, timetable, and budget are required. Resettlement plans should be
built around a development strategy and package aimed at improving or at least
restoring the economic base for those relocated. Experience indicates that cash
compensation alone is normally inadequate. Voluntary settlement may form part of a
resettlement plan, provided measures to address the special circumstances of
involuntary resettlers are included. Preference should be given to land-based
resettlement strategies for people dislocated from agricultural settings. If suitable
land is unavailable, nonland-based strategies built around opportunities for
employment or self-employment may be used.
Plan Content
5. The content and level of detail of resettlement plans, which will vary with
circumstances, especially the magnitude of resettlement, should normally include a
statement of objectives and policies, an executive summary, and provision for the
following:
(a) organizational responsibilities (para. 6);
(b) community participation and integration with host populations (paras. 7-10);
(c) socioeconomic survey (para. 11);
2
C: Resettlement LAFramework 3rd Nov.



(d) legal framework (para. 12);
(e) alternative sites and selection (para. 13);
(f) valuation of and compensation for lost assets (paras. 14-16);
(g) land tenure, acquisition, and transfer (para. 17);
(h) access to training, employment, and credit (para. 18);
(i) shelter, infrastructure, and social services (para. 19);
j) environmental protection and management (para. 20); and
(k) implementation schedule, monitoring, and evaluation (paras. 21-22).
Cost estimates should be prepared for these activities, and they should be budgeted
and scheduled in coordination with the physical works of the main investment
project.
Organizational Responsibilities
6. The responsibility for resettlement rests with the borrower. The organizational
framework for managing resettlement must be developed during preparation and
adequate resources provided to the responsible institutions. The organization
responsible for resettlemerit should be strengthened when entities executing
infrastructure or other sector- specific projects lack the experience and outlook
needed to design and implement resettlement. One alternative is to create a special
resettlement unit within the project entity: this can facilitate the involvement of other
line agencies. Another alternative is to entrust resettlement to the regional or town
administration that knows the population and area, can mobilize local expertise,
speaks the resettlers' language, and will ultimately be responsible for the integration
of resettlers into the host population and area. There also may be considerable
scope for involving nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) in planning,
implementing, and monitoring resettlement.9
Community Participation and Integration with Host Population
7. Most displaced people prefer to move as part of a preexisting community,
neighborhood, or kinship group. The acceptability of a resettlement plan can be
increased and the disruption caused by resettlement can be cushioned by moving
people in groups, reducing dispersion, sustaining existing patterns of group
organization, and retaining access to cultural property10 (temples, pilgrimage
centers, etc.), if necessary, t:hrough the relocation of the property.
8. The involvement of involuntary resettlers and hosts in planning prior to the move is
critical. Initial resistance to the idea of involuntary resettlement is to be expected. To
obtain cooperation, participaition, and feedback, the affected hosts and resettlers
need to be systematically iniormed and consulted during preparation of the
resettlement plan about their options and rights. They should also be able to choose
C: Resettlement LAFramework 3d Nov.



from a number of acceptable resettlement alternatives. These steps can be taken
directly or through formal and informal leaders and representatives. Experience has
shown that local NGOs can often provide valuable assistance and ensure viable
community participation. Mioreover, institutionalized arrangements, such as regular
meetings between project officials and communities, should be provided for
resettlers and hosts to conmmunicate their concerns about the resettlement program
to project staff throughout planning and implementation.1 1 Particular attention must
be given to ensure that vulnerable groups such as indigenous people, ethnic
minorities, the landless, arid women are represented adequately in such
arrangements.
9. The plan should address and mitigate resettlement's impact on host populations.
Host communities and local governments should be informed and consulted. Any
payment due the hosts for land or other assets provided to resettlers should be
promptly rendered. Conflicts between hosts and resettlers may develop as increased
demands are placed on land, water, forests, services, etc., or if the resettlers are
provided services and housing superior to that of the hosts. Conditions and services
in host communities should improve, or at least not deteriorate. Providing improved
education, water, health, and production services to both groups fosters a better
social climate for their integration. In the long run, the extra investment will help
prevent conflicts and secure the project's aims.
10. Successful resettlement requires a timely transfer of responsibility from
settlement agencies to the settlers themselves. Otherwise, a dependency
relationship may arise, and agency resources may become tied up in a limited
number of continually supervised schemes. Local leadership must be encouraged to
assume responsibility for environmental management and infrastructure
maintenance.
Socioeconomic Survey
11. Resettlement plans should be based on recent information about the scale and
impact of resettlement on the displaced population. In addition to describing standard
household characteristics, socioeconomic surveys should describe (a) the magnitude
of displacement; (b) information on the full resource base of the affected population,
including income derived from informal sector and nonfarm activities, and from
common property; (c) the e:tent to which groups will experience total or partial loss
of assets; (d) public infrastructure and social services that will be affected; (e) formal
and informal institutions (such as community organizations, ritual groups, etc.) that
can assist with designing arid implementing the resettlement programs; and (f)
attitudes on resettlement options. Socioeconomic surveys, recording the names of
affected families, should be conducted as early as possible to prevent inflows of
population ineligible for comnpensation.
Legal Framework
12. A clear understanding of the legal issues involved in resettlement is needed to
design a feasible resettlement plan. An analysis should be made to determine the
nature of the legal framework for the resettlement envisaged, including (a) the scope
of the power of eminent domain, the nature of compensation associated with it, both
4
C: Resettiement LAFramework 3rd Nov.



in terms of the valuation rnethodology and the timing of payment; (b) the legal and
administrative procedures, applicable, including the appeals process and the normal
time-frame for such procedures; (c) land titling and registration procedures; and (d)
laws and regulations relating to the agencies responsible for implementing
resettlement and those related to land compensation, consolidation, land use,
environment, water use, and social welfare.
Altemative Sites and Selection
13. The identification of several possible relocation sites and the demarcation of
selected sites is a critical step for both rural and urban resettlement. For land-based
resettlement, the new site's productive potential and locational advantages should be
at least equivalent to those of the old site. The Bank encourages "land for land"
approaches, providing replacement land at least equivalent to the lost land. For rural
settlers, irrigation, land reclamation, tree crop development, intensification of
production, and other innovations often can provide adequate production potential on
limited amounts of land to resettle agriculturalists, even in countries with high
population densities. In selecting sites, attention must be paid to the availability of
sources of off-farm income (fishing, gathering forest products, seasonal wage
employment) to complement farm income. For urban resettlers, the new site should
ensure comparable access to employment, infrastructure, services, and production
opportunities. For both rural and urban resettlement, the borrower needs to (a)
develop institutional and technical arrangements for identifying and preparing
relocation sites, e.g., pooling together small plots, wasteland reclamation, land
leveling, and terracing; (b) draw up timetables and budgets for site preparation and
transfer; (c) make legal arrangements for transferring titles to resettlers; and (d)
consider, when necessary, a temporary freeze on land transactions within the
relocation area to prevent land speculation. Though the Bank does not normally
disburse against land acquisition, it can finance land improvement to accommodate
resettlers.
Valuation of and Compensation for Lost Assets
14. Valuation of lost assets should be made at their replacement cost. Compensation
is facilitated by (a) paying special attention to the adequacy of the legal
arrangements concerning land title, registration, and site occupation; (b) publicizing
among people to be displac:ed the laws and regulations on valuation and
compensation; (c) establishing criteria for determining the resettlement eligibility of
affected households, e.g., households that have only partially lost their assets but
are no longer economically viable should be entitled to full resettlement; and (d)
developing mechanisms to prevent illegal encroachers and squatters, including an
influx of nonresidents entering to take advantage of such benefits, from participating
in the compensation arrangements, by an early recording of the numbers and names
of affected populations entitled to compensation/rehabilitation.
15. Some types of loss, such as access to (a) public services; (b) customers and
suppliers; and (c) fishing, grazing, or forest areas, cannot easily be evaluated or
compensated for in monetary terms. Attempts must therefore be made to establish
access to equivalent and culturally acceptable resources and earning opportunities.
5
C: Resettiement LAFramework~ 3rd Nov.



16. Vulnerable groups at particular risk are indigenous people, the landless and
semilandless, and households headed by females who, though displaced, may not
be protected through national land compensation legislation. The resettlement plan
must include land allocation or culturally acceptable alternative income-earning
strategies to protect the livelihood of these people.
Land Tenure, Acquisition, and Transfer
17. Resettlement plans should review the main land tenure and transfer systems,
including common properl:y and nontitle-based usufruct systems governed by locally
recognized land allocation mechanisms. The objective is to treat customary and
formal rights as equally as possible in devising compensation rules and procedures.
The plan should address l:he issues raised by the different tenure systems found in a
project area, including (a) the compensation eligibility of land-dependent populations;
(b) the valuation procedures applicable to different tenure types; and (c) the
grievance procedures available for disputes over land acquisition. Plans should
contain provisions for conducting land surveys and regularizing land tenure in the
earliest stages of project development. Planning should also anticipate the
approximate time needed to acquire and transfer land.
Access to Training, Employment, and Credit
18. Normally, general economic growth cannot be relied upon to protect the welfare
of the project-affected population. Thus, alternative employment strategies are
needed for nonagricultural displaced people, or where the land that can be made
available is not sufficient to accommodate all the displaced farmers. The
resettlement plan should, where feasible, exploit new economic activities made
possible by the main investment requiring the displacement. Vocational training,
employment counseling, transportation to jobs, employment in the main investment
project or in resettlement activities, establishment of industries, incentives for firms to
locate in the area, credit and extension for small businesses or reservoir aquaculture,
and preference in public sector employment should all be considered where
appropriate.
Shelter, Infrastructure, and Social Services
19. To ensure the economic and social viability of the relocated communities,
adequate resources should be allocated to provide shelter, infrastructure (e.g., water
supply, feeder roads), and social services (e.g., schools, health care centers).12 Site
development, engineering, and architectural designs should be prepared for shelter,
infrastructure, and social services. Since community or self-built houses are often
better accepted and more tailored to the resettlers' needs than contractor-built
housing, provision of a building site with suitable infrastructure, model plans, building
materials, technical assistance, and "construction allowances" (for income foregone
while resettlers build their houses) is an option communities should be offered.
Planning for shelter, infrastructure, and services should take into account population
growth.
Environmental Protection and Management
6
C: Resettlement LAFramework 3rd Nov.



20. The screening process for an environmental assessment (EA) normally classifies
projects involving involuntary resettlement as Category A.13 The EA of the main
investment requiring the nrsettlement should thus cover the potential environmental
impacts of the resettlement. The resettlement plan must be developed in
coordination with the EA and define the boundaries of the relocation area, and
calculate incremental population density per land unit. In agricultural projects
(involving, for example, relocation to the catchment surrounding a reservoir, or to a
downstream command area), if the incoming resettled population is large in relation
to the host population, such environmental issues as deforestation, overgrazing, soil
erosion, sanitation, and pollution are likely to become serious and plans should either
include appropriate mitigalting measures, including training of oustees, or else should
allow for alternative sites to be selected. Urban resettlement raises other density-
related issues (e.g., transportation capacity, access to potable water, sanitation
systems, health facilities, etc.). Constructive environmental management, provided
through the EA's mitigation plan,14 may provide good opportunities and benefits to
resettlers and host populations alike (e.g., project-financed compensatory
afforestation not only replaices the forests submerged by reservoirs but also offers
gainful employment). If the likely consequences on the environment are
unacceptable, alternative and/or additional relocation sites must be found.
Implementation Schedule, Monitoring, and Evaluation
21. The timing of resettlement should be coordinated with the implementation of the
main investment component of the project requiring the resettlement. All resettlement
plans should include an implementation schedule for each activity covering initial
baseline and preparation, actual relocation, and post-relocation economic and social
activities. The plan should linclude a target date when the expected benefits to
resettlers and hosts would be achieved.
22. Arrangements for monitoring implementation of resettlement and evaluating its
impact should be developed by the borrower during project preparation and used
during supervision.15 Monitoring provides both a warning system for project
managers and a channel for the resettlers to make known their needs and their
reactions to resettlement execution. Monitoring and evaluation units should be
adequately funded and staffed by specialists in resettlement. In-house monitoring by
the implementing agency may need to be supplemented by independent monitors to
ensure complete and objective information. Annual and midterm reviews are
desirable for large-scale resettlement. The borrower should be required to continue
impact evaluation for a reasonable period after all resettlement and related
development activities have been completed. The borrower should also be required
to inform the Bank about thie findings.
Bank Role and Project Options
23. The Bank supports borrowers' efforts through (a) assistance in designing and
assessing resettlement policy, strategies, laws, regulations, and specific plans; (b)
financing technical assistance to strengthen the capacity of agencies responsible for
resettlement; and (c) direct financing of the investment costs of resettlement. The
Bank may sometimes finance resettlement even though it has not financed the main
investment that made displacement and resettlement necessary (para. 26).
7
C: Resettlement LAFramework 3d~ Nov.



24. The task manager (TM) should inform the borrower of the Bank's resettlement
policy. Starting early in the project cycle, the TM with the support of Bank
operational, research, andl legal staff should assess government policies,
experiences, institutions, and the legal framework covering resettlement. In
particular, the TM needs to ensure that involuntary resettlement is avoided or
minimized, that laws and regulations concerning displaced people provide
compensation sufficient to replace all lost assets, and that displaced persons are
assisted to improve, or at least restore, their former living standards, income earning
capacity, and production levels.
25. The adequacy of the resettlement plan should be reviewed by appropriate social,
technical, and legal experts. Resettlement specialists should visit the possible
resettlement sites and review their suitability. In the case of large-scale relocation,
such experts should be included in independent technical or environmental review
boards.16
26. Bank financing of reseltlement can be provided as follows: (a) As a component of
the main investment project causing displacement and requiring resettlement. (b) If
large enough, as a free-stainding resettlement project with appropriate cross-
conditionalities, processed and implemented in parallel with the investment project
that causes the displacement. The latter approach may better focus country and
Bank attention on the effective resolution of resettlement issues. (c) As a sector
investment loan. Where the specific resettlement needs of each subproject are not
known in advance, the borrower would need to agree to resettlement policies,
planning principles, institutional arrangements, and design criteria that meet Bank
policy and requirements as a condition of the loan. An estimate should be provided
of total population to be displaced and overall resettlement costs, as well as an
evaluation of proposed resettlement sites. Subprojects in sector investment loans
should be screened by the implementing agency to ensure consistency with this
directive, and approved indiividually by the Bank. For countries with a series of
operations requiring resettlement, efforts to improve the policy, institutional, and legal
framework for resettlement should form part of the Bank's ongoing country and
sector dialogue with the government. These efforts should be appropriately reflected
in economic and sector work and in country strategy papers and briefs.
Processing and Documentation
27. The Regional Vice President (RVP) should be kept informed of major
resettlement issues, and his guidance sought where necessary. The Regional
Environment Division (RED), the Legal Department (LEG), and settlement specialists
in Sector Policy and Research (PRS) should be consulted or included as necessary
in peer reviews on involuntary resettlement issues throughout the project cycle.
Identirication
28. The possibility of involuritary resettlement should be determined as early as
possible and described in all project documents. The TM should (a) briefly
summarize in the Initial Executive Project Summary (Initial EPS)17 the magnitude,
strategy, and timing of the resettlement; (b) inform borrowers of the Bank's
resettlement policy; (c) review past borrower experience with similar operations; (d)
invite agencies responsible ior resettlement to discuss their policies, plans, and
8
C: ReseWtement LAFramework 3d' Nov.



institutional, consultative, and legal arrangements for resettlement; and (e) where
appropriate, ensure that technical assistance is provided early to borrowers. Such
assistance should include the use of project preparation facility (PPF) resources18
for planning resettlement and building institutional capacity.
Preparation
29. During project preparation, the feasibility of resettlement must be established, a
strategy agreed upon, the resettlement plan drafted, and budget estimates
prepared.19 The full costs of resettlement should be identified and included in the
total cost of the main investment project, regardless of financing source. The costs of
resettlement should also be treated as a charge against the economic benefits of the
investment project that causes the relocation. Any net benefits to resettlers (as
compared to the "without project" circumstances) should be added to the benefit
stream of the main investment. While the resettlement component or free-standing
project need not be economically viable on its own, it should be the least- cost
approach consistent with the policies laid out above.
Appraisal and Negotiation
30. Submission to the Bank of a time-bound resettlement plan and budget that
conforms to Bank policy is a condition of appraisal for projects involving resettlement,
except for sector investment loans as discussed in para. 26. All final EPSs should
confirm that this requirement has been met. The appraisal mission should ascertain
(a) the extent that involuntary resettlement and human hardship will be minimized
and whether borrowers carn manage the process; (b) the adequacy of the plan,
including the timetable and budget for resettlement and compensation; (c) the
soundness of the economic and financial analysis; (d) the availability and adequacy
of sites and funding for all resettlement activities; (e) the feasibility of the
implementation arrangements; and (f) the extent of involvement of beneficiaries. At
negotiations, the borrower and the Bank should agree on the resettlement plan. The
resettlement plan and the borrower's obligation to carry it out should be reflected in
the legal documents. Other necessary resettlement-related actions must be
covenanted. The Staff Appraisal Report and the Memorandum and
Recommendation of the President should summarize the plan and state that it meets
Bank policy requirements.
Implementation and Supervision
31. Resettlement components should be supervised throughout implementation.20
Supervision that is sporadic or left until late in implementation invariably jeopardizes
the success of resettlement. Bank supervision missions should be staffed with the
requisite social, economic, and technical expertise. Annual reviews of large-scale
resettlement and in-depth Bank reviews of midterm progress are highly desirable.
These reviews should be planned from the outset to allow the Bank and the borrower
to make necessary adjustments in project implementation. Complete recovery from
resettlement can be protracated and can often make it necessary to continue Bank
supervision until well after populations have been relocated, sometimes even after a
project has been closed.
9
C: Resettlement LAFramework 3d Nov.



Ex Post Evaluation
32. The project completion report2l submitted to the Operations Evaluation
Department should evaluate resettlement and its impact on the standards of living of
the resettlers and the host population.
1. "Bank" includes IDA, and "loans" includes credits.
2. See also Involuntary Resettlement in Development Projects, World Bank Technical Paper No. 80
(Washington, D.C.: The World Bank, 1988).
3. OD 4.00. Annex A, Environmental Assessment, para. 18.
4. Such projects may include ccnstruction or establishment of (a) dams, (b) new towns or ports, (c)
housing and urban infrastructure, (d) mines, (e) large industrial plants, (f) railways or highways, (g)
irrigation canals, and (h) national parks or protected areas. Refugees from natural disasters, war, or
civil strife are also involuntary resettlers, but they are not discussed in this directive (see OP/BP/GP
8.50, Emergency Recovery Assistance).
5. OD 4.00. Annex A, Environmental Assessment, para. 2, and Annex A3.
6. Host communities are those receiving resettlers.
7. See OD 4.20, Indigenous Peoples.
8. Where only a few people (e.g., less than 100-200 individuals) are to be relocated, appropriate
compensation for assets, logistical support for moving, and a relocation grant may be the only
requirements. However, the principles on which compensation is to be based are the same as for
larger groups.
9. See GP 14.70, Involving Nongovernmental Organizations in Bank-Supported Activities.
10. See OPN 11.03, Management of Cultural Property in Bank-Financed Projects, to be reissued as
OP/BP 4.11, Cultural Property.
11. Disputes of varying kinds may arise in the process of implementation of the agreed resettlement
plan. These conflicts could take the form of appeals related to the compensation payable to affected
persons, conflicts between the displaced persons and the host population, appeals to the agency
charged with the implementation of the resettlement with regard to services promised, etc. It is
therefore important to devise schemes for conflict resolution for all resettlement plans. Such schemes
should, as far as possible, take into account existing procedures for settling disputes in the country or
area concerned.
12. Health care services, particularly for pregnant women, infants, and the elderly, may be important
during and after relocation to prevent increases in morbidity and mortality due to malnutrition, the
stress of being uprooted, and the usually increased risk of water-borne diseases.
13. See OD 4.00, Annex A, Env,ironmentalAssessment, and Annex B, Environmental Policy for Dam
and Reservoir Projects. The envfronmental implications of involuntary resettlement will be further
discussed under para 6.0, "Special Issues in Environmental Assessment," in Environmental
Assessment Sourcebook, (Washington, D.C.: The World Bank, to be issued).
14. See Annex Al, para. 2, in OD 4.00, Annex A, Environmental Assessment.
15. See OD 10.70, Project Monitoring and Evaluation.
16. See OD 4.00, Annex B, Environmental Policy for Dam and Reservoir Projects.
17. See OP/BP 10.00, Investment Lending: Identification to Board Presentation.
18. See OP/BP 8.10, Project Preparation Facility.
19. Detailed guidelines for preparing and appraising resettlement plans are provided in Involuntary
Resefflement in Development Projects, World Bank Technical Paper No. 80, Annex 1 (Washington,
D.C.: The World Bank, 1988). Pro forma cost tables and guidelines for economic and financial analysis
are provided in Annex 2.
20. See OD 13.05, Project Supervision, particularly paras. 44-47.
21. See OP/BPI 13.55, Implementation Completion Reporting.
10
RDPP2 -Resettlerment LAFranuwork 3RD Nov.



Appendix 3: Sample format for monitoring of resettlement activities
Resettlement    Total      Targeted Achievement in Year I     Targeted       Targeted
Asetivityemen  Totas   First  Second     Third   FAchievement            Achievement
Activity   ' Task      First  Second~ Third    !Fourth       Year 2         Year 3
.uarter  Quarter  Quarter   Quarter
Land
acquisition
Finalization of                           I
PAPs list                        . _
Final list of                    .        .
displaced
persons
FID card of
PAPs
Compensation   |                  _    _    _        _   _    _       _      _   _    _
Ipayments                l                 ;
Site selection
Site                    ..
development
Plot distribution      17        F                    -      1 ___________
|Relocation/                               lil                             2 
Shifting         _  _ __ I  _  _   ___
Formation of   F                                             I
PAPs
committees
Replacement
-lland          l        [['                        i
_an              _ ____           ______ f ------'---_-'_---'- __!____ . .__.__..   ___.________. 
Incom e        f          -                    - i   _    _   '|          _|         _  _
irestoration plan  __              _         _        _   _     _  _    _     _______
Training_                 _iL  1  __1__ 1          I                - _       i _         I
Employment      _    _  r          _                _         _   _   __I_       _   _
Group-specific
development                                                                i
project        4                  _        |                  _| ll   '
RDPP2 -Resettlement LAFramework 3RD Nov.



