                                  Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR0000916




              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                              (IDA-35440 IDA-3544A)




                                      ON A

                                     CREDIT




                       IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 50.9 MILLION
                         (US$64.52 MILLION EQUIVALENT)




                                     TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF UGANDA

                                     FOR A

                           PROJECT IN SUPPORT OF THE

             SECOND PHASE OF THE ROAD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM




                                 January 16, 2009




Africa Transport Sector
Country Department AFCE1
Africa Regional Office

                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

              (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2008)

             Currency Unit = Uganda Shillings (UGX)
                        SDR1.00 = US$1.57
                      US$ 1.00 = 1,635 UGX

                         FISCAL YEAR
                          July 1 ­ June 30

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL     Adaptable Program Loan
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CHOGM   Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting
DANIDA  Danish International Development Agency
DCA     Development Credit Agreement
DLP     Defect Liability Period
DUCARIP District, Urban and Community Access Roads Investment Plan
EIA     Environmental Impact Assessment
EIRR    Economic Internal Rate of Return
ELU     Environmental Liaison Unit
EOT     Extension of Time
EU      European Union
FM      Financial Management
GOU     Government of Uganda
HDM     Highway Design & Maintenance Model
ICR     Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA     International Development Association
ISR     Implementation Status Report
LVR     Low Volume Roads
MOFPED  Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development
MOWHC   Ministry of Works, Housing and Communication (July 1, 1998 to June 30,
        2006)
MOWT    Ministry of Works and Transport
NDF     Nordic Development Fund
NPV     Net Present Value
NRSAP   National Road Safety Action Plan
NTMP    National Transport Master Plan
PDO     Project Development Objectives
PIP     Project Implementation Plan
QAG     Quality Assurance Group
RAFU    Road Agency Formation Unit
RAP     Resettlement Action Plan
RDP     Road Development Project

RDPP1       Road Development Program Phase 1
RDPP2       Road Development Program Phase 2
RF          Road Fund
RSDP        Road Sector Development Program
RSISTAP     Road Sector Institutional Support Technical Assistance Project
SDR         Special Drawing Rights
UNRA        Uganda National Roads Authority
VOC         Vehicle Operating Cost



    Vice President:                               Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili

    Country Director:                             John Murray McIntire

    Sector Manager:                               C. Sanjivi Rajasingham

    Project Team Leader:                          Labite Victorio Ocaya

    ICR Team Leader:                              Dieter E. Schelling

                                             REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
             SECOND PHASE OF THE ROAD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM


                                                        CONTENTS




Data Sheet
A. Basic Information
B. Key Dates
C. Ratings Summary
D. Sector and Theme Codes
E. Bank Staff
F. Results Framework Analysis
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
H. Restructuring
I. Disbursement Profile

1.  Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ......................................1
2.  Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .....................................5
3.  Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................9
4.  Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome..................................................14
5.  Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ............................................14
6.  Lessons Learned .................................................................................................17

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ......................................................................20
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ..............................................................................21
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis..............................................................31
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.....36
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR.....................................................................38
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................51
MAP..............................................................................................................................52

A. Basic Information

                                                                       SECOND PHASE OF
                                                                       THE ROAD
Country:                Uganda                  Project Name:
                                                                       DEVELOPMENT
                                                                       PROGRAM
Project ID:             P065436                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-35440,IDA-3544A
ICR Date:               01/28/2009              ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                       THE REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     APL                     Borrower:
                                                                       UGANDA
Original Total
                        XDR 50.9M               Disbursed Amount:      XDR 50.9M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
Road Agency Formation Unit
Ministry of Works and Transport of Uganda
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date              Process          Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        10/15/1998    Effectiveness:                           04/11/2002
Appraisal:             03/01/2001    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              07/03/2001    Mid-term Review:       02/21/2005        02/14/2005
                                     Closing:               06/30/2006        06/30/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                 Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory Implementing
                                                Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
Performance:            Moderately Satisfactory Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators           (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                   Quality at Entry
                                                                     None
at any time (Yes/No):                          (QEA):
Problem Project at any                         Quality of
                          No                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                 Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                              Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                1                 1
General transportation sector                                    3                 3
Roads and highways                                              96                96


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Rural services and infrastructure                              Primary          Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili        Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:         John McIntire                     James W. Adams
Sector Manager:           C. Sanjivi Rajasingham            Yusupha B. Crookes
Project Team Leader:      Dieter E. Schelling               Yitzhak A. Kamhi
ICR Team Leader:          Labite Victorio Ocaya
ICR Primary Author:       Subhash C. Seth



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The overall development objective of the RDPP2 was to improve access to rural and
economically productive areas and to progressively build up sustainable road sector
planning, design and program management capability, as well as road safety
management. The project comprised: (i) upgrading and strengthening of two high priority
national roads; (ii) improvement of safety at selected road accident black spots and the
associated road safety enforcement and management; (iii) pilot studies of innovative
technologies and non-conventional materials in construction of low-traffic volume roads;
(iv) consultancy services for the design and construction supervision of a future proposed



                                              ii

Road Agency headquarter building (both (iii) and (iv) above financed by NDF); and (v)
preparation of a National Transport Master Plan (NTMP).
  Key performance indicators are: (i) increased agricultural and industrial activity; (ii)
increased traffic growth; (iii) reduction in average travel time on main roads; and (iv)
reduction in transport and vehicle operating costs.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target        Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from          Revised         Achieved at
                                                 approval            Target       Completion or
                                               documents)            Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Increased agricultural and industrial activity measured in increased traffic growth
                                                                                Traffic (ADT)
                                                                                increased by an
                Traffic data at design in                                       average of five
                terms of ADT was:                                               times the base value
                Kikorongo-Kasese-Fort                                           at the revised
                Portal & Kasese-Kilembe                                         closing date, as
Value           road (Contracts C007 & Twofold increase                         follows:
quantitative or C008): 562 & 444;          by original closing Not revised      Kikorongo-Kasese-
Qualitative)    Equator road (Contract     date of Credit                       Fort Portal: 2525;
                C009): 301; Karuma-                                             Kasese-Kilembe:
                Olwiyo (Contract C004):                                         1972; Equator
                490; Olwiyo-Pakwach                                             road:964; Karuma-
                (Contract C003): 567.                                           Plwiyo: 490;
                                                                                Olwiyo-Pakwach:
                                                                                567.
Date achieved 07/01/2001                   06/30/2006            12/31/2006     06/30/2008

Comments        While not all the increase in traffic can be attributed to the improved road

(incl. %        condition, it can be taken as a good proxy for increased agricultural and

achievement)    industrial activity. Achieved substantially above 100% at the revised closing
                date.
Indicator 2 :   Reduction in average travel time on main roads compared to baseline
                                                                                Approx. 1.6 hours
                                                                                travelling on the
                                           30% travel time                      Karuma-Pakwach
                Approx. 5 hours            reduction expected                   and approx. 2.1
Value           travelling on the Karuma- by completion of                      hours on
quantitative or Pakwach and approx. 4      civil works           Not revised    Katunguru-Fort
Qualitative)    hours on Katunguru-Fort construction.                           Portal roads. This
                Portal roads.                                                   has reduced
                                                                                travelled time by
                                                                                68% and 48%
                                                                                respectively.



                                                 iii

Date achieved 07/01/2001                  06/30/2006         12/31/2006     06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved above 100% at the revised closing date.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Reduction in transport and vehicle operating costs (VOC) compared to baseline.
                                                                            US$0.224/veh-km
                                                                            on Karuma-

Value           US$ 0.352/veh-km on        20% reduction                    Pakwach,

quantitative or Karuma-Pakwach,          expected by              revised   Katunguru-Fort

Qualitative)    Katunguru-Fort Portal    completion of civil Not            Portal and Equator
                and Equator roads        works                              roads. VOC
                                                                            reduced by 36% on
                                                                            both roads.
Date achieved 07/01/2001                  06/30/2006         12/31/2006     06/30/2008
Comments        With the upgrading of Karuma-Pakwach road from gravel to paved standard and
(incl. %        the strengthening of paved road Katunguru to Fort Portal, the VOC have been
achievement)    reduced on both roads by 36% against the planned target of 20%.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value         Values (from                        Achieved at
                                              approval           Revised       Completion or
                                             documents)      Target Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Gravel roads upgraded to paved
                The project started with                                    108 km of roads
Value           design and tender                                           were upgraded from
(quantitative   document preparation for 108 km of roads in Revised         gravel to paved
or Qualitative) 108 km of gravel road    good condition      closing date   standard, which are
                upgrade                                                     in good condition.
Date achieved 07/01/2001                  06/30/2005         06/30/2008     06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Achievement 100% at the revised closing date.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   Paved road strengthened
                The project started with                                    163 km of paved
Value           design and tender        163 km of paved                    roads were
(quantitative   document preparation of road in good         Revised        strengthened, which
or Qualitative) 163 km of paved road     condition           closing date   are in good
                strengthening                                               condition.
Date achieved 07/01/2001                  06/30/2005         06/30/2008     06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Achievement 100% at revised closing date.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Road black spots on 2 major trunk roads identified and reconstructed
Value           Feasibility study and    Reconstruction      Improve 16     12 number of black
(quantitative   design of black spots    completed           black spots on spots improved on
or Qualitative) improvement program                          two major      Kampala Jinja road



                                               iv

                                                              trunk roads
Date achieved 07/01/2001                   06/30/2004         06/30/2008    06/30/2008

Comments       It was agreed to improve 16 black spots on Kampala-Jinja and Kampala-Entebbe

(incl. %       roads. The 12 on Kampala-Jinja were improved. However the 4 on Kampala-

achievement)   Entebbe were not improved due to conflicting program of resealing.
               Achievement 75% at revised closing date
Indicator 4 :  National and Greater Kampala Area Transport Plans agreed
                                                                            Transport master
Value          No Master Plan to guide                                      plan adopted for the
(quantitative                              Completed          Not revised   whole national and
or Qualitative)long term investment                                         Greater Kampala
                                                                            area
Date achieved 07/01/2001                   06/30/2004         06/30/2008    06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %       Achievement 100% at revised closing date.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :  Innovative design prepared, road constructed and tested
                                                                            The innovative
Value          NDF started the project     Road construction Revised        design for low
(quantitative  with feasibility study and  to be completed    completion    traffic volume roads
or Qualitative)explored options for
               innovative design.                             date          completed, but not
                                                                            yet tested.
Date achieved 07/01/2001                   06/30/2006         06/30/2008    06/30/2008
Comments       The innovative designs for the low traffic volume roads are ready under NDF
(incl. %       and GOU funding are ready for award. UNRA plans to monitor the performance
achievement)   for 5 years after construction. Achievement 20%.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                 DO                        IP               Disbursements
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     12/19/2001           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     04/26/2002           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     0.00
  3     06/13/2002           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     0.00
  4     09/30/2002           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     0.00
  5     11/22/2002           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     1.50
  6     03/31/2003           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     1.50
  7     08/06/2003           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     2.03
  8     12/23/2003           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     3.31
  9     04/26/2004           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     4.48
  10    09/09/2004           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     9.44
  11    12/15/2004           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    12.54
  12    02/11/2005           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    14.60
  13    04/09/2005           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    15.86
  14    10/19/2005           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    21.57
  15    05/16/2006           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    32.99



                                                v

  16  12/18/2006        Satisfactory      Satisfactory    51.94
  17  06/19/2007        Satisfactory      Satisfactory    64.18
  18  12/07/2007        Satisfactory      Satisfactory    70.05
  19  06/10/2008        Satisfactory      Satisfactory    73.37



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                      vi

1.      Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1     Context at Appraisal

1.      The Road Development Program (RDP) Phase II is the second phase of a four-phased
APL program. The Board of the Bank approved the IDA Credit for the first phase of the RDP on
June 29, 1999 and the Development Credit Agreement between Government and the Association
was signed on November 22, 1999. The Credit became effective on February 1, 2000. In October
2000, during the supervision mission for the Phase I project and the pre-appraisal of Phase 2, the
readiness of the various components was assessed. Account was also taken of the completion of
the National Road Safety Audit Study, and a 3-year Action Plan for implementing much needed
road safety improvements. Based on these, IDA agreed to a Government request (March 2000) to
finance Phase I of the National Road Safety Action Plan from the proceeds of Phase II of the
RDP. During the preparation mission in March 2000, the Nordic Development Fund (NDF)
decided with the Bank's consent to provide, under Phase 2, parallel financing for a pilot project
component to demonstrate the use of innovative technologies in the construction of low-volume
traffic roads. In addition, NDF would, in accordance with their May 2000 Board approval,
finance the feasibility study, design and supervision of the new Road Agency headquarters
building, programmed to be constructed under Phase 3 of the program. Appraisal of the Phase II
project also took into account the satisfactory rating of the ongoing phase I project. Further,
evaluation of the technical, economic, social and environmental feasibility of the projects
showed their readiness to be implemented concurrently with the first phase.

2.      The Bank's APL project is a contribution to Government of Uganda's (GOU) 10-Year
Road Sector Development Plan (RSDP-1996/7-2005/6) for the national road network, developed
in 1995 and endorsed by the participating donors in November 1996. Projected total expenditure
under the RSDP, over ten years, was estimated at about US$1.5 billion in constant end-1998
prices, and a further US$380 million to be allocated to the District feeder roads, urban roads and
other transport projects. Over the whole 10-year RSDP period, GOU has committed resources
amounting to US$700 million, EU US$223 million; IDA US$356 million, out of which, US$
282 million is being provided under the RDP (of which the RDP Phase 2 (RDPP2) is to be the
2nd phase, following-on from RDP Phase I (RDPPI)) with the remaining IDA financing
provided under the then ongoing Transport Rehabilitation Project (TRP - Cr. 2587-UG), Road
Sector Institutional Support Technical Assistance Project (RSISTAP - Cr.2987-UG) and El Nino
Emergency Road Repair Project (Cr. 3064-UG)); and various bilateral donors the balance. The
indicative size and the implementation period for the IDA APL as agreed at project appraisal of
RDPP2 in June 2001, and their status at the project closing on June 30, 2008 was as follows:




                                              1

     APL                             Financing and                            Actual Financing and
    Phases                   Implementation Period at                    Implementation Period at Closing
                                        Appraisal
                   Amount Start Date Completion                 Amount Effective Date         Completion
                   (US$ m)                          Date        (US$ m)                            Date
    Phase I         90.98         Nov. 1999      June 2004        90.98     Feb 1, 2000      June 30, 2008
    Phase II        64.52         July 2001      June 2006        64.52    April 11, 2002    June 30, 2008
   Phase III       100.40         Oct. 2002     June 2007         107.60   June 23, 2005     Dec 31, 2009
  Phase IV*         26.25         June 2003     Dec. 2007          N/A          N/A                N/A
     Total         282.15                                         263.10


* The phase IV of the APL was planned to finance District Roads. While the RDPP1 credit helped to update the
country's rural road strategy, it has been agreed in the meantime between GOU and DP that District Roads are being
financed through the budget while DP finance should focus on the upgrading of the primary trunk roads. Therefore
the phase IV of the APL will not be necessary.


1.2     Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

3.      The overall development objective of the RDPP2 was to improve access to rural and
economically productive areas and to progressively build up sustainable road sector planning,
design and program management capability, as well as road safety management. The project
comprised: (i) upgrading and strengthening of two high priority national roads; (ii) improvement
of safety at selected road accident black spots and the associated road safety enforcement and
management; (iii) pilot studies of innovative technologies and non-conventional materials in
construction of low-traffic volume roads; (iv) consultancy services for the design and
construction supervision of a future proposed Road Agency headquarter building (both (iii) and
(iv) above financed by NDF); and (v) preparation of a National Transport Master Plan (NTMP).

4.      The key performance indicators were (i) increased industrial and agricultural activity; (ii)
increased traffic growth; (iii) reduced travel time; and (iv) reduced transport rates and vehicle
operating costs over the national road network.

5.      The following triggers agreed for RDPP2 were successfully met:

(i)     RAFU key personnel in place and effectively handling the implementation process;
(ii)    the monitoring and evaluation system permits follow up of project implementation and
        assessment of project objectives' achievements;
(iii)   studies for updating of transport sector and district (feeder) roads strategies and financing
        completed;
(iv)    transport Sector Investment and Recurrent Expenditure Plan (TSIREP) for 3-years rolling
        period adequately covers sector requirements;
(v)     procurement specialist in place and procurement unit established within RAFU;
(vi)    design documentation prepared and contract documents ready for bidding.

1.3     Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and Reasons/Justification

6.      There was no change in the PDO or in the key indicators.


                                                         2

1.4     Main Beneficiaries

7.      The primary target group or main beneficiaries of the project were the road users as the
travel time and VOC were reduced with the improvement of main roads. In addition, the project
also benefitted MOWT, former RAFU (now UNRA), and local governments. RDPP2 supported
upgrading of gravel roads to paved standard, strengthening of paved roads, and improved the
road safety black spots. These activities led to substantial traffic safety improvements and
declining road accident fatalities on the concerned national roads. RDPP2 also supported the
preparation of NTMP, which is being used as guiding principles for making decisions relating to
planning and development of transport projects in the country and in the greater Kampala
metropolitan area.

8.      Since the improved road projects were part of a comprehensive countrywide road
investment strategy, RDPP2 contributed to foster economic growth and poverty alleviation
through improvement in market integration and accessibility. Through the Nordic Development
Fund (NDF) funded component, a study on innovative technologies for the management of low
volume roads has been completed and will be tested on 41 km of the Matuuga-Sumuto-Kapeka
road in central Uganda. It is likely to benefit in updating the government's ten-year district,
urban and community access roads investment plan (DUCARIP) which targets the use
innovative technologies for low cost sealed roads.

1.5     Original Components (as approved)

9.      The Project comprised of the following components:

Component 1: Upgrading and Strengthening of National Roads: (a) upgrading of 108 km
from gravel to paved (bitumen) standard of: (i) about 46 km of the Karuma-Olwiyo gravel road;
and (ii) about 62 km of the Olwiyo-Pakwach gravel road; and (b) strengthening of 163 km of the
following paved roads: (i) Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Portal road; (ii) the Kasese-Mpondwe
(Equator) road, and (iii) the Kasese-Kilembe road.

Component 2: Road Safety Improvement Action Plan: this component was divided into the
following two sub-components: (i) design and construction of black-spots improvements along
the Kampala-Jinja and Kampala-Entebbe roads; and (ii) institutional support and capacity
building, comprising: (a) carrying out of a comprehensive revision of the road safety sections of
the roads design manual and the general specifications for road works; development of a manual
for traffic signs and road markings; development of a manual for safety when working on the
road; (b) the provision of training and/or workshops for MOWT/RAFU staff in the use and
application of the above manuals and database system; (c) TA to the National Road Safety
Council (NRSC); (d) provision of enforcement equipment for speed control and breath alcohol
measurement, and training for the Traffic Highway Patrol Unit; (e) review and update of the
Highway Code and development of a curriculum for driving instructors and driving schools;
development of road safety as a subject within the primary school curriculum; and (f) provision




                                              3

of TA to the Ministry of Health in research of the epidemiology of road traffic injury trauma and
for identification of interventions required to reduce its impact as a public health problem.

Component 3: Preparation of National Transport Master Plan (NTMP) and Plan for
Greater Kampala Metropolitan Area: the provision of technical advisory services for the
preparation and implementation of a NTMP inclusive of the greater Kampala metropolitan area.

Component 4: Pilot Project for Demonstration of Use of Innovative Technologies for
Construction of Low-Volume Traffic Roads: The provision of technical advisory services and
civil works (related to the Matugga-Semuto-Kapeeka road) for the preparation of: (i) a feasibility
study, including socioeconomic and environmental impact assessment, costs and potential cost
benefits, and detailed project monitoring program during and after construction; (ii) designs for
all proposed methods of construction; (iii) construction; (iv) supervision during construction; (v)
monitoring program during and after construction; and (vi) design manuals, specifications, and
guidelines, based on detailed analysis of data obtained through the monitoring program. The
activities under this component were financed by NDF.

Component 5: Feasibility Study and Design of a National Road Agency Building: the
carrying out of a feasibility study, detailed design, and supervision of construction of the
National Road Agency building. The activities under this component were financed by NDF.

Component 6: Consulting Services for the Supervision of Civil Works: The provision of
technical advisory services for the supervision of civil works to be carried out under the Project.

1.5     Revised Components

10.     Project components were not substantially revised. However, there was a modification
under Component 4 as the feasibility study and design of the road agency building was carried
out as planned under RDPP2. But due to lack of funding, construction of the building was
deferred and as such, the consultant's contract was amended and the supervision of the Agency
building taken out of the RDPP2 Credit.

1.7     Other Significant Changes

11.     An amendment to Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was signed on April 10, 2002
to exclude one of the existing effectiveness condition of "furnishing the revised resettlement
action plan (RAP) for the civil work under component 1 and 2" and to include it as a
disbursement condition for the component A only. This amendment was required for the
following two reasons: (i) to gain more time for the preparation of RAP for the first year civil
work contracts, which were not possible to prepare before July 31, 2002; and (ii) this was
blocking the progress in the implementation of other project activities. Finally the project was
declared effective on April 11, 2002.

12.     Implementation Schedule: The original project closing date was June 30, 2006. On
March 23, 2006, the government requested an extension of two years and the IDA agreed to
extend until June 30, 2008. The time extension was approved by the office of regional vice



                                                 4

president (RVP) and the main reason for the extension was to allow the completion of two large
civil work contracts: (i) upgrading of Olwiyo-Packwach gravel road; and (ii) strengthening of
Fort Portal-Hima. Prior to granting extension, the Bank team and management considered two
options: (i) extending the credit for one year to allow for substantial completion of work and use
Bank guarantee to cover defect liability period (DLP); and (ii) extending the credit for two years
to allow full completion including DLP. It was concluded that 2 years extension would be the
preferred option.

13.     Funding Reallocation: There was no funding reallocation during the implementation
period.

2.      Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1     Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

14.     The project design was appropriate and addressed the following key issues: (i) continuing
dialogue to support policy and institutional reforms for setting up UNRA and Road Fund (RF);
(ii) enhancing road sector management through carrying out NTMP studies; (iii) implementing
road safety action plan; and (iv) carrying out innovative technology on low volume roads.
During the preparation phase, the project reviewed the following strategic choices: (i) proceeding
with the sector investment project or to phase IDA assistance under successive operations.
Taking into account the large size of RSDP that required increasing absorptive capacity, the
selected choice of following up with RDP Phase 2 was found appropriate; and (ii) supporting
implementation of overall trunk and feeder roads under APL or consider feeder road program
separate recognizing their unique characteristics and management requirement at the district
level. Taking into account that the government under its decentralization strategy introduced
direct allocation of funding for district roads through conditional grants, the decision to support
main roads under the APL phase 1, 2 and 3 and district roads under the APL phase 4 was found
valid and realistic.

15.     The project design was also consistent with the government's Poverty Eradication Action
Plan (PEAP), which identified six critical areas that required substantial expenditures. The RDP
Phase 2 supported main roads, road safety and low volume roads as being directly concerned
with increasing rural income and supporting the private sector. The following lessons drawn
from the experience of earlier transport operations in Uganda were reflected in the design of
RDPP2: (i) limited capacity of the implementation agency to address the problems related to
procurement documentation, contract management, and technical monitoring; (ii) substantial
delays in the processing and awarding of contracts, which led to delayed completion and cost
overruns; and (iii) the need for first undertaking the main institutional and policy changes
including restructuring of road administrations prior to committing any road investments in the
sector.

16.     A risk analysis was carried out and mitigation measures were identified. The key risks
from outputs to objective assumed to be: (i) projected level of agricultural and industrial
production will not be increased; (ii) Uganda road agency will not be established and fully
operational as scheduled; (iii) adequate budgets will not be released; (iv) appropriate financing



                                                5

arrangements will not be approved by GOU and agreed with road users; and (v) annual main
road maintenance program will not be implemented as scheduled. Mitigation measures were
defined, but were not linked to concrete milestones or taken up as triggers for subsequent phases
of the APL. Overall risk rating was assessed as "modest", which in hindsight seems too low.

17.     The project was not subjected to a Quality Assurance Group (QAG) review at entry.

2.2     Implementation

18.     The Bank approved the project on July 3, 2001, the DCA was signed on August 16, 2001,
and the credit became effective on April 11, 2002 after a delay of five months. The credit was
scheduled to be effective within 90 days of credit signing by November 16, 2001 but by that date
the government could not meet the effectiveness condition of furnishing a RAP for the
implementation of first year road contracts under component 1 for the upgrading and
strengthening of priority national roads. Taking into account that the preparation of a RAP would
take more time than expected, the Bank agreed to make this a disbursement instead of an
effectiveness condition. The other reason for delay in effectiveness was the government's need to
obtain approval of the project by parliament, and parliament was dissolved until October 30,
2001 due to election in that year.

19.     The components on road safety transport master plan, innovative technologies of low
traffic volume roads, and feasibility study of national road agency building respectively made
good progress and were completed on schedule. Progress on the implementation of component 1
for upgrading and strengthening of national roads, and component 6 (works supervision) was
uneven. In all, there were five large civil works contracts and despite initial delays, contract
C004 mostly remained on track; contract C003 was completed with minor delays (4 months) and
contracts   C007, C008 and C009 completed with substantial delays (12, 9 and 8 months
respectively). Contract C003 had some problems on source of materials while performance of
contracts C007, C008 and C009 was affected by the poor design which required variations for
improvement. Performance of contract C007 was further affected by poor contract management.
Implementation only improved after the client followed the Bank's advice to ensure that the
contractor appointed a contracts manager. In general, the civil work contracts had
implementation delays that varied from 0 percent to 100 percent of the contractual scheduled
time. The financial performance varied from savings of 8.9 percent to cost overruns of 29.3
percent (see Annex 2, Table 5 and 6).

20.     A mid-term review (MTR) took place on February 14, 2005. The mid-term review
identified the need to extend the closing date of the credit due to delays experienced in
implementation of the project.

21.     The project was not subjected to a QAG review during supervision.

2.2.1 Major Factors Affecting Implementation

Factors Outside the Control of the GOU or Implementing Agencies:




                                              6

22.     Shortage in the supply of fuel: this was due to temporary closure of the refinery at
Mombasa, followed by an intermittent break down of operations of the oil pipeline from
Mombasa to Eldoret, as well the political crisis in Kenya end 2007 to early 2008. This affected
the civil works contracts both in completion delays and cost overruns.

Factors Generally Subject to Government Control

23.     Lack of Counterpart Funding: the project was designed to provide for 25 percent
counterpart funding on the civil works component and 20 percent on consultants' services.
However, government had difficulties in realizing the counterpart funding and this affected the
performance of contractors. While government requested for amendment of the credit, this could
not be done due to over commitment under RDPP2. As such, the credit was not amended. At
closure, there were outstanding payments on completed works, payments of which GOU has
informed the bank that it will meet as the credit was fully disbursed.

Factors Generally Subject to the Implementing Agency's Control

24.     Weak monitoring capacity: the project included key output and outcome indicators for
monitoring and evaluation. However the long decision-making process in RAFU, lack of follow
up on the agreed performance indicators and incomplete design of the monitoring and evaluation
framework contributed to implementation delays of some project activities.

25.     Lack of comprehensive progress reporting: RAFU prepared progress reports on
individual project activities, but paid little attention to produce more comprehensive and
consolidated progress reports for the information of all stakeholders interested in the road sector.
Such more comprehensive reporting could have indicated systemic management weaknesses
earlier on, which then could have been remedied, leading to improved project implementation.

2.3     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

26.     M&E Design: At project appraisal, the key performance indicators were designed as part
of project design summary to monitor the project performance at several levels at CAS goal,
program purpose, PDO for RDPP2, and outputs from each component. In addition, the project
also included key performance indicators and trigger indicators, which all made the M&E
framework a complex process. No specific indicators were designed to assess the achievement of
each of three PDOs. A matrix providing comparison of performance indicators agreed at the
project appraisal and achieved at project completion are given in Annex 2, Table 2. No
comprehensive M&E framework clearly specifying the role and responsibility of the staff and
type of reports to be produced was designed and agreed at project appraisal.

27.     M&E Implementation: During project implementation, the performance indicators were
modified as necessary (see paragraph 8) specifically to measure the progress of achieving
development objectives. The project design summary prepared at project appraisal was not
modified during project implementation to take into account the project extension approved for
two years. RAFU had a monitoring officer but no comprehensive evaluations were carried out.




                                               7

28.     M&E Utilization: In hindsight it is felt that the M&E system was not adequately used to
    monitor project implementation delays and to act on such delays.

2.4     Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

29.     Procurement: At project appraisal, all procurement arrangements including procurement
plan and procurement methods were discussed and agreed consistent with the World Bank (WB)
guidelines. The project included mainly procurement of large civil works contracts that needed
pre-qualification for upgrading/strengthening of major roads. Other contracts were for
improvement of road safety black spots, consulting services for the supervision of the civil works
contracts, carrying out studies on low traffic volume roads, preparation of transport master plan,
feasibility study and design of the national road agency building. Despite RAFU's efforts to
follow procurement plans, delays occurred. On some occasions the quality of procurement
documentation was not up to standard at the initial stages of the project.

30.     Financial Management: There was a dedicated Finance and Administration Division, in
RAFU, that was responsible for all aspects of financial management. A well documented
Financial Management Manual was developed. The manual outlines internal control procedures
as well as financial reporting arrangements for the funding received from the GOU budget, WB
and other donors. Effective July 2001, the accounting system was fully computerized based on a
double entry accounting system. The ratings of the Financial Management (FM) in the
implementation status report (ISR) were satisfactory. The quality of the financial management
reports in general was good. Satisfactory audit reports were received on a timely basis, which
were reviewed by the Bank and the comments sent to the Borrower. FM issues were identified
and appropriate recommendations made. The absence of an internal audit unit had been a theme
for a long time and it is now being established under UNRA. Consistent with the DCA, the
following financial covenants were complied with: (i) carrying out audits of the special account
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles by independent auditors; (ii) implementing a
time bound action plan for strengthening financial management system; and (iii) furnishing
quarterly project management reports.

31.     Environment: Considering that the improvement works would have followed the existing
alignments it was initially classified under category "B", however on realizing that the road
sections are passing through national parks and will have a potential impact on wildlife, the
category was changed from "B" to "A". Accordingly at appraisal the project was considered
under Category "A". Environmental impact assessment (EIA) was carried out for each road
project as part of the detailed feasibility studies for the following purposes: (i) to prepare a
comprehensive investigation delineating any environmental impacts of the proposed road works;
(ii) to describe and quantify these impacts; (iii) to draw up feasible mitigation measures for
minimizing, eliminating or offsetting any adverse effects; and (iv) to recommend the most
appropriate mitigation and/or enhancement measures. An environmental liaison unit (ELU) was
established in MOWT to monitor the activities of not only road projects but all environmental
issues relating to infrastructure projects under the jurisdiction of the ministry. ELU works in
collaboration with the Uganda Wildlife Authority (UWA) and the National Environmental
Management Authority (NEMA) and follows the recommendations of the road sector
environmental policy and management study report completed earlier under RDPP1.



                                               8

32.    Social Assessment: Social Assessment for the physical components was conducted prior
to appraisal in conjunction with EIA for the roads selected for upgrading and strengthening. The
EIA team included social and environmental scientists providing a multi-disciplinary approach to
preparing the EIA. Socioeconomic data were collected and analyzed from each of the areas
where the roads were planned to be improved. It included analysis of the temporary and localized
microeconomic impacts resulting from construction activities. Project also addressed the social
impact on human settlements such as HIV/AIDS prevention and to reduce number of road
accidents. During the project implementation a social assessment was carried out and its
recommendations were as follows: (i) appoint a social coordinator within UNRA; (ii) ensure
HIV programs are integrated within the National HIV response; and (iii) capacity building
amongst management and staff on the importance of addressing issues relating to HIV/AIDS.

2.5    Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

33.    Road Development Program Phase 3 (RDPP3): The size of the credit/grant is US$107
million. It was approved by the Board on September 2, 2004, declared effective on June 23,
2005, and scheduled for completion by December 31, 2009. The key trigger indicators for
RDPP3 were successfully achieved as follows: (i) RAFU key personnel in place and effectively
handling the implementation process; (ii) The monitoring and evaluation system permits follow
up of project implementation and assessment of project objectives' achievements; (iii) TSIREP
for 3-years rolling period adequately covers sector requirements; and (iv) design documentation
prepared and contract documents ready for bidding. The key objectives of RDPP3 are to improve
access to rural areas and economically productive areas and to progressively continue to build up
sustainable road sector planning, design and program management capability including road
safety management. The RDPP3 is implementing the construction of Soroti-Dokolo-Lira road
(123 km) and Kampala-Gayaza-Zirobwe road (42 km). The project also supports feasibility and
detailed design for the main roads (Gulu-Atiak-Nimule and the Vura-Arua-Oraba roads) and the
detailed design of 300 km of district roads, reclassified to the national roads standard, and
implementation of a capacity building program in RAFU/UNRA.

3.     Assessment of Outcomes

3.1    Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

34.    The project design was relevant to the country's development priorities and the
circumstances prevailing in the road sector. Given that the previous projects RSISTAP laid a
good foundation in kicking off much needed institutional reforms, completed engineering design
and bidding documents, RDPP2 correctly provided emphasis on the following: (i) continuing
dialogue with the government to move forward the implementation of agreed institutional
reforms; (ii) awarding civil works contracts; (iii) carrying out road safety audits; (iv) improving
road safety black spots; and (v) preparing NTMP. Through NDF funding, RDPP2 also supported
innovative technologies of low traffic volume roads. The project preparation was timely and
responsive to the country's needs for promoting road safety, introducing innovative technologies,
and carrying out feasibility study of the UNRA building in addition to upgrading and
strengthening of national roads.



                                              9

35.     The project objectives were clear, relevant and important to improve sector policy and
strengthening road management. The project components had a good linkage with the project
objectives. The project also contributed to the Bank's CAS strategic outcomes of improving
reliability of access to infrastructure services and poverty reduction through medium term
strategy focused on private investment led growth. The project objectives were also in line with
the country's 1998 PEAP through facilitating the efficient and reliable provision of transport
services, increasing agricultural production, enhancing linkages with neighboring countries,
stimulating economic growth and promoting security in the country.

3.2     Achievement of Project Development Objectives

36.     The Project's overriding objective of improving accesses to rural and economically
productive areas through upgrading selected priority road links and further strengthening road
sector management was substantially achieved on account of the following accomplishments: (i)
the road Karuma-Olwiyo-Packwach (108 km) was upgraded from gravel to paved (bituminous)
standard; (ii) the Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Portal, Equator and Kilembe roads (163 km)
strengthened; (iii) first phase of NRSAP implemented; (iv) NTMP including transport plan of
greater Kampala metropolitan area prepared and (e) innovative technologies study for the
management of low volume traffic roads completed. The outcome of all these technical
assistance studies is provided in Annex 2, Table 3. In addition, the project had three specific
objectives and the status of their achievement is as follows:

37.     The first specific objective of upgrading and strengthening two main roads, on which 90
percent of the project resources were spent, has been substantially achieved. There were five
civil works contracts, one completed on time, two with minor delays and two with substantial
delays of more than one year (see Annex 2 Table 5). It included the following works:

(a)      Upgrading of National Road Karuma-Olwiyo-Packwach (108 km) from gravel to
bitumen standards in two packages: (i) Contract number C003 for the section from Olwiyo to
Packwach (62.4km) and (ii) contract number C004 for the section from Karuma to Olwiyo (45.6
km). Contract C004 made good progress and was completed ahead of time; contract C003 had
some problems on source of materials and was completed with a delay of 4 months. This road
had a positive impact through increasing trading with the neighboring countries. It improved the
trunk road system in Northwest Uganda and links to outlets to Sudan and north-eastern
Democratic Republic of Congo.

(b)     Strengthening of paved road Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Portal, Equator and Kilembe (163
km). This comprised of the following three contracts: (i) Contract C007 Fort Portal Hima (55
Km): the work completed with delays of 12 months; (ii) Contract C008, Hima-Kasese-
Kikorongo-Kilembe (53km); the work completed with delays of 9 months; and (iii) Contract
C009 Kikorongo-Katunguru and Equator; the work completed with delays of 8 months. The
economic activities in the area where roads were improved were connected with agriculture,
industry and tourism. It had greater agriculture potential and 75 percent of the population
depended upon the agricultural produce both for subsistence and surplus for sale. The road




                                              10

improvement promoted number of tourists to visit Queen Elizabeth National Park, and other
game reserves in the area.

38.     On the second specific objective of the project namely the development and
implementation of the NRSAP seven percent of project resources were spent and the objective
was partially achieved. Production of engineering manuals, curricula for driving instructors and
driving schools were developed; trauma care training manuals prepared for the Ministry of
Health (MOH); Accident Report Forms developed for Uganda Police; procurement of police
enforcement equipment (first aid kits, speed measuring instruments and breathalyzers) was
completed; a 3-day training for twenty RAFU, MOWHC and KCC staff in road safety auditing
was completed on 1 September 2004; the Road Safety Audit Manual was approved on
December2, 2004 and is already in use on new RAFU (now UNRA) projects. However, in terms
of black spot improvements, less was achieved than originally planned, as is explained in the
next paragraph.

39.     The road safety study carried out under RSISTAP identified 33 black spots on highly
trafficked roads in Kampala area and recommended to improve 25 black spots on two roads
Kampala-Jinja and Kampala-Entebbe. Considering financial constraints a contract for improving
16 black spots (12 on Kampala Jinja and 4 on Kampala Entebbe) was eventually signed. Twelve
black spots on Kampala Jinja were improved; however 4 on Kampala Entebbe road were
cancelled to avoid conflict with the highly sensitive resealing works being done simultaneously
on this road in preparation for the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting. The work on
Kampala-Jinja contract was delayed by one year due to investigation of a complaint received
prior to award of contract.

40.     Overall the investment in road safety appears to be yielding results given that there has
been a reduction in the number of road accidents and road accident fatalities. The end FY07/08
report by the Uganda Police indicates that the number of traffic accidents reduced from 17,428 in
FY 06/07 to 11,758 in FY07/08, representing a reduction of 33 %; the number of causalities
reduced from 14,894 in FY06/07 to 13,432 in FY07/08, representing a reduction of 9.8%; fatal
crashes reduced from 1,737 in 2006/7 to 905 in 2007/8, representing a reduction of 48%; and the
fatalities (deaths) reduced from 2,383 in FY06/07 to 2,035 in 2007/8, representing a reduction of
14%.

41.     On the third specific objective of the project namely the preparation of NTMP about three
percent of the project resources were spent and the objective was substantially achieved. The
study produced a comprehensive NTMP. The NTMP is now the basis of the future road sector
development. It also included the transport master plan for greater Kampala.

3.3     Efficiency

42.     At project appraisal an economic analysis for investment on all project roads was carried
out using the Highway Design and Maintenance Model (HDM III) and the consolidated EIRR
was observed to be above 12 percent. The project also carried out a sensitivity analysis based on
economic costs (+20 percent) and average daily traffic (-20 percent). The economic analysis was
also subjected to stochastic risk analysis. At project completion the NPV and the EIRR were
reevaluated using Highway Development and Management Model (HDM IV) and a consolidated



                                               11

NPV was US$ 12.34 million which is higher than the estimated NPV at appraisal of US US$ 9.1
million. The consolidated EIRR on completion was observed to be 18.4 percent which falls
within the range of estimated EIRRs at appraisal of 12.5%-21.3% (See Annex 3).

3.4     Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

43.     The primary objective of project was to improve access to rural and economically
productive areas and to build up road sector planning and management capability in the country.
This was successfully achieved by improving 271 kilometers of primary roads on which traffic
volumes increased by more than 500 percent on average (see Annex 3, Table 1 (b): Key
Economic Re-estimation Parameters for RDPP2 Projects). The average travel time decreased by
more than 30 percent and vehicle operating cost decreased by 36 percent. Seventy five percent
of the planned road accident black spot improvements have been carried out, the innovative road
designs developed under this project are now being implemented, and the National Transport
Master Plan including the Greater Kampala Metropolitan Area transport Master Plan are now the
blueprint for sector development. Despite the extension of the project closing date by two years,
the outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory.

3.5     Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

44.     With NDF support the RDPP2 carried out a study on innovative technologies for
improving the conditions of low traffic volume roads. In addition, RAFU carried out
socioeconomic studies on improved roads. The key findings in terms of poverty aspects, gender
aspects and social developments were as follows:

(i) Poverty Impact:    The project area corridors in which the roads were improved were known
for agriculture production, diary and poultry farming, timber and fish production and tourism to
national parks. The development of all these activities prompted local economy and reduced
rural poverty through creating job opportunities, increasing farm production and promoting
tourism.

(ii) Gender Aspects: The policy and strategy paper on feeder roads also provided equal
employment opportunities for male and female workers on road rehabilitation works.

(iii) Social Development:     The project provided improved access to schools, health centers,
village markets, social services and facilitated business development activities. Since the roads
were improved on existing alignments, the project did not have any negative impact on human
resettlements.




                                               12

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

45.     During the implementation phase the following institutional changes were made:

(i) An ELU was established in April 2001 within MOWT and its objective was to provide
coordination with NEMA.

(ii) Parliament passed the UNRA Bill in May 2006. UNRA Board was appointed in January
2007. UNRA was formally established on November 1, 2007 though appointment of its Chief
Executive Officer and senior managers, and it became fully operational on July 1, 2008.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

46.     At project appraisal in March 2001, the establishment of the RF had not been planned for.
During the implementation of RDPP2 the creation of a RF was discussed with GOU. Parliament
approved the RF bill in June 2008 and it is expected to be operational in July 2009. This change
will be a positive step towards ensuring adequate and stable flow of maintenance funding and
sustainability of the project outcomes.

47.     With support of Public Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility (PPIAF), MOWT carried
out a study aimed at outsourcing MOWT's regulatory function to a Multi-Sectoral Transport
Regulatory Authority (MTRA) and to promote private sector participation in the delivery of
services and ownership of infrastructure. The objective of the study was to prepare a policy and
strategy on the establishment of MTRA for the land and water transport subsectors, including
road, rail, river and lake, and pipeline transport. The consultant's draft report was discussed in
two stakeholder workshops and the final report taking into account the workshop comments and
recommendations was produced in August 2006. GOU is now preparing a respective policy
paper and plans to establish MTRA in 2009.

3.6     Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

48.     During the project preparation and implementation, the following workshops were
organized:

(i) on March 3, 2002 a stakeholder's workshop was held in Kampala to discuss the road agency
study (RAS).

(ii) on April 23-24, 2002 a stakeholder's workshop was held in Kampala to discuss an update of
the GOU 10-year (1996-2006) road program.

(iii) on June 28, 2005, a stakeholder's workshop was held in Kampala to review the performance
of the transport sector.

(iv) on October 16-19, 2006 a joint transport sector review (JTSR) meeting was held in Kampala
to review performance of the sector.

(v) on October 30, 2007, a stakeholder workshop was held in Kampala to discuss the findings
and recommendations of a study aimed at promoting Public Private Partnership (PPP) through


                                              13

using the concept of Output Performance-based Road Contracts (OPRC) for the maintenance and
management of roads in the country.


4.     Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

49.    Given that UNRA is now fully operational and the Road Fund is being created, the risks
to the development outcomes are considered moderate. UNRA has taken over the maintenance
function on national roads from MOWT with speed and efficiency. Though UNRA is a new
agency, it has experienced and professional staff recruited through competitive selection mostly
from its predecessor RAFU. It also was in a position to take over existing and well tested
management systems from RAFU. Even though, as has been experienced in many other
countries, policy reversals are possible and sector stakeholders need to remain vigilant. UNRA
and the RF need to keep building capacity, adopt new ways of managing road networks (for
example output based approaches), and need to be in a position to retain high quality staff. For
example, it will be important that both UNRA and the RF will become members of the African
Associations of Road Agencies and Road Funds, in order to participate in such regional and
international knowledge exchange.

5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1    Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

50.    The project design was relevant, appropriate and responsive to the client's needs as it
supported the government's 10-year (1997-2006) RSDP. The preparation of Phase 2 was valid
and legitimate as the GOU succeeded to fulfill the progress on the following key triggers for
moving from Phase 1 to 2: (i) RAFU strategy for recruitment of technical staff implemented; (ii)
PIP prepared; (iii) detailed design and bidding documents accepted; and (iv) pre-qualification of
contractors commenced. During project preparation, an intense process of information sharing
and consultation took place with the donor community, who also supported the project. The
Bank added value through providing experience gained through the Road Maintenance Initiative
(RMI) in Africa. The GOU and donor community acknowledged the Bank's leadership role
during preparation of the RSDP. However, as was concluded in the ICR for RDPP1, while the
use of APL instrument provided flexibility in adapting project design and financing to evolving
client needs, the triggers for this and subsequent phases were not specifically linked to the
achievement of road sector reform goals, nor able to fully benefit from lessons by not forcing
sequencing of the APLs. (This is reflected in the rating for quality at entry for RDPP1.)

51.    The overall risk at project appraisal was assessed as "moderate" and mitigation measures
were adequate, though a comprehensive risk mitigation plan to follow during project
implementation was not designed and discussed with the borrower. Taking into account the
weaknesses in procurement management observed through the implementation of the two


                                             14

previous projects RSISTAP and RDPP1, the team could have been more proactive in assessing
the contract management capacity of the implementing agency during project appraisal and
strengthened it adequately in order to avoid the completion delay that also occurred under
RDPP2. In order to avoid delay in project effectiveness, the team should have been more pro-
active in managing safeguard issues by timely preparing a RAP because during the project
implementation it was prompted to change the related effectiveness condition to a disbursement
condition (see paragraph 13).

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

52.     RDPP2 began implementation soon after RDPP1 and thus there was little scope to apply
lessons of the first phase to the second phase but this is attributable to the design of RDPP1,
rather than a shortcoming in RDPP2. In any event, a Project Implementation Plan (PIP) was
prepared, which provided a good basis for the project supervision. The skills mix of the Bank
supervision team was well balanced. The Bank team maintained a strategic vision not only on
institutional development, but provided a good advice on other cross cutting issues such as road
safety, transport master plan, and engineering research on innovative methods for construction of
low traffic volume roads. There was significant involvement of the Bank's team to resolve day to
day problems. The quality of the financial management reviews was found to be satisfactory and
consistent with the Bank guidelines. The supervision aide-memoires for the implementation
phase were extensive and provided highlights on the key issues thus providing prompt
information to the client and Bank management.

53.     Three large contracts (Contracts C007, C008 and C009) were substantially delayed due to
poor design and poor contracts management in the case of contract C007 and delay in releasing
counterpart funding. Despite of these delays, the Bank team continued to provide "satisfactory"
rating throughout the implementation period. Eventually, the project did complete all the civil
works contracts, but with an overall delay of two years. Considering that the completion of civil
work contracts took longer than planned, and timely counterpart funding was not provided, the
team should have demonstrated realism by reflecting ratings less than satisfactory. From a
strategic standpoint, however, the Bank was responsive in recognizing the problems and
providing space and time for their resolution. The actions taken by the Bank to resolve
implementation bottlenecks were adequate but the Bank's efforts to strengthen M&E did not
much improve the situation due to weak institutional capacity for M&E in RAFU.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

54.     Taking into account the role played by the Bank at entry and at supervision, the overall
rating for Bank's performance is assessed as moderately satisfactory.

5.2     Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance


                                             15

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

55.     The government showed commitment in implementing institutional reforms; UNRA
became fully operational in July 2008 though it took ten years. As recommended by the sector
financing and management study and after a consistent dialogue with the Bank, the government
finally decided to set up a RF to enhance financial sustainability of road maintenance. The RF
Bill was passed by the Cabinet on May 17, 2007 and was approved by the Parliament on June 19,
2008. In order to monitor performance of the transport sector, government convened, on an
annual basis, a JTSR workshop, the last of which was held on October 28 to 31, 2008. Despite
the government commitment shown in the 1996 donor's conference of providing funding for
road maintenance, the government imposed budget cuts in 2003/4 and the allocation for the road
sector was reduced by 19 percent. This had an adverse impact on the sustainability of road
investments in terms of delayed maintenance and less budget for rural and urban roads.
Furthermore, there have been delays in releasing of counterparts funds during the years 2002/3,
2003/4 and 2004/5 as a result the payment to contractors were delayed and the government owed
contractors UGsh 10.6 billion (equivalent of US$ 5.92 million) in the year 2006. Finally a large
part of the arrear payments to contractors were cleared prior to project closing. Taking into
account that agreed road budget was not allocated, resulting in delays in providing counterpart
funds; the Borrower's performance is rated as moderately satisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

56.     RAFU was the key implementing agency for RDPP2 and its Management Committee
(MC) was responsible for monitoring and providing advisory services. The MC comprised the
Minister, MOWT (Chairman), the Permanent Secretary, Engineer-in-Chief/Director of
Engineering and the Director of RAFU. The head of the RAFU desk in MOWT, financed by
DANIDA, served as a secretary to the MC and acted in a liaison role between RAFU and
MOWT. To ensure efficiency, RAFU appointed highly qualified core staff in the engineering,
finance and administration divisions. The staff was engaged on one-year renewable performance
based contracts, though it was a big challenge for RAFU to recruit experience and qualified staff
due to scarcity of skilled personnel in the country. Lack of qualified and experienced staff in
contract management was one of the main reasons for delay in monitoring the performance of
consultants and contractors.

57.     Award of two large civil works contracts (C003 and C007) under component one for
upgrading and strengthening main roads were delayed by 14 months and 10 months respectively
due to insistence by MOWT/RAFU not to award both contracts to the lowest qualified bidder.
Although in the Bank approved prequalification evaluation report, this bidder was pre-qualified
for both contracts and the consultants who prepared the bid evaluation report also recommended
award. MOWT did not support these recommendations based on the reason that the bidder would
not be able to perform well on both the contracts. Taking into account that the MOWT
recommendations were not consistent with the Bank procurement guidelines, Bank rejected the
GOU recommendations. Finally GOU changed the recommendations and as advised by the Bank



                                             16

recommended award of both contracts as required. Accordingly, the Bank provided its no-
objection. However, the delay in commencement resulted in higher contract price adjustment
figures.

58.     The contract for improvement of road safety black spots also suffered delays due to a
complaint raised by one of the bidders. The matter was referred for an administrative review with
a time loss of about 8 months. To monitor the achievement of PDOs, despite Bank's advice,
RAFU took a long time to update the information on monitoring indicators of growth in traffic
volume, reducing travel time and savings in VOC until the Bank showed rating for M & E as
"unsatisfactory" in the ISR. Regarding weak contract management, the Bank expressed its
concerns in July 2005 and urged RAFU management to streamline and centralize the operation
by introducing tight quality control measures in handling procurement and contract management
functions. Subsequently, the formation of teams comprising of foreign and national professionals
improved the situation in management of procurement functions.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

59.     Taking into account that government delayed payment of counterpart funding, which
affected the contractors' performance and delayed the implementation of civil work contracts,
and the relatively slow procurement decisions of the implementing agency the overall
performance of the government and the implementing agency is rated as "moderately
satisfactory".

                              1
6.      Lessons Learned

60.     APL Instrument: This was the second phase of the 4-phased APL program. Although it
commenced two years after the first phase, they were implemented in parallel and they closed on
the same date. The ICR team feels that the APL instrument was not optimally used in this case,
as is explained in the box below.

               Box 1: Early Lessons of Experience with the APL Instrument
     Principles of APL:

     APL provide phased support for long-term development programs. They involve a series of
     loans (credits) that build on the lessons learnt from the previous loans in the series.

     Special Design Feature: An APL involves agreement on (i) the phased long-term
     development program supported by the credit: (ii) sector policies relevant to the phase being
     supported; (iii) priorities for sector investments and recurrent expenditures. Triggers define
     when to move to the next phase. Subsequent credits are phased on the basis of satisfactory
     progress in meeting the defined triggers.


1It should be noted that the lessons learnt are generally the same for RDPP1 and RDPP2 since
although they started two years apart, they closed on the same date.



                                                   17

     Key Advantages of APLs: (i) realism: less front-loading of policy conditionality. Realistic
     phasing of reforms; (ii) continuity: encourages long-term planning and sustainable institution
     building; (iii) lower financial charges.

     Lessons Learnt from the Implementation of the Uganda Roads APL (phase 1 and 2)

     From the above it is clear that the design of the RDP had design flaws. The core problem
     was that the RDP phases were designed to be implemented in parallel (originally phases one
     to three were to be committed within one year), hence the option of learning from one phase
     before commencing the next one was not possible.

     Second, the triggers were not clearly linked to the sector reform program. Intermediate
     triggers could have been defined related to the steps needed to be taken to implement the
     reform program.

     Thirdly, and more fundamentally, it seems difficult to agree with government on a
     comprehensive long term reform program and set intermediate targets for the achievement of
     reform steps. Views as to how sectors should optimally develop also are evolving and can
     hardly be predicted over a very long time span. It may therefore be possible to equally well
     support reform programs with a series of traditional SILs each of which covers a shorter time
     span as compared to an APL.


61.     Policy and institutional reforms: UNRA took long to implement. It would have been
advisable to set intermediate triggers in the APL to help accelerate the creation of UNRA. The
policy and institutional reforms to transform the ministry's road agency (RAFU) to an
autonomous road authority (UNRA) have taken much more time than the anticipated three and
half years at project appraisal. While the time needed for the societal decision making process to
create UNRA clearly has been underestimated, it also seems that, having created RAFU (whose
salaries were paid from the RSISTAP technical assistance credit), was a disincentive to rapidly
move towards the more comprehensive and autonomous UNRA. The existence of UNRA was a
trigger only for phase 4 of the APL. At least one could have set intermediate triggers, such as the
preparation of an acceptable bill, towards the establishment of UNRA, for phases two and three
of the APL.

62.     Technical Assistance: Future TAs should have clear objectives of building local capacity
with measurable outputs in a specified time. When RAFU was created in 1998, its head and other
key staff were expatriate staff appointed under the project funded TA program. The involvement
of the TAs was slowly phased out as the capability of national professionals was developed to
manage the activities of the sector. In 2004 a Ugandan national professional with a good
performance record was appointed as the Director of RAFU, thus replacing an expatriate staff
and this has proven to be effective. However, the skill transfer to local staff was not very
effective and took a long time. In designing a technical assistance program, it is critical to
evaluate the knowledge, skills, talents and competencies of national professionals so as to
appoint them to senior positions. Future TAs should have clear objectives of building local
capacity with measurable outputs in a specified time.




                                                 18

63.     Review of Design and Contracts Documents: The application of lime stabilized sub-base
needs to be carefully reviewed. For the first phase of the APL instrument, independent consultant
was engaged to review the performance of mechanical modification of the sub-base on contract
C005 as proposed by the contractor and accepted by the engineer. This was a fairly new area for
the implementing agency and, as such, they needed some re-assurance. Based on the consultant's
findings and recommendations, this technology was successfully adopted for construction of the
sub-base on contract C007 where the designed lime stabilization could not work as the lime
meeting the specifications could not react properly with natural gravel available in the project
area. The on-going RDPP3 also draws lessons from reviews carried out under the RDPP2 project
where some contractors preferred to substitute lime stabilized sub-base with crushed stone for
sub-base, although the latter was more expensive but better in quality than lime stabilized sub-
base. Already, a request has been made by one of the RDPP3 contractors in that regard.

64.     Lack of Counterpart Funding: Capacity of Borrower to finance counterpart funding must
be carefully assessed during project preparation. Non-payment of counterpart funding had dire
consequences on performance of the RDPP2 contracts. While government requested for
amendment of the credit to 100% financing of all the components, the available funds on the
project would not have been sufficient to meet all the commitments. Hence, the credit was not
amended. The end result was that the outstanding counterpart funding rose as high as US$ 8
million. This resulted in reduction of the output of contractors, and led to time extensions. Non-
payment of counterpart funding tends to discourage contractors from competing for jobs and
may result in collusion of bidders. It is therefore important to realistically analyze the Borrower's
capacity to finance counterpart funding, and to decide to either finance 100% of all components
(this, however, was not an option at the time of the preparation of this credit due to the
unwillingness of the Bank to finance taxes) or to move to a sector wide program whereby co-
financiers (government and other DP) each finance part of the overall program.

65.     Risk Assessment and Results Framework: Well designed risk assessment and results
frameworks are crucial for project success. Both risk assessment and results framework of the
project lacked depth and stringency. As a result, the monitoring of the achievement of the
development objectives and implementation progress was less than satisfactory. It is for good
measure that the Bank nowadays puts much more emphasis on the establishment of a thorough
risk assessment and a coherent results framework with baselines and measurable indicators.

7.      Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies N/A

(b) Co-financiers N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders N/A
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                                19

                                    Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

    (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                                      Appraisal Estimate   Actual      Percentage of
                      Components
                                                       (USD millions)   (USD millions)  Appraisal
1.Upgrading and Strengthening of National Roads              72.47            84.63       117%
2. Road Safety Improvement Action Plan                         5.08           10.51       207%
3. National Transport Master Plan                              2.66             3.05      115%
4. Pilot Project for the Demonstration of the Use of
Innovative Technologies for Construction of Low              10.79              0.82       8%
Volume Traffic Roads (100% NDF financed)
5. Feasibility Study and Design of a Building for the
                                                               0.92             0.36       39%
National Roads Agency (100% NDF financed)
6. Consulting Services for Supervision of Civil Works          5.08             6.96      137%
Total Project Cost                                           97.00           106.33       110%


    (b) Financing


                                                         Appraisal
                                                                           Actual      Percentage of
                         Source of Funds                 Estimate
                                                                        (USD millions)  Appraisal
                                                       (USD millions)
 Borrower                                                   23.58            27.63         117%
 International Development Association (IDA)                64.52            77.52         120%
 Nordic Development Fund (NDF)                               8.90            1.18          13%
 Total Project Cost                                         97.00            106.33        110%




                                                     20

                                 Annex 2. Outputs by Component



                 Table 1: Comparison of Activities Proposed at Appraisal and
                            Outputs Achieved at Project Completion

  Component     Name of         Activities Agreed Output Achieved   Percent        Remarks
               Component                at           at Project
                               Appraisal/through    Completion
                                  Amendments
1.          Upgrading and      Olwiyo-Pakwach    Olwiyo-Pakwach               Substantial
            Strengthening of   (62km)            (62.5 km)                    completion
            National Roads                                                    attained on July
                                                                              26, 2007. Issuance
                                                                              of the DLP
                                                                     100%
                                                                              certificate is due
                                                                              end of October
                                                                              following
                                                                              completion of
                                                                              repairs to defects.
                               Karuma-Olwiyo     Karuma-Olwiyo                Project completed
                               (46km)                                         a month ahead of

                                                 (45.55 km)                   intended
                                                                              completion date
                                                                     100%     on September 11,
                                                                              2006. Defects
                                                                              Liability
                                                                              Certificate issued
                                                                              on July 16, 2007.
                               Fort Portal-Hima  Fort Portal- Hima            Works completed
                                                                     100%
                                                 (55.2km)                     on 27 June 2008.
                               Hima-Kasese-      Hima-Kasese-                 Substantial
                               Kikorongo &       Kikorongo                    Completion
                               Kirembe-Kasese    (41.15km) &         100%     attained on March
                                                 Kasese- Kirembe              31, 2007.
                                                 (11.6km)
                               Kikorongo-        Kikorongo-                   Substantial
                               Katunguru &       Katunguru                    completion
                               Equator           (15.47km) &                  attained on
                                                 Equator Road                 December 13,
                                                 (38.22km)                    2006 some 8
                                                                     100%
                                                                              months beyond
                                                                              completion date.
                                                                              Final Completion
                                                                              was on March 18,
                                                                              2007.
2.          Road Safety        Civil Works       Physical Road                100% of the black
            Improvement and    Construction of   safety                       spots (12) on
            Action Plan        safety            improvements to              Kampala-Jinja
                               improvements at   12 identified        75%     road were
                               identified black  black spot                   improved; 4
                               spot locations on locations along              locations along
                               sections of       Kampala-Jinja                Kampala-Entebbe



                                              21

Component       Name of         Activities Agreed   Output Achieved     Percent       Remarks
               Component                 at             at Project
                               Appraisal/through       Completion
                                  Amendments
                               Kampala- Jinja       road                         road cancelled due
                               road (71km) and                                   to then ongoing
                               Kampala - Entebbe                                 resealing contracts
                               road (37km).                                      on the section in
                                                                                 preparation for
                                                                                 CHOGM2.
                               2 (i) Design and     Design and                   Value of services
                               Construction         construction                 as at end of June
                               Supervision of civil supervision         97.5%*   2008.
                               works black spots    services
                               improvements.
                               2 (ii) Institutional
                               Support:


                               (a) Complete         Revised sections             Completed
                               revision of road     of relevant                  satisfactorily
                               safety sections of   sections of the
                               the Road Design      Road Design
                               Manual (sections     Manual (sections
                               4,5 & 6) and the     4,5 & 6) and the
                                                                        100%
                               General spec's for   General spec's for
                               road works ,         road works ,
                               development of
                               manual for traffic   A manual for
                               signs and road       traffic signs and
                               markings;            road markings
                               (b) Training and/or  MOWT and                     Completed
                               workshops for        RAFU staff                   satisfactorily
                               MOWT and RAFU trained in use and
                                                                        100%
                               staff in use and     application of
                               application of       above manuals.
                               above manuals;
                               (c) Technical        Technical
                               assistance to the    assistance to the            Completed
                                                                        100%
                               National Road        National Road                satisfactorily
                               Safety Council.      Safety Council.

                               (d) Police:          Handing over to
                               Provision of         police of                    Completed
                               enforcement          enforcement                  satisfactorily
                               equipment for        equipment and
                               speed control and    training for the
                               breath alcohol       establishment of    100%
                               measurement, and     the Traffic
                               training for the     Highway Patrol
                               establishment of the Unit.
                               Traffic Highway
                               Patrol Unit;


2
 Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting




                                                22

  Component      Name of        Activities Agreed  Output Achieved      Percent       Remarks
               Component                at             at Project
                               Appraisal/through      Completion
                                   Amendments
                               (e) Education:      Highway Code
                               Development of a    developed,                    Completed
                               Road Code,          Curriculum for                satisfactorily
                               curriculum for      Driving
                               Driving Instructors Instructors and
                               and Driving         Driving Schools
                               Schools,            developed and is
                               development of      being
                               road safety as a    implemented.          100%
                               subject within the
                               Primary School      Road safety
                               curriculum;         curriculum for
                                                   primary schools
                                                   (P1-P4)
                                                   developed and
                                                   distributed to
                                                   schools


                               (f) Technical       Technical                     Completed
                               assistance to the   assistance                    satisfactorily
                               Ministry of Health  provided to the
                               in research of the  Ministry of Health
                               epidemiology of     in research of the
                               road traffic injury epidemiology of
                               trauma and          road traffic injury   100%
                               identification of   trauma.
                               interventions
                               required to reduce  Interventions to
                               its impact as a     reduce impact as a
                               public health       public health
                               problem.            problem
                                                   identified.


3.          Preparation of the Preparation of the  NTMP and TMP                  Completed
            NTMP and TMP       NTMP and TMP                                      satisfactorily
            for Greater        for GK                                    100%
            Kampala (GK)



            Innovative         (i) Feasibility     Feasibility Study,            Procurement of
4.
            Technologies for   Study;              completed in                  the design
            Construction of                        March 2005.                   Consultant was
            Low-Volume                                                           delayed by the
                                                                         100%
            Traffic Roads for                                                    need to procure
            1) Matugga-                                                          TA to prepare the
            Semuto - Semuto-                                                     consultancy
            Kapeeka (41 km).                                                     service RFP.




                                               23

  Component       Name of     Activities Agreed   Output Achieved    Percent      Remarks
               Component              at             at Project
                             Appraisal/through       Completion
                                 Amendments

                             (ii) Detailed
                                                  Detailed Designs            NDF approval has
                             Designs & bidding
                                                  & bidding                   been secured
                             documents:
                                                  documents,          100%

                                                  completed in
                                                  January 2007.


                             (iii) Construction   Not achieved                Contract awarded
                             supervision                                      and works
                                                                              scheduled to
                             (iv) Monitoring
                                                                              commence in
                             Program during and                        0%
                                                                              December 2008
                             after construction iv
                             Preparation of
                             Design manuals.


5.          National Road    1) Feasibility Study 1) Feasibility      100%    Completed
            Agency Building                       Study


                             2) Detailed          2) Detailed                 Completed with
                             Architectural and    Architectural and           submission of
                                                                      100%
                             Engineering Design Engineering                   design
                                                  Design                      calculations in
                                                                              June 2008


                             3) Construction      3) Not achieved             NDF funding
                             Supervision                                      provision for
                                                                              construction
                                                                       0%     supervision has
                                                                              been reallocated
                                                                              as there are no
                                                                              funds to construct
                                                                              the building


6.          Consultants'     Olwiyo-Pakwach       Pre-construction            Substantial
            Services for     (62km)               services,                   completion
            Supervision of   Construction         Construction                granted to
            civil works.     Supervision          Supervision and             Contractor on July
                             including            services during     100%    26, 2007 and DLP
                             environmental        DLP                         was scheduled to
                             management and                                   end on July 26,
                             social adverse                                   2008
                             impact mitigation
                             measures.


                             Karuma-Olwiyo        Pre-construction            Completed with
                             (46km) as above      services,                   end of DLP on
                                                                      100%
                                                  Construction                July 16, 2007
                                                  Supervision and
                                                  services during



                                             24

  Component           Name of       Activities Agreed   Output Achieved   Percent        Remarks
                     Component              at            at Project
                                    Appraisal/through     Completion
                                      Amendments
                                                       DLP




                                   Fort Portal-Hima    Pre-construction             Works
                                   (55.2km) as above   services                     substantially
                                                       Construction        100%     completed on
                                                       Supervision and              June 16, 2008
                                                       services during
                                                       DLP


                                   Hima-Kasese-        Pre-construction             Services
                                   Kikorongo &         services                     satisfactory and
                                   Kirembe-Kasese      Construction                 final completion
                                                                           100%
                                   (41.15km) &         Supervision and              certificate issued
                                   Kasese- Kirembe     services during              March 31, 2007.
                                   (11.6km)            DLP                          No outstanding
                                                                                    activities.


                                   Kikorongo-          Pre-construction             Final Completion
                                   Katunguru           services                     Report submitted
                                   15.47km) &          Construction        100%     in July 2008
                                   Equator Road        Supervision and
                                   (38.22km            services during
                                                       DLP




     Table 2: Comparison of Performance Indicators at Project Appraisal and Project Completion


Hierarchy of Objectives Planned Outputs at     Achieved Outputs at         Remarks            Percent
                        Appraisal and/or as     Project Completion                           Achieved
                             amended               (June 2008)




                                                 25

 Hierarchy of Objectives    Planned Outputs at      Achieved Outputs at                Remarks              Percent
                            Appraisal and/or as      Project Completion                                    Achieved
                                  amended                 (June 2008)



 Project Development        1. Increased          Traffic (ADT) increased     Not all the increase in        100%
 Objectives                 agricultural and      by an average of five       traffic can be attributed
                            industrial activity   times the base value at the to the improved road
 To widen sector and
                            measured in           revised closing date, as    condition. It reflects also
 institutional reforms, and
                            increased traffic     compared to the planned     the improved business
 upgrade the condition of
                            growth                two fold increase at the    environment in Uganda.
 the main roads between
                                                  original closing date.
 major urban areas, and
 improve low traffic road
                            2. Reduction in       Approx. 1.6 hours           Travel time before             100%
 designs and road safety
                            average travel time   travelling on the Karuma-   project was about 5
 management
                            on national roads     Pakwach and approx. 2.1     hours on the Karuma-
                            compared to baseline  hours on Katunguru-Fort     Pakwach and about 4
                                                  Portal roads. This has      hours on Katunguru-Fort
                                                  reduced travelled time by   Portal roads.
                                                  68% and 48% respectively


                            3. Reduction in       US$0.224/veh-km on          VOC reduced by 36% on          100%
                            transport and vehicle Karuma-Pakwach,             both roads.
                            operating costs       Katunguru-Fort Portal and
                            compared to           Equator roads
                            baseline;


Existing national roads     108 km of gravel      108 km of gravel roads      All roads were                 100%
upgraded to paved           roads upgraded; and   upgraded; and 163 km of     completed by the revised
(bitumen) standard or       163 km of paved       paved road strengthened     closing date
strengthened; construction  road strengthened by  by June 2008
well supervised             June 2005


Road Safety Action Plan,    Road black spots on   Twelve black spots          Four locations along           75%
Phase I implemented         two major trunk       improved along Kampala-     Kampala-Entebbe Road
                            roads identified and  Jinja Road                  cancelled to avoid
                            reconstructed by                                  conflicting with ongoing
                            June 2004                                         simultaneous resealing


National and Greater        National and Greater  National and Greater        A draft GOU position           100%
Kampala Area Transport      Kampala Area          Kampala Area Transport      paper had been prepared
Plans approved and          Transport Plans       Plans completed in March    by another Consultant in
agreed                      approved and agreed   2005                        May 2007 and was being
                            by June 2004                                      refined by project closing


Innovative low-traffic      Innovative design     Designs completed and       Doubling of costs of the    100% for
roads designs identified    prepared,             agreed but not tested       works caused a funding      designs and
and adopted                 constructed and                                   shortfall and time loss of  bidding
                            tested by June 2006                               award as GOU tried to       documents
                                                                              secure additional funding   only


Road Agency building        Road Agency Study     HQ designs completed        NDF funding for                100%
designs completed and       completed under                                   construction supervision
adopted                     NDF                                               was however not used
                                                                              due to lack of funding


                                                       26

Hierarchy of Objectives     Planned Outputs at       Achieved Outputs at                Remarks               Percent
                           Appraisal and/or as       Project Completion                                      Achieved
                                amended                   (June 2008)



                                                                                due to lack of funding
                                                                                from RDDP3 for the
                                                                                works execution


                   Table 3: Status of Action taken on Completion of Technical studies
Title of the      Objective of the     Key finding of the     Recommendatio        Action taken     Comments
Study             Study                Study                  n of the Study       by the
                                                                                   Government
Preparation of    Preparation of       Identified             Recommended          A draft GOU      GOU Position
National          NTMP and             necessary              infrastructure       position paper   paper expected to
Transport Master  GKTMP                infrastructure         investment           had been         be finalized in
Plan (NTMP)       Proposal of          improvements for       priorities in all    prepared by      November 2008
                  organizational set-  road, rail, water      transport modes      another
                  up to implement      and air for 15 years   Recommended          Consultant in
                  the NTMP             starting 2004/5        NTMP Office and      May 2007 and
                                       Identified             Metropolitan         was being
                                       institutional gaps at  Transport            refined by
                                       National and           Authority to be      project
                                       Kampala                created              closure
                                       Metropolitan levels

Innovative        Demonstrate the      16 model LVR           Awaiting             Government       Monitoring of trial
Technologies for  suitability of       Pavement               implementation       has decided to   model pavements
Construction of   selected innovative  structures were        and monitoring of    test the         will take up to 5
Low-Volume        construction         developed for          the designs          proposed         years
Traffic Roads     technologies used    testing                                     designs.
(LVRs)            for LVRs                                                         Works
                                                                                   tendered in
                  Preparation with                                                 Jan 2008 and
                  related design                                                   awards
                  manuals and                                                      expected in
                  specifications and                                               Nov 2008
                  designs


National Road     Preparation of       Project site at Plot   10 storey twin       GOU              Modification
Agency Building   Feasibility Study,   63 Jinja Road          tower building       requested        detailed design and
                  detailed design and  found feasible         model selected       further          updated bidding
                  construction                                and designed         modification     documents
                  supervision          Six concept models                          of the
                  services             proposed                                    Detailed
                                                                                   design and
                                                                                   updating of
                                                                                   bidding docs




               Table 4: Comparison of Cost & Duration of Civil Works Contract at Project Start and
                                                         Completion



                                                       27

No    Project     Len-       Original      Actual   Cost   Start Original  Actual    %             Remarks
                   gth      Contract      Contract  Incr.  Date  comple-   comple-  delay
                  (km)        Price        Price     %           tion date  tion
                             USD m         USD m                            date

1  Olwiyo-         62.5       14.20        17.53     30    Mar - Mar -9-07 Jul- 26-  13   Delay caused by the need
   Pakwach                                                 12-04             07           to issue an extension of
                                                                                          time due to change of
                                                                                          source of crushed stone
                                                                                          and resultant long
                                                                                          haulage of crushed stone.
2  Karuma-        45.55       16.73        18.48     16    Dec    Dec 14   Aug 11    0    Revised completion was
   Olwiyo                                                 15 03     06       06           Sept 11 06. Early
                                                                                          completion was due to
                                                                                          change from lime
                                                                                          stabilized to crushed
                                                                                          stone sub- base.
3  Fort Portal-    55.2       13.14        15.84     21    Jul-   Jul -21- Jun- 27- 100   Revised scope of works
   Hima                                                    22-04    06       08           due to poor design.
                                                                                          Adverse weather and
                                                                                          poor management of
                                                                                          contractor/consultant led
                                                                                          to the delay.
4  Hima-            53        13.15        16.86     28    Jul-  Jul-20-06  Mar -    38   Delay due to the
   Kasese-                                                 21-04            31-07         variation of changing
   Kikorongo                                                                              stabilizing agent from
   & Kirembe-                                                                             lime to cement and
   Kasese                                                                                 additional works that
                                                                                          were not anticipated.
5  Kikorongo-     53.69       15.25        15.92     4     Apr-  Apr-14-06 Dec 13    33   An EOT of 8 months was
   Katunguru                                               14 -              06           granted due to increased
   & Equator                                                04                            scope plus inclement
                                                                                          weather.
6  Physical        15.5        2.78         7.56    172    Jan - Jan -14 -  Nov -    83   Revised completion date
   Road Safety                                             15 -     08      30-083        was April 17,
   Improvmts.                                               07                            2008.Attainment of
   at identified                                                                          substantial completion
   black spot                                                                             has been delayed by
   locations                                                                              defective asphalt that
                                                                                          required replacement.
7  Construction     41         N/A          N/A     N/A    N/A     N/A      N/A     N/A   Bids received in Jan
   of Low-                                                                                2008. Contracts were yet
   Volume                                                                                 to be awarded by closing
   Traffic                                                                                date of the project.
   Roads




       3
        Anticipated date for substantial completion




                                                         28

                    Table 5: Comparison of Cost & Duration of Consultancy Services Contract at Project Start
                                                        and Completion

No.  Project            Length    Original   Actual   Expected Start  Original     Actual   Percent    Remarks
                        (km)      Contract   Contract Cost     Date   completion   comp-    delayed
                                  Price M    Price    Increase        date         letion
                                  USD        USD      %                            date
A. Supervision Services for Civil Works Contract

1    Olwiyo-              62.5       0.95       1.42     48     May     Aug 06     Aug 08      40      There was delayed
     Pakwach                                                    02                                     procurement of
                                                                                                       Contractor and
                                                                                                       execution of
                                                                                                       works
2    Karuma-Olwiyo       45.55       0.86       1.36     58     May     Aug 06     Dec 08      40      There was delayed
                                                                02                                     procurement of
                                                                                                       Contractor
3    Fort Portal-         55.2       0.78       1.53     78     Jul-   Jul-21-06   Jul-26-     100     Revised scope of
     Hima                                                      22-04                  08               works, adverse
                                                                                                       weather, and other
                                                                                                       Conditions beyond
                                                                                                       Contractor's
                                                                                                       control led to the
                                                                                                       delay
4    Hima-Kasese-          53        1.31       1.39     17     Jul-   Jul-20-07    Mar-       37.5    Delay caused by
     Kikorongo &                                               21-04                31-08              increased scope on
     Kirembe-Kasese                                                                                    works
5    Kikorongo-           15.5       1.18       1.26      7     Jul-   Apr-13-06   Dec-13      23.5    There was delayed
     Katunguru &                                               17-03                 -06               procurement of
     Equator                                                                                           Contractor and
                                                                                                       Contractor's
                                                                                                       execution of
                                                                                                       works
6    Feasibility/         15.5       0.30       0.89     197    Apr-   Oct-3-06     Nov-       57      Delay due to
     Design and                                                 6-03                30-084             Procurement of
     Construction                                                                                      Contractor and
     Supervision of                                                                                    execution of
     physical                                                                                          works
     Improvement to
     black spots




           4
             Expected end of DLP




                                                         29

B. Technical Studies
1    Preparation of   N/A  2.66  3.05   0   Dec 02          Apr 05
     National
     Transport
     Master Plan
     (NTMP)
2    Innovative       41   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A    N/A      N/A   N/A Award of
     Technologies                                                      contracts
     for Construction                                                  expected in
     of Low-Volume                                                     Nov 2008
     Traffic Roads
3    National Road    N/A  0.92  0.36  (30) Jan 04  Feb 08  Dec 10  70 Const.
     Agency                                                            supervision
     Building                                                          component
                                                                       was not
                                                                       implemented




                                        30

                           Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

ECONOMIC RE-ESTIMATION FOR RDPP2 PROJECTS

1.      Introduction

1.      Economic re-estimation was carried out by comparing the costs and benefits of the "with
project" and "without project" cases. In the "without project" case, the 162 kilometer (km) roads
comprising of Fort Portal-Hima, Hima-Kasese-Kikorongo, Kasese- Kilembe and Equator paved
road sections would have remained in a poor condition. In addition, the gravel roads sections of
Karuma-Olwiyo and Olwiyo-Pakwach would not have been paved, resulting in high vehicle
operating costs (VOC) and relatively lower speeds. "With the Project", the first road sections of
162 km long were rehabilitated, while 109 km long gravel roads were upgraded to bitumen
standard, resulting in improved road condition, reduced VOC, and higher speeds.

2.      The re-estimation compared the annual streams of economic capital and operating costs
and benefits using the Highway Development and Management Model Version 4 (HDM4),
adjusted for the conditions of the RDPP2 project areas. The analysis period is 20 years; covering
the construction period and post construction period. Costs include: construction costs,
construction supervision costs and post construction maintenance costs. Benefits include:
reduction in VOC, travel time savings and boosting of agricultural potential in the project areas.
The analysis used economic figures adjusted to exclude taxes/duties using the same Standard
Conversion Factors (0.80 and 0.83) used at appraisal.

2.      Objective of the Re-assessment

3.      The main objective of this economic re-estimation is to determine the extent to which the
economic indicators (NPV and EIRR) estimated at appraisal stage have been realised at project
completion for all the five RDDP2 roads.

4.      Re-estimation for Karuma-Olwiyo and Olwiyo-Pakwach has used Traffic from Traffic
counts results from the surveys carried out by consultants engaged by the Ministry of Works and
Transport (MOWT) in the second quarter of 2008. For Fort Portal-Hima, Hima-Kasese-
Kikorongo, Kasese- Kilembe and Equator Roads (the rehabilitated roads in Western Uganda,
traffic data was got from the Traffic Counts conducted in June 2007 by the Supervision
Consultant for Hima-Kasese-Kikorongo and Kasese-Kilembe Roads rehabilitation project. The
traffic results used were carried out for 7 days i.e. 12 ­ hour traffic counts, with some days of 24
­ hour traffic counts on the project roads. The traffic data is summarized in Table Annex 3.1 as
part of key economic appraisal parameters.

3.      Input Parameters for the Economic Re-estimation

5.      This re-estimation has used Highway Development and Management (HDM-4), HDM-3
was used at appraisal stage. Major inputs used in the re-estimation are briefly described.




                                               31

3.1     Costs

The investment costs of the project roads were based on actual costs for construction and
construction supervision at the completion of each road. With the Project, routine and periodic
maintenance costs were estimated on the basis of maintaining an international roughness index
(IRI) value of less than four over the remainder of the analysis period. This would require routine
maintenance of $1,000 (financial cost) per km every year and periodic maintenance of $10,500 per km
every 7 years. Table 1 provides the key economic re-estimation parameters used by this analysis for
RDPP2 Projects:


         Table 1(a): Key Economic Re-estimation Parameters for RDPP2 Projects

         A. PROJECTS COSTS
     Project Cost on Completion         Economic Cost            Financial Cost        Project
                                        (US$/km)                    (US$/km             Period
             Length (km)                1998 - 2008              2008       SCF
  1. Katunguru-Kasese-
  Fort Portal                 112.6     222,000    266,086     332,607      0.80      2004-2008

  2. Kasese- Kilembe           12       112,000    294,994     368,742      0.80      2004-2007

  3. Equator Road              38       140,000    248,444     310,556      0.80      2004-2007

  4. Karuma-Olwiyo            45.6      264,000    359,992     433,725      0.83      2003-2006

  5. Olwiyo-Pakwach           62.5      237,000    280,771     338,278      0.83      2004-2007



         Table 1(b): Key Economic Re-estimation Parameters for RDPP2 Projects



  Annual Cost Stream (%)                  Year 1     Year 2      Year 3     Year 4      Year 5

  1.     Katunguru-Kasese-Fort              28          26         29         16
  Portal
  2.     Kasese- Kilembe                    14          19         35         32
  3.     Equator Road                       14          19         35         32
  4.     Karuma-Olwiyo                      10          25         26         30          10
  5.     Olwiyo-Pakwach                     27          34         27         12

  Start Years                                                2003 and 2004
  Analysis Period                                                 20 yrs
  Discount Rate                                                    12%
  Salvage value                                                    10%
  Base Options: Do Minimum               Maintain Gravel Road (Road numbers 4 & 5)
  (i)                                           Regravelling when gravel thickness less than



                                              32

                                 equal 50mm
                                         Grading every 365 days
                                         Routine maintenance

                                 Maintain Paved Road (Road numbers 1-3)
                                         Patching once a year, 100% potholes
(ii)                                     Crack sealing once a year, 100% transverse
                                 thermal cracks
                                         Routine Maintenance
Alternative Options                 Upgrading of Karuma-Olwiyo and Olwiyo-
                                 Pakwach Roads to bitumen standard in 2004;

                                    Strengthening/rehabilitation of Katunguru-Kasese-
                                 Fort Portal, Kasese-Kilembe and Equator Roads in
                                 2004; and

                                    Maintain Paved/ Rehabilitated Roads from 2013
                                 onwards.
           B. TRAFFIC
Traffic growth rates:            10 %: for the first 10 years,     Taken into
                                 and 7.5 % thereafter.             consideration
                                                                   forecasts at appraisal
                                                                   and actual growth
                                                                   rates between
                                                                   appraisal and
                                                                   completion.
Motorized Traffic in 2007 & 2008    Motorized Traffic (ADT)          Motorized Traffic
(weighted average ADT)                 Project Completion          (ADT) ­ at Appraisal
                                                                          (1998)
Year
1.     Katunguru-Kasese-     2007
Fort Portal                                   2,525                         562
2.     Kasese- Kilembe       2007             1,972                         444
3.     Equator Road          2007              964                          301
4.     Karuma-Olwiyo         2008              490                           82
5.     Olwiyo-Pakwach        2008              567                           87
                                 Note: Increase in Traffic in % is in Table Annex 2.4 of
                                 this report




                                       33

       Table 1(c): Key Economic Re-estimation parameters for RDPP2 Projects

                                            Some of the Assumptions used during the
      Generated Traffic                     feasibility studies have been applied as
                                            follows:

                                            (i) Generated traffic: Actual generated traffic
                                            based on traffic counts carried out in 2007
                                            and 2008 has been used.

6.     The traffic composition in percentage terms derived from the 2007 and 2008 traffic
counts that were used in this economic re-estimation are indicated in the table 2 below:

                Table 2: Traffic Composition in Percentage (RDPP2 Projects)

      Vehicle                               Karuma-           Katunguru- Kasese- Fort
                                             Olwiyo -        Portal, Kasese-Kilembe &
                                            Pakwach                 Equator Road
                               Road No.     4        5        1         2            3
      Cars Special Hire Taxis               6        5        30       13.1        33.1
      Pickups / Vans / 4WD                  17      20        14       10.1         8.8
      Minibuses                             2        1        7        1.8         10.6
      Medium Buses / Coasters               1        1        1        0.3          0.0
      Buses                                 7        7        1        0.1          1.0
      Single Unit Truck (Dynas /
      Tractors)                             10      13        9        0.7          5.4
      Single Unit Truck (Medium)            33      16        4        0.5          3.1
      Truck Trailers and Semi Trailers      22      28        3        0.0          2.1
      Motorcycles                           2       10        32       73.4        35.9

4.     Analytical Approaches

7.     The analytical method used in this evaluation:

       Analysis by Section: where individual road sections are analyzed separately based on
unit costs for each.

       The above analysis considered: Motorized Traffic, Non ­ Motorized Transport (NMT)
and Induced Agricultural Benefits (exogenous benefits).




                                              34

5.     Outputs of the HDM-4 Economic Re-estimation

8.     Table 3 below provides a tabulation of the results obtained for each of the road section
under RDPP1.

     Table 3: Output Economic Indicators from Re-estimation compared to Economic
                                Indicators at Appraisal (1998)

Output Economic                      Road Development Project Phase 2
Indicators                                           (RDPP2)
                                     1998                         2008
       NPV (m US$)                    9.1                        12.34
         EIRR (%)                  12.5-21.3                      18.4



6.     Conclusion

9.     The Economic re-estimation was carried out to establish the extent to which economic
indicators (NPV and EIRR) of the project roads under RDPP2 compare with the economic
indicators at appraisal. Re-estimation results as shown in Table 3 above indicate that the Net
Present Value (NPV) for all RDPP2 roads combined at project completion in 2008 is (US$ 12.34
million) which is greater than the NPV of (US$ 9.1 million) at appraisal in 1998. Similarly, the
Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) at completion is 18.4% which falls within the range of
EIRRs at appraisal of 12.5%-21.3%

10.    Overall, from the re-estimation results, the projected positive economic results arising out
of rehabilitating 163 km of paved roads and upgrading 108 km of roads to bitumen standard have
been realized and are even higher than estimated at appraisal. Timely maintenance of the
rehabilitated and upgraded roads coupled with effective axle load control will ensure that
economic benefits are maintained during the remaining life of RDPP2




                                             35

          Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

           (a)Task Team members
             Names                    Title              Unit    Responsibility/Specialty

Yitzhak A. Kamhi             Consultant                 AFTTR   TTL from 04/1997-11/2003
                             Lead Transport
Stephen J. Brushett                                     LCSTR   TTL from 11/2003-03/2005
                             Specialist
Supee Teravaninthorn         Program Coordinator        AFTTR   TTL from 03/2005-08/2006
                             Lead Transport
Dieter E. Schelling                                     AFTTR   TTL from 08/2006-05/2007
                             Specialist
                             Senior Highway
Labite Victorio Ocaya                                   AFTTR   TTL since 05/2007
                             Engineer
C. Sanjivi Rajasingham       Sector Manager             AFTTR   Sector Manager
Anil S. Bhandari             Sr. Adviser                AFTTR   Country Management Team
                             Sr. Environmental
Nina Chee                                               AFTEN   Environment
                             Spec.
Jocelyne O. Do Sacramento    Operations Analyst         AFTTR   HIV/AIDS
Olav E. Ellevset             Sr. Transport. Specialist  AFTTR   Road Management
Jonas Per Hermanson          Transport. Specialist.     AFTTR   Assistance with ICR
Nina Jones                   Program Assistant          AFTTR   Team Assistant HQ
Mustapha Benmaamar           Sr. Transport. Specialist  AFTTR   Assistance with ICR
Agnes Kaye                   Program Assistant          AFMUG   Team Assistant UG
Antoine V. Lema              Consultant                 AFTTR   Safeguard
Mary Consolate Muduuli       Operations Officer         AFMUG   Assistance with ICR
Grace Nakuya Musoke Munanura Procurement Specialist     AFTPC   Procurement
Harriet Nannyonjo            Sr. Education Spec.        AFTH1   Assistance with ICR
Elizabeth Ninan              Young Professional          YPP    Assistance with ICR
Labite Victorio Ocaya        Highway Engineer           AFTTR   TTL since 05/2007
Peter Okwero                 Sr. Health Spec.           AFTH1   Social Aspects
Richard Olowo                Sr. Procurement Spec.      AFTPC   Procurement
Kristine Schwebach           Operations Analyst         AFTCS   Environment
Farida Khan                  Operational Analyst        AFTTR   Portfolio
Subhash C. Seth              Consultant                 AFTTR   ICR Primary Author
Fang Xu                      Economist                  AFTTR   Assistance with ICR
                             Sr. Financial
Patrick Piker Umah Tete                                 AFTFM   Financial Management
                             Management Sp.
Desta Wolde Woldeargey       Temporary                  AFTTR   Assistance with ICR




                                             36

   (b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle       No. of staff          USD Thousands (including travel and
                              weeks                          consultant costs)
Lending
FY00                              9                  25.23
FY01                             32                  92.81
FY02                              7                  28.76

Total:                           48                 146.80
Supervision/ICR
FY02                             14                  57.44
FY03                             22                  83.26
FY04                             18                  74.16
FY05                             18                  85.83
FY06                             19                  86.91
FY07                             12                  43.74
FY08                             14                  41.23

Total:                         117                  472.57




                                    37

                             Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR

7.1     INTRODUCTION

1.      A key element in the implementation of government's sector strategy is the Road Sector
Development Program (RSDP) for the national road network which was endorsed at a donor's
conference held in Paris on November 10, 1996. The primary aims of the RSDP were to provide
an efficient, safe and sustainable roads network in support of market integration and poverty
alleviation; to improve the managerial and operational efficiency of road administration; and to
develop the domestic construction industry. Overall, a projected total expenditure level under the
RSDP was estimated at US$1.5 billion for the national road network for the period 1996 to 2007
and US$380 million for the District Roads over the same period. IDA's contribution to the RSDP
has been channeled through the Road Development Program (RDP).

2.      IDA agreed to support RSDP in cooperation with other development partners through the
Road Development Program (RDP) with an implementation period of eight years, from
November 1999 to December 2007. Of the projected RSDP financing of US$1.5 billion over the
10 year period as mentioned above, GOU planned to contribute US$700 million; EU (US$223
million); and IDA US$356 million (of which US$282 million was under an APL and the
remainder under the then ongoing Bank's Transport Rehabilitation Project (TRP - Cr. 2587-UG),
RSISTAP (Cr. 2987-UG), and El Nino Emergency Road Repair Project (Cr. 3064-UG).

3.      The indicative size and the implementation period for all the four phases as agreed at
project appraisal of RDPP2 in June 2001 and their status at the project closing on June 30, 2008
was as follows.

                        Table 1: Financing Plans at Project Appraisal and Closing

    RDP              Indicative Financing Plan and             Actual Financing Plan and
    Phases              implementation period                   implementation period
                         At project Appraisal                     at Project Closing
                Amount      Start Date   Completion    Amount   Effective Date    Completion Date
                (US$ m)                  Date          (US$ m)
     Phase I      90.98     Nov. 1999       June 2004   90.98     Feb 1, 2000      June 30, 2008
     Phase II     64.52      July 2001      June 2006   64.52   April 11, 2002     June 30, 2008
    Phase III    100.40      Oct. 2002     June 2007    107.60   June 23, 2005      Dec 31. 2009
    Phase IV      26.25     June 2003      Dec. 2007    100.00*  July 1, 2009*     June 30, 2012*

        * expected


7.2     PROJECT OBJECTIVES

4.      The overall development objective of the RDPP2 was to improve access to rural and
economically productive areas by removing major constraints to transport services on the
country's road network through rehabilitation and upgrading of the selected road links and to
support actions aimed at further strengthening of road sector management. This was to be
achieved by: (i) upgrading and strengthening of two main road routes; (ii) implementation of the




                                                  38

first phase of a National Road Safety Action Plan (NRSAP); and (iii) preparation of a National
Transport Master Plan (NTMP).

5.      The key performance indicators included increased industrial and agricultural activity;
increased traffic growth; reduced travel time; and reduced transport rates and vehicle operating
costs over the national road network.

7.3     Project Design

7.3.1 Original Project Scope

6.      The projects objectives were originally to be achieved through the following 5 (five)
components:

        A:      Upgrading and Strengthening of National Roads: This component aimed at upgrading
        from gravel to paved standard about 108 km of Karuma-Olwiyo-Pakwach Road and
        strengthening of 163 km of Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Portal Road, Kasese-Mpondwe Road
        and Kasese-Kilembe Road.

        B:      Road Safety Improvement and Audit Study Action Plan: This aimed 1) carrying
        out design, construction and monitoring of safety improvements on identified black-spots
        along the Kampala-Jinja and Kampala-Entebbe Roads; 2) a) Carrying out of a
        comprehensive revision of the road safety sections of the roads design manual and the
        general specification for road works; b) Development of a manual for traffic signs and
        road markings and a manual to prevent hazards at road construction and rehabilitation
        sites; c) Training in the use and application of relevant manuals and the database system
        to the staff of MOWT and RAFU; and d) Provision of technical advisory services to the
        staff of the National Road Safety Council; 3) a) Acquisition of enforcement equipment
        for speed control and breath alcohol measurement for use by the police and provision of
        training; b) Reviewing and updating the Highway Code and development of a curriculum
        for Driving Instructors and Driving Schools, and development of road safety as a subject
        to be included in the curriculum of schools; and c) Provision of technical advisory
        services to the Borrower' Ministry of Health to research the epidemiology of road traffic
        injury trauma and for identification of interventions required to reduce its impact on
        public health in the Borrower's territory.

        C:      Consultancy services for Civil Works Supervision: This included the provision of
        technical advisory services for the supervision of the civil works to be carried out under
        components A and B above.

        D:      Preparation of the Transport Master Plan: This provided for the technical
        advisory services for the preparation and implementation of a national transport master
        plan inclusive on the Greater Kampala metropolitan area.

        E:      Innovative Technologies for Construction of Low Volume Roads; Provision of
        advisory services and civil works related to the Mattuga-Semuto-Kapeeka road for the
        preparation of (i) a feasibility study, including socioeconomic and environmental impact



                                                39

      assessment, costs of potential cost and benefits and detailed project monitoring program
      during and after construction; (ii) construction; (iii) supervision during construction; (iv)
      monitoring program during and after construction; and (v) design manual , specification
      and guidelines based on detailed analysis of data obtained through the monitoring
      program.

      F:       National Road Agency Building; Aimed at carrying out of a feasibility study,
      detailed design, and supervision of construction of the National Road Agency Building.


7.3.2 Changes in the Project Scope

7.    No amendments were made with respect to the project scope

7.4   Project Costs

7.4.1 Original IDA Financing Allocations

8.    The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) for RDPP2 signed on August 16, 2001
provided for the following allocation of the SDR 50,900,000 credit proceeds:

      Category 1:     Civil Works (SDR 40,720,000) being 75 percent funding for the category;
      Category 2:     Goods (SDR 230,000) being 100% for the category;
      Category 3:     Consultants' Services, Training and Audit Fees (SDR 5,840,000) being 80
                      percent funding for the category; and
      Category 4:     Unallocated (SDR 4,110,000).




                                              40

7.4.2 Amendments and Re-allocations

There were no formal amendments to the allocations in 7.4.1. However, the World Bank client connection indicates that the IDA
funded amounts have been disbursed as follows:
                                                    Table 2: Disbursements

                                                                                       Un-                            Disbursed
                                               Allocated          Disbursed      disbursed      Undisbursed           Historical
            Category Description                    XDR                XDR            XDR              USD                 USD

                  Totals                    48,492,996.05     48,492,996.05           0.00             0.00        71,894,629.45
                                                                                          -                -
         1            Civil Works           40,720,000.00     44,333,990.02    3,613,990.02     5,600,997.87       66,326,538.59
         2            Goods                    230,000.00         122,679.17    107,320.83        166,326.90          184,358.26
                      Consu. SRVS +
         3            TRG/AUD                5,840,000.00      4,995,423.35     844,576.65      1,308,933.34        7,381,643.85
                      Designated
        DA-A          Account                       0.00          104,947.49   -104,947.49       -162,648.67          104,947.49
                      Designated                                                          -                -
        DA-B          Account                       0.00       1,342,959.97    1,342,959.97     2,081,332.79        1,342,959.97
        MDRI          MDRI split            -2,407,003.95      -2,407,003.95          0.00             0.00        -3,445,818.71
     Unallocated      UNALLOCATED            4,110,000.00              0.00    4,110,000.00     6,369,719.10               0.00




                                                            41

7.5     Project Implementation

7.5.1 Implementation Schedule

9.      The Credit became effective on April 11, 2002 with an original closing date of June 31,
2006. Due to delays in achieving one of the critical development objectives of the credit, for
example upgrading and strengthening of national roads, the credit was extended once to the
current closing date of 30 June 2008 as follows:
    ·   Extension to June 30, 2008 was sought on March 23, 2006 and approval was given on
        May 12, 2006.
    ·   The extension was asked for by the government and approved by the World Bank to
        enable the credit support the completion of the lagging civil work contracts, which had
        taken much longer to complete than had been envisaged when the project was appraised.

7.5.2 Financial Performance

10.     A summary of the financial status at project closure is shown in the table below. From the
table, the percentage utilization of the credit is 123%. The difference in percentages is due to
depreciation of the dollar against the SDR over the years.

11.     Details of the financial performance for the individual projects are given in Table 3
below.




                                              42

                                           Table 3: Financial Status at Closure


                                                   At Appraisal                        Actual

COMPONENTS COSTS (M US $)
                                          IDA     NDF   GOU      TOTAL       IDA   NDF  GOU    TOTAL



IDA/GOU Funded

Upgrading and Strengthening of
National Roads

Civil Works                               54.35    0    18.12      72.47     63.47       21.16  84.63

Construction Supervision                   4.06    0     1.02      5.08      5.22        1.74   6.96

Road Safety Improvement Action Plan

Black spots Improvement; Civil Works       2.08    0     0.70      2.78      4.74        2.82   7.56

Black spots Design and Const.
                                           0.24    0     0.06      0.30      0.31        0.58   0.89
Supervision.

Institutional Support                      1.36    0     0.34      1.70      1.40        0.39   1.79

Equipment                                  0.30    0     0.00      0.30      0.09        0.18   0.27

National Transport Master Plan

Consulting Services                        2.13    0     0.53      2.66      2.29        0.76   3.05

                                          64.52    0    20.75      85.29     77.52       27.63  105.15
              SUB-TOTAL

NDF Funded


Pilot Project for the Demonstration of
the Use of Innovative Technologies for
                                                  8.16   2.63      10.79           0.82         0.82
Construction of Low Volume Traffic
Roads

Feasibility Study and Design of a
                                                  0.74   0.18      0.92            0.36         0.36
National Road Agency Building

                                                  8.90   2.81      11.71           1.18         1.18
              SUB-TOTAL

                                          64.52   8.90  23.57      97.00     77.52 1.18  27.63  106.33
                 TOTAL
              Note: At Appraisal SDR 1 = US$ 1.355




                                                     43

           Table 4: Detailed Financial Performance for Components

       Project Cost By Component             Appraisal     Actual     Increase
                                             Estimate       Cost
                                              US$M          US$M

IDA/GOU FUNDED COMPONENTS
Upgrading and Strengthening of
National Roads
A. Civil Works: (including physical
contingencies 10%)
i) Olwiyo-Pakwach (62 km) ­ C003              31.86         17.53       23%
ii) Karuma-Olwiyo (46 km) ­ C004                            18.48
iii) Fort Portal-Hima (55 km) ­ C007                        15.84
iv) Hima-Kasese-Kikorongo & Kilembe
(53 km) ­ C008                                              16.86       17%
v) Kikorongo-Katunguru & Equator (54          40.61
km) ­ C009                                                  15.92
                  Sub-total                   72.47         84.63      17%
Construction Services for the
Supervision of Civil Works
i) Olwiyo-Pakwach (62 km                      5.08           1.42
ii) Karuma-Olwiyo (46 km)                                    1.36
iii) Fort Portal-Hima (55 km)                                1.53
iv) Hima-Kasese-Kikorongo & Kilembe
(53 km)                                                      1.39
v) Kikorongo-Katunguru & Equator (54
km)                                                          1.26
                  Sub-total                   5.08           6.96      37%
Road Safety Improvement Action Plan

A. Civil Works ­ Black spot
Improvements                                  2.78           7.56      172%
B. Consulting Services Design &
Construction Supervision                      0.30           0.89      197%
B. Consulting Services                        1.70           1.79       6%
C. Equipment                                  0.30           0.27      (10)%
                  Sub-total                   5.08          10.51      107.%
National Transport Master Plan

Consulting Services                           2.66           3.05       15%
Sub-Total                                     2.66           3.05       15%
TOTAL                                         85.29        105.15       23%
NDF FUNDED COMPONENTS

Pilot Project for the Demonstration of
the Use of Innovative Technologies for
Construction of Low Volume Traffic
Roads                                                      0.82
A. Civil Works;Matugga-Semuto-Kapeka
(36 km)                                       8.55         (22.16)     159%
B. Consultant Services ; Matugga-Semuto-
Kapeka (36 km)                                2.24         (1.72)      (30)%




                                        44

          Sub-Total                                               10.79                23.88               121%


          Feasibility Study and Design of a
                                                                                         0.36
          National Road Agency Building
                                                                  0.92                 (0.64)
          Sub-Total                                               0.92                 (0.64)             (30)%
          TOTAL COST (NDF)                                                              1.18
                                                                  11.71               (24.52)*


          TOTAL PROJECT COST                                      97.00                106.33              110%
         * Numbers in brackets are contract amounts. Actual spent at project closing was only $1.18m.


7.6      Achievement of Project, implementation and financial Objectives

7.6.1 Overall Assessment

12.      The overall development objective of the RDPP2 was to improve access to rural and
economically productive areas and to progressively continue to build up sustainable road sector
planning, design and program management capability, as well as road safety management. This
was to be achieved through: (i) Upgrading and strengthening of two high priority national roads;
(ii) Improvement of safety at selected accident black spots and the associated road safety
enforcement and management; (iii) pilot studies of innovative technologies and non-conventional
materials in construction of low volume roads and (iv) the Consultancy services for the design
and construction supervision of the proposed Road Agency Headquarters building.

13.      The rating with respect to achievement of the project and implementation objectives is as
follows:

Objective No. 1

14.      Upgrading and strengthening of two high priority national roads; the rating for the
achievement of this objective is: SATISFACTORY as shown below.

                                     Table 5: Objective 1 - Outputs

    Planned         Output Indicator                  Actual Output                             Remark

     Output

Existing           108 km of gravel       Upgrading Karuma-Olwiyo 45.55           km    All    planned   outputs
national roads     roads upgraded by      completed in Aug 2006 and Olwiyo-             achieved but two years
upgraded to        June 2005              Pakwach 62.55 km completed in July 2007       later.   The     delayed
paved standard                                                                          completion was due to
or strengthened;                                                                        initial delay in credit
                                                                                        effectiveness  and   the
Construction
                                                                                        prolonged    procurement
well supervised
                                                                                        process.




                                                    45

    Planned      Output Indicator                    Actual Output                         Remark

    Output

                163 km of paved        Strengthening of Fort Port ­ Hima 55.2     All planned outputs
                roads strengthened     km completed in May 2008, Hima-            achieved but 3 year later.
                by June 2005           Kikorongo/Kasese-Kilembe 52.7km in         The delayed completion
                                       March 2007 and Kikorongo-                  was due to initial delay in
                                       Katunguru/Equator Road 53.7 km in          credit effectiveness and
                                       December 2006                              the prolonged
                                                                                  procurement process.



Objective No. 2:

(ii)       Improvement of safety at selected accident black spots: MODERATELY
SATISFACTORY while the provision of road safety enforcement equipment to traffic police,
Production of Engineering manuals and specifications and provision of institutional support is
rated as HIGHLY SATISFACTORY as illustrated below. Overall the investment in road safety
appears to be yielding results given that there has been a reduction in the number of road
accidents and road accident fatalities. The end FY07/08 report by the Uganda Police indicates
that the number of traffic accidents reduced from 17,428 in FY 06/07 to 11,758 in FY07/08,
representing a reduction of 33 %; the number of causalities reduced from 14,894 in FY06/07 to
13,432 in FY07/08, representing a reduction of 9.8%; fatal crashes reduced from 1,737 in 2006/7
to 905 in 2007/8, representing a reduction of 48%; and the fatalities (deaths) reduced from 2,383
in FY06/07 to 2,035 in 2007/8, representing a reduction of 14%.

                                     Table 6: Objective 2 - Outputs

   Planned        Output Indicator                    Actual Output                        Remark

    Output

Road Safety   Black spots on two major    12 black spots reconstructed along     Procurement of the
Action Plan   truck roads identified and  Kampala-Jinja                          contractor was delayed by
Phase 1       reconstructed by June                                              an administrative review
implemented   2004                                                               process. Improvement
                                                                                 works along Kampala-
                                                                                 Entebbe Road were
                                                                                 cancelled to avoid conflict
                                                                                 with the highly sensitive
                                                                                 resealing works in
                                                                                 preparation for CHOGM.


              Road Safety enforcement     6 motorcycles with communication       All planned outputs
              equipment handed over       equipment, 18 alcohol breathalyzers,   achieved, ahead of time.
              to Traffic Police           18 speed detection guns, and 18 first
                                          aid kits were handed over to Police in
                                          2005




                                                   46

     Planned            Output Indicator                   Actual Output                          Remark

      Output

                    Engineering manuals and   Several documents was produced and        All planned outputs
                    technical specifications  approved including the Highway            achieved, additional
                    on road safety produced   Code, Road safety manuals and             services were requested for
                    and approved;             specifications, curricula for primary     by the client, leading to
                    institutional support     schools and driving schools, several      delayed completion.
                    provided to MOWT,         regulations, reports on various
                    MOH, RAFU, NCDC,          feasibility studies. This was coupled
                    ICC-U, Police, and other  with physical assistance to referral
                    road safety stakeholders. hospitals. Training was also conducted
                                              for MOWT, RAFU, ICC-U, MOH,
                                              etc. Completed in August 2008.



  Objective No 3:

  iii) Consultancy Services for preparation for the National and Greater Kampala Area Transport
  Plans is rated SATISFACTORY

  Planned Output           Output Indicator             Actual Output                           Remark


National and Greater     Transport Plans      Transport Plans including            A draft Government position
Kampala Area             approved and agreed  investment plans completed in        paper had been prepared by
Transport Plan           by June 2004         March 2005.                          another consultant in May 2007.
Approved and                                                                       This was in the process of being
Agreed                                                                             refined by project closure



  Objective No.4:

  Pilot studies of innovative technologies and non-conventional materials in construction of low
  volume roads is rated; MODERATELY UNSATISFACTORY as elaborated below


  Planned Output          Output Indicator              Actual Output                           Remark

Innovative low           Innovative design    Innovative design completed and      Procurement of the design
traffic road designs     prepared,            adopted in October 2006.             Consultant was delayed by the
identified and           constructed and                                           need to procure Technical
                                              Construction to test the designs is
adopted                  tested by June 2006                                       Assistance to prepare the TOR for
                                              slated to start in November 2008
                                                                                   consultancy service RFP.


  Objective No 5: Consultancy services for the design and construction supervision of the
  proposed Road Agency Headquarters building is rated as SATISFACTORY



  Planned Output          Output Indicator              Actual Output                           Remark

Road Agency              Road Agency          Road Agency building design          Adoption of design was delayed
Building designs         Building design      completed in May 2008                by need to undertake some
completed and            completed by May                                          changes to the design at the
adopted                  2006                                                      request of the Client.




                                                       47

48

7.6.2 Component Assessment

7.8      Bank and Borrower Performance

7.8.1 Bank

15.      Throughout the life of the project, the Bank showed commitment to ensure that the Client
achieved the project outcomes. This was particularly evident with regard to decisively supporting
the Client in resolving the contractual issues on the road projects. With respect to supervision,
regular (bi-annual) implementation support missions have been conducted throughout the project
life. In this regard, the Bank performance is rated as being SATISFACTORY

7.8.2 Borrower

Government:

16.      Government supported the project given its important contribution to its development
programs. It however experienced problems in meeting its counterpart funding obligations in a
timely manner. Government's performance rating can be rated as being SATISFACTORY

Implementing Agency:

17.      The implementing agency endeavored to ensure that projects are finished within the
scheduled time, cost and quality. It monitored and managed the projects to ensure that success is
achieved. It supported the bank missions whenever there was need to ensure that the Bank
accomplishes its mission. Overall, the Implementing Agency's performance is rated as
SATISFACTORY

7.9      Lessons Learnt and Benefits

7.9.1 Lessons

Government/IDA Management of the Project

18.      The arrangement by IDA to decentralize its operations with regard to the project to
regional and country office has greatly improved communication and interaction between the
Borrower and the Bank.

19.      Government continued to have problems meeting its counterpart funding obligations on
the project, this putting the government at risk of contractual default and related costs. This risk
needs to be properly addressed for future projects such as IDA taking on 100 percent funding of
the project.




                                                49

Project Estimates

20.     Estimates for the works components both at appraisal and feasibility/detailed design
(Engineer's estimate) were often short of the eventual costs of the works. For appraisal estimates,
this was caused by changes in local and global economic factors during the period between
project appraisal and actual implementation. For engineers' estimates the other cause related to
insufficient investigations of nature sources of construction materials.

21.     There is therefore need to provide sufficient physical and fiscal contingence to match the
likely changes in local and global economic factors. It is also recommended to make material
investigation services at feasibility and detailed design a reimbursable at cost sum to facilitate
more comprehensive materials investigation at this stage.

Project Related Activities

22.     Procurement continued to be a major delaying activity for most of the project
components. It is therefore vital to have good procurement planning to avoid such delays to
projects. Commencement of procurement could also be de-linked from the date of effectiveness
of the credit to give some lead time to procurement activities

23.     Physical improvements to identified black spot locations should be better planned so as to
be part of the major road rehabilitation contracts.

7.9.1 Benefits

24.     The major benefit has been upgrading of 108.05 km of truck roads in Northern Uganda
and strengthening of 157.64 km of truck roads in Western Uganda. This will enhance the
economic and social developments in the areas.




                                               50

                         Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents



1.    Project Appraisal Documents for:
      i)     Road Development Program, Phase I Project ­ June 3, 1999
      ii)    Road Develop Program, Phase II Project ­ June 7, 2001
      iii)   Road Development Program, Phase III Project ­ August 9, 2004

2.    Development Credit Agreements for:
      i)     Road Development Program Phase I Project ­ November 22, 1999
      ii)    Road Develop Program, Phase II Project ­ August 16, 2001
      iii)   Road Development Program, Phase III ­ February 23, 2005.

3.    Aide-memoire, implementation status reports and project progress reports.
4.    Country Assistance Strategy

5.    Project Implementation Plan

6.    Executive Agency Implementation Policy Framework and Implementation Strategy,
March 2000

7.    Uganda National Road Authority Act, June 8, 2006

8.    Consultants' Study Reports:
      i)     Transitional Institutional Reforms for the Establishment of Road Agency, June
             1998
      ii)    Road Agency Study, March 2002




                                            51

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IBRD 31397R


                                                                                                                                                                                                       UGANDA
                                                                                                                                                  ROAD WORKS EXECUTED UNDER THE
                                                                                                                                      ROAD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM PHASE 2

                   UGANDA                                                                                                                                ROADS DESIGNED UNDER RSISTAP                                                                 PAVED ROADS
                                                                                                                                                         AND UPGRADED UNDER RDPP2                                                                     GRAVEL ROADS
                                                                                                                                                         ROADS DESIGNED UNDER RSISTAP
                                                                                                                                                         AND UPGRADED UNDER OTHER                                                                     DISTRICT CAPITALS

                                                                                                                                                         PHASES OF RDP                                                                                NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                                                                                                                                         ROAD WORKS DESIGNED UNDER                                                                    RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                         RSISTAP BUT DROPPED DUE TO LOW
                                                                                                                                                         RATES OF RETURN                                                                              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                                                                         Source: Uganda National Road Authority (UNRA).




                                       30°E                                                                                                32°E                                                                                   This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                              0                 25    50           75            100 Kilometers                                           S U D A N                                                               The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                              0                    25                50                75 Miles                                    To
                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                                  JubaJuba
                                                                                            To
                                                                                            To
 4°N                                                                                   FaradjeFaradje                                                                                                                                                                                                                4°N



                                                                                                                                   MoyoMoyo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      K E N Y A
                                                                                                          Yumbe  umbe                                                                                                                   KaabongKaabong
                                                                                KobokoKoboko                                          AdjumaniAdjumani                                   KitgumKitgum
                                                                         MarachaMaracha

                                                                                                                         Nile
                                                                                            AruaArua               Albert                                                                                                                                     KotidoKotido                                 To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LodwarLodwar
                                                                                                                                               KilakKilak
                                                                                                                                                                 GuluGulu

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AbimAbim
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MorotoMoroto
               DEM. REP.
               DEM. REP                                                                                                                    Olwiyo
                                                                                      NebbiNebbi
                                                                                                                        Pakwach     Nile
            OF CONGO
            OF CONGO                                                                                                     Victoria                 Karuma          OyamOyam                   LiraLira
                                                                                                                  BulisaBulisa

 2°N                                                                                                                                                                       ApacApac                                               AmuriaAmuria  KatakwiKatakwi               NakapiripiritNakapiripirit              2°N
                                                           To
                                                           To                                                                                                                                  DokoloDokolo
                                                           Beni
                                                           Beni                                                                                                                                        KaberamaidoKaberamaido
                                                                                      AlbertHoimaHoima                              MasindiMasindi
                                                                                                                                                                         AmolatarAmolatar                             SorotiSoroti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    KumiKumi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           KapchorwaKapchorwa
                                                                                Lake                                                                 NakasongolaNakasongola                                                                                       SironkoSironko
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PallisaPallisa                                        BukwoBukwo

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BudakaBudaka            MbaleMbale
                To
                To                                                                                                                  KibogaKiboga                                                     KamuliKamuli
               BuniaBunia                                                                                                                                                                                        KaliroKaliro

                                                         FortFor                                     KibaleKibale                                                        LuweroLuwero                                                         ButalejaButaleja BubuloBubulo
                         BundibugyoBundibugyo PortalPortal                                                                                        NakasekeNakaseke       Wobulenzi                                                BusikiBusiki
                                                                                KyenjojoKyenjojo                                                                                             KayungaKayunga
                                                                                                                  MubendeMubende                                                                                                                Tororo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ororo
                                                                                                                                                                               Zirobwe                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         To
                                                                                                                                               Busunju
                                                                                                                                                              Wakiso
                                                                                                                                                                  akiso                                               IgangaIganga     BugiriBugiri                                                     NakuruNakuru
                                                                                                                                                                           Gayaza
                                                                                                                                                   MityanaMityana                                                                                      BusiaBusia
                                                                                                                                                                                     MukonoMukono          JinjaJinja

                              Kilembe                                 KamwengeKamwenge                                                              MpigiMpigi                KAMPALAKAMPALA
                                              KaseseKasese                                                                                                                                                                                                                  To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          KisumuKisumu
                           Mpondwe
 0°                                                                                                               SembabuleSembabule                                                                                                                                                                                  0°

                                             Katunguru              IbandaIbanda
                Lake                                                                                                               MasakaMasaka
               Edward                                                            KiruhuraKiruhura
                                                                                                                                                            KalangalaKalangala
To
To                                             BushenyiBushenyi                                                                                                                                                                                                                       K E N Y A
BeniBeni
                                                           MbararaMbarara

                                                                                    IsingiroIsingiro    RakaiRakai

                         KanunguKanunguRukungiriRukungiri       NtungamoNtungamo



                                                                                                                                                         Lake                                 Victoria
                           KisoroKisoro   KabaleKabale
 amoGomaGoT                                                                          TANZANIA
                                                                                       ANZANIA
                                                         To
                                                         To                                                          To
                                                                                                                     To                                                                                                                        TANZANIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ANZANIA
                                                KigaliKigali                                                     NyakanaziNyakanazi
                  RWANDA
                  RWANDA                                                                                                                   32°E                                                                                                 34°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SEPTEMBER 2008

