Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No- P-3604-PH
REPORT AhND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNAIONAL BAo K FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTI - DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$102.0 MMLLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
April 30, 1984
This document bus a restricted distrbution and may be used by recipients only- in the performance uf|
their offici2t duties- Its eontents may- not othlerwise be disclosed wfithoDut Worid Bank autborization -



CURRENCr EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Pesos (C)
US$1.00 = P 14.00
P 1.00 = US$0.07
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AA                       -  Advice of Allotment
ADT                      -  Average Daily Traffic
ADB                      -  Asian Development Bank
CDC                      -  Cash Disbursement Ceiling
ClAP                     -  Construction Industry Authority of the Philippines
co                       -  City Office of MPIJH
COA                      -  Commission on Audit
DBCC                     -  Development Budget Coordinating Committee
DO                       - District OffLce of Y PW
EKK                      -  Equivalent Maintenance Kilometer
ERR                      -  Economic Rate of Return
GRT                      -  Gross Registered Tonnage
INLG                     -  Ministry of Local Government
MOB                      -  Ministry of Budget
MOTC                     -  Ministry of Transport and Communications
'MPH                     - Ministry of Public Highways
MNP                      - Ministry of Public Works
bPwH                     -  Ministry of Public Works and Highways
NEDA                     - National Economic and Development Authority
NTPP                     - National Transportation Planning Project
PCA                      -  Philippi-e Contractors Association
P1O                      -  Projects Management Office of IPWH
PNR                      -  Philippine National Railways
PPA                      - Philippine Ports Authority
PTS                      -  Philippine Transport Survey
RO                       -  Regional Office of MPWH
SOE                      -  Statements of Expenditure
TOR                      -  Terms of Reference
USAID                    -  United States Agency for International Development
vpd                      -  vehicles per day



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Republic of the Philippines
Beneficiaries:      Ministry of Public Works and Highways (MPWH), Ministry of
Transport and Communications (MOTC) and the Construction
Industry Authority of the Philippines (CIAP).
Amount:             US$102.0 million (including capitalized front-end fee).
Terms:              20 years, including five years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project
Description:      The project seeks to (a) improve the existing network of
national highways and bridges; (b) raise maintenance to
adequate levels and remove the backlog of restoration
works; (c) improve highway management, particularly main-
tenance, and thus further strengthen the MPWH institu-
tional framework. The project also aims to assist in
deregulating interisland shipping, developing the domestic
construction industry, and improving the road transport
industry. To accomplish these aims, the project provides
for reconstruction of bridges, improvement and restoration
of national highways, consulting and technicaL assistance
services, and training. The project benefits are mainly
savings in vehicle operating costs and in highway mainte-
nance costs. The main project risk is in higher construc-
tion costs than estimated; this risk has been reduced by a
thorough preparation of the bridge reconstruction and
highway improvement programs. Two measures proposed under
the Special Action Program and included in this project
are a higher cost-sharing ratio and the establishment of a
Special Account.
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. 1t contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization|



- ii -
Local    Taxes    Foreign   Total
Project Costs:                                           m(US$ million)
Reconstruction of bridges                  13.0      3.7     20.4       37.1
Improvement of national highway             6.3      1.8      9.8       17.9
Restoration of national highways           24.1      6.2     31.5       61.8
Consulting services                         7.1      0.8      3.4       11.3
Technical assistance                        0.4      0.1      1.9        2.4
Training                                     -        -       0.4        0.4
Land acquisition                            1.4       -        -         1.4
Base Costs (Hay '84 prices)              52.3    12.6      67.4      132.3
Price Contingencies
Physical                                  5.2      1.3      6.7       13.2
Price                                    21.0     5.1      17.6       43.7
Total Project Cost                       78.5    19.0      91.7      189.2
Front-end fee                                -        -       0.3        0.3
Total Financing Required                 78.5    19.0      92.0      189.5
Financing Plan:                                Local    Taxes   Foreign    Total
-          C(USS million)
IBRD                                       10.0      -       92.0      102.0
Government                                 68.5    19.0        -        87.5
Total                                    78.5    19.0      92.0      189.5
Estimated
Disbursements:  Bank FY               1985   1986   1987   1988   1989    1990
(US$ million equivalent)
Annual                        12.0   16.0   22.0   24.0   20.0        8.0
Cumulative                    12.0   28.0   50.0   74.0   94.0   102.0
Rate of Return:   Weighted ERR on the project as a whole is over 40%
Staff Appraisal
Report:         No. 4535-PH dated May 1, 1984
Map:              IBRD Map No. 17014R



REPORT AND RECOFMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANqK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of the Philippines for the equi--alent of $102.0 million
including the capitalized front-end fee of $0.3 million, to help finance the
Fifth Highway project. The loan would be repaid over 20 years, including 5
years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE F-ONOMY
2.        An economic report, entitled "The Thilippines:  Selected Issues for
the 1983-1987 Plan Period" (No. 3861-PH) was distributed to the Executive
Directors under Sec. M82-542, dated June 16, 1982. A special report, "Aspects
of Poverty in the Philippines: A Review and Assessment" (No 2984-PH), was
distributed to the Executive Directors on December 1, 1980 under Sec. N80-919.
Country data are given in Annex 1.
Performance in the 1970s
3.        During the 1970s, the Philippines followed a much more dynamic,
growth-oriented development strategy than in earlier decades. The growth rate
of GDP rose from 5.1% in the 1960s to 6.3% in the 1970s, a rate well above
that of lower middle-income oil importers (5.4%) but lower than that of com-
parable Asian countries. Expansion of the agricultural sector was rapid at
about 4.5% p.a. during the decade. Manufacturing industry, growing at the
same rate as GNP, did not play a leading role in the Philippines' economic
development. Although manufactured exports grew dramatically, the greater
part of the sector remained oriented to the domestic market and was affected
by severe inefficiencies.
4.        Although economic performance was relatively good in the 1970s,
structural weaknesses in the economy held it back below its full potential.
GDP growth was achieved at a high investment cost - the incremental
capital/output ratio (ICOR) was about 35% higher than those of comparable
Asian countries.  Although inherently capital-intensive infrastructure invest-
ments explain part of the high ICOR, inefficiency of industrial investment was
the more important cause. Inappropriate trade, industrial, financial, and
exchange rate policies designed to foster import substitution, provided high
protection for domestic manufacturers, and led to investments in activities in
which the Philippines did not have a clear comparative advantage. External
borrowing and imports expanded rapidly while traditional exports and domestic
resource mobilization lagged. This resulted in a chronic shortage of foreign
exchange and increasing external debt.



- 2 -
5.        Despite satisfactory aggregate growth during the 1970s, the inci-
dence of poverty remained around 40Z, income distribution continued to be
skewed, and regional disparities remained pronounced. The incidence of
poverty reached 60-70X in the least developed regions. Large numbers of
people, especially in the rural areas, still suffer from malnutrition and
lack safe water, basic education, and health facilities. An increasingly
unfavorable man/land ratio, the resulting expansion of cultivation into
marginal lands, limited employment opportunities in the industrial sector, and
the sharp deterioration in the external terms of trade put downward pressure
on real incomes. Although the Government instituted several programs to
improve directly living conditions of the poor, most of these were implemented
on any significant scale only during the last few years and will require
several years to achieve a marked impact.
6.        Growth of productive employment, particularly in the industrial
sector, has lagged behind the rapid expansion of the labor force, and consid-
erable underemployment exists. During the 1970s, the agriculture and service
sectors had to absorb an excessively high proportion of new entrants to the
labor force. Manufacturing employment stagnated in the first half of the
decade, and picked up only slightly thereafter as labor-intensive export pro-
duction grew. Overseas employment, especially in the Middle East, increased
rapidly, providing a temporary income opportunity.
7.        Population growth in the Philippines was reduced from 3% in the
3960s to 2.5Z in the early 1980s. There are indications, however, that it may
have levelled off prematurely at that level. Thus, rapid population growth
continues to strain available land resources, aggravate already serious
employment and poverty problems, and burden the public budget with a high
growth in demand for basic public services. The Philippines has a family
planning program which expanded rapidly during the 1970s, however, participa-
tion in the program is still low by East Asian standards.
Structural Problems and Adjustment
8.        The structural weaknesses of the Philippine economy have become more
apparent in recent years as unfavorable world economic conditions have exacer-
bated the balance of payments, debt, and resource mobilization problems. In
the late 1970s, the country's terms of trade deteriorated sharply due to oil
price increases, accelerated international inflation, and depressed prices for
major export commodities. The continued heavy reliance on export earnings
from a few primary products (coconuts, sugar, copper, and timber) kept the
Philippines extremely vulnerable to international commodity price fluctua-
tions, while continued high dependence on imported oil further aggravated the
balance of payments problem.
9.        Excessive protection and an artificially low cost of capital led to
low efficiency of investment and stagnant employment in industries producing
for the domestic market. The industrial sector remained a net burden on the
balance of payments; although manufactured exports grew rapidly, their net
foreign exchange earnings were limited due to a high import content. Export
promotion measures induced rapid growth in nontraditional manufactured
exports, e.g., garments. electronics and handicrafts, from $50 million in 1970



to $2.4 billion in 1982. However, export expansion was concentrated on a few
items, and backward linkages were limited by high cost and low quality of
domestic inputs. As part of an adjustment program supported by SAL lending,
the Government has initiated major policy reforms designed to move towards an
industrial structure utilizing more effectively the country's comparative
advantage with respect to labor cost and raw material availability and which
is internationally competitive. The program includes a major tariff reform, a
liberalization of import controls, a realignment of industrial incentives and
improved export incentives. The implementation of the program has been good,
despite the international recession, which has hampered the adjustment process
in the manufacturing sector and slowed down the growth rate from around 42 in
1980-81 to an estimated 1 in 1982-83.
10.       Financial Sector.  Although well developed, the Philippine financial
sector has not performed adequately in raising private sector savings and pro-
viding investment financing. Among the main reasons have been the level and
structure of interest rates which were not geared to mobilize sufficient sav-
ings and encourage longer maturities; their low level contributed to rela-
tively inefficient and capital-intensive investment. Further, the Central
Bank's rediscounting scheme frequently resulted in encouraging over investment
in some sectors while others were relatively neglected. In 1981, the Govern-
ment introduced far-reaching financial policy changes. The banking system was
given greater flexibility, interest rates were deregulated, and the Central
Bank was given a stronger position in its role as "lender-of-last-resort", all
of which produced positive real interest rates (for the first time since 1978)
and a significant increase in domestic savings. Government-owned lending
institutions have made less progress as a result of insufficient autonomy in
the selection of their portfolios plus a depressed domestic economy. loan
collection rates continue to be very low and substantial government budgetary
support is required.  Rehabilitation-Gf several government-owned institutions
is necessary to reduce strains on the budget and to continue important
development banking operations.
11.       Agriculture and Rural Development.  While the performance of the
agricultural sector was satisfactory during the 1970s, some policy problems
still remain unresolved. The Philippines, once a major importer of rice,
eliminated rice deficits in the late 1970s and expanded fish and meat produc-
tion. There is, however, a need for further diversification and promotion of
commercial crops to improve the balance of payments position either through
expansion of agricultural exports or through efficient import substitution.
Trade policies in the Philippines have discriminated against agriculture.
Pricing and exchange rate policies have also had a negative impact on incomes
in the agricultural sector. The institutional framework for agricultural
policy formulation and implementation suffers from serious fragmentation.
Overall, there is a need to deal directly jith the problem of the rural poor,
particularly farmers engaged in rainfed agriculture, coconut growers,
municipal fishermen, and landless sugar workers. Increasingly, investment
programs will have to be directed towards rainfed agriculture and include
innovative approaches to reaching smallholder farmers.



12.       Energy.  Since the 1973-74 oil price increase, the Philippines has
made a considerable effort to reduce its dependence on imported oil. Through
a combination of pricing, taxation, and conservation measures, the government
exerted downward pressure on commercial energy consumption. Steps to increase
and diversify domestic energy supply i.e., the development of hydroelectric,
geothermal, nuclear and coal based power sources, have contributed to reducing
import dependence. Limited domestic petroleum production also began in
1979. However, due to the long gestation period of energy projects, domestic
energy production still constituted only 32% of total commercial energy supply
in 1982. In response to the second oil crisis, the Government included in its
adjustment program policy measures for the energy sector which aim at further
reducing the country's dependence on oil imports through improving the effi-
ciency of energy use and increasing the share of domestic sources to nearly
50% of commercial energy supply by 1987. Pricing policy will continue to
support conservation and revenue objectives.
13.       Public Sector Resource Management.  The management of public sector
resources has been a chronic problem in the Philippines, which has been fur-
ther aggravated by the current recession. The fiscal stress generated by the
growing imbalance between public investment and public sector resource
mobilization has manifeAted itself in a number of ways. Government current
expenditures (exclusive of interest payments) have been reduced to only 9% of
GNP, as compared to an average of 14% of GNP in middle-income developing
countries.  Implementation of projects has been stretched over longer periods
of time than is economically efficient. The overall public sector deficit has
become excessively high and has threatened the stability of the economy,
particularly in 1981-1982. A rapidly rising level of public investment and an
unsatisfactory financial performance of public corporations contributed
towards increasing the fiscal deficit despite a reduction of recurrent expen-
ditures. In 1982 the public sector deficit, which traditionally had been
relatively small, increased to 5.5% of GNP.
14.       As a short-term response, the Government is now implementing a fis--
cal austerity program designed to reduce the national budgetary deficit to
manageable levels. The Government has reduced equity contributions and
investment programs and enacted revenue measures which will improve the cur-
rent imbalance. However, to improve the medium-term outlook for public
finances, structural problems of the system need to be addressed.
The Current Economic Situation
15.       The economic situation of the Philippines has deteriorated serious-
ly in the last three years. The global recession, with low commodity prices,
high interest races on external borrowing, and an increasingly unfavorable
trading climate has stifled economic growth, slowed down export growth,
depressed domestic demand and private investment activity and aggravated the
fiscal and balance of payments problems. Real GDP growth fell to 3.8% in 1981
to an estimated 2.9% in 1982 and is estimated to have been only about 1% in
1983.
16.       During 1979-82, the terms of trade deteriorated, through a combina-
tion of higher import prices, particularly for petroleum, and declining or



stable prices for many primary exports, such as sugar, copper and copra
products. Since 1981, the volume of exports has leveled off, reflecting the
stagnation in the world's economy and a serious drought which reduced agricul-
tural exports. Despite the severe external situation, the Government launched
a major increase in its investment program in 1979, designed to make up for
deficiencies in domestic infrastructure, expand industry, and reduce the
dependence on imported petroleum. As a result the public sector investment
program rose from less than 6% of GNP in 1979 to 9% by 1982.  At the same
time, public sector resource mobilization declined, producing a large and
growing government budgetary deficit. This deficit was covered in large part
by foreign borrowings; in 1982, foreign borrowing financed 70% of the Govern-
ment's deficit and over 50% of the deficit of the public corporations.
17.       The impact of all these factors has been a growing balance of
payments deficit arn" an increasingly difficult debt service burden. The
current account deficit rosc from $2.1 billion in 1980, to $3.4 billion in
1982 (8Z of GDP) and $2.7 billion in 1Ia3  The total debt service ratio,
including interest on short-term debt, increased from 21Z in 1980 to 38Z in
1982. During 1983, with growing economic problems, a mounting debt burden and
major debt problems in other developing countries, foreign banks began reduc-
ing their exposure in the Philippines. The Government increasingly was forced
to resort to increased short-term borrowings to finance the balance of pay-
ments gap, which further exacerbated the debt service problem. While the
terms of trade improved in 1983 a severe drought reduced agricultural exports,
and overall export earnings fell. By the middle of 1983 it became clear that
the Government would not be able to meet the target under the IMF Standby of
reducing the overall deficit in the balance of payments from $1.2 billion to
$600 million. In fact, for the first three quarters of the year, the overall
deficit had already reached $1.3 billion. The situation was further exacer-
bated by political disruptions, a flight of capital out of the country, and a
cessation of short-term lines of credit from che commercial banks. In October
1983, the Government announced a 90-day moratorium on debt repayments, a
further 21% devaluation of the peso, and new controls over the allocation of
foreign exchange for imports. Substantial reductions were made in the invest-
ment program, and some new tax measures were announced. As a result of these
austerity measures, the national government deficit was reduced to 1.7% of GNP
in 1983, compared with 4.2% in the previous year. However, because of the
poor performance of the public corporations, the overall public sector deficit
remained large at 4.5% of GNP (compared to 5.1% in 1982).
18.       Discussions with the IMF on a new standby agreement began in June
1983, as were discussions with the commercial banks on a debt rescheduling.
The agreement with tbe IMF has been delayed by problems involving the accuracy
of some of the basic data, and a sudden increase in the money supply during
the last quarter of the year, which threatened to undercut the agreed tar-
gets. The rapid growth of the money supply reflected Government attempts to
provide assistance to several commercial banks which were facing financial
difficulties because of depressed economic conditions. As a result, money
supply increased 32% between September and December of 1983, and the consumer
price index increased by 15%. Negotiations with the IMF are continuing, and
it is expected that once a new program is finalized it will be followed by
debt reschedulings with the official and private creditors. In the meantime,
private creditors have agreed to additional extensions of the debt moratorium.



-6-
Medium-Term Prospects
19.       The medium-term outlook for the Philippines remains difficult.  Even
with a successful completion of the IMF Standby Agreement and debt resche-
duling, there will be a need to mdke further cuts in government spending and
to reduce imports. Except for those new inflows like'ly to come as part of the
debt rescheduling exercise, the country is faced with little or no access to
fresh private capital flows. As a consequence, the current account balance
will need to be reduced from $2.7 billion in 1983 to $1.5 billion in 1984.
'Even if export volume growth of 6% can be attained, it will be necessary to
reduce the real level of imports by 18%. To meet the fiscal targets agreed
with the IMF, the Government will have to either increase taxes or reduce
government spending, or some combination of both. The overall result of
constrained imports and government spending will be deflationary, resulting
probably in negative growth in output during 1984, and increased unemploy-
ment. The unemployment problem is already severe, as several plants requiring
substantial amounts of imported materials, such as automobile assembly, have
had to close. Increased unemployment will make the problem of a sustained
recovery more difficult.
20.       A period of low growth is likely to be sustained for several years
after 1984 as well, particularly as the impact of current reductions in the
investment program begin to be felt. The length of this period of slow
growth, stabilization and adjustment can be shortened somewhat if the
Government can take the necessary measures to accelerate exports, increase
pub lc and private savings, and use investment resources as efficiently as
possible. The present crisis has increased the Government's awareness of the
severity of the problems and increased it's willingness to adopt the policies
necessary to correct the situation. 1u the longer term, the combination of
increased external assistance and Government actions should permit a
resumption of growth close to the historical average of 6-7%. The country
remains creditworthy, therefore, for new Bank borrowing on conventional
terms. Local cost financing for some projects continues to be justified
particularly in the aftermath of the current recession when the country faces
an exceptionally tight resource position.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS
21.       As of March 31, 1984 the Philippines had received 93 Bank loans (of
which two were on Third Window terms) amounting to $3,908.3 million and six
IDA credits amounting to $122.2 million. IFC investments totalled $159.8 mil-
lion. The share of the Bank Group in total debt disbursed and outstanding,
excluding short-term debt, is currently about 14%, and its share in total debt
service is about 13%. These ratios are expected to be about 19% and 16%,



respectively, by 1988 2/  Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank
loans, and IFC investments as of March 31, 1984.
22.       Bank Group lendtig to the Philippines expanded from an average of
about $90 million per year in FY71-75 to an average of $459 million in
FY79-83. Although the Bank has financed projects in virtually all sectors of
the economy, particular emphasis has been given to agriculture, which has
accounted for alwrst one-third of total Bank/IDA lending. Lending for
industry, transportation, power, and social sectors followed in declining
order of size.
23.       In agriculture, lending initially focussed on expanding the irriga-
tion system, credit programs, and other services to support rice production.
More recently, efforts have been made to diversify agricultural production
through loans for tree-crops, livestock, fisheries, and integrated rural
development projects. Agriculture and rural development will continue to
account for the largest share of lending, with emphasis on food production,
poverty alleviation, policy reform and institutional building.
24.       In the industrial and financial sectors, lending has supported
policy reforms under the Government's structural adjustment program.
Structural adjustment lending in 1980 and 1983 ($502.3 million, total) has
supported a series of reforms of the tariff structure, the system of indus-
trial incentives, energy pricing, and other important measures. An Industrial
Finance Loan sought to bring about improvements in financial sector policies
and introduced a new institutional concept to broaden the reach of Bank
lending by channelling loans through an "apex" unit in the Central Bank. In
addition, the Bank has continued to provide financial support and technical
assistance to small and medium industries.
25.       In the energy sector, sector work and the structural adjustment pro-
gram initiated under SAL II provide the basis for future lending operations.
While previous Bank lending focussed on the power subsector, the Bank now
seeks to support a broader range of activities; in addition to recent energy
exploration loans, the Bank plans to continue assisting the accelerated
deffelopment of geothermal and coal, power generation and transmission, energy
conservation, and rural electrification.
26.       By and large implementation of Bank-financed projects in the
Philippines has been satisfactory. Disbursements, however, have been slower
than anticipated, particularly in the last three years. The disbursement
ratio (amount disbursed during the fiscal year as compared to the total undis-
bursed at the  b7ginning of the fiscal year) declined from 18.7Z in FY79 to
14.2% in FY83.    The East Asia Regional average was 20.0% and the Bank-wide
2/ These projections are subject to revision following a debt rescheduling
which is anticipated to take place later this year.
3/ Excludes disbursements under the first and second Structural Adjustment
Loan. If included, the ratio increases to 21.6%.



average was 20.8% in FY83,4/ the comparable ratios for ThaO and and Morocco
were 16.9% and 13.7% respectively in the same fiscal year._   Implementation
problems increased in the last few years, reflecting in part problems caused
by inflation, tight budget constraints, and changes in the scope of the Bank's
lending operations (a substantial increase in the number of projects, new
areas of lending, emphasis on institution-building, and efforts to reach spe-
cific target groups and deprived regions). In recognition of growing imple-
mentation problems, the Government and the Bank have instituted a process of
joint Country Implementation Reviews. Five reviews have been held since May
1980 and will be continued on a regular basis. A Special Action Program (SAP)
for the Philippines was designed to assist the Government in implementing high
priority projects which have been affected by the current shortage of counter-
part funds. Under the Bank's SAP, selected projects have benefitted from
increased cost sharing and disbursement ratios, the establishment of special
accounts and in some cases, supplementary financing. These actions have
facilitated project implementation and resulted in substantial improvements in
disbursement performance.
27.       This will be the fourth loan, including two supplemental loans, to
the Philippines to be presented to the Executive Directors this fiscal year.
A municipal development project, an export development fund project and an
agriculture sector inputs loan have been appraised and are scheduled for Board
presentation in the coming months.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
The Transport System
28.       The Philippines economy grew at 6% a year between 1970 and 1980,
thereby generating a strong and growing demand for transport services. To
meet this demand, the Government undertook investments totalling about P 20
billion (US$1.4 billion) principally in highways. With the majority of the
national highways improved, the Government has now turned its attention to
improving maintenance, while limiting investments to strengthening bridges and
high priority highway sections. During the 1980s, the transport sector is
expected to continue to grow but at a somewhat reduced pace in line with the
slower growth rate of the economy. For the period 1983-87, the 'overument has
tentatively allocated P 40 billion (US$2.9 billion) for ongoing and new
projects in the sector.
29.       The Philippines transport system is a predominantly bimodal system,
with road and water transport generally complementing, rather than competing
4/ Regional and Bank-wide figures also exclude disbursements under SALs.
5/ Thailand and Morocco are useful as comparators as they have similar per
capita income levels and Bank Group lending programs. Figures also
exclude SALs.



- 9 -
with each other. Road transport handles 80X of the country's passenger
movements and 60Z of freight movements, but the Philippines depends to a great
extent on interisland shipping services. The railways and air transport
handle only relatively small volumes of passenger and freight traffic.
Policy Planning and Coordination
30.       The Ministry of Transport and Communications (MOTC) is responsible
for transport policy, regulation and adminastratioa. Planning for the
transport sector is, however, the joint re-sponsibility of MOTC (for all modes
other than highways), and the Ministry of Public Works and Highways (MPWI) for
highways, with the National Economic and Development Authority (NEDA) having a
coordinating role. MOTC undertakes overall sectoral planning through the
National Transportation Plawinng Project (NTPP), which completed a five year
investment plan for the transport sector in July 1982.
Sector Issues
31.       The most important issue facing the transport sector is inadequate
maintenance. The second is institutional weaknesses, particularly in MOTC and
MPWH -h.:re the major problem is attracting staff of adequate caliber and
experience. A third issue concerns Government regulations relating to route
licensing and tariff setting, particularly in iaterisland shipping and road
transport.  The fourth issue relates to the distinction between trucks
licensed for hire (TH) and trucks licensed for owner use CT), but with many T
trucks operating illegally for hire and thus depriving the Government of
substantial revenues.  The final iss-ue cuncerns the future of the Philippines
National Railway (PNR).
32.       Government is aware of these problems and is dealing with most of
them. Governrment now gives the highest priority to highway maintenance. The
troblem of attracting government staff is, however, more intractable because
of low government salaries, and the techntcal agencies may have to continue
using consultants (local and expatriate) for some years to come. On the third
issue, MOTC has requested technical assistance to help in deregulation of
interisland shipping (para. 61); and the Government intends to begin a similar
effort later in road transport. On the fourth, MOTC has indicated that it has
tighter'ed up procedures for the issue and renewal of licenses for T trucks.
As regards PNR, the Government has decided against closure of the railway and
to retain it for other than economic reasons, but has taken steps to
strengthen the management in order to improve operations.
Bank Involvement in the Transport Sector
33.       The Bank Group has assisted the transport sector through four high-
way projects, one rural road project, three port projects and one shipping
project. The Bank has been involved in the road sector since the First High-
way Project (Loan 731-PH). Three larger Highway Projects (Loans 950-PH, 1353-
PR and 1661-PH) and one Rural Roads Improvement Project (Loan 1860-PH) follow-
ed, The total lending for these projects has been US$333 million. Two of the
highway projects have been satisfactorily completed. The Project Performance
Audit Report (No. 2449, of April 4, 1979) for the First Highway Project found



- 10 -
that problems during implementation were largely caused by civil disturbances
in the project area. The project' reestimated economic return, however, was
satisfactory. The Project Performance Audit Report (No. 4757, October 25,
1983) for the Second Highway Project noted that significant difficulties and
delays on one road construction contract coincided with variations from the
Bank's procurement procedures. This was corrected in subsequent projects.
The report estimates that the project's economic return will be satisfactory
despite some loss in benefits caused by imposition of tolls and ban on truck
traffic on one of the project roads.
34.       Implementation of the ongoing Third and Fourth Highway Projects has
been seriously delayed because of slow procurement, poor performance of con-
tractors, and inadequate budgetary planning. To improve project implementa-
tion, MPWH agreed with the Bank on action programs in 1981 and 1982, and has
adhered to these programs. As a result, project implementation has improved
significantly over the last two years, and is now satisfactory. It is expec-
ted that the Third Highway Project would be completed by August 1984 and the
Fourth Highway Project by March 1985.
35.       The Bank has also supported the Government's effort to improve rural
roads (Loan 1860-PH) and ports (Loans 290-PH, 939-PH and 1855-PH) and shipping
subsectors (Loans 1048-PH). Two port projects have been completed and the
Third Ports Project is ongoing. The Bank's first shipping project assisted
the Government in modernizing the interisland fleet of vessels. The project
was completed in 1981 with a two-year delay.
36.       A principal objective of the Bank with regard to transport sector
lending in the Philippines has been to strengthen the institutions dealing
with the sector and to help in the establishment of an appropriate framework
for planning and policy development. As a result, a major component in recent
lending has been technical assistance for national transport planning, a task
completed in July 1982. Assistance in the future will be for policy
formulation and implementation, with a gradual phasing out of foreign experts.
Highways Subsector
37.       The Philippines has an extensive road network of some 154,800 km
(1982), of which 24,000 km are national, 30,000 km provincial, 15,600 city and
municipal, and 85,200 barangay roads. The network is, in general, quite
adequate in location and extent, but suffers from many deficiencies.  Only
about 13% of the total network is paved. The condition of many roads is poor
because of lack of maintenance and damage from overloaded vehicles. Missing
or weak bridges diminish the usefulness of existing roads, and in some remote
areas access roads are scarce. Road classification is often arbitrary as it
is not always based on function. The proposed project would include an
overall road classification study (para. 59).
38.       Major road improvement activities began in 1969 following completion
of the Philippine Transport Survey (PTS). Most of the priority roads
identified in the PTS have been improved with local resources, supplemented by
assistance from Japan, USAID, ADB and the Bank. Some 10,400 km of national
highways are paved, but the rate of road improvement work has not been



- 11 -
sufficient to keep up with the need for repairing or replacing deteriorating
bridges. The National Transport Planning Project study has concluded that the
deteriorating condition of the national highway network is a critical issue,
and that inadequate maintenance is the main reason.
39.       In 1980, there were some 942,000 motor vehicles in the Philip-
pines. Between 1970 and 1980, the fleet grew by 6.8% per year, but there has
been very little change in its composition, with cars and trucks constituting
50% and 30% of the fleet, respectively. Heavy overloading of trucks is quite
common and is thus a cause of concern. The Government is carrying out a study
of the existing regulations on vehicle weights and dimensions, with Bank
financing under the Fourth Highway Project.
40.       Traffic accidents constitute a growing and recognized socioeconomic
problem in the Philippines. However, accidents are noc accurately recorded
and effective measures to prevent them are not being tak.eu.  Speeding is quite
common, driving behavior is often not in conformity with the traffic laws, and
driver education is unsatisfactory. At the Government's request, the proposed
project would include a traffic safety study to review traffic laws and regu-
lations, accident reporting procedures, and highway police activities and
recommend improvements (para. 59).
Road Transport Industry
41.       The intercity passenger transport industry consists of a small group
of large firms with fleets of 150-450 vehicles offering a range of efficient
long-distance services, and a large number of small operators. In addition
there are a vast number of jeepney operators offering short-distance urban and
interurban services, mostly owner-operated. Both truck and bus operations
suffers from a lack of conmon terminal faciliti-s in the main towns. To
review and help improve the efficiency of road transport operations, the pro-
posed project would include technical assistance to MOTC to revies rhe trans-
port industry (para. 60).
Road User Charges and Highway Expenditure
42.       Highway expenditures in the Philippines have increased from P 573
million in 1970 to P 4.5 billion in 1981. During this period, maintenance
expenditures increased elevenfold to P 1.2 billion. During the same period
revenues from road user charges (fuel taxes and motor vehicle fees) rose from
under P 300 million to over P 5.1 billion. Currently, road user charges
generate more revenues than all highway outlays - maintenance, administration
and new construction - which is a satisfactory situation. Despite this,
highway maintenance is still inadequate principally because of poor planning,
diversion of resources, and insufficient monitoring of maintenance (para. 49).
43.       There are also minor problems with the structure of road user
charges. The first is the lower taxes on diesel fuel compared with petrol
(P 0.59 vs. P 1.80 per liter). The Government has agreed to eliminate this
differential gradually by raising the tax on diesel fuel (as part of the SAL
operation, Loan 2266-PH). The second is the inadequate license fees charged



- 12 -
for three-axle trucks. This would be reviewed as part of the vehicle dimen-
sions and weights study financed under the Fourth Highway Project (para. 39).
Administration Staff and Training
44.       Responsibility for the public road network in the Philippines is
divided, with some overlap, between the national government and local govern-
ment agencies. In the national governmenC., MPIH is responsible for national
highways. At the local government level, provincial governments and cities,
municipalities and barangay councils, under the overall supervision of the
Ministry of Local Government (MLG), are respectively responsible for the
provincial, city, municipal and barangay roads in their area. MPWE is headed
by a Minister who is assisted by three Deputy Ministers. Its field organiza-
tion consists of 14 Regional Offices (ROs), '4 District Offices (DOs) and 55
City Offices (COs).
45.       There is a shortage of experienced middle-level technical staff at
MPWH. headquarters and in the field, particularly in the maintenance organiza-
tion. To handle its staffing problems and help improve implementation, MPWH
engaged in 1981 a local management and engineering consulting firm to provide
a team of some 20 "in-house" consultants. However, despite the priority MPWH
has given to maintenance over the last two years, its maintenance organization
remains weak. Raising MPWH maintenance capabilities to a satisfactory level
may take several years, and the proposed project, therefore, provides for
continuation of foreign technical assistance services in highway mainte-
nance. MPWH should be able to phase out foreign technical assistance in
highway management after 1986.
46.       MPWH has conducted training programs for technical and administra-
tive staff for many years: it has a number of internal training programs and
external training opportunities are also available for its staff. Bank sup-
port has been provided for advanced technical training overseas for NPWH/MLG
staff, this program has been quite successful, and the present project would
continue this assistance.
Planning, Design and Construction
47.       Planning for national highways is initiated in MPWH, and the design
and supervision of their construction are also carried out by MPWH, either
directly or through consultants. The role and responsibilities of local
consultants for both highway design and construction supervision have
increased considerably over the last ten years vis-a-vis foreign consultants;
and the Bank assisted this development particularly under the Second Highway
Project.
48.       Most of the construction work for national and provincial roads is
carried out by contract. Some minor projects, particularly for barangay roads,
are executed by force account, in many cases utilizing village labor. Local
contractors are quite competitive with foreign contractors and have succeeded
in getting most of the contracts under ICB. The Government has recognized
that the present contract documents favor it unduly, for example in contract
conditions, administrative procedures, and contract implementation rules, and



- 13 -
that its relationship with contractors should be placed on a more equitable
footing. Therefore, in 1980 it established the Construction Industry
Authority of the Phlilippines (CIAP) which represents both Government and
private sector interests to evolve an overall strategy for the development of
the construction industry. Initial Bank assistance for measures to improve
the Government/contractor relationship was provided under the Second Urban
Development Project (Ln. 1647-PH). The Bank is also providing technical
assistance to CIAP under the Fourth Highway Project and this would be
continued under the proposed project.
Maintenance
49.       The greatest weakness in the Philippine highway sector has been
inadequate maintenance. Since the Bank's involvement in the highway sector in
the early 1970s, it has observed a serious lack of attention to road
maintenance in the field. The reasons were many, ranging from inadequate
organizational setup to shortages of funds and equipment. Years of neglected
road maintenance have thus resulted in the deterioration of a large part of
the network to a point where it cannot be maintained by normal methods;
restoration works are needed to put the roads in a maintainable condition.
50.       The Bank has provided assistance to strengthen the maintenance in
previous road projects with some success.  In general, routine maintenance
operations on national highways are now usually being carried out to a
reasonable extent, but periodic maintenance is neglected in most regions.
Over the last two years, MPWH has emphasized the importance of efficient
maintenance operations. In 1982, it began implementing highway maintenance
programs in four pilot regions which established physical targets and resource
requirements. MPWH is now introducing this system in all 14 regions. These
changes, however, will take several years to produce results in the form of
improved maintenance operations.
51.       In 1971, MPWH developed a system for the allocation of maintenance
funds for national highways based on the concept of an equivalent maintenance
kilometer (EMK), and has been using this formula since. However, the basic
EMK norm was last increased for price escalation in 1976. Based on its
experience with implementing the 1982 waintenance programs in the four pilot
regions, MPWH has tentatively concluded that the present EMK allocation may be
approximately sufficient to cover routine maintenance expenditures, but little
funds would remain for periodic maintenance.  Consequently, MPWH has prepared
*     a proposal for a revised EMK formula which would increase the basic EMK norm
and would thus provide adequate funds for both routine and periodic mainte-
nance; MPWH submitted this proposal for Bank review in March 1984. During
negotiations the Bank reached agreement with the Government on a revised ENK
formula and its biannual review in consultation with the Bank (Section 4.03
(a) and (b) of the draft Loan Agreement). Government would make specific
amounts (from P 435 million in 1984 to P 650 million in 1988) available
annually for maintenance activities on national highways and bridges. Twenty
percent of these funds would be earmarked for periodic maintenance in 1984 and
25% would be earmarked from 1985 onwards. The share of funds allocated for
maintenance out of total expenditures for national highways would increase
from i1Z in 1983 to 18% in 1988.



- 14 -
Accounts and Audit
52.       MPWH's accounting and auditing procedures are satisfactory.  Accoun-
ting and auditing staff are well qualified, and MPWH has had no problems
recruicing qualified accountants. Several accounting functions are fully or
almost fully computerized. The Government's Commission on Audit (COA)
conducts a continuous external audit.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
53.       The proposed project was identified in January 1981 and was origi-
nally intended to assist both national and rural roads. However, after a
careful assessment of the implementation capacity of both MPWH and MLG, it was
agreed with Government that the proposed program would be split into separate
highways and rural roads projects. The national highway component would be
further split into two stages, with the proposed project assisting the first
stage of the upgrading program. Appraisal took pVace in February/March 1983,
and negotiations were completed on April 6, 1984.- The Philippine delegation
was led by NEDA Deputy Director General A. Locsin. The Staff Appraisal Report
No. 4535-PH, dated May 1, 1984 is being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors. Annex III of the report provides supplementary project
data.
Project Objectives and Description
54.       The main objectives of the proposed project, which is consistent
with the Government's objectives for the highways subsector stated in the
Development Plan (1983-87), are to: -(a) improve the existing network of
national highways and bridges; (b) raise maintenance to adequate levels and in
the process remove the backlog of restoration works on national highways;
(c) improve general highway management, particularly execution of maintenance,
and thus further strengthen the institutional framework of MPWK and its field
organization. This project would also assist in formulating a proposal for
deregulation of interisland shipping, in developing the domestic construction
industry and in preparing a future road transport industry project which would
introduce some of the much needed measures to improve the road transport
industry.
55.       Specifically, the project would include the following components:                   L
(a) reconstruction program for some 435 bridges and culverts on national
highways with an estimated total sran length of 9,282 m;
(b) improvement of a national highway section totalling about 83 km;
6/   Processing was delayed a few months at the Government's request because
of financial constraints.



- 15 -
(c) restoration program for some 1,223 km of national highways;
(d) consulting services for: Ci) detailed engineering and construction
supervision; (ii) preparation of future projects; and (iii) studies
related to highway management, traffic safety, and the domestic
construction industry;
(e) technical assistance to: (i) strengthen MPWH highway maintenance
capabilities; (ii) help MOTC in carrying out a review of the road
t'ensport  industry in order to improve its operations and develop a
plar for the deregulation of road transport and interisland
sbipping; and (iii) help CIAP develop further the domestic
construction industry; and
(f) training of MPWH and CIAP staff.
The links on national highways on which bridges would be reconstructed, and
the national highway to be improved under the project are shown in IBRD Map
No. 17014R.
Reconstruction Program for Bridges on National Highways
56.       The project would include the first four-year phase (1985-88) of the
MPWH's eight-year bridge reconstruction program. This phase would include
about 435 structures on some 40 national highway links with a total length of
about 9,282 linear meters. Most of the bridges to be reconstructed are
existing single lane timber or Bailey bridges which will be upgraded to a two-
lane standard in reinforced concrete. Some of the bridges will be widened and
strengthened and only bridges with an ERR of 15Z and higher would be included
in the program. During appraisal, agreement was reached with MPWH on the
first year (1985) program. During negotiations, the Government agreed to sub-
mit for Bank review and approval before February 1, 1985, February 1, 1986,
and February 1, 1987, its proposed list of bridges for reconstruction in the
following fiscal year and an update of their economic evaluation.
(Section 3.06 (a)(i) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Improvement of National Highway Baguio - Mt. Data
57.       The national highway, Baguio (Acop)- Mt. Data, (83 km) in Central
Luzon, would be improved to Class 1 of the NPWH design standards for national
highways and would include a 6.0 m wide cement concrete pavement. This will
be adequate to accommodate the projected traffic for the next 20 years. The
improved highway would generally follow the existing alignment and land
acquisition requirements will thus be limited to short sections which need to
be realigned.
Restoration Program of National Highways
58.       The restoration program includes the balance of the restoration
works on national highways started under the Third Highway Project. Over the
four year period, it would complete the restoration works needed to bring the
national road network to a maintainable condition. The restoration works



- 16 -
would include road regravelling, bituminous sealing and asphalt concrete over-
lays, shaping of shoulders and improving of drainage. At appraisal, HPWH had
identified the national highway sections to be restored in the first year
(1985) of this program. During negotiations, the Government agreed to submit
for Bank review and approval, before July 1, 1985, July 1, 1986, and July 1,
1987, its proposed list of national highway sections to be restored in the
following year's program (Section 3.06 (a)(ii) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Consulting Services and Technical Assistance
59.       The project would provide consulting services required for the
implementation of the project (detailed engineering and construction super-
vision). In addition, about 1,990 man-months is provided for studies and '-he
preparation of future projects. Of the total, only 5% of the services would
be provided by foreign consultants. Terms of reference for all the consulting
services have been agreed with tne Government. These services include:
(i) Detailed Engineering and Constriction Supervision for the Bridge
Reconstruction Program. Detailed engineering of bridges and culverts for the
1985-88 programs would be carried out by ten local consulting firms, each
covering design work for about 40 structures. Standard bridge designs satis-
factory to the Bank would be used to the maximum possible extent. The work is
coordinated by one expatriate expert from Lyon Associates, the firm which
carried out the bridge reconstruction feasibility study and detailed engineer-
ing of ten typical bridges, representative of the entire range of bridge
designs to be used in the program.  The same firms, local as well as foreign,
would be responsible for construction supervision. Some 1,600 man-months of
consultant services for detailed engineering of bridges and culverts for the
1989-92 nr gram is also included in the project. (ii) Construction Super-
vision ior Improvement of National Highway Baguio-Mt. Data. For the improve-
ment of the national highway Baguio-Mt. Data, construction supervision would
be undertaken by the same local consultants who carried out detailed engineer-
ing of this road. To strengthen their supervision staff, the local firms will
engage experienced expatriate experts for key positions (Chief Resident
Engineer, Chief Materials/Soil Engineer) if experienced local sta.Zf are not
available. (iii) Studies. The project would provide for the following
studies: (i) feasibility studies and detailed engineering for future national
highway projects (250 man-months); (ii) road classification study (18 man-
months); (iii) traffic safety study (50 man-months); and (iv) construction
industry studies (72 man-months).
60.       The project also provides, in total, about 242 man-months of techni-
cal assistance services, of which about 72 man-months would be by local and
about 170 man-months by foreign consultants. The technical assistance
includes: (i) Technical Assistance to MPWH. As continuing shortages of
local staff experienced in modern highway management impede its efforts to
improve highway maintenance, the project would include continuation of the
foreign technical assistance (72 man-months) provided in this field under the
ongoing Fourth Highway Project. (ii) Technical Assistance to MOTC. To review
the transport industry and to help make a start in gradually eliminating
regulations governing entry and route licensing, freight rates and passenger
fares in the transport industry (para. 31), the project would continue to
finance the ongoing technical assistance services to MOTC (98 man-months).



- 17 -
The technical assistance team would review the road transport industry and
make proposals for deregulation of the road transport industry, assist in
preparation of a plan for the deregulation of interisland shipping, and
determine the feasibility of freight and passenger terminals throughout the
country (iii) Technical Assistance to the Constru,tion Industry Authority of the
Philippines (CLAP). To assist the Government in its long-term objective of
further developing the domestic construction industry, the project would
provide 72 -an-months of local technical asristance services to CIAP in order
to continue the ongoing services financed under the Fourth Highway Project.
Advanced Technical Training to MPWH and CIAP Staff
61.       MPWH staff requiring advanced technical training in specialized sub-
jects, including highway maintenance and construction and contract management,
are usually sent overseas to educational institutions or on study tours, and
such a program is now underway under the Fourth Highway Project. This project
would provide for continuation of the MPWR overseas training program. Altoge-
ther, about 30 permanent MPWH staff members would benefit from the proposed
program. MPWH has regulations which ensure that staff receiving overseas
training would return to work for at least three years upon return. In CIAP,
short study tours have been provided for two permanent staff members under the
Fourth Highway Project. Under this project, two CIAP staff members would undertake
8 to 12 weeks study tours covering financial management and building research.
Project Cost and Financing
62.       The total project cost, including contingency allowances, about
US$19.0 million of taxes and the US$0.3 million capitalized front-end fee on
the Bank loan, is ectimated at about P 2,652.5 million or US$189.5 million.
The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$92.0 million. The total
cost includes: (a) physical contingencies of 10% of base costs on all items;
and (b) price contingencies amounting to about 30% of base costs on all items,
including physical contingencies, (estimated for foreign costs at 3.5% for
1984, 8.0% for 1985, and 9.0% for 1986, 1987, and 1988, and for local costs at
20.0% for 1984, 12% for 1985, 10.0% for 1986, and 7.0% for 1987 and 1988.
Cost estimates are based on May 1984 prices.
63.       The proposed Bank loan of US$102.0 million would finance the pro-
ject's full 75oreign exchange cost (US$92.0 million) and US$10.0 million of
local cost 7  or 60% of the total estimated project cost without taxes.    The
loan includes US$0.3 million for the capitalized front-end fee on the Bank
loan and will be for 20 years with five years grace at the standard variable
interest rate. The Government would finance the remaining US$87.5 million
equivalent, through annual budgetary allocations to MPWH. Retroactive
financing of US$500,000 is recommended for expenditures incurred after October
31, 1933 for the detailed engineering for the first year bridge reconstruction
program undertaken by MPWH through consultants (Lyon Assoc./USA, Transasia,
Phil. Int. Cons., Certeza Dev. Corp., Techniks, A. Lazaro, Philnor Cons.,
Technosphere, F.F. Cruz, R.C. Gaite, and DCCD/all Philippines) (Schedule 1,
para. 3 of the draft Loan Agreement).
7/ For justification of local cost financing see para. 20.



- 18 -
64.       For the bridge reconstruction program, the base cost for a rein-
forced concrete bridge averages about US$4,000 per linear meter. For the
improvement of the national highway, Baguio-Mt. Data, the base costs per
kilometer amounts to US$215,000. For the national highway restoration
program, the base costs per kilometer range from US$20,000 to US$70,000. All
these cost estimates are reasonable.
Status of Preparation
65.       Detailed engineering for ten bridges, representative of the entire
range of bridge designs has been completed. Final detailed engineering for
the first year program would be completed by May 31, 1984. Land acquisition
for the first year would begin in July 1984. The feasibility study and
detailed engineering for the Baguio--Mt. Data highway are completed and land
acquisition has started. Engineering for the first year of the restoration
program has begun and is scheduled for completion by July 1984. No land
acquisition is required for restoration activities.
Implementation
66.       MPWH, assisted by qualified consultants, will be responsible for
implementation of the project. MOTC will be responsible for execution of its
technical assistance, and CIAP will be responsible for execution of the
construction industry studies and its technical assistance. In view of the
experience gained in implementing the Third and Fourth Highway Projects the
implementation capacity of MPWH and its Regional Offices was carefully assess-
ed at appraisal, and the scope and size of this project has been designed
accordingly. The project would be implemented over a four-year period and
should be completed by December 31, 1988.
Procurement
67.       Civil works (totalling US$68.33 million) for the improvement of the
Baguio-Mt. Data highway and for larger contract packages for the bridge recon-
struction program and of the restoration program asphalt concrete overlays of
national highways would be awarded under international competitive bidding
(ICB) in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement (July 1980).
Civil works (totalling US$100.52 million) for smaller contract packages for
reconstruction of bridges on national highways and for restoration of national
highways would be awarded through local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures
satisfactory to the Bank (value of each package not exceeding US$2.5 million
for bridge works and US$1.0 million for restoration works). During the review
of each year's program (para. 56), agreement would be reached concerning the
specific packages to be used for bridge reconstruction contracts. Inter-
national contractors represented in the country will be allowed to participate
in all LCB for Bank-financed projects.
68.       All bidding packages for civil works estimated to cost US$1.0 mil-
lion equivalent or more (50Z of the total civil works financed under the pro-
ject) would be subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement documenta-
tion. The bidding packages for civil works estimated to cost less than
US$1.0 million equivalent would not be reviewed routinely by the Bank but MPWH



- 19 -
would maintain copies of the bid evaluation and send final contracts to the
Bank prior to submission of the first withdrawal application. Consultant
services for detailed engineering/construction supervision, studies and tech-
nical assistance would be obtained in accordance with the relevant Bank Guide-
lines (August 1981). It was agreed during negotiations that the Government
would take action to make available the right-of-way on each highway section
or bridge site before awarding the contract for its improvement or reconstruc-
tion. During negotiations it was also agreed that the Government would con-
sult with the Bank prior to award of contracts in cases where other considera-
tions make it desirable to begin work before all right-of-way has been
acquired (Sections 3.05 (a) and (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Disbursements
69.       Disbursements would be made for:  (a) 50% of total expenditures for
civil works; and (b) 100% of total expenditures for consulting and technical
assistance services, whether expatriate or local, and for training. All
expenditures would be fully documented except expenditures (a) under civil
works contracts whose value is less than US$100,000; (b) under consultant's
services contracts whose value is less than US$50,000, and under training
programs.   Disbursements for these expenditures will be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure (SOE) certified by the Deputy Minister of MPWH.
Supporting documentation would be retained by MPWH and made available for
review by Bank staff. During negotiations it was agreed that MPWH would
submit detailed audit reports of SOE to the Bank within a reasonable time.
70.       In order to facilitate implementation of the project, the Bank would
make advance payments into a Special Account to cover the estimated Bank share
of expenditures. The Special Account would be in US dollars in the Central
Bank of the Philippines. The amount of the Special Account on deposit would
at no time exceed US$7.0 million which is the estimated quarterly share of
Bank expenditures including a margin of 20%. Replenishment of the account by
the Bank would be subject to review and approval of withdrawal applications
justifying expenditures from the account (Section 2.02 (b) and Schedule 5 of
the draft Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
71.       The bridge program involves the construction or reconstruction of
some 435 structures that have outlived their useful economic and, in many
instances, technical lives. The average daily traffic (ADT) on these is over
300, with a low of 30 and a high of over 6,000. Cars and jeepneys comprise
about 50% of the traffic and truck and buses 50% on the average. The benefits
of this component are reductions in vehicle operating costs, the elimination
of the need for diversions (up to 50 km) in the event of failure or floods,
and improving truck load factors and reducing trucking costs by removing low
load limits on weak bridges. For the bridge program as a whole the ERR is
estimated at 23%. The principal benefits of the project from the improvement
of the national highway Baguio-Mt. Data are savings in vehicle operating costs
and road maintenance costs. The ERR on this component is 30%. The proposed
road restoration program will cover 1,223 km of badly deteriorated national
highways. As a result of the project, vehicle operating costs are expected to



- 20 -
be reduced between 15% to 35% for different types of vehicles on the different
categories of roads. Assuming a projected growth in traffic of 6% p.a., the
ERR for gravel and bituminous roads is estimated to be 32% and the ERR for
asphalt overlaid roads included in the project is estimateA to be over 100%.
The weighted ERR on the project as a whole is estimated at over 40%.
72.       The population served by the project works will be the main bene-
ficiaries of the investments. Because of the de facto free market in the
trucking industry and the intense competition for freight among truckers,
reductions in truck operating costs will be reflected in reductions in freight
charges. This will also apply to a substantial extent for passenger transport
by jeepneys and, to a lesser extent, by buses. Private car-owners will reap
the full benefit of all savings in vehicle operating costs resulting from the
project. The construction activities that the project would generate will
give direct employment to some 1,500 workers over a period of four years.
Moreover, the domestic construction industry would benefit from the project in
both work availability and construction experience.
73.       The principal project risk is that the construction cost of the
project components would be higher than estimated. However, several factors
minimize the possibility and consequences of such a risk. With respect to the
bridge reconstruction program, nearly all of the new structures will replace
existing structures, soil conditions at all sites will, nevertheless, be
thoroughly investigated and standard designs employed for superstructures. On
the national highway Baguio-Mt..Data, improvement works are relatively
simple. On the highways restoration program, the works proposed are
relatively small-scale and their costs are based on experience in implementing
previous restoration work. Another major risk is that improvement work
carried out under the project may not be adequately maintained after comple-
tion. Some measures for improving highway maintenance have already been
initiated by MPWH. This is to be further dealt with through the provision of
technical assistance to strengthen MPWH's maintenance capabilities.
74.       Sensitivity tests carried out to assess the impact of a 10% increase
in costs found that this would reduce the return on the project only margin-
ally. The returns were also tested to assess their sensitivity to smaller
benefits caused by slower traffic growth than those assumed. For a 10% drop
in traffic, the returns would also decline only marginally, and the project
would still be acceptable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
75.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Philippines and
the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement, are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Special conditions are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
76.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 21 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
77.       I recommend the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
By Ernest Stern
Attachments
April 30, 1984
Washington, D.C.
q.



ANNEX I
- 22 -                                             Page 1 of 5
T A B L C 3A
PHIL IP?7NES            - SOCIAl. INIIICATORE DATA SImET
PHLXPXK                               KrRtFt,K    aRvps (w.lilTi.I- hVykCN   -
MOST                      (03ST RIECrT EPTINATP) /h
'bz        lb  EeERNT            NIlDOLE INCOMP            IOLDDLE INeCIH.
I 080h1S,,  1970-  ESTTNATHI!!       ASTA & PACIFIC        LAT. AMREICA A CARNI
AREA (TUOUSAI  SQ. KM)
TOTAL.                                0 nn.0    100.0       300.0
AGRICULTURAL                         9R.R       104.0       109.2
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                   16n.0       260.0       790.0             1028.6                    20h8.2
lmEC? COISUUNPION PEE CAPITA
(EILOGHANS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      1s5.n       333.0       380.0              792.8                    1407.6
IoPULATION AND  ITAL STATISTICS
POPULATlnOH.MD-YEAR (THOUSANtJI)  27394.0   31684.0    49535.0
URBAN POPUILATION Ct OP TOTAL)       30.3        32.9        36.7               32.9                      65.9
P'OPULATION PROWECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2nnO (MILL)                             7h.4
STATIONARY POPIULATION (MTLL)                             137.2
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACIIEID                            213D
POPULATION VERNITY
PFR SQ. KM.                        91.3       122.8       16l.0              260.7                      35.6
PER SO. KM. ACRI. LAND           277.3        354.3       442.3             1696.5                      93.2
POPULATION ACE STRIICTUEr CZ)
0-14 YRS                          44.6        45.5       46.6                39.6                      40.1
1s66 YRS                           52.4        51.6        51.3               57.2                      55.R
65 AND AIOW.                        3.0         2.9         3.1                3.3                       4.1
POPULATION CROwrf RATE (2)
TOTAL.                              3.0         3.0         2.7                2.3                       2.1
UIRBAN                              4.1         3.8         3.7                3.9                       3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)         46.7        44.0        33.9               31.3                      31.S
CRUDE DFATH RATE (PER THOUS)         14.6         9.5         7.3                9.6                       8.L
GROSS REPROOUCTIONL RATE              3.4         3.1         2.3                2.0                       2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)            ..       191.7       375.0
USERS (: OF HARRIED WOMEN)           ..         2.0        68.0               46.6
FOOD AND NDnulTILON
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                       102.0       101.0       124.0              12z.2                     113.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (2 OF REDUIRFMENrS)       99.0        99.0       116.0              114.2                     111.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           46.0        r8.0        53.0               57.9                      67.9
OF WHNICH ANLMAL AND PULSE        17.0        19.0        21.0/c             14.1                      34.1
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE          13.8         7.9         4.3                7.6                       5.3
HALTt
LtFE EXPECT. AT SIRTH (YEARS)        52.8        59.0        63.2               60.2                      64.6
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)       105.8        75.0        53.0               68.1                      62.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (rDrP)
TOTAL                                ..        36.0        43.0/d             37.1                      64.5
UREAN                                ..          ..        66.07              54.8                      77.5
RURAL                                ..          ..        33.075             26.4                      66.
CCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                *-        57.0        56.0/d             41.4                      54.6
URBAN                                ..          ..        76.07i             47.5                      69.8                           )
RURAL                                ..          ..        44.07i             33.4                      29.8
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           6940.0      9100.0      7970.0             777l.9                    1776.0
POP. PER NtURSING PERSON               ..      5390.0      6000.0             2462.6                    1012.2
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            1210.0       820.0       560.0/e           1047.2                     477.0
URAIL                             560.0       390.0          .               651.1                     667.5
RURAL                                ..          ..          ..             2591.9                    1921.6
ADMIS/ONS PER HOSPIrAL BED             .         30.0          ..               27.0                      27.2
StW85 TNC
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSENHD
TOTAL                               5.8         5.9
UinAN                                ..         6.2
RURAL                                .          5.8
AVERACE NO. OF PERSONS/ROON
TOTAL                                ..         2.3
URBAN                                ..         2.1
RURAL                                           2.4
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z OF DWELLINCS)
TOTAL                              16.5        22.7        36.0
URBAN                                ..        59.9        82.6
RURA                                 ..         6.7        10.0



ANNEX I
- 23-                                                 Page 2 of 5
T A JL E 3A
ml.Pplh5              -SOCIA! ISrATORS DATA S,RRY
pINLIPprrES                         REFEREICE GROrPS (EIGrED AVERAtZS) I
!5ST                    (19ST RECEST ESTl4AITE) lb
RECE5T   ,      rmD   iCGMa           MrDtLE IIC!EE
196tl    I97ffl iSblTE z            ASIA & PACIFIC      LAT_ A'RaCA & CARIB
ADfJSTED ESRU.LEgr RATIOS
PRLtJff:  TUIAL                  95.0       108I0      110.0              101_2                    105_0
MMLE                   98.0      115_0       111_0             106.0                    106_3
FEWALE                 93.0      113.0       IO8O              97-5                    103.6
SECONDARY: TO17AL                26.0        46.0       63_0              44.9                     40.0
UtPLE                  28.0       520n        580              50_0                     38.6
FELALE                 25.0       49.0        68S0              44.6                     41.2
VOCATIONADL ( OF SECOSDARY)        15.3         8.9/f     33.9/c             L8.5                     34.0
POPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PR LARY                          36.0        29.0       30.0              32.7                      30.7
SECORCDARY                       27._Of&     33.0       34.0               23.4                     16.7
ADMLT LITERACY RATE CZ)            71.9        S2.6       75.0               72.9                     79.5
?ASSENMP CARSITHOUISASD POP         3.Z         7.6       10.2le             9.7                      4556
RADIO RCEIVERS1THOUSASD POP        21.9        40.7       43_5              113.7                   2ZS.2
TV IMCELVERS1TAISAPD Pop            1.4        10.9       20.7               50.1                    108.3
SEwSPAPElt CDAry GEERmL
IrEREsT) CIRCULATIOS
FEZ THOUSAND POPtXATIOR           17.7        13.6       20.7               54.0                     65.1
CIPMIA A.NSUAL ATTESDA.CEICAPITA    0.6/h        __        7-4fd              3.4                      2.9
LABOR ?ORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TReS)       10915.0    13577.0    17667.0
FEMALE (PERCEST)                 3452        33.1       32.3               33.6                    24.8
ACEICCLTERE (PERCEST)            61.0        53.0       46.0               50.9                     31.3
ISOVSTRY (PERCEST)               15.0        16.0       17.0               19.2                    23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCEST)
TOTAL                            39-8        36.6       35.6               18.6                     31.3
"ALE                             52.1        48.6       *7.8               50.7                    59.8
MALE                             27.4        2LC4       23.2               26.6                     14_8
EC5OOT1C  ,EPrEDESCY RATIO         1.2         1.3        t.3                1.1                     1_4
3Niz DISTRIBUrIOl
PERCEEr OF PRIVATE INCWIE
RECEIVED BY
RIOIEST 5 OF HOUSEHOLDS          30.1        23.1         __               22.2
WICREST 20- OF HOUSEIDLDS        56.3        54. 0        ._               48.0
LOWEST 20: OF liOUSEHOLDS         4.2         5.2         __                6.4
LOWEST 4r OF ROUSEIIOLDS         12.0        14.2         *-               15.5
PVERT  TA ET QOUS
EST-IATED ABSQUTE POVERTY ISCOQE
LEVEL (CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBAY                                                  260.0              194.5                    289.8
RURAL                                                  195.0              155.0                   1t4.5
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTT IICOME
LEVEL. USS PER CAPITA)
URBAX                              *-          *       266.0              178.0                    519.8
RURAL                              ..          ..      200.0              164.8                    372.1
ESTIMATED POP. BEL.rL ABS4LUTE
POVERTY ICOFE LEVEL CZ)
LRBAN                              ..                    32.0              24.6
RUIRAL                                         .        41.0               41.1
SOT AVAILAa.E
'MT APPLICAPLE
/a  The group -rerges for each Indicator are popitation-elghted arlthmetic  emus- Coverre of con,tries anon  the
Indicators depends on aailability of data and Is not nniforu.
/b  Unle-n otherwxse noted. Data for 1960- refer to any year betwen 1959 and 1961; D-ta for 1970 beteeen 1969 and
1971; and data for -lout Recent Estite  betwen 1979 and 1981.
/e  1977: /d 1975; /e 1978; Jf 1972; LI 1962: Jh 1958.
way 1983



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
24 -                                                                                     ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
.sre.dcie  - A the :a.h  t cca.edardesd d.t hetlec -edb reerte   ddsIAttceetetere   It  et! ttitti.- dat-  Th Set. ate.. ttic                     A,,me,ia -1L
Lecattee .ef.tar  .t e-LLt.d'%  f.cdt.etee tees'.. ...s eherectentee ant-tn eel.. dli ftp.ec.e  het.' i..S,t*5t5.~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ -1-1 F E,    -I
tet-'.earcr.ar   ltth  *na  aeit  a... e  ti-   hjtt  attt  a'  ()   reetv  rep .tc  settt  iger  eegelie   fea ti  etr   crepatth
.el.~    ee''eetis   itnr    'tti.pr.vCcre  .'ee ttde  eve.behdm.  -   idi  c-f  I  hecai.aeaoretagt  niareatC
ac.cttc 3   t ne   t.ac-  rc.  ..  er   a~  ec.Ict.cecghederctc aat ft  at  tstflr  5   tea...et  ir el.v!r  t hereneiab3
vt. -. . - innte  .f .anic,itev.   rea '.ee4 tecte.nil -  prc.'.,e.e-   iei  edet p.-t..,e  -selnt-t  tevec   racica b                              sraeb a
ferase.  eeste..aerta  a's  itrh.t gare".  t                                                                                                                     Wci.Lle;je.ertgaelata
in'  .,c.t ina'iaae                                           mn~entaitae-. e...tr.t Thai - tee.!  ertac  -- revel - ispet,t-,I-(tetat
1-. W3. .a  MrI.  as  e  l dcan  5   iei e rale 'saner  Ci  dptIdAket.
op  taCaa  ,si    tPee  *.et. e. eaen  t  etec  evit  rine              itsi  I  pttit  ntpeta b         t-a   ed  ptleidherealae
-aa.iaea  e  y    ri  tet  tia  LiY-4  hel.:                            vtteiitte   v-tev.  teptel  ar  eeahls~es AseenIly  astic
:nsa~h~,  .A  te: saf.                                   Pcet trct        pheLcIe.  eeahiiheetic preidt.  cctuhnsit cated!.
2-                                                    Ld~aean   a  hre's    ae!ieiAtt   ete   Lend  heaLthact
'sc,fvv-nt,  . cca-o'a.    ers  ecnctta  itenieeicVe  cci.tctpene-ttctttedPganttecs  h   hdaetts
~t-r  onie ea  ad  trt-.eerses.sacrl  ecas   r.-.esletaiicce.ee                                     ec.!?.et.) eit  rerteetan    retin  e
dare-                                                                           'tat heepit~~~~~~~~~-.-dWAledcte  P  h  asiea  cti ied -,
*rhec tt'eetten  frevv..t -, tnt-it - tact'. ci evha.i en tetel pennL-I -laetttt:I-Id
Pi-tor-t  .f!ttien..  tt. -,.   '  tar                                                                      C-eehii.a  dt
acti .-c-cttt--; ihet :n(-..- 'net Act..                                             re. p. hre c ---.ced  r.-e ar   eehcd      eat t-.                          ..
pe.eiet....Ls.ardtct-erverternictic   reactiteese  ra he-e  -. in.      tee thir eel.eealn.A heMrttIeI--eaar eaI-r eI..             t (eL.eeCet-h
t.ta.pna   tW.n-etnnee   ha   etlte05ftityeaheeit  feeetaietta  tepee.T1  ...                                                          1    _   d
caer.  th   eenate  tereer3 hu. .-ce  t-c  eee  It.. IV'i.                      eceeeeilted ta-lttne-1"
ae..enea d'cin  tc~ittvt  army- L.a e lnc.e   ertceo ret teeiy  erpee he  lan-craicc  terr.e  ci dellteot - tesL'       es. .5 e-ai 
eanei.t ,.t..tnen.-e   r., . r.ettr.  e ere  ceetced  e  then  em              cOetcc    llweei  .cevlri .'etni feerIefe_as nva-t
.--eeinet.a'e.'e  er* ,it.  el tnt Lce h-nt ta-11eweo P eeen                       iiect.eret  ndrea  tcilntveiciee.
%teth.tatc e.tnect ice -  eecetieean tnahatlen ctav ic - ~ve--
e.3nah r. tim feath rate. e'c.i ehe-  ag.  rescertat ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~-dA-_zt                           ~       _j_
ntn.cv' teh'n:eeeec.Nt  i  etice    ei  eec  rviLl.-     t.                  tecs  eelectot.
I'mr.c'..  veb--.nec 1-ne  cicetc 't -urccetatirat~  ,ec            rlere  ntlat   toal,eel ac  Leale- Canetetl. Cl-a  iael
r--.i.c-c it-it -ectt~,    i-etcthenevy  etal mt -  cii  ece cc the itse..,. iceat- pevvaeveeetat ecepeectE
e"r"-t ic. nt. ~ii  tcteeth-a                                                 tevetete ectLch - tta. eala ads te- -   cehd-                  Ian    ette,cteny
fucti ~ ~  ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      LIA   -sd -tieIsi-c.ahc   eetec   a    t- nt peece I-ttce    MIlar .                                 -IcAdrtt
Per-.  e.   etccar  nnete'Le re  esac.Lueece?  ii' 'etttce  etytthdn (natL,teedltFe.- at tecete  trIIg   neette   a
cea=nZ        .zn..-is.  ae                                                                  el  eLCit' e_ i2 ta 17ta..3ec   eve 'tC .. L                  Ee-e. so
i-'L'  afe:tta.-                                                       P.atI-r,tLU    reo -eIa  .a'snee  ten   ?eaiattate                        Aded'st
pear ccpecttea feri5te-it..ief'iefi. 4n! ihiie                                      re-p'eic   l     -.I.   1  en.II 
peanatie  -teth  ate  serrnti-  e..    neieec.rt.e                                        di  t-e at-i  Lce           R.,t -.               ddd-t el.(al  IS ree  c' -riea
tear retehetien. ti~Ne iOti. and iFc) date.                                  nua-h.rU.lte
tet  eatitae  ee  ta.naef  - t.cl eavn  ev heata   s  el-tapFee..cerCae (eviheecd tteathet  - ecengr  anLesehe  ete
,nnnlettee; tt". isq. and  aft dae,                                               tar   netig  an  eta  eigh  Leete  emee                Ice,har.  a
lease terratn.t ten tate c ateraite 'ee.her et danattevic                   'La.sen ciii      td`av It  ntiitatc tehlei.a
eef"eai tet.istie   rert..def eta cpetienfe  prenes.eae-cperttt  Cedh  tvetc.v  (rev tteeeaed stnelcele) - dil  syeMS et  etet.) t-Let ted-
f-v tif vt-c  ...eait lenent a-ter.  etla  i  in'.  o,]  as  Peedaat  tejacretwelc rt  heee'sci  epeat ce;c-              Id       d
3se ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~EZ                " .C                                                  Ileec   retneai   ecrc   '  nta. ae   eteeic.   e
Leetc vleti-t cdreetare se,att  ct.neecnt - e.ee  e~veL  vrepatc   eestee  e elen:Oat. fatravat  .v. er -the eat                  rtle   ten
re-eec.-                                                           ?t ieet"evn fret rtieena's aetetattent - ev r.tahteee tsr hreedrant he.-   _L_"_1 1-1
eteiev:anz.icreve  e..ee  c narid ten.)   Pvccrae O  tertd                aceta  ptit rt tttca' e3neeta'c  arteeneataran' T  r`etev
ea  .f .-tiifci-ctt  ..   .     -r'c. .I_uc-.etslcie   ci  aati.    a   teae.'e    eirte    fTa'ieh   tei
ie...c,tit.et~en reec.cncta- I;,Cfladatt.eeenttteaeeva1
-.  ~ ~                                                       .  ~~  uae A  -feii 'e-.ve; tnt-re.: .c.teL.a..evc  datteet - - rettcdc-rawij_._  a 
cite    se.-".4  ;'.eftarec:iat.ncee..diriaeeint.ev...c.tee.etc.icece. tfietetatdct'



ANNEX I
- 25 -P                                                    4 of 5
PHILIPPINES - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Aauunt
(milion US5$ at                    Annual growth rates (:) Cconstant price)
curren- prices)             Actual                Est.                   Projected
Indicator                          1981          1979    1980   191     1982    183   1984    1985   1986    1987   1988
NATLONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product           3V.876         5.9    4.9    3.8       3.0    1.0   -Z.Z      0.8    Z.Z    '%.5    4.5
Agriculture                     14.765        5.3.   5.0    3.6    3.1   -2.1        2.0    2.0    3.0       3.5    3.5
industry                       l..481         6.7    3.5    4.7    2.4    0.7   -5.0   -2.0          1.0    3.5    4.5
Services                       15.630         5.5    6.3      3.0    3.5    3.5   -2.0       2.5    2.7      3.5    5.0
Consumption                      29.032         4.8    4.8    4.0    3.5    2.6   -4.7   -0.3          0.6     0.7    Z.5
Cross investment                 1'.806         7.4     1.0     2.3   -2.9   -4.4  -16.0        1.1    4.2    9.1    7.6
Exports of R-FS                   J,411         7.4   16.0      1.6   -2.6      1.7    4.9    5.1    6.0       6.3    6.7
Imports of CNFS                   9.373        10.3    3.7    -_9      3.5   -2.0  -24.0    0.2    1.5         2.1    2.6
Gross national savings             .884         7.7     3.4    3.1  -11.2
PRICES
CDP deflator (197Z - lO)                     Z49.4  266.9  317.3  343.5  380.4
Exchange rate (US$1 -   )                       7.4    7.5    7.9    8.5   11.1
Export price index (1980 - 100)                98.9  100-0   99.4   87.9   9Z.0    98         103    113    123    134
Icport price index (1980 - 100)                81.6  100.0  112.7  101.6   95.0    99         105    114    IZ5    136
Terms of trade Index (1980 - IO)             121.2  100.0   88.2   86.5   97.0   101          98      99      98      99
Share of CDP at market prices ()                     Averge annual tncrease ()
(at current prices) in                                (constant prices)
1960   1970   1975    1980-  1985    1990-    1960-70   i970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Gross domestic product           100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0           5.1         6.1      5.9       1.3       4.0
Agriculture                     28.1   27.8   29.0   23.2   24.3   22.0           4.3         4.3       4.8      2.3       3.5
Industry                        25.8   29.6   33.5   36.9   36.1   38.9            6.0       8.6       7.6       0.7       4.5
Servlces                        46.1   42.6   37.5   39.9   39.6   39.1            5.2       5.4       5.7       2.7       4.0
Consumption                     85.3   79.2   75.8   73.8   79.0   76.0            4.8        5.5      5.2       1.0       1.9
Cross investment                16.3   21.5   31.0   30.5   21.0   Z2.0            8.Z      11.5       6.5      -3.2       6.5
Exports of GNFS                 10.8   19.4   18.5   20.1   23.0   Z5.0            5.8        3.2     10.0       4.7       6.7
Imports of ONES                 10.6   19.7   25.3   26.4   Z1.0   22.0            6.8        6.8      8.0      -1.7       2.6
Gross national savrings         16.2   20.5   25.3    2.1    18.0   19.0           7.4        9.7      5.8        -         -
As : of GDp
1960    1970    1975    1980             Labor force In 1978      Millions    (2)
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                       Agriculture               7.4       44.4
Current revenue                          9.8      9.5    15.0    13.6               Industry                 2.7       16.2
Current expenditures                     9.6    1O.9    13.2    10.0                Services                 5.6       33.0
Surplus (4) or deficit C-)               0.2    -1.4       1.8      3.6             Unemployed                1.1       6.4
Capital expenditure                      2.3      1.9      3.2      7.8
Foreign financing                         -       0.1      0.3      2.3                Total Labor Force    16.8      100.0
1960-70       1970-75        1975-80        1980-85        1985-90
OTHER EXPENDITURES
Annual GCNP growth rate (2)                                 5.1           6.1            5.9            1.3           4.0
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (:)                       2.0           2.7            3.2            1.1            1.7
Annual energr consumption growth rate CI)                   7.4           6.2            4.2            N.A.          N.A.
ICOR                                                        3.7           4.3            5.2            N.A.          1l.A.
INarginal savings rate                                      0.29          0.33           0.26           N.A.          N.A.
Import elasticity                                           1.33          1.12           1.20           N.A.          N.A_
/a  Projected years at constant prices.
East Asia and Pacific Region
March, 1984



ANNU I
- 26-                                            Page 5 of 5 pages
BALANCE OF PAMENTS AND EmRNAL CAPITAL AND DEST
(S .Lmon. at current prices)
Actual                   Est.                     Projected
1979     1980      1981     1982      1983      1984    1985      i986     1987      1988
Summary of Balance of Payments
Exports of goodS and servIces          6,177    7,863    8,624    7,837    8,072    8,280   8.891   10,101   11,572   13,336
of which:  exports of goods          4.602    5,788    5,722    5.021    5,005    5.510   6,097    7,059    8.212    9.565
Imports of goods and services          8.108   10,348   11,389   11.683   11,170   10.310  10,490   11,535   12,658   13,922
of which:  imports of goods          6.142    7,727    7,946    7.667    7,469    5,990   6,236    6,919    7,738    8,709
Transfers (net)                          355       434      472       498      399       490     450       480       500      550
Current Account Balance            -1,576   -2.051   -2,293   -3.348   -2,699   -1.540  -1,149          -954     -586       -36
Direct investment (net)                   99        45      407       292        4
MLT loans (net)                        1.091    1.032    1.382    1,721    1,427
OfficLal-source loans (net)            449      375       691      434    1,177
Private-soutce loans (net)             642      657       691    1.287       250
Other capital (net) /a                  -193       593      -56       146   -1,196
overall Balance /b                    -579     -381      -560   -1.189   -2Z464
Internatinal reserves (end-year) Ic  2,423    3.155    2.707    2.543          903
Reserves as months of imports            3.6       3.7      2.9       2.6      1.0
External Capital and Debt
Cross disbursements                    2,134    1.887    2.136    2.693
Concessional Loans                     185      168       212      176
Bilateral                            113      107       198      159
IDA                                    3        2         7        8
other multiLateral                    69       59         7         9
Sonconcessional Loans                1.949    1.719    1.924    2.518
Official export credIts              152        8        58       66
IBfl                                 210      229       b41      251
Other multilateral                      81       83       119       125
Private sources                      1.506    1,399    1,306    2,076
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed       7,204    8,415   10,148   1Z.145
official-source                    2.286    2.730    3,355    3,971
Private-source                     4,918    5,685    6,793    8,174
Undisbursed debt /d                  3.645    4.086    4.546    3.999
Debt Service
Total service payments le            1,480    1,013    1,560    2.048
Of which:  interest                  488      568       806    1,076
Pavments as Z of exports of goods
and services Fe                     24.0      1.9      18.1     Zo.1
Average Interest rate on new loans                                                                                                            )
OffIcial-source                          5.5       7.4      7.7  r
Private-source                          10.5      14.3     15.5  (  14.4
Average maturity of new loans
OfficLal-source                         23.4      20.2     20.9
Private-source                          11.1      10.1     10.0       9.0
/a   Nonmonetary short-term capital, monetization of gold. allocation of SDRs, and errors and omisslons.
/b   Equals change in net international reserves, plus arrears.
/c Cross reserves of the Central Bank ('lnternational reserves." IFS).
7F   Public and publicly guaranteed only.
Ie   Includes prepayments of 5401 million in 1978, S492 millLon in 1979 and $92 million in 1980.
Note:  Since the Philippines is In the process of rescheduling its debt, It ls not possible to project capital inflow Eigures
in detail.
East Asia and Pacific Region
March, 1984



-27 -                                           AENf  I I
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF SANK CROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PRILIPPIHES
A_ STATEJOT OF BANIC LOA9S AND IDA CREDITS /a
As of March 31. 1984
Loan or
credit                                                                             Amount (less cancellations)
number      FT   Borrower                   Purpose                                 Bank     IDA     Undisbursed
Thirty-nine loans and three credits fully disbursed                                1,192.02    32.ZZ        -
1080-PH    1975  Rep. of the Philippines   Tarlac Irrtgation                         17.00      -          0.01
1102-PH    1975                              Rural Development                       25.00      -          0.09
1Z27-PH    1976              "Chco Irrigation                                        50.00      -          4.90
127Z-T-PH   1976                             Manila Urban                            10.00      -          0.36
1282-PH    1976              n               Manila Urban                            22.00      -          0.80
1353-PH    1977                              Third Highways                          95.00      -         18.75
1367-PH    1977                              Jalaur Irrigaetin                       15.00      -          0.58
1376-PH    1977                              Fourth Education                        25.00      -          2.32
1399-PH    1977   Central Bank of the Phil. Fourth Rural Credit                      36.50      -          0.C6
1414-PH    1977  Rep. of the Philippines   Sat. Irrig. System  Improvement           50.00      -         21.95
1421-PH    1977                              Rural Dev. Land Settlement II           15.00      -          2.81
1460-PH    1978   National Power Corp.       Seventh Power                           58.00      -         11.44
1506-PH    1978   Rep. of the Philippines   S=aliholder Tree Farming                  8.00      -          4.46
1514-PH    1978  Philippine National Bank  PDCP V                                    30.00      -          0.75
1526-PH    1978   Rep. of the Philippines    Nat. Irrig. Systems Improvement II      65.00      -         35.4Z
790-PH    1978                              Rural Infrastructure                      -      28.00       13.84
1555-PH    1978  Philippine Natlonal Bank  PIS0                                      15.00      -          0.01
1567-PH    1978  Rep. of the Philippines    Magat II                                150.00      -          5.87
1572-PH    1978                              Industrial Investment III               80.00      -         1-.56
1615-PR    1979                              Manila Water Supply II                  88.00      -         34.89
1626-PH    1979                              Rational Extension                      35.00      -         21.47
1639-PH    1979                              Magat River Multipurpose                21.00      -          1.06
1646-PH    1979                              Sall Farer Dev. (Land Rank)             16.50      -          3.94
1647-PH    1979                              Second Urban Development                32.00      -          7.28
1661-PH    1979                              Highways IV                            100.00      -         47.84
1710-PH    1979                              Water Supply II                         16.00      -         16.00
920-PH    1979                              Water Supply II                            -     22.00       11.88
923-PH    1979                              Population II                             -      40.00       31.20
1772-PH    1980                              Sear Island Rural Development           27.00      -         18.83
1786-PH    1980              "Fiseries Training (Educ. VI)                           38.00/c   -          29.08
1809-PH    1980                              Medium-Scale Irrigation                 71.00      -         55.83
1814-PH    1980              -               Manila Sewerage & Sanitation            63.00      -         38.27
1815-PH    1980                              Rainfed Agric.-Dew. (Iloilo)            12.00      -          7.48
1821-PH    1980                              Third Urban                             72.00      -         42.79
1855-PH    1980                              Third Ports                             67.00      -         40.26
1860-PH    1980                              Rural Roads Improvement                 62.00      -         39.24
1890-PH    1981                              Watershed Manageoent                    38.00      -         2S.10
1894-PH    1981              "               Third Livestock & Fisheries             45.00      -         25.63
1903-PH    1981                              Structural Adjustment                  200.00      -          0.85
1984-PH    1981   Central Bank of the Phil. Industrial Finance (Apex)               150.00      -        137.21
2030-PH    1981   Rep. of the Philippines    Elementary educ. Sector Loan           100.00      -         94.56
2040-PH    1982              "               Agric. Support Services                 45.00      -         44.30
2067-PH    1982                              Urban Engineering                        8.00      -          2.74
2127-PH    1982              -               Textile Sector Restructure             157.40      -        114.17
2156-PH    1982                              N National Fisheries Development        ZZ.40      -         ZZ.07
2169-PH    1982              -               Stil III                                132.00     -        120.72
Z173-PH    1982              "               Cosmal Irrigation                       71.10      -         62.64
Z181-PH     1982  National Power Corp.       Coal Exploration                        17.00      -         14.83
2200-PH    1983  Rep. of the Philippines    Education VItl                           24.40      -         21.69
2201-PH    1983  Philippines Nat. Oil Co.  Petroleum Exploration Promotion           13.50      -          9.72
2202-PH    1983                              Petroleum Exploration Promotion          24.00     -         20.71
2zo3-PH    1983              "               Ceotherals Exploration                  36.00      -         31.33
2206-PH    1983   Rep. of the Philippines    Water Supply and Senitation              35.50     -         29.01
2257-PH    1983                              Regional Cities Development             67.00      -         66.47
2360-PH/b  1984                              Central Visayas Regional Development    25.60      -         25.60
1282-I/b   1984                              M anila Urban Development Supplement    10.50      -         10.50
1639-1/b   1984                              Magat River Multipurpose Supplement      5.10      -          5.10
Total                                                                  3,906.01   122.22    1.468.Z7
of which has been repaid
(Bank and third parties)                                               382.75     0.39
Total now  uctstanding                                                 3,523.26   121.83
Aount sold                                            31.94
Of which has been repaid
(third parties)                                     25.98                5.96      -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate adjtstments)                                 3,517.30   121.83
Total undisbursed                                                      1,411.35    56.92    1b468.27
/a The status of the projects listed In Part A is described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA-financed projects
in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.
/b Not yet effective.
/c Includes $7.6 million NORAD funds.



ANNEX II
- 28 -                              Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of March 31, 1984
Fiscal
year                  Company                             Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Dev. Corp. of the Philippines         15.0     4.4    19.4
1967         Manila Electric Company                        8.0      -       8.0
1967         Meralco Securities Corporation                  -      4.0      4.0
1970         Philippine Long Distance Telephone Co.         3.7     0.8      4.5
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing, Inc.                   0.8     0.4      1.2
1970         Paper Industries Corp. of the Phil.             -      2.2      2.2
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation               6.2     2.1      8.3
1972         Marinduque Mining and Industrial Corp.        15.0      -      15.0
1973         Victorias Chemical Corporation                 1.9     0.3      2.2
1974         Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation          1.5      -       1.5
1974/1979    Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.    1.6       0.6      2.2
1974         Republic Flour Mills Corporation               1.2      -       1.2
1975         Philippine Polyamide Industrial Corp.          7.0      -       7.0
1976/1980    Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                     2.6     0.2      2.8
1977         Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                     2.3      1.2     3.5
1977         Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                     3.5      -       3.5
1978         Cebu Shipyard and Engineering Works, Inc.    2.1        -       2.1
1979         General Milling Corporation                    4.0      1.1     5.1
1980         PISO Leasing Corporation                      10.0     0.2    10.2
1980         Ventures in Industry and Business               -      0.3      0.3
Enterprises, Inc.
1980         Consolidated Industrial Gases, Inc.            4.5      -       4.5
1981         Loans to Seven Corp. for SMSE                 18.5     0.6    19.1
1981         Philippine Assoc. Smelting & Refining Corp.   -        5.0      5.0
1981         Davao Union Cement Corp.                      16.0      -      16.0
1982         NDC-Guthrie Plantations                       11.0      -      11.0
Total Gross Commitments                      136.4    23.4   159.8
Less sold, acquired by others,              86.1    14.5   100.6
repaid or cancelled
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC             50.3     8.9    59.2
Total Undisbursed                             17.62    0.02   17.64



- 29 -
ANNEX III
PHILIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section 1:   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare
the project                               :Two years
(b)  Project prepared by                       :MPWH, MOTC and CIAP
(c) First Bank mission to consider
the project                               :March 1981
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission            :February 15, 1983
Ce)  Completion of negotiations                :April 6, 1984
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness             :September 10, 1984
Section II:   Special Bank Implementatiou Actions
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) the Government would cause the funds for the maintenance of its
national highways to be allocated in accordance with the revised
Equivalent Maintenance Kilometer (EMK) formula and would review the
formula on a biannual basis in consultation with the Bank
(para. 51);
(b) the Government would submit before February 1, in 1985, 1986 and
1987, for Bank review and approval, its proposed list of bridges to
be reconstructed in the following year's program (para. 56); and
(c) the Government would submit before July 1, in 1985, 1986 and 1987,
for Bank review and approval, its proposed list of national highway
sections to be restored in the following year's program (para. 58).



116.                                       1o2'                                        ITI-                                       1I4'                                        42.
Ti. . mp i.Us ln gOpitOed                                                                                                                                            PHILIPPINES
1wad        rcs *dis v6ctwO kV I                                                                                                                      FIFTH  HIGHWAY  PROJECT
arIaf,ui use VI re AWI i DBa,
am  rrw  rJfrU"'hwIa Fe"I                                                                                                                                   Project  Components
C', W'r ft dflOfIdUb"r-                                                                    
e.l his ordo M ro*. on                                                                                                                                     P PROPOSED PROJECT
Pslol VI rhw t abrEA md VW                                                                                                                                     -     IMFROVEMEHT OF NATIONAL HlGrAM
EVE,nJmbS,I Few'tIM  CcIporabm                                                    a
rlenr   sol                                                                                                                               ------- ;     5    . RElCONSTRUCRION PROOIRAMO FOR BRIDGE5
ifly jepCEl 1151                                                                                                                                                     ON ITIONALI. IGHWAYS
of an lefwn ft ainy
evnserev,Iw eor pIrnc e ol                                                                          1      l
,.wch 6o*dOHFs                                                                                                                                                 -     NATICYAL HIGHWAYS
; a 1 \ 2                 -                          , . RAILWAYS
rs. wot^   r,n                                $      INTIRNATIONAL AIRPORTS
*     AIRPORTS
PORTS
FERRIES
- r *   (  - REGIONAL EOUNDARIES
ll  rIN- -Ih TERNATIONAL EOUNOARIES
S..,~~~~~.*   ~~~~~  Se,J.n.  UsIa, ~~~~~~~~~~~0                                   40      8        1MO     1
O10 C p 10,0
3                                           4a
,<,""4S                                                                                                                      L^            'D"                                                                                  4
U",~~~~~~~~~~~~~(.
hTlNDORt                               \  \                         9            /
c.rn~~~~~~~~~.
Rln.   * 1. Ir7 C..a.      5o F'                                                     /
12 '                                                                                                                    _                    \        MASBA 9TE      '': Car.,M                                               15
\   >_   *tlb ) ' L~~~~~~~ad
\   }   7qs   *ce a           {        t         \           {~~~~~~~~~%L



_~~~,0                     /-                                                                                           - i7 -    ____Csell
St eA \ ...4    d'j                                h.k
5A1  -                                         0~~~~~~~~~~~~5MA0
MAS8ArTE el(.4.'      SAMAR 512
Al~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tl
/1AN AY  / |
l       " ^                                                         e5<   t   79    < - </   1~~~~~~~~~~~~/ 
Q> %8 ~~~~/                                                                                 - '
*~ at 0    Ibi8aB  *  %  
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AP-                                                                  40"
I  /A N Aa-
IC.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
ly~                  ~                                         I- 2> F    
BUtIAA_-   Loouglr  CHINA                                                     J                          kl*wl+                 S    
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~01 pkv  I  -1                           us- E|
,IIHAND\  IEI NAM                                                                                                      I _
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
S.
~.ll,AlAANB\VNlf HIAM 
's gA.ot L A   S    ISA.I A
EIMOS                                          aa.24'                                                      12e.






