Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14688
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2418-PH)
JUNE 27, 1995
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofMicial duties. Its contents mav not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
SAR March 1987
Completion December 1993
Currency Unit = Pesos (P)
At Appraisal: P14 = US$ 1
At Completion: P25 = US$ 1
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
UNITS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB             - Asian Development Bank
DPWH            - Department of Public Works and Highways
MPWH            - Ministry of Public Works and Highways
CIAP            - Construction Industry Authority of the Philippines
EMK             - Equivalent Maintenance Kilometer
ICR             - Implementation Completion Report
IMF             - International Monetary Fund
MLG             - Ministry of Local Government
SAR             - Staff Appraisal Report
SOE             - Statements of Expenditure



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Preface     .   .     .     .     .     .    .     .    .     .     .    .     .     ..
Evaluation summary ................
Part 1: Third Highway Sector Project Implementation Assessment
A. Statement/ Evaluation of Objectives .1
B. Achievement of Objectives                                   .4
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project                             .6
D. Project Sustainability                                   .6
E. Bank Performance                                        .7
F. Borrower Performance .10
G. Assessment of Outcome .1
H. Future Opration .11
I. Key Lessons Learned .12
Part II: Statistical Annexes
Annex A: Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .15
Table 2: Related Bank Loans                                   .16
Table 3:   Project Timetable                                                                    17
Table 4:    Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .18
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation .19
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation .22
Table 7:    Studies Included in Project ....................................... 23
'Iable  8:  Project Costs ........................................................................................................................... 24
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits .25
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .26
Table 1 1:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .28
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .29
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions ..................................                         30
Annex B: Sector Specific Data
Table 1    Local Roads and Bridges Maintenance Allocation .32
Table 2:  Design standard for National Highways .33
Table 3:  Vehicle Fleet by Type, 1981-1990 .34
Table 4: Public Network 1995 .35
Table 5:    Revenue from Road Transport and Expenditure on Roads, 1981-1990 .36
Table 6:    DPWH Medium -Term Financial Plan (1993-1998) ....................................,.,.,.,.,.,37
Appendixes...38
Completion Mission's aide-memoire                  .          .         .39
Borrower's Contribution to the ICR                             .          .          .         42
Map (IBRD 17013)   .54
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
FlFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(Ln. 2418-PH)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Fifth Highway Project (Ln.
2418-PH) in the Philippines for which US$ 102.0 million equivalent was approved on May 17,
1984 and made effective on September 27, 1984.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1993 compared to the original closing date of
December 31, 1989. A cancellation of US$ 7.0 million took place, at the Borrower's request,
effective June 18, 1993. Final disbursement took place on May 23, 1994. The final transaction
took place on June 7, 1994, at which time the unused funds remaining in the special account were
recovered and the remaining loan balance of US$ 4,052,941.28 was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Ephrem Asebe, Consultant, EA1IN, and reviewed by Mr. Vineet
Nayyar, Infrastructure Operations Chief and Mr. Mohammad Farhandi, Acting Project Adviser,
EAIDR. The Borrower provided comments that are included as Appendix B to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision nission in October
1993. It is based on material in the project file. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the
ICR by contributing views reflected in the mission's aide-memoire, and by preparing its own
evaluation of the project's execution.



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(Ln. 2418-PH)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
i.    During the 1970s, in response to a strong transport growth averaging 9% per annum, the
Philippines Government invested heavily in the road sector. Between 1970 and 1982, the road
network expanded rapidly, from 65,000 km to 154,813 km (although most of this expansion was the
result of additions to the local (barangay) road network). The network comprised of 23,835 km of
national highways, 29,954 km of provincial roads, 15,638 km of city and municipal roads, and 85,264
km of barangay roads. Despite the high level of investments made during this period, the overall
condition of the Philippines road network was poor. In 1982 only 43.5% of the national highway
system, 11.2% of the provincial roads, 55.5% of the city and municipality roads and 1.6% of the
barangay roads were either asphalt or concrete, while the rest were either gravel or earth. Further, the
heavy investment, which rapidly expanded the network, was carried out without the benefit of a
corresponding increase in routine and periodic maintenance funding. As a result, by the 1980s,
sustainability of the network was in question.
ii.    Since the first Highway Project (Ln. 731-PH) was approved in 1971, Bank-Philippines
relations had been focused on improving the self-sustaining activities of the road transport sector by
raising the quality of construction and assigning a higher priority to maintenance through the provision
of adequate maintenance funding. However, sustainability has remained elusive. The Bank had
financed four prior highway projects designed to build maintenance institutional capacities, restore and
reconstruct roads, bridges and culverts, and introduce weigh-bridges. Further, the Bank had supported
the enforcement of axle-load control regulations, improvement of design and construction supervision,
and development of the construction industry. The implementation of the physical components of
these projects were generally delayed, though results were satisfactory. However, efforts to increase
institutional capacity, particularly for maintenance, were less successful, resulting in the general
backward slipping of the improvements, with the departure of the consultants.
Project Objectives and Description
iii.    The specific objectives of the Fifth Highway Project were to: a) improve the existing network
of national highways and bridges; b) raise maintenance to adequate levels and in the process remove
the backlog of restoration works on national highways; c) improve general highway management,
particularly execution of maintenance, and thus further strengthen the institutional framework of the
MPWH and its field organization; and d) further develop the domestic construction industry. The
project also assisted in a review of the transport industry in order to improve its operations, and in the
formulation of a proposal for the deregulation of inter-island shipping; and to further the Bank's efforts



iii
to strengthen the institutions responsible for the transport sector in the Philippines. The project
components were: a) a reconstruction program for some 435 bridges and culverts on the national
highways; b) improvement of an 83 km section of national highway (Baguio-Mt. Data); c) restoration
of some 1,223 km of national highways; d) consulting services for i) detailed engineering and
construction supervision; ii) preparation of future projects and iii) studies related to highway
management, traffic safety and domestic construction industry; e) technical assistance to MOTC,
MPWH and CIAP; and f) training of MPWH and CLAP staff. The Loan Agreement for the Project
was amended on two occasions. The first occasion was to use the surplus realized with the devaluation
of the Peso. The second time was to allow for a force account in areas of the country where private
contractors were not interested in participating because of the threat of civil disturbance.
iv.   In retrospect, the specific project objectives were too broad, especially considering that the
sectoral objective of increasing funding for maintenance and new roads was somewhat at odds with the
Government's macroeconomic objective of cutting overall government expenditure. While this was
identified during preparation and appraisal, a further delay of the project to balance these conflicting
objectives may have been desirable. In any event, the project was delayed in order that the Third and
Fourth Highway Projects, which were also slowed for lack of counterpart funding, could be completed.
Implementation Experience and Results
v.    The project has achieved most of its specific objectives and is likely to achieve satisfactory
results, provided considerable institutional reform in highway management is undertaken beyond the
ongoing project, which has only began to address the need for systems and monitoring, as well as
issues in the contracting industry.
vi.   Project implementation was delayed by four years. At closing, the total cost of the project was
US$ 237.75 million, including the cost of the additional projects implemented following an amendment
to the legal agreement to utilize the cost savings following the Peso devaluation, compared to the
original appraisal estimate of US$ 187.98 million. The major factors which affected implementation,
include the 1990 earthquake and the following typhoon, the eruption of Mount Pinatubo, the
unpredictable peace and order situation, as well as the lack of timely provision of counterpart funds,
and the capacity to handle the large number of contracts.
vii.   The Bank's performance during identification and appraisal was satisfactory. The project was
technically very sound and timely, as funding was sorely needed, especially for the bridge component.
Although lack of counterpart funds turned out to be a greater problem than expected, the severe
resource constraints were acknowledged in the SAR. Also, in retrospect, the stated project objectives
were too broad to be useful for project evaluation. Supervision was satisfactory, as it focused on
identifying and correcting the underlying causes of the premature failures of civil works and at
improving the work quality during implementation.



iv
viui.   Operating under the difficult conditions of the 1980's, the Borrower on the whole has
performed satisfactorily. There remain, however, lingering problems regarding the quality of civil
works and weaknesses in the institutional capacity for maintenance.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Lessons Learned
ix.    The project is likely to be sustainable. The benefits derived from the improved, reconstructed,
and restored roads and bridges will be positive during the operational phase of the project. The
sustainability of these works is likely based on the government's demonstrated commitment to increase
the Equivalent Maintenance Kilometer (EMK) since 1991, and the switch from force account to
maintenance contracts, in spite of the political opposition. Further, support to the government under
the ongoing Highway Management Project should increase the growing recognition that greater
professionalism in highway management, including timely pavement strengthening, better initial
designs, coupled with increased quality of construction and supervision will improve the situation in the
road sector, and that lack of the above elements in the past has contributed to the deteriorated
condition of the road network in the Philippines.
x.    A recent DPWH survey of the National Highways (26,100 km) indicated that only 18% were
in good condition, 48% were in fair condition and 34% were in poor condition. Many bridges were
also considered to be substandard for the current level of traffic and vehicle weights.  The
Government's main operational plan for future operations focuses on the provision of adequate
maintenance funding to prevent further deterioration. A similar traffic survey on the condition of the
roads related to the Fifth Highway Project may help in assessing whether or not Bank-financed roads
have proven to be more sustainable than similar roads financed by other loans.
xi.    The ICR identifies two issues that need to be resolved. The first issue concerns quality. The
Bank sees the quality issue in the implementation of civil works to be a generalized problem. Judging
from the Borrower's contribution to the ICR, it is apparent that this view is not shared by all members
of the DPWH. Since the issue is fundamental, both Bank and the Borrower should undertake the
appropriate research to resolve the issue.
xii.   Second, throughout the 1980's, the Borrower had to make tradeoffs between making
counterpart funding available for the timely achievement of the project, and for meeting the
requirements of fiscal stability by reducing expenditures. The timely implementation of future projects
may depend on harmonizing the conditions for achieving sectoral and macroeconomic objectives.
Research in this area may provide a better approach to resolving the problems of tradeoffs between
these two competing objectives.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(Ln. 2418-PH)
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1. Prior Bank Involvement: During the 1970s, in response to a strong transport growth averaging
9% per annumn, the Philippines Government invested heavily in the road sector. Between 1970 and
1982, the road network expanded rapidly, from 65,000 km to 154,813 km (although most of this
expansion was the result of additions to the local (barangay) road network). The network
comprised 23,835 km of national highways, 29,954 km of provincial roads, 15,638 km of city and
municipal roads, and 85,264 km of barangay roads. Despite the high level of investments made
during this period, the overall condition of the Philippines road network was poor. In 1982 only
43.5% of the national highway system, 11.2% of the provincial roads, 55.5% of the city and
municipality roads and 1.6% of the barangay roads were either asphalt or concrete, while the rest
were either gravel or earth. Further, the heavy investment, which rapidly expanded the network,
was carried out without the benefit of a corresponding increase in routine and periodic maintenance
funding. As a result, by the 1980s, sustainability of the network was in question.
2. Since the first Highway Project (Ln. 731-PH) was approved in 1971, Bank-Philippines relations
had been focused on assuring the self-sustaining activities of the road transport sector by improving
the quality of construction while assigning a high priority to maintenance through the provision of
adequate maintenance funding. However, sustainability has remained elusive. The Bank had
financed four prior highway projects designed to build maintenance institutional capacities, restore
and reconstruct roads, bridges and culverts, and introduce weigh-bridges. Further, the Bank had
supported the enforcement of axle-load control regulations, improvement of design and
construction supervision, and development of the construction industry. The implementation of the
physical components of these projects were generally delayed, though results were satisfactory.
However, efforts to increase institutional capacity, particularly for maintenance, were less
successful, resulting in the general backward slipping of the improvements, with the departure of
the consultants.
3. A review of the findings of the Bank Project Performance Audit Reports of the first four Bank
supported highway projects provides a clearer understanding and an appreciation of the problems
and issues confronting the Fifth Highway Project. Implementation of the earlier projects also faced
problems of delays and a lack of adequate local counterpart funding, though they satisfactorily
accomplished their objectives. Due to civil disturbances in the project area, the (first) Highway
Project (Ln. 731-PH) was delayed, though the economic rate of return at completion was
satisfactory. Also, some progress was made in introducing adequate maintenance and axle-load
control. In the Second Highway Project (Ln. 950-PH), the road rehabilitation works were mostly



2
implemented as planned, though in some cases with difficulties and delays of about 18 months, due
to the poor performance of one contractor. However, the economic rate of return at project
completion was again satisfactory.
4. The Third Highway Project (Ln. 1353-PH), approved in 1976, focused more broadly on
addressing the causes of inadequate highway maintenance in the Philippines. The project targeted:
the reconstruction of national and minor roads which had deteriorated because of poor
maintenance, heavy traffic conditions and inferior designs; the implementation of a road
maintenance program, which included the large scale restoration of dilapidated roads; new
investment in workshops and maintenance equipment; and various other types of maintenance
related technical assistance. From the 1977 start, a lack of local funds and poor contractor
performance caused extensive delays in the Third Highway Project. Despite these delays, the
project was evaluated to have achieved most of its objectives, although the maintenance
improvement efforts, introduced by the Bank were not sustainable.
5. The Fourth Highway Project (Ln. 1661 -PH), approved in 1979, was basically a continuation of the
Third Highway Project. This project implementation coincided with a serious economic crisis in
the Philippines. The Government was implementing a strict program of economic stabilization,
having reached an agreement with the IMF on an austere financial program, which required a
substantial tightening of both monetary and fiscal policies. In line with this program, and in order
to reduce the budget deficit, substantial cuts in the budget were made. Additionally, as a part of
the stabilization program, the Peso was substantially devalued in October 1983. Under these
circumstances, it was quite difficult for the Government to increase its budget to implement the full
schedule. As a result, the project closed four years late, on June 30, 1987 compared to the
originally scheduled closing date of December 31, 1983. The post implementation economic
evaluation showed that the eight national and six feeder roads, originally included in the project,
had rates of return ranging from 16% to 32%. The maintenance components were expected to
have a return of 68% and the restoration component a 25% return. The project was expected to
have an overall average economic rate of return of about 50%.  Again in retrospect, the
maintenance improvements proved not to be sustainable. The implementation of the institutional
capacity, particularly for the maintenance component was less successful; generally the
accomplished improvements diminished over time, with the departure of the consultants.
6. Statement of Objectives: The Bank's overall lending objectives for highways were to assist in (a)
providing an adequate road network; b) executing proper maintenance and removing the backlog
of restoration works; c) improving the project preparation and implementation capabilities of
MPWH; d) developing the institutional framework of MPWH; e) improving general highway
management (planning, design, construction supervision, maintenance and cost accounting); f
developing the domestic construction industry; g) improving the system of cost recovery from road
users; and h) improving the efficiency of transport operations.



3
7. The specific objectives of the Fifth Highway Project were to: a) improve the existing network of
national highways and bridges; b) raise maintenance to adequate levels and in the process remove
the backlog of restoration works on national highways; c) improve general highway management,
particularly the execution of maintenance, and thus further strengthen the institutional framework
of MPWH and its field organization; and d) further develop the domestic construction industry.
The project also assisted in reviewing the transport industry in order to improve its operations, and
in formulating a proposal for the deregulation of inter-island shipping; and in the process, to further
the Bank's efforts of strengthening the institutions responsible for the transport sector.
8. Evaluation of Objectives: The objectives of the project were not specific enough, thereby making
evaluation more difficult. While the objectives of the Bank's highway lending (para. 6) should be
broad, the specific objectives (para. 7) should be narrower and specific enough in both scope and
time frame to monitor and measure the progress, and the results achieved during the project
implementation, as well as its sustainability. For example, a specific objective of the project plan is
to improve the existing (emphasis added) network of the national highways and bridges, whereas
the Bank's loan was designed to finance only a small fraction of the entire network. The evaluation
of the broad objectives would require a review of the entire network, which would be a difficult
undertaking. The conclusions, reached within this ICR are therefore based upon the evaluation of
the progress made towards the achievement of those specific objectives. In other words, even if all
the components of the project were successfully implemented, it should be realized that their
contributions would only provide a step forward towards the achievement of the overall lending
objectives.
9. The specific objectives of this project were endorsed by the Government and were consistent with
the Bank's strategy to assist the country. The national highways, totaling 25,000 km in the mid-
1980's with an estimated asset value of some $5 billion, carried most of the road traffic, which itself
accounted for about 80% of the country's passengers and 60% of the estimated freight traffic.
They were in danger of being lost, for lack of periodic and routine maintenance and reconstruction
efforts. The Fifth Highway Project was a continuation of the Bank's involvement in the prior four
highway sector projects to improve the country's deteriorated road network, and to establish a self-
sustaining institutional capability to manage the network.
10. The project components expected to achieve the development objectives were: a) a reconstruction
program for some 43 5 bridges and culverts on national highways; b) the improvement of an 83 km
section of national highway (Baguio-Mt. Data); c) the restoration of some 1,223 km of national
highways; d) consulting services for i) detailed engineering and construction supervision; ii)
preparation of future projects; and iii) studies related to highway management, traffic safety and
domestic construction industry; e) provide technical assistance; and, f) promote training.
11. During the turbulent 1980's in the Philippines, the project was extremely demanding both on the
government and the Department of Public Works and Highways. The country was experiencing
social, economic and political upheaval, as well as natural crises. The economic growth which had



4
averaged 6% during in the 1970's had slowed down and the Peso was continually depreciating. A
critical shortage of counterpart financing was being experienced as the government sought to
decrease the mounting budget deficit and stabilize the Peso. Moreover, along with the economic
crisis, the country was in the midst of social and political crises. There was an unpredictable peace
and order situation in some project areas. Following the February 1986 revolution, there were
frequent changes in the administration coupled with the introduction of new procedures. It was
difficult to attract skilled technical and managerial staff to the public sector. The earthquake in 1990
and subsequent volcanic eruption in 1991, were serious natural calamities, compounded the
existing crisis situation, and adversely impacted the timely implementation of the project.
12. In retrospect, the timing of the project was premature. At appraisal, neither the Bank nor the
Borrower were optimistic in their assessment of the economic situation of the country. The
Government was trying to stabilize its economy. Already, the Third and Fourth Highway Projects
were experiencing inadequate counterpart funding. It was problematic for the Government to
make the necessary tradeoff between the macroeconomic stabilization objectives of the Ministry of
Finance on one hand, and to provide for an adequate and a timely provision of local counterpart
funding for the ongoing highway projects, and for the start of a follow-on project of the MPWI on
the other hand. Nevertheless, the Bank, to prevent the further deterioration of road assets, sought
and reached agreements, first regarding: (i) a revised Equivalent Maintenance Kilometer (EMK)
formula for the national highway maintenance allocations, (ii) the timely implementation of the
EMIK; and, (iii) for its (MPWH's) biannual consultation review with the Bank. Second, to assure
the adequate preparation of the reconstruction program for bridges and for the restoration program
of national highways, agreement was reached on a schedule for submission of a list of sub-
projects.
B. Achievement of Objectives
13. The project has achieved most of its specific objectives and is likely to achieve satisfactory results,
provided that considerable institutional reform in the area of highway management continues to be
undertaken. The project began to address the need for systems improvement and monitoring, as
well as issues within the contracting industry. The physical objectives of improving the existing
bridges and highways within the scope of the project were exceeded. The actual physical
accomplishment of the bridge reconstruction program was 9,422 linear meters, which exceeded the
appraisal estimate by 140 linear meters. The length of roads restored was 2492.61 km --
significantly more than the 1223 km appraised. Actual accomplishment exceeded the appraisal
level for gravel roads by 871.34 km, for bituminous by 298.83 kin, for concrete by 53.37 km and
for overlay by 46.07 km. Furthermore, only 83.00 km of construction was planned for the
National Highways, while actual accomplishment was 225.08 km.
14. Civil works sub-projects with an ERR of 10% or greater were identified by the DPWH based on
the economic and technical criteria previously agreed upon. Despite the unavoidable delays, these



5
civil works were successfully completed.  Since the project's maintenance and restoration
components were numerous (over 800 contracts) the post evaluation of the economic rates of
return was limited to two major projects: The Tagum-Mati and Escalante-Vallerhermoso roads
showed rates of return of over 30% and 20%, respectively, both of which are higher rates than
appraisal projections. A post economic evaluation of all the restoration roads and bridges was not
carried out, though traffic has grown significantly, far more works were carried out, and the overall
cost of the project did not increase. Feasibility studies and detailed engineering required for the
civil works were completed.
15. The functional road classification study which was an important first step in improving the general
highway management was completed in 1986. However, the study was overtaken by political
events and the needed interdepartmental consultations were not carried out after the study. In
1994, the study was updated vith technical assistance from the Asian Development Bank (ADB).
It is reportedly being reviewed for legislative process.
16. The local technical assistance to the Construction Industry Authority of the Philippines (CIAP)
provided under the loan for the further development of the construction industry appears to be
bearing fruit. Substantial work has been done in the areas of updating, improving, expanding and
creating monitoring systems and expanding the CIAP management infomiation system. The first
Philippines Construction Industry Congress (CIC) was conducted. Some good came out of this
support. The consensus formed by the CIC led to resolutions now being implemented. The
frequent changes in the administration and the fiscal austerity measures the country had imposed on
itself to achieve fiscal stability made the training program difficult to implement. However, the
project did finance a Study of the Human Resource needs of DPWH, carried out by the
Development Academy of the Philippines, and some on the job training was done through the
participation of the DPWH's staff in the supervision of the ongoing projects, under the general
coordination of an internationally recruited consultant.
17. With respect to the objective of raising the level of maintenance, per the main loan covenant, the
Government continues to increase the level of funding allocated for maintenance per km - the basic
equivalent maintenance kilometer was raised to Pesos 20,500 per km for 1991. Net income in real
terms for 1992, 1993 and 1994 were reportedly increased by 13.2%, 15.79% and 17.17%
respectively. Although improved maintenance was a condition of the loan negotiation, there was no
way that the Bank could assure that the maintenance funds be used for their intended purpose.
Nevertheless, the level of expenditure allocated was considered reasonably adequate for routine
maintenance. In the Philippines most periodic maintenance activities such as pavement overlays are
included in the investment budget.



6
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
18. The major factors affecting the cost and timely implementation of the project can be divided into
those outside the control of the government, those within its control and those specific to the
implementing agencies. The major factors outside of government control include the July 16, 1990
earthquake and the following typhoon, which caused extensive damage to the Baguio-Data Road
(after an overall accomplishment of 83%, the three packages were mutually terminated, physical
accomplishment though was 52 km of concrete road and 52.5 km of sub-base) and the eruption of
Mt. Pinatubo, which affected some restored or improved roads and bridges. Added to these natural
calamities were the unpredictable peace and order situation in a few project areas, which ultimately
resulted in an amendment to the Loan Agreement to revert to a force account due to a lack of
interest of the private sector to participate in these areas. The 1986 Revolution also contributed to
setbacks in project implementation, due to the frequent changes of administration, and the
introduction of new procedures. The execution of the training program was especially affected.
19. One factor subject to the Government control was the implementation of macroeconomic policies
designed to create stability. The Government decision to do this by cutting back on spending
(rather than raising revenue) made timely and adequate provision of counterpart funds difficult.
Immediately after the loan was made effective on September 27, 1984, the implementation of the
civil works was deferred for one year due to the realignment of funds to support the completion of
the ongoing Third and Fourth Highway Projects.
20. Practically all of the factors which caused the significant delays in time and cost variations were
outside the control of the implementing agency. However, there were delays caused by the
administrative burden of managing over 800 contracts as well as administrative difficulties in the
correction of poor quality works. Occasionally, insufficient equipment to carry out tasks was also
observed to have impacted the progress of implementation.
D. Project Sustainability
21. The benefits derived from the improved, reconstructed and restored roads and bridges will be
positive during the operational phase of the project and, thus, the project is likely to be sustainable.
The main reason is the government's demonstrated commitment to provide adequate funds for
maintenance in the past few years. Since 1991, the Government has increased the level of EMK in
real terms by 13.3%, 15.8% and 17.2% for each of the succeeding years. A second reason is that
the switch to maintenance by contract, in spite of political opposition, is likely to help utilize the
resources for maintenance more efficiently. This, coupled with the Government's plan to give
priority to maintenance instead of to new construction activities, whenever fiscal stability of the
economy allows, is likely to support sustainabiity. Furthermore, after a decade of experimentation
in macroeconomic stabilization, the Government now recognizes that the goal of fiscal stability
itself depends, among other things, on an increased expenditure in the areas of public investment



7
and road network maintenance. This recognition of the mutually reinforcing relationship between
macroeconomic/fiscal sustainability and public investment/maintenance for infrastructure should
induce the Government to give due attention to allocating sufficient funds for maintenance, even
while it strives to maintain the fiscal deficit at a sustainable level.
22. The lessons of the past are also being heeded. It is now recognized that in the past, a lack of timely
pavement strengthening and upgrading, poor initial road design, inferior construction quality and
inadequate construction techniques and poor supervision have contributed to the deteriorated
condition of the road network in the Philippines. Since 1990, greater efforts have been made to
assure a higher work quality in the execution of the Fifth Highway Project, after an initial attempt
by the Regional Offices had proven to be ineffective. As a result, the quality of civil works has
improved significantly compared to the previous projects, though there is still a lot of room to
achieve even higher quality. Thus, in addition to the provision of adequate maintenance funds, the
special attention paid to the quality of the execution of the works from feasibility to design and
implementation is likely to contribute to the sustainability of the project's benefits over its
operational life. Finally, creating a culture of excellence in highway management is the only sure
way to achieve sustainabiity.  In this regard, the on-going follow-on project, Highway
Management Project (Ln. 3430-PH), which focuses on establishing a sustainable institutional
capability to manage the network while providing support for the efforts of the DPWH to improve
the condition of the country's deteriorated arterial highway network, is also likely to contribute to
the sustainability of the benefits resulting from the Fifth Highway Project.
E. Bank Performance
23. Identification and Preparation. The Bank's performance during the identification phase was
satisfactory. The works and institutional aspects of the project were technically sound and timely,
especially those related to bridge rehabilitation. The issue of counterpart funds was identified and
the project's preparation period was extended to allow progress in the implementation of the Third
and Fourth Highway Projects. The long preparation period had the added benefit of not bunching
the projects so as to overburden the implementation capacity of either the Ministry of Public Works
and Highways (MPWH) or the Ministry of Local Government (MLG). The proposed program for
national highways was split into two stages, the first of which to be financed under the project and
the second under a subsequent highway project. In addition, with respect to the assistance for the
rural roads component, a decision was reached wherein the assistance would be processed as a
Second Rural Roads Project. While these actions did not completely avoid the problem of
counterpart finding in the Fifth Highway Project, the additional preparation time allowed time to
fully prepare many of the components. By appraisal, ten prototype bridges were completed
providing the designs for the bridge component, the first year preparation work was progressing,
and an engineering design for the Baguio-Mt. Data national highway was completed. In fact,
because of the macroeconomic situation, the scope of the project was in constant flux, ultimately
leading to revisions of the project even during implementation. Nonetheless, following preparation



8
missions in October 1982, the project objectives became focused more on restoration and
improved maintenance of existing projects. The Bank, by taking advantage of the elongated
implementation phase, was able to define a more focused project directed to support the most
important objective of the sector - the preservation of existing assets in the road sector.
24. Appraisal. Bank performance during appraisal process was also satisfactory, especially as related
to the desperately needed improvements to the road network. On the economic side, efforts were
made to trade off between the Borrower's objective of achieving fiscal stability and the availability
of local counterpart funding for the timely implementation of the project. Various schemes to
ameliorate the burden on the implementing agency due to the potential shortage of local
counterpart funds were explored, including front loading the loan, increasing the share of the Bank
loan to 65% and retroactive financing. In retrospect, however, the timing was premature. At that
time the Government, facing serious macroeconomic difficulties, was on an economic stabilization
program with the IMF, which required substantial tightening of monetary and fiscal policies. The
program required the government to reduce the budget deficit to an acceptable level. This resulted
in substantial cost cuts in the 1984 budget for new capital outlays, particularly for infrastructure
projects. The Bank Loan Committee, while it did not question the timing of the project, supported
the proposed loan and recommended that adoption by the Government of the revised Equivalent
Maintenance Kilometer (EMK) formula be a condition of negotiation.  After a series of
considerations, including dropping two highway sub-projects and a reduction of the initial loan
recommended by the loan committee, an agreement was reached on the revised EMK and its
biannual consultation review with the Bank. The revised EMK formula was to be submitted to the
Congress for legislative approval in July 1984, and the Minister of the MPWIH committed not to
finance new projects in a region, unless maintenance was a priority activity,
25. Supervision: The Bank's performance during supervision has been satisfactory, especially since
1990. The Bank was particularly concerned that works, which should last for 20 years, exhibited
signs of premature failures. In addition to expressing concern about the general level of project
quality under the construction sector in the Philippines, supervision missions took serious measures
to assure improved quality in the sub-projects under implementation. The aide memoirs of many
supervision reports record instances during site visits in which design or construction quality was
poor. Premature pavement failures were uncovered on several occasions. On the Baguio-Mt.
Data Road, the supervision mission pointed out that the original design did not include adequate
preventive measures for the frequent and massive slope slides that occurred during the rainy
season, and, subsequently, construction delays were experienced. Cracks on newly constructed
cement concrete pavements were also noticeable and workmanship quality on side ditch work was
reportedly poor. Use of sub-base material that did not comply with design was also observed.
With respect to the restoration component, the site visit to Tarlac and Batangas Provinces found
that while the quality of work was acceptable in the former, in the latter the quality of work was
reportedly poor. In particular, the restored pavement showed indications of premature failures as
evidenced by various types of cracks and deflections. On another occasion, supervision of selected
sites in five regions revealed that the quality of work varied between regions. While the roads



9
restored in two regions were in good condition and were acceptable, the quality of final work in the
remaining regions also showed premature failures, as evidenced by the type of cracks, potholes and
deformation. With respect to the bridge components, four sites were visited and one showed some
instances of corrosion of reinforcement caused by the close proximity to the sea.
26. The Bank was not satisfied merely with the corrections of these failures. It requested that the
DPWH research the concerns to determine the causes of the premature pavement failures. The
causes of these failures were identified by the Bank mission and by the DPWH, and included: under
designed pavement (vehicle loads were more than the design load); inadequate drainage; limited
width of roadway shoulders; non-unifornity of asphalt concrete mixes and the lack of attention to
vibration and curing; narrow road right of way; oversize gravel found in sub-base; and, poor road
restoration scheduling caused by delays in the release of funds resulting in work being pushed into
the rainy season. While quality issues were addressed when discovered, there is still reason for
concern that high quality standards in design and construction are not maintained systematically.
As a result of the findings, DPWH instituted Quality Assurance Units to carry out physical audits.
27. In other areas of Bank performance, the Bank was flexible, but firm during implementation. The
Loan Agreement was amended on two occasions. The first amendment, in 1989, was allowed in
order to utilize the surplus realized from the Peso devaluation and include construction of two
additional roads: (i) the Escalante-Vallenhermoso Road in Negros Oriental, and (ii) the Tagum-
Mati Road in Davo del Norte and Davo Oriental. Because of civil disorder, and the subsequent
lack of contractors willing to work in certain areas, the Loan Agreement for the Project was
amended a second time to allow for the use of a force account to address a limited part of the of
the program covering the reconstruction of bridges and culverts, although, in fact, this was little
used. The addition of Metro Manila Urban Roads, and of additional bridges requiring restoration
and periodic maintenance, as well as the repackaging of the Road Restoration Project components
into three clusters (Cluster A: Region I, II, III, and CAR; Cluster B: Region IVA, and IVB, NCR
and V; and Cluster C: region VI to XII) were accommodated within the legal agreement without
requiring an amendment. Thus, the scope and size of the project was significantly expanded during
the implementation.
28. The Bank's follow up of the Borrower's compliance with the legal covenants was firm, but
judicious. To use cost savings which resulted following the devaluation of the Peso, the Bank
required amendments in the legal agreement. When the Borrower requested the approval of awards
after the announcement of the winner, but before the-Bank examined the bid evaluation report, the
Bank gave its consent only on an exceptional basis. On the other hand, the Bank declined to
participate in sub-projects in which the Borrower had earlier negotiated to change certain unit
prices and also because the bids were opened in two different places. Though the Borrower
presented an accounting of its decision, the Bank remained firm. Failing to persuade the Bank, the
Borrower withdrew its request and subsequently requested the cancellation of US$ 2.0 million as
part of an overall cancellation of US$ 7.0 million on June 18, 1993. The Bank was also firm
regarding audit report compliance. For example, when the Bank did not receive an audit report for



10
1992, it refused to accept applications for disbursement based on the statement of expenditure
(SOE) for the project, until it received all of the required audit reports.
F. Borrower Performance
29. Preparation: Overall, the Borrower has performed satisfactorily considering that: the preparation
phase of the project extended well into the implementation of the project cycle, the uncertainties of
the availability of counterpart funds, and the generally difficult conditions under which the
Borrower had to operate. In the 1980's, faced with an elusive macroeconomic performance with
an episode of rapid growth followed by periodic crises and a period of consolidation, the Borrower
made a number of difficult choices which had a serious impact on the quality, cost and timely
implementation of infrastructure projects. The first choice was to pursue macroeconomic stability
through budget cuts (rather than revenue increases), which negatively impacted the availability of
counterpart funding for timely implementation of the projects. Often, the budget cuts made to
reduce the fiscal deficit made it necessary to slash expenditure for the public infrastructure and for
maintenance, thereby impacting the performance and the quality output of the implementing
agencies. A second issue, which affected quality and timely implementation, was in project
packaging. Because of the desire to spread the available funds over all the political jurisdictions
(bottom-up policy), the restoration projects identified were short sections of road, which increased
the contract management burden. Further, decentralization favored small local contractors with
inadequate equipment and experience, whose performance was often poor.
30. Implementation: Operating under the difficult conditions of the 1980's, the Borrower, on the
whole, has performed satisfactorily. However, there are still lingering problems regarding the
quality of civil works and weaknesses in the institutional capacity for maintenance. The DPWH
was particularly responsive to activities within its jurisdiction and cooperated with the Bank's
suggestion to improve the quality of road work. The Bank requested the DPWH to undertake in
depth research to identify the causes of poor material and work quality, find solutions to solve the
pre-mature pavement failures, and provide a report for the Bank's review of the findings and
solutions proposed to solve the premature pavement failures. The DPWH immediately acted upon
these requests and established Quality Assurance Units to conduct physical audits of works. When
the packaging for the restoration projects was found to be as low as 0.3 km, the DPWI
cooperated and raised the threshold to include only projects of 3 to 10 km for the contract
packages. Managing over 800 contracts in different parts of the country was not an easy task,
though in the end, with the assistance of an internationally recruited consultant, performance was
strengthened and the overall result was satisfactory.
31. With respect to procurement involving some contracts, differences in the interpretation of the
conditions of the legal agreement were experienced during implementation. The Borrower took
submission of bids at two locations and conducted negotiations with the lowest bidder. The



11
Borrower's position on both issues was that the procedures adopted were not seriously irregular.
However, the Bank held an opposite view and did not finance such contracts.
32. The other implementing agency, the Construction Industry Authority of Philippines (CIAP) also
performed satisfactorily, utilizing its allocated resources for the purpose intended and within a
reasonable time frame.
G. Assessment of Outcome
33. The overall outcome of the Project was satisfactory. The project has achieved most of its major
objectives and is likely to achieve satisfactory results, with only a few shortcomings. The national
highway improvement program was completed. While the Baguio-Data (83 km) was dropped
after the completion of 52 km due to the damage caused by the 1990 earthquake, and because of
the need to incorporate seismic resistance, two additional sub-projects, the Tagum-Mati (68.52
km) and the Escalante-Vallehermoso Road (80.83 km) were added, after an amendment was made
to the legal agreement to utilize the cost savings following the devaluation of the Peso. Both of
these sub-projects have post appraisal ERRs higher than those estimated at appraisal. The
remainder of the restoration and reconstruction programs are expected to have no less than the
ERR calculated at appraisal.
34. Under the national road restoration program, many more kilometers of roads were restored than
originally planned at appraisal. Similarly, the accomplishment in reconstruction of bridges in linear
meters was greater than planned. With respect to the training component, the DPWH's effort was
thwarted by the frequent changes in the administration, and by the fiscal austerity measures the
country imposed on itself to achieve macroeconomic stability. However, an overall review of
DPWH's Human Resources needs was completed. Several studies were also completed under the
project to assist the construction industry. Further, TA was provided to DOTC and there has been
significant progress in deregulation of inter-island shipping.
H. Future Operation
35. A recent DPWH survey of national roads (26,100 km) indicated that only 18% were in good
condition, 48% were in fair condition and 34% were in poor condition. Many bridges were
considered to be substandard for the current volume and weight of traffic. Although the restored
and reconstructed national roads and bridges under the Fifth Highway project represent a small
fraction of the total need, the assurance of adequate maintenance funds and quality maintenance for
the sub-projects financed under the project, as well as the rest of the road network are essential, if a
higher proportion of good roads are to be achieved. To this end, the government's operational plan
for the project is dependent upon the provision of adequate maintenance funds. Accordingly, the
base Equivalent Maintenance Kilometer (EMK) was revised upward in 1991, with increases in real



12
income having been made since then. In addition, the follow-on ongoing Highway Management
Project (Ln. 3430-PH) is expected to contribute to the Government infrastructure policy reforms
necessary to develop sustainable institutional capability to manage the network.
36. With respect to monitoring, no specific plan was made available. But, in view of the special focus
of Bank supervision to improve the quality level of the projects financed under the Fifth Highway
Project loan, the Bank should urge the Borrower to carry out a survey at some future date, to
determine the condition of these roads compared to other road projects financed under different
loans. The DPWH should also make regular surveys to evaluate the condition of its roads. These
surveys could provide the data base to evaluate progress being made in terms of the overall
condition of the road network in the Philippines.
L. Key Lessons Learned
37. The ICR identifies two main issues that need to be resolved. The first issue concerns quality. The
Bank sees the quality issue in the implementation of civil works to be a generalized problem.
Judging from the Borrower's contribution to the ICR, it is apparent that this view is not shared by
all members of the DPWH. Since the issue is fundamental, both the Bank and the Borrower should
undertake the appropriate research to resolve this issue.
38. The second issue concerns the consistency of the sectoral and macroeconomic policies during the
1980's which consistently retarded the timely implementation of Bank-financed highway projects.
As pointed out earlier, in the 1980s, the Philippines Government was undertaking the MV's
macroeconomic stabilization program at the same time it was negotiating a sectoral loan for the
Fifth Highway Project.. A condition of the Bank loan for the Fifth Highway Project required the
assurance of sufficient counterpart funds for project implementation between 1984 to 1989, while
the IMF conditions required that the Government reduce its budget deficit to stabilize its
macroeconomy. The Government determined that providing the planned counterpart funds for the
project would undermine the implementation of its macroeconomic program, given its revenue
generating constraints. In the end, the lack of counterpart funds contributed to the postponement
of the closing date by four years. In retrospect, the Bank should consider whether it would have
been possible to work out a tradeoff in which the macroeconomic and sectoral objectives could
have been optimized, instead of remaining elusive throughout the decade.



13
P
PART EII: STATISTICAL ANNEXES



14
ANNEX A: Statistical Tables



15
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(Loan 2418-PH)
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of obiectives            Substantial        Partial          Negligible        Not applicable
Macroeconomic policies                      El                                 E [l
Sector policies                                              0  
Financial objectives                        El               E                                     ,l
Institutional development                                    E                 El
Physical objectives                                          El                E a 
Poverty reduction                           a                o                  O 
Gender concems                                               E                 El
Other social objectives                     E                E                 El
E,nvironmental objectives                   E                E                 El
Public sector management                    El               El                El
Private sector development                                   El                El
Other (specify)                             aEl                                El
B. Project sustainability                 Likely          Unlikely          Uncertain
(/)             (/)                 (/)
0                0                  0
Highly
C. Bank performance                     Satisfactory    Satisfactory         Deficient
(I)             (/)                 (eI)
Identification                              n                                   El
Preparation Assistance                      a                                   El
Appraisal                                  E                                    El
Supervision                                E                                    El
Highly
D. Borrower perfonnance                 Satisfactory    Satisfactory         Deficient
(I)             ()                 ()
Preparation                                  l                                 E l
Implementation                              E                                  E l
Covenant compliance                         E                                  E l
Operation (If applicable)                   E                                  El
Highly
E. Assessment of outcome                Satisfactory    Satisfactory         Deficient
(e)             (                   ()
El                                  El0



16
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(Ln. 2418-PH)
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan                                Purpose                     Year of        Status
Approval
Preceding Operation
First Highway Project      Construction of Cotbato-Digos Rd. 160km           1971   Project Completed
Ln. 731-PH                                                                           30-Jun-76
(PPAR No.2249)
Second Highway Project     Reconstruction of about 700km of trunk roads on the  1973   Project completed
Ln. 950-PH                 island of Luzon & about 700km of secondary roads          Jul-80
(PPAR No.. 4757)
Third Highway Project      Road maintenance/ restoration to several          1977   Project Completed
Ln. 1353-PH                deteriorated sections of the national road network        May-86
(PPAR No. 7316)
Fourth Highway Project     Build up maintenance capabilities of the Ministry  1979   Project Completed
Ln. 1661 -PH               of Public Works by supporting highway                     Dec-87
maintenance program and constancy service                (PCR No.3053)
technical assistance and overseas training.
Following Overations
Second Rural Roads Project   Poverty alleviation, provision of infrastructure,  1986   Project ongoing
Ln. 2716-PH                institutional capacity building.
Highway Management Project To Improve the quality of vitally important arterial  1991   Project ongoing
Ln. 3430-PH                highway network and thereby to reduce transport costs
and increase the country's economic competitiveness.
Earthquake Reconstruction    Reconstruction of infrastructure damaged by the by  1991   Project ongoing
Project                    the earthquake.
Ln. 3263-PH



17
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(Loan 2418-PH)
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle          Date Planned         Date Actual/
latest estimates
Identification (Executive Project Summary) n/a           1-Jan-81
Preparation                           May-81             Oct-82
Nov-81
1-May-82
Appraisal                             Apr-82
Sep-82
Nov-82
Jan-83
Sep-83
Aug-83             1-Feb-83
Negotiations
Apr-83
Jun-83
Sep-83
Oct-83             6-Apr-84
Board Presentation                    Jul-83
Sep-83
Nov-83
Jan-84             17-May-84
Signing                                                  4-Jun-84
Effectiveness                                            27-Sep-84
Project completion                    31-Dec-87
Loan closing                          31-Dec-89          31-Dec-93
Note: In a letter dated July 7, 1975 the Director General requested the Bank
to finance a list of highway projects but, on March 30, 1982, the Minister of Public Works
officially requested the Bank to finance the Fifth Highway Project.



1 8
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(Loan 2418-PH)
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimates and Actual
(US$ million)
FY                     1985           1986            1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992                                                  1993           1994
Appraisal estimates                        12             28              50             74              94            102            102             102             102             102
Actual                                 0.65            7.51          11.16           16.22          20.86          30.89           38.38             60.3          75.58          90.95
Actual as % of estimates                               27%    22%                     28%             33%    38%                     59%             74%            89%             8 9%/
Date of final transaction: June 7, 1994
Disbursements (Estimated vs. Actual)
1 2 0   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . .   . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . .... . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . .     . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . .   . .   . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .
100    ............. ...................:::.... ..... ..  ............................................................... .........
-                    E  s U  m  a t ed.. . . . .                  .. . . . . . .   .. . . . . . . .   . . . . .   . .. . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .. . . . .   . . ................. .
6180~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... .... ..................                                                                                ..
..............................                                   .....................
~~~~~~~~.                  . . . . . . . . . ..6 0. : .   . :,     ,      ',                                   , ,       . . .  
.2 ~ ~  ~   ~  ~   ........................                                                                             .... . .
....................                                                                                                                        ...........4........
20   .......         ..................   . ..  .. ..... ...................  ..  .............                                                     ..........
0  ...............  ............  ... .. ........ ..... ..  ...........                                                ..........              ...
1985            1986              1987...................   ......    198   1989............   1990...   1991................  1992......    1993............  1994....... .



19
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(Loan 2418-PH)
Table 5A: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Physical Performance
Indicators                    Appraisal Estimates    Estimated at Completion
4-Jun-84                 12/31/94
A. Improvement of National Highways (km)
Baguio (ACOP) - Mt. Data                              83.00                    52.00
Escalante - Vallermoso                                  -                      82.18
Tagum - Mati Road                                                              67.50
Metro Manila Urban Roads                                -                      23.4
Total                                           83.00                   225.08
B. Bridges Reconstruction Program (I m)
Calendar Year 1985                                  1,718.00                 1,913.33
Calendar Year 1986                                  2121.00                  2471.78
Calendar Year 1987                                  2138.00                  3075.47
Calendar Year 1988                                  3305.00                   1962.36
Total                                          9282.00                  9,422.94
C. Restoration Program of National Highways:
Roads (km)
Calendar Year 1985                                    224                     187.32
Calendar year 1986                                    393                     380.58
Calendar Year 1987                                    380                     327.49
Calendar Year 1988                                    226                     457.24
Calendar Year 1989                                     -                      510.52
Calendar Year 1990                                      -                     363.91
Calendar Year 1991                                     -                      180.97
Calendar Year 1992                                     -                      149.83
Total                                           1223                    2557.86
D. Restoration Program of National Highways:
Bridges (I m)
Calendar Year 1986                                                           2,892.04
Calendar Year 1987                                                           4,885.03
Calendar Year 1988                                                           4,300.38
Calendar Year 1989                                                           2,968.85
Calendar Year 1990                                                            297.86
Total                                           0.00                   15,344.16



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHlIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(Loan 2418-PH)
Table 5B: Key Indicators for Proiect Imnlementation
Road Restoration Projects
Physical Accomplishment (km)
Gravel                    Bituminous                   Concrete                     verlay                    Total
Program    As        As               As         As                 As       As                As       As               As        As
Year  Appraised Budgeted Actual Appraised  Budgeted  Actual Appraised Budgeted Actual Appraised Budgeted Actual Appraised Budgeted Actual
1985       87.00    178.53  126.36    137.00      78.04  60.96     -                                                    224.00    256.57  187.32
1986      105.00   219.41  178.02    214.00      141.77  108.59    -          5.20   4.28     74.00     14.20  14.20    393.00    379.66  305.09         M
1987       98.00    196.47 218.58    213.00      113.75  107.99    -                 0.92     69.00     -       -       380.00    311.14  327.49
1988       48.00   420.84 201.04    138.00       396.48  173.51         -            -        40.00     82.69  82.69    226.00    900.01  457.24
1989      -         98.80 273.17      -         200.07 237.35      -         -       -        -         -       -                298.87 510.52
1990      -         93.79  74.67      -           58.72  190.09    -         19.91  13.28     -         85.87  85.87      0.00    251.66  363.91
1991       -          1.50  94.22     -           10.00  71.71     -         13.47  11.86     -          8.56   3.18      0.00     26.54  180.97
1992       -        -       43.28     -           2.00  50.63      -         14.79  22.33     -         37.75  33.59      0.00     57.92  149.83
1993       -        -        -        -          -        -        -         -       0.70     -         -       9.54      0.00     10.24   10.24
Total     338.00   1209.34 1209.34    702.00    1000.83 1000.83    _         53.37  53.37    183.00   229.07 229.07   1223.00  2492.61 2492.61



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(Loan 2418-PH)
Table 5C: Bridee Restoration Projects
Physical Accomplishment (I m)
Concrete                     Steel                      Timber                      Bailey                      Total
Program     As        As                As        As               As        As                As        As                As        As
Year  Appraised Budgeted Actual Appraised Budgeted Actual Appraised Budgeted Actual Appraised Budgeted Actual Appraised Budgeted  Actual
1986           -   731.32  240.70          -  3782.86 2724.25          -    17.09   17.09         -    -         -            -  4531.27 2982.04
1987           -  2462.80 2041.49          -  2740.07 2625.58          -    66.30   66.30         -   185.00  151.66          -  5454.17  4885.03
1988           -  2095.41 2207.00          -  1575.36 1641.94          -   949.54  170.00         -   838.41  281.44          -  5458.72  4300.38      M
1989           -         - 790.34          -         -1106.52          -        - 481.68          -         - 590.31          -         - 2968.85
1990                    -             -         -           -          -        - 279.86               -            -         -         -  279.86
Total        0.00   5289.53 5279.53     0.00   8098.29 8098.29      0.00   1032.93 1014.93      0.00   1023.41 1023.41   0.00    15444.16 15416.16



22
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(Loan 2418-PH)
Table 6: Key Indicators for Proiect Operation
A: Highway Maintenance Expenditure/a
(in million of Pesos)
Estimate
Fiscal Year             at appraisal                Actual
1984                    1,252                    1,049
1985                    1,346                    1,231
1986                    1.531                    1,377
1987                    1,580                    1,565
1988                    1,790                    1,776
1989                    1,783                    1,860
1984-1989                  9,282                   8,858
a/ National expenditure only
B. Condition of National Highways (26100 km) b/
Recent Condition           Actual (%)                Plan (%)
Good                     18%                       (+)
Fair                    48%                       (-)
Poor                     34%                       (-)
Total                   100%                     100%
b/ DPWH should carry out a survey at future date to find out real
performance in preservation of assets.
C. Local Roads and Bridges Maintenance Allocation
Basic maintenance          Increase (%)
Calendar Year     l      cost per EMK      l       1984=100%
1984                 P 11, 342.00                100%
1985                 P 11, 342.00                100%
1986                 P 14, 745.00                130%
1987                 P 14,754.00                 130%
1988                 P 17,104.00                 151%
1989                 P 17,104.00                 151%
1990/91                P 20,500.00                181%
1992                 P 28,049.00                 247%
1993                 P 31,517.00                 278%
1994                  P34,000.00                 300%



23
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWVAY PROJECT
(Loan 2418-PH)
Table 7: Studies Included in Proiect
Purpose as deftned
Study               at appraisal/redefined                Status                  Impact of study
A. Feasibility study and   Undertake feasibility studies  PMO in coordination      The study served as a
detailed engineering for  and detailed engineering      with Renardent S.A          basis for implementation
future National Highway  for about 500km of national    Consulting Engineers       under the ongoing
Projects               highways identified under the    & Hoff & Overgaard         Highway Management
NTI'P Study.                    a/s, Planning               Program & other overseas
Consultants prepared       Development assistance
a prioritized listing of the  funded civil works
whole arterial network     construction
B. Functional Road     Assist MPWH and MLG in           Functional road            The recommended system
Classification Study   reviewing the classification of  classification system      would modify the existing
the national and provincial     was produced in 1986.       classification . It was not
road network                    was again updated in        possible to confirm its
1994 and developed         general acceptability
further under TA from      through consultation in
ADB.                       view of political events.
The updated study is
being reviewed with a view to
to bc enacted.
C. Road Traffic Safety    Review the adequacy of the    Program covered two        Considerable amount of data
Study                  laws and regulations governing   pilot regions, namely:      was gathered, including data
traffic safety, accident reporting  Region III Central Luzon,  on fatalities, and economic
procedures, Ilighway Police     Region VII Central Visayas   costs of accidents which were
activities, and inter linkages of  Study completed Aug. 1986    estimated to be about 0.2%
highway design and safety, and                              of GDP.
recommend improvement.
D. Construction Industry  Preparation of
Study                  -Construction Industry Data Bank
-Construction Technology Program
to support Government programs    Published the results     Results of the studies and
in areas of housing, shelter etc.,  of the studies          researches are being made
- Construction Industry need                                available for users
in relation to National Shelter
Program
- Streamlining of prequalification
bid , and award and payment
procedures



24
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(Loan 2418-PH)
Table 8: Proiect Costs
(As of June 7,1994, in USS million)
Ap raisal Estimate                 Actual
Foreign                       Foreign            % of Total
Category             Local  Exchange   Total       Local  Exchange   Total   Actual to
Cost     CostlI     Cost      Cost     Cost2/     Cost   Appraisal
A. Civil Works                    60.72     56.02    116.74    110.83     74.01    184.84      1.58
National Roads                   9.29      8.57      17.86    22.25      17.12     39.37      2.20
Bridge Reconstruction            19.31    17.80     37.11     33.29      19.12    52.41       1.41
Restoration (Roads & Bridges)   32.12     29.65     61.77     43.96     32.02     75.98       1.23
Metro Urban Roads                -         -         -        11.33      5.75      17.08
B. Constancy Services              0.46     10.86     11.32      4.59     13.97     18.56      1.64
Detailed E.ngineering            0.22      5.28      5.50      0.23      0.90       1.13      0.21
Construction Supervision         0.17      4.09      4.26      3.86      9.79      13.65      3.20
Feasibility Study                0.07      1.49      1.56      0.50      3.28      3.78      2.42
C. Technical Assistance            0.10      2.25      2.35      0.24      2.30      2.54      1.08
D. Training                         -        0.44      0.44       -        0.10      0.10      0.23
E. Land Acquisition                 -         -         -       31.94       -       31.94     *
F. Contingencies                  24.70     32.18     56.88       -         -         -         -
G. Fees                             -        0.25      0.25       -        0.25      0.25      1.00
Total                           85.98    102.00    187.98    147.60     90.63    238.23       1.27
1/ Exchange rate US$1= P14.00
2/ Exchange rate US$1= P25 to P28



25
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(Loan 2418-PH)
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
EIRR             EIRR
Appraisal         Actual
Tagum - Mati Road
Mabini - Pantukan - Banaybanay                 27.1             34.6
(Sections: 1& 2 (37.37kms))
Banaybanay - Lupon - Cubao Jct. Mati           15.4             21.4
(Sections: 3,4 & 5 (30.78kms))
Escalante - Vallehermoso Road
Old/New Escalante Toboso - Calatrava          31.8              38.9
(Sections 1,2,&3 (42.17kms))
Calatrava - San Carlos City - Vallehermoso       21.3             30.5
Sections 4&5 (41.48km))



26
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(Loan 2418-PH)
Table 10: Status of Leffal Covenants
Loan                           Original      Revised            Description
Agreement Convenient  Present  fulfillment   fulfillment               of
Section     type      status      date         date              convenient                    Comment
3.02            5         C         N/A          N/A       Employ consultants whose    None
qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of
employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.
3.04(a)         9         C         N/A          N/A       Furnish to the Bank the plans, None
specifications, reports and
contract documents as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
3.04(b)        1,9        CD        N/A          N/A       Maintain records and       After initial non-compliance,
procedures adequate to record this was complied with.
and monitor the progress of the Monitoring system has
project and furnish to the Bank been set up and satisfactory
information as the Bank shall quarterly reports were produced
reasonably request.        by DPWH and submitted to the
Bank
3.04 (d)        9        CD        6/30/94                 After completion of the project
furnish to the bank a Project
Completion Report( now ICR)
of such scope and such detail
as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
3.05(a)        10         CP        N/A          N/A       Take action as necessary to    Generally complied w%ith. There
acquire land as required prior were some instances, particularly
to awarding any contract for  in Metro Manila, where land
work.                     required for the works was not
acquired before contract. In some
cases, the planned works were
reduced to avoid these areas.
There were no outstanding cases.
3.06(a)        10         C      (i) 2/1/85 &    N/A       Furnish to the Bank for its    None
(ii) 7/1/85 &             review and approval the list of
yearly there-             (i) bridges and (ii) national
after.                 highway sections to be included
in the following year's
Program
3.06(b)        10         CP        N/A          N/A       Cause to be applied, for the   Generally complied with, except
roads and bridges under the   that seismic resistance is
project, design standards  generally not adequate in light of
satisfactory to the Bank.  modern practice. Some lapses
have been corrected.



27
Loan                           Original     Revised            Description
Agreement Convenient  Present  fulfillment   fulfillment              of
Section     type      status      date         date              convenient                    Comment
4.02(a)        1,3        C         N/A          N/A      Maintain records adequate to IRevised format for project
reflect resources and     accounts required a revision to
expenditures in respect of the  the way records are maintained
project.                  by DPWH. This revision has been
corrected.
4.02(b)        1,3        C         N/A          N/A      Maintain separate accounts   Format of project accounts was
reflecting all expenditures on  not in accordance with Bank
account of which withdrawals requirements. This has been
are requested from the loan   implemented
account on the basis of SOE's.
4.02(c)         I        CD       6/30/85        N/A      Furnish to the Bank not later  Generally complied with. After
and                  than six months after the end  1992 &;1993 while the project
yearly                 of each fiscal year a copy of   accounts were refornatted in
thereafter              the Audit Report.          accordance with the Bank
instructions, auditing was delayed
but finally submitted.
4.03(a)        11         C         N/A          N/A      Cause the funds for        None
maintenance of the National
highways to be allocated in
accordance with the EMK
formula
4.03(b)        11
C        N/A          N/A       Furnish to the Bank the result Since 1988 the EMK formula has
of biannual review of the EMK been revised annually.
formula to be implemented as
revised
4.04           10        N/A        N/A          N/A      Take all actions to adequately  This type of Convenant is not
maintain the road and bridge  enforceable and is no longer
network in accordance with   included in loan documents.
sound engineering practices.
Kev:
N/A       =  Not Applicable
Convenient Type                                                                      Present Status
I = Accounts/Audits                                                         C  = Convenant complied with
3  = Flow and utilization of project funds                                  CD  = Complied with after delay
5  = Management aspects of the project or executing agencies                CP = Complied with partially
9  = Monitoring, review, and reporting
10  = Project implementation not covered in categories 1-9
11  =Sectoral or cross sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation



28
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PEIILEPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(Loan 2413-PH)
Table 11: Compliance with Onerational Manual Statements
Statement number and title   |    Description and comment on lack of compliance
None.               No significant lack of compliance with an applicable Bank
manual statement.



29
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILEPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(Loan 2418-PH)
Tablel2: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of project cycle              Staffweeks               US$
Preparation to appraisal                        27.7                   79.7
Appraisal                                       33.8                   98
Negotiations through Board approval              17.8                  51.6
Supervision                                     102.6                 259.6
Completion                                        6                   11.25
Total                                           187.9                500.15



30
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
Fifth Highway Project (2418-PH)
Table 13: Bank Resources: Misions
Stage of                                                               Performance Rating
Project Cycle       Month/       Number of      Days in       Specialized    Implemen       Develop          Type
year         Persons        Fields        Staff skill    tation         ment             of
________    man-days  represented  Status  Objectives      Problems**
Through appraisal   Feb-82               1        21/3          Hwy. Eng
Jun-82              1        32/2          Hwy. Eng
Sep-83              1        5             Hwy. Eng
Appraisal - Board   Jan-84               1        18            Hwy. Eng
Board-effectiveness    Aug-84            1        7             Hwy. Eng.
(start up)
Supervision I       Feb-85               1        7             Hwy Eng.                   2             1                 4
II         May-85               1       7             Hwy Eng.                   2              1                4
III        Oct-85               2       10            Hwy Eng.                   2              1                4
Const. Industry
IV         May-86               1       7/2           Hwy Eng.                   2              1                5
V          Oct-86               1       7             Hwy Eng.                   2              1               n/a
VI         Feb-87               1       14/4          Hwy Eng.                   2              1             5, 10
VII        Nov-87               1       15            Hwy Eng.                   2              1               10
VIII       Mar-88               1       15/2          Hwy Eng.                   2              1             5,10
IX         Aug-88              1        24/3          Hwy Eng.                   2             1              5,10
X          Feb-89               1       20/2          Hwy Eng.                   2              1              5,10
Xi         Jul-89               2        15            2 Hwy Eng.                2              1              5,10
XII        Apr-90               2        18/3         2 Hwy Eng.                 2              1               10
Hwy Eng.
XiII       Jun-90               1        18/2         Hwy Eng.                   2              1              3,10
XIV         Apr-91               1       20/3          Hwy Eng.                   2              1               10
XV         Mar-92               1       21/2           Hwy Eng.                  2              1         4,5,10,13
XVI        Oct-92               1       3,5           2 Hwy Eng.                 2              1                1
XVII       Jun-93               1       23/2          Hwy Eng.                   2              1                1
XIX        Feb-94               2       22/2          2 Hwy Eng.                 2              1 Satisfactory since
last supervision
*Days in the fields The data is for total mission
(X/Y), X=number of days on mission, Y= number of projects
** Type of Problems:
I = Accounts/audits                              10 = quality problems
3 = Flow and utilization of project finds         13 = delays
5 = Management aspects of the project or executing agen n/a = no specific problem identified



31
ANNEX B: Sector Specific Data



32
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(Loan 2418-PH)
Table 1: Local Roads and Bridges Maintenance Allocation
CY 1980 - CY 1992)
CALENDAR                LOCAL ROADS AND BRIDGES MAINTENANCE ALLOCATION (Pesos 1,000)
YEAR         Barangay Road      Municipal Road     Provincial Road      City Road             Basic
Maintenance Cost
40% Of EMK         30% Of EMK          50% of EMK       33 1/3 of ENK_        Per EMK
1980                                                                                           P 11,324.00
1981                 378,233           37,467.00         169,460.00        13,464.00           P 11,342.00
1982              383,154.00           38,953.00         168,732.00        13,952.00           P 11,342.00
1983              386,824.00           38,953.00         170,941.00        14,139.00           P 11,342.00
1984              386,824.00           41,312.00         167,545.00        14,139.00           P 11,342.00
1985              389,474.00           41,698.00         168,512.00        14,090.00           P 11,342.00
1986              512,347.00           55,002.00         212,318.00        19,148.00           P 14,745.00
1987              532,080.00           56,737.00         209,572.00        19,148.00           P 14,754.00
1988              595,959.00           65,891.00         242,311.00        22,729.00           P 17,104.00
1989              582,791.00           65,891.00         247,390.00        22,715.00           P 17,104.00
1990-1991            701,901.00          77,727.00          299,040.00          27,184           P 20,500.00
1992             * 848,289.00        * 92,300.00        * 349,876.00     * 31,562.00           P 28,000.00
* Estimates



33
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(Loan 2418-PH)
Table 2: Design Standards for National Highways
Class                          Minor    l/a                   2/b               3/c                4/d
Roads/a
Average Daily Traffic             200       200-400         400-1000         1000-2000              >2000
Mini Desir       Mini  Desir        Mini  Desir
mum  able        mum   able         mum   able
Design Speed (kph)
Flat topography                60       70              70    90         80     95         90     100
Rolling topography            40        50              60    80         60     80         70      90
Mountainous topography         30       40              40    30         50     60         60      70
Radius (m)
Flat topography                120      160             160   280        220   320         280    350
Rolling topography             55       85              120  220         120   220         160    280
Mountainous topography         30       50              50    80          80   120         120    160
Grade (%/6)
Flat topography               6         6              3.0   5.0         3.0   4.0        3.0      4.0
Rolling topography             8        7              5.0   6.0         5.0   5.0        4.0      5.0
Mountainous topography         10.0-12.0  9            6.0   6.0         6.0   7.0        5.0      7.0
Pavement width (m)                4         5.5-6.0       - 6.1-           -6.7-                 6.7- 7.3
Shoulder width (m)                0.5       1.0         1.5  - 2.0           2.5   30         -  3.0   -
Right-of-way width (m)            20        30           - 30  -               30   30         - 60    -
Superelevation (m/m)     ................  ...............   ............................  10   (max)  ..................................
Nonpassing Sight Distance (m)
Flat topography                70       90            90      135       115    150         135    160
Rolling topography            40        60            70      115        70    115          90    135
Mountainous topography         40       40            40      60         60     70          70     90
Passing Sight Distance (m)
Flat topography                420      490           490    615         560   645          615   675
Rolling topography             270      350           420    560         420   560          490   615
Mountainous topography         190      270           270    350         350   420          420   490
/a Gravel, crushed gravel or crushed stone; bituminous surface treatment
or bituminous macadam pavement
/b Bituminous macadam pavement; or bituminous concrete surface course
/c Bituminous concrete surface course
/d Bituminous concrete surface course; or portland cement concrete pavement



34
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(Loan 2418-PH)
Table 3: Vehicle Fleet by Type, 1981-1990
Year          CARS    JEEPNEYS    BUSES    TRUCKS    MC/TC                TOTAL
1981          318,086     364,706       17,821     108,140     186,990     995,743
1982          342,878     384,481       17,358     106,874     218,443    1,070,034
1983          367,062     427,926       16,714     111,369     216,425    1,184,496
1984          360,728     416,721       15,279     102,467     253,333    1,148,528
1985          347,949     405,830       14,736     93,938      242,990    1,105,443
1986          356,698     416,554       14,974     95,218      288,625    1,172,069
1987          358,768     441,757       15,123     97,752      249,568    1,162,989
1988          376,646     475,899       15,883     108,027     289,602    1,266,057
1989         412,998      536,406       16,959     118,662     358,975    1,444,020
1990         454,654      615,602       20,141     138,894    427,406    1,656,697
Average Annual Changes (%/6)
1981-83          7.4          8.4         3.2         1.5         18.2        9.1
1983-85          2.6          2.6         6.1         8.2         3.6         3.4
1985-87          1.5          4.3          1.3         2          2.6         2.6
1987-88           5           7.7          5          10.5        16          8.9
1988-89          9.7         12.7         6.8         9.9         24          14.1
1989-90          10.1        14.8         18.8         17         19.1       14.7
Changing Composition (%/O)
1986            30           36           1           8          5          100
1987            31           38           1           8          21         100
1988            30           38           1           9          23         100
1989            29           37           1           8          25         100
1990            27           37           1           8          26         100



35
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(Loan 2418-PH)
Table 4: Public Road Network 1995*
CONCRETE    ASPHALT                  GRAVEL           EARTH    TOTAL
National Roads                7,431               6,376          12,637             173        26,617
Provincial Roads               803                2,563          20,731           5,060        29,156
City Roads                     658                2,000           1,143             148         3,949
Municipal Roads               1,820               1,503           6,417           3,080        12,819
Barangay Roads                 346                 676           87,341        -               88,363
TOTAL                        11,058              13,118         128,269           8,461       160,905
NATIONAL        PROVINCIAL         CITY/MUN.
CALENDAR YEAR   ROADS                    ROADS             ROADS    BARANGAY   TOTAL
1990                 26,155              29,156          16,769           88,363      160,443
1991                 26,155              29,156          16,769           88,363      160,443
1992                 26,273              29,156          16,769           88,363      160,561
1993                 26,345              29,156          16,769           88,363      160,633
1994                 26,593              29,156          16,769          88,363       160,831
1995                 26,617              29,156          16,769           88,363      160,905
TOTAL                 158,138             174,937         100,613         530,178       963,866
Note: All local roads data remained unchanged since 1991 when these roads were
transferred to Local Govermment Units (LGU).
*Source: Staff Appraisal Report (updated)



36
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT*
PHILIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(Loan 2418-PH)
Table 5: Revenue from Road Transport and Expenditure on Roads, 1981-1990
1981      1982      1983      1984      1985     1986      1987     1988      1989      1990
Revenue/a
Fuel taxes              4,499     2,842     3,063     5,305    7,195     8,345    9,487   10,831    11,914      -
Motor vehicle
registration fees        505        541      577       568       876       926      921      985      1,103     -
License and
plate fees                47         28       29         80       79        64       65       72        72
Otherrevenue               98       125       126      141       161       191      235      244       272
Total                   5,149     3,536     3,795     6,094    8,311     9,526   10,708   12,132    13,361      -
Expenditure/b
Construction            2,948     3,694     3,909     2,514    3,182     4,180    4,679    5,772      8,645    11,395
Maintenance             1,139     1,229     1,158     1,252    1,346     1,531    1,580    1,790      1,783     2,920
Total                   4,087     4,927     5,067     3,766    4,528     5,711    6,259    7,562    10,428    14,315
/a Excludes revenues from import duties on roads transport sector.
/b National govemrnent expenditures only.
Sources: Bureau of Internal Revenue, Land Transportation Office and DPWH.
(Staff Appraisal Report - updated)



37
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(Loan 2413-PH)
Table 6: DPWH Medhin - Term Fnandal Pbn (1993 - 1998)
(Curret Prices, in Thoumd Pm)
Fbnaal Plan (Calendar Years)                                            TOWl
Expenditures           1993           1994          1995            1996            1997           1993       (1"3-1998)
Capital Outlays
DPWH Total                  17,049,119     20,453,1S1     24,508,325      21,077,000      27,753,000    32,203,000    143,043,625
of which Highways
and Roads                   10,760,667     11,194,240     12,722,471      17,634,000      22,479,000    25.713,800    100,504,173
of which New
Highways & Road
Projeot to sta in
1993-1998 period             9,087,432     7,743,082      7,131,192       10,127,246      21,379,9S5    25,3S1,033    S1,356,970
Other Projects               1,673,235      3,451,15S      5,584,279       7,506,754        599,015       332,767      19,147,20S



38
APPENDIXES



39
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(Loan 2418-PH)
AIDE MEMOIRE
1.    The Fifth Highway Project, Loan 2418-PH, was approved by the Board on May 17, 1984
and declared effective on September 27, 1984. The closing date was originally planned for
December 31, 1989. Unfortunately due to a number of factors, extemal and intemal to the project
management, the project implementation period was extended and the project officially closed after
four extensions on December 31, 1993.
2.    A World Bank mission consisting of Ephrem Asebe (Engineer/Economist) visited the
Philippines from March 6 to March 12, 1995, to solicit the views of the borrower and
implementing agencies, to provide advice and support to the govemment's efforts to make its own
contribution to the ICR, and to collect additional data for the preparation of the ICR. The mission
is grateful for the cooperation received and would like to thank DPWH.
3.    During the mission the objectives of the newly introduced ICR formal was explained to a
team designated by the Govermment to undertake the task of organizing and overseeing the
preparation of the ICR. Discussions were held on the Govemment's draft ICR. The mission
encouraged the team to focus on: a) experience, b) evaluation of the Govemment's and the Bank's
performance during the implementation phase of the project with the objective of drawing
appropriate lessons from the implementation and operation experience. The team appreciated the
guidance and support offered by the mission in preparing the ICR.
4.    The various views expressed on implementation and operation phases of the Fifth Highway
Project can be summarized as follows. Both the Bank and the implementing agencies perfommed
satisfactorily well under difficult circumstance. The Bank's flexibility to restructure the project
components was crucial to the overall success of the project. From the start the project faced a
number of difficulties. These include:
(a)  initial delay by one year due to need for realignment of funds in support of the
completion of the ongoing Third and Fourth Highway Projects;
(b)  political difficulties due to the EDSA February 1986 Revolution, and the subsequent
changes in administration resulting in the introduction of new procedures with rapid
tumover of senior staff which made it particularly difficult to plan and execute the
human resource development project;
(c)  law and order problems in some project areas, the earth quake in July 2990 and
eruption of Mt. Pinatubo in 1991 which resulted in abandonment of some contracts
and caused damage to roads and bridges;



40
(d)  critical shortage of counterpart funding due to cutbacks in local funding as the
government sought to decrease the mounting budget deficit in order to regain
economic stability; and
(e)  the practice of contracting out very short sections of road for restoration led to very
large number of small contracts which became unwieldy for adequate supervision
and management; attracted inadequately equipped contractors and resulted in poor
quality. In 1991 program longer contracts were let following Bank's advice.
5.    Despite these difficulties, the overall outcome of the project was satisfactory. Most of the
physical targets were met and in some cases exceeded. The planned bridges were all replaced.
Accidents were reduced. Accessibility was made more reliable and about twice the total appraised
length of roads were restored to routine maintenance with no increase in the total dollar cost of the
project because of the devaluation of the peso, but with resulting delays in implementation time.
Also the project is considered likely to be sustainable given current Government commitment to
road maintenance. Economic rates of return calculated for improvement of asphalt concrete
projects show in all cases to be much higher than at appraisal. The economic rates of return for
roads under restoration are known to be even more higher.
6.    There is no specific operational plan for the sub-projects financed under the loan. The
optimization of the benefits of the country's road assets largely depends on government's
commitment to road maintenance and the amount of resources the government makes available for
maintenance. However, there are signs for optimism. Since 1990, the Government has adopted a
revised Equivalent Maintenance Kilometer (EMK) formula for the allocation of Highway
Maintenance Funds. The net increase in real EMK since 1991 was 13.32% (1991), 15.79%
(1993) and 17.17% (1994). Also in 1990, the Government has implemented the privatization of
national road (maintenance by contract). The FY 1995 budget for maintenance was increased by
86% over FY 1994. Further, the Fifth Highway Project enhanced institutional capacity of a large
number of national contractors by providing opportunity to perform under more strict supervision
of the engineering staff of Project Management Office. The experience gained under the project
would thus further enhance the quality of the maintenance work as more and more maintenance
work is contracted out. The promotion of regional, district and maintenance engineers based on the
performance and quality of works in their jurisdiction is expected to further assure quality and
timely completion of project.
7.    At the Government level there were concems about the general poor quality of works
referred to in a number of Bank side memoirs. One result was the institution by the Secretary of
Quality Assurance Units. There was also appreciation for the significant contribution made by the
international consultant in helping to improve the quality of programming, design and construction.
It was affirmed that in the future the government should continue to promote quality of work by
strengthening the contracting and consulting industry, tightening up on the pre-qualification of
bidders, and provide incentives for early completion.



41
8.    Among the lessons that need to be drawn from the implementation experience of the Fifth
Highway project include:
(a)  quality of works should not be compromised;
(b)  bonuses for completion to higher than specified standard and before the stipulated
contract time should be considered; and
(c)  competent and adequately equipped local contractors competing with foreign firms
could help improve the standard of quality of works in the construction industry.
9.    The Government's contribution to the Fifth Highway Project ICR will be formally made
available to the Bank by March 31, 1995.



42                     Appendix B
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
P H I L I P P I N E S
FIFTH - IBRD ASSISTED HIGHWAY PROJECT
LOAN 2418 - PH
PART It PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Introduction
1.   A strong  and growing demand for  transport services by
9% a year between 1970 and 1980 was generated due to
the growth of the Philippines economy at 6.0% per year.
To   meet   this  demand,   the   Government  undertook
investments  totalling    around  P20   billion   (US$1.4
Billion), principally in highways, and also in other
transport modes. As a result, the public road network
grew from   65,000 km  in 1970  to 155,000 km  in 1982.
With the majority of the national highways either
already improved or under improvement, the Philippine
Government turned its attention to improving highway
maintenance and upgrading rural roads while limiting
highway investments to strengthening weak bridges and
highways sections in generally satisfactory network.
2.   The transport sector of the Philippine Government began
seeking assistance from the World Bank to finance the
upgrading of road transport infrastructure under the
previous four Highway Projects: Loan 731-PH, First
Highway Project; Loan 950-PH, Second Highway Project;
Loan 1353-PH,  Third Highway Project  and Loan 1661-PH,
Fourth Highway Project.
3.   The  Fifth Highway  Project Loan  amounting to  US$ 102
Million was approved on June 04, 1984.
B.    Project Objectives
4.   Project objectives  were to    a) improve  the existing
network of national highways and bridges; b) raise
maintenance to adequate levels and in the process
remove the backlog of restoration works on national
highways;  c)   improve  general.  highway  management,-.
particularly execution of maintenance and thus further
strengthen the institutional framework of MPWH and  its
field   organizations;  and  d)   develop   further  the
domestic construction .ndustry.



4 3                   Appendix B
B.1 Project Description
5.   The project scope was designed to include the following
components.
a)   Restoration  program  for  some  435  bridges  and
culverts on national highways with an estimated
total span in length of 9,282 LM;
b)   Improvement of national  highway section totalling
about 83 km;
c)   Restoration program for some  1,223 km on national
highways;
d)   Consulting services for    i) detailed engineering
and construction supervision; ii) preparation of
future   projects  and  iii)  studies  related  to
highway management, traffic safety and domestic
construction industry;
e)   Technical  assistance to  strengthen MPWH  highway
maintenance capabilities, to help MOTC in carrying
out a review of the road transport industry in
order to improve its operation, and developing
plan for the deregulation of road transport and
interisland shipping, and help CIAP in further
developing the domestic construction industry; and
f)   Training of MPWH and CIAP staff.
B.2 Project Design
6.   In 1982,  the National Transportation  Planning Project
(NTPP) study indicated that the deteriorating condition
of the national highway network was a critical issue
facing the transport sector as a result of inadequate
maintenance.    The study  also stated  that inadequate
maintenance funding might be a factor, although it was
not  only  a problem  to  be  addressed.   NTPP's  main
recommendation were that MPWH should: a) emphasize that
maintenance of existing facilities has priority over
any expansion or improvement project; b) carry out a
detailed survey of the conditions of national highway
network and identify roads that can be adequately
maintained that are to be restored, and that need to
be reconstructed, then raise. the road restoration
program to a level that will bring the network to a
maintainable condition within a reasonable time span;
and c) upgrade its maintenance organization, provide
for adequate maintenance funding (including a permanent
calamity  fund)  and institute  a  monitoring  and cost
accounting system.
2



44                     Appendix B
B.3    Assessment
7.   The  objectives  of the  Project  were  substantial and
consistent with the macro policy objective of the
Philippine   Government  to   foster  economy   through
institutional strengthening and reduction of transport
costs.   Generally,  the  objectives were  attained  as
conceived considering that the condition of the road
network of national highways and bridges had improved.
The timely adoption and implementation of the revised
Equivalent Maintenance Kilometer IEMK) formula  for the
allocation  of  Highway   Maintenance  funds  indicated
Government's commitment to further improve maintenance
policy.      In  1990,  the  Government  implemented  the
privatization   of   national   road   maintenance   or
Maintenance by Contract IMBC) as provided for in the
General Appropriations Act.
C. Project Implementation
C.1      Civil Works
8.   The Loan Agreement was signed on June 4, 1984,  and the
project  became  effective   three  months  later,   on
September 05, 1984.   Implementation of Civil Works was
deferred for one year after loan effectivity due to
realignment of funds in support of the completion of
on-going Third and Fourth IERD Highway Projects.
9.   The Project made a good start in 1985, however,  due to
political and economic crises that beset the country
after the EDSA February 1986 Revolution, the project
suffered another set-back in the implementation.
10.  In  1989, the  Project  was able  to  recover and  gain
momentum in the execution of its projects, however, for
a short time.   Unfortunately, the  project experienced
further delays caused by external factors which are
beyond the control of the implementing office, namely:
a) critical shortage of counterpart financing (cutbacks
in the local counterpart as Government sought to
decrease    the  mounting  budget  deficit);  (b)  Force
Majeure: i)  Baguio - Mt.  Data Road   suffered damages
caused by an earthquake  in July 1990 which resulted to
'mutual   termination"  of   the   contracts.   As   of
termination the total physical accomplishment consists
of approximately 52.00 km.  of concrete roads (PCCP and-.
52.53  Km.  of subbase)        ; and  ii)  eruption  of Mt.
Pinatubo in 1991 affected some restored or improved
3



45                    Appendix B
roads and  bridges ; c) unpredictable peace  and order
situation in  some project areas ;  d) frequent changes
of administration coupled with introduction of new
procedures.
11. Further delays were avoided by simplifying the process
of bidding for the Second and Third Year Program.
12.  Revisions to the  Project   The Loan Agreement  for
the Project was amended on various occasions, viz:
a)   With the devaluation of  the Peso in 1989, surplus
funds   were  realized   and  reconstruction   and
improvement of additional roads was requested for
funding under the Restoration Program Component.
The loan was amended to include the following :
i) Escalante - Vallehermoso Road, Negros Oriental;
ii) Tagum -Mati Road, Davao del Norte and Davao
Oriental ; iii) Metro Manila Urban Roads: iv)
Additional   Bridges  for   restoration;  and   v)
Periodic Maintenance. The Project Cost increased
from P3.1 Billion to P4.1 Billion, however, in
terms of US Dollars, it is still within the
appraisal estimate.
b)   In the Third and Fourth Highway Projects, detailed
engineering   and   construction  supervision   of
Restoration  projects  was   carried  out  by  the
Regional Office concerned, while the Bureau of
Maintenance  was  responsible    for  the  overall
project management. In 1990, however, as desired
by the Bank Mission that more attention be given
to   the  aspect   of  detailed   engineering  and
construction  supervision   of  restoration  works
program, local Consultants were hired to carry out
such function. The Road Restoration Projects were
repackaged to three clusters, viz: i) Cluster A
Region l,II,III and CAR); ii) Cluster B (Region
IVA and IVB, NCR and V)and iii) Cluster C (Region
Vl, VI[, VIII, IX, X, Xi and XI[).
c)   Amendment of  Part B  of  Schedule 4  of the  Loan
Agreement - Procurement of  Civil Works related to
the construction of Bridges and culverts under
Reconstruction Program for bridges on National
roads through Force Account.
4



46                    Appendix B
C.2  Feasibility Study and Detailed Engineering for
Future National Highway Projects.
13.  The  Feasibility   Studies-PMO  in   coordination  with
Renardet S.A. Consulting Engineers and Hoff & Overgaard
a/s,  Planning   consultants  prepared   a  prioritized
listing of the whole arterial road network which serve
as the basis for implementation under the on-going
Highway   Management   Program   and   other   Overseas
Development   Assistance  (ODA)   funded  civil   works
construction.
C.3 Functional Road Classification Study.
14.  The DPWH has the benefit of reviewing the existing road
classification system in the Philippines with the
conduct of the Functional Road Classification Study.
The study, which aims to rationalize the classification
of  the   public  road   network  in   the  Philippines
recommended a system of classification to be adopted.
However,  since the recommended system would modify the
existing  system  classification, its  implementability
and the political and general acceptability need to be
confirmed.    Unfortunately, the  needed  consultations
with the different sectors were not carried out after
the study in view of the political events, and changes
that took place in 1986 to 1992. Nevertheless, this
initial study has recently (1994)been updated and
continued further (thru a separate T.A. for the ADB)
into its final form which is now the subject of
legislative process.
C.4  Road Traffic Safety Study.
15.  BCEOM  in  association   with  R.C.  Gaite  Consultant,
recommended in their Report an interim phase of two
years which would be essentially preparatory, the
launching  of  a  5-year  Road  Safety   Program  which
initially cover Region IIl (Central Luzon) and Region
VIl (Central Visayas). It is anticipated that the
Program would achieve on a yearly basis over a 7-year
period in the pilot regions: (see Appendix 13)
- 30% reduction in the number of accidents;
-  67% reduction in the number of fatalities, and
- 30% reduction in the number of injuries.
5



47                    Appendix B
C.5 Construction Industries Study.
16.  The  long  term  objective  of further  developing  the
domestic construction industry under the Fifth Highway
Project   was  continued  under   loan  2418-PH.    The
Construction Industry Authority of the Philippines.
(CIAP)   took  the   lead  in   advancing  Construction
Industries in the Philippines and has completed Studies
which will  have a positive effect  - enhancing quality
standard on both locally and Bank financed projects.
Also, CIAP  developed construction  industry monitoring
system  and expanding its management information system
through its Construction Industry Data Bank (CIDB).
Please refer Appendix 12.
C.6 Training.
17.  The original proposal was  to send the Department Staff
for training abroad, however, this program was shelved
after  the  February   Revolution  due  to   government
reorganization and economic constraints. However, the
Department requested that the training program be
conducted   in-house   in  order   to   have   a  wider
participation of technical people, particularly those
who are involved in the implementation of Foreign
assisted  projects.    A   study  on  this  regard  was
conducted by NEDA and DPWH to be implemented under loan
3430-PH.
C.7 Assessment
18.  Against  bleak background  brought about  by political,
economic  crises and  natural  calamities,  etc.,   the
Government through the responsible agencies, continued
its commitment and perseverance enabled them to achieve
its objectives. The project proved to be a potentially
important instrument for regional development.
19.  The  Physical  Accomplishment  exceeded  the  appraised
estimates, as shown in Tables 5, 5. 1, 5.2 & 5.3.
Accessibility was made more reliable.
20.  Generally,  the  quality of  works  executed under  the
Project was above average and in some cases very good.
There can be no denying that there were instances   the
quality of works reflected some deficiencies as cited-
in  the Aide  Momoires's.   However, these  occurrences
were  localized   and  should  not   be  considered  as
representing the overall quality of the works carried
6



48                    Appendix B
out. These deficiencies were remedied whenever observed
and    brought  to  the attention  of  the  Supervising
consultants who ensured that the specifications were
met.
21.  The experience  of the 1990 earthquake  that hit Baguio
City provided an opportunity to review approaches in
design and construction so that the infrastructure are
seismic resistant.
22.  The Technical  Assistance for MPWH, MOTC  and CIAP were
successful,  considering  that    required  manuals  in
accordance to Project objectives have been produced and
now being adopted by the construction industry. Please
see Appendix 12.
D.  Operation Experience
23.  The sustainability  of  the benefits  derived from  the
improved, reconstructed and restored road and bridges
under the project will depend on the Government's
commitment to carry out both routine and periodic
maintenance.
D. 1 Assessment
24.  The Philippine Government  ensured timely adoption  and
Implementation of the revised Equivalent Maintenance
Kilometer (EMK) formula for the allocation of highway
maintenance funds. The funds allocated for maintenance
is a reflection of the Department of Public Works and
Highways'   commitment  to   improve  maintenance   and
restoration efforts and its intention to reduce new
construction activities as necessary during the period.
Since 1991, the EMK basic cost has been increased
considerably, as shown below
1991        1992        1993        1994
Increase in EMK        100%       136.82%    153.74%    165.85%
Cost                 (P20,500)  (P28,049)  (P31,517)  (P34,000)
base year  (+36.82%)  (+53.74%)   (+65.85%
Increase in cost       100%       123.50%    137.95%    148.68%
undertaking road      ( 0  )   (+23.50%)  (+37.95%)   (+48.66%)
maintenance          base year
Net Income in
real terms               _         13.32%      15.79%      17.17%
7



49                     Appendix B
E.   Government Performance
25.  The definition of Projects scope and its implementation
schedule were predicted on assumption that the required
funds would be available to the project in a timely
manner.   Unforeseen needs compelled the  government to
divert funds and there were instances when it was not
able to meet the obligation on time which caused a set-
back to the project.
26.  As  stated   in  the   Staff  Appraisal  Report   (SAR)
restoration  works   are  to   be  of  the   nature  of
regravelling, asphalt concreting and DBST.
E.1 Assessment
27.  The  Bank   realized  this  problem  and  was  properly
addressed when a joint review of Bank's portfolio with
NEDA was conducted aimed to reduce counterpart funds in
the future projects.
28.  Although there  was  a program  for  DBST, it  was  not
carried out considering that the size of the sub-
projects were not large enough to encourage contractors
to invest in the necessary equipment as most of the
contractors did  not have necessary equipment.   Hence,
it was agreed that this component will be undertaken in
the follow-up Highway Management Project, where the
contract packages were expected to be large, and
experienced   international    contractors  having   the
necessary equipment were expected to participate.
F. Bank Performance
29.  Between  the MPWH  and the  Bank, the  relationship was
productive.   Bank  supervision  missions were  fielded
regularly.
G. Lessons Learned
30.  In  implementing  the   IBRD  assisted  Fifth   Highway
Project,  the  DPWH  was   able  to  benefit  from  the
experience gained during implementation. The following
are noteworthy:
a)   The  packaging of the  projects was substantial to
encourage   qualified   domestic  contractors    to
participate and offered opportunities for them to
exercise their skills and capabilities.
8



50                     Appendix B
This type of strategy had a positive impact to the
development of the local construction industry.
b)   The use  of consultancy  firms for the  design and
preparation   of  plans   and  bidding   documents
provided much flexibility and independence to the
PMO  without   being   too   dependent    on   the
Department's Bureau of Design. Further,
construction supervision by private consultants
(firms)     ensured    regular   availability    of
qualified   and    experienced   personnel   whose
activities   are   not   hampered   due   to   the
unavailability of essential support services, viz:
transport, equipment etc. The Consultants being
obliged to submit reports on a regular basis,
ensures that the PMO receives well compiled and
well documented progress reports indicating the
actual position of the works at the different
sites.
c)   The Project implementation  when carried out  with
direct   involvement   of   PMO   staffs/engineers
provides opportunities to develop their managerial
skills. Thus, it strengthened the capability of
the PMO.
d)   The offer of an  incentive bonus to the contractor
as the implementation of Tagum - Mati Road was a
success wherein the contractor was induced to
complete the project on time. Completing the work
on time despite the odds served as an indicator of
competence as  the contractor  is concerned.   The
adoption of such practice is recommended for
future projects.
e)   Whilst  there   would. be  a  need   for  engaging
international   consultants    and   international
contractors   to   undertake   very   large   road
rehabilitation   projects,    optimum   institution
building could be achieved in respect of DPWH
contractors by maintaining sub-project sizes at a
reasonable level which is not too high to shut out
the experienced large scale local contractors, and
at the same time be attractive to encourage the
participation of competent foreign contractors.
The   best   method   of  developing   the   local
construction   industry    is   to    offer   them-.
opportunities to perform, which in turn would
encourage them to invest in better types of
equipment which they lack.
9



51                     Appendix B
f)   As stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the
restoration works are to be of the nature of
regravelling, asphalt concreting or DBST, but the
general demand from the Regional Directors and the
public is that PCCP be adopted in most cases.
Project designs must fit local conditions and
should therefore be concieved in consultation with
the local residents & beneficiaries.
10



52                                      Appendix B
Table 1:   Summary of Assessment
A.  Achievement of objectives              Substantial              Partial             Negligible           Not applicable
(/                     M/                   (1)                   M1
Microeconomic policies                                          F                    D o
Sector policies                           [1D                                        [ a
Financial objectives                                            [                    [                       LI
Institutional developmzent                                      L                                           [Z
Physical objectives                          'I                                      L                       LO
Poverty reduction                                               Er                      I OI
6ender issues                             L                     L                     O                      [
Other social objectives                   [                                                                 LI
Environmental objectives                  L                                          O                      L
Public sector management                   - V                                       [                        
Private sector management                 L]                        F'I                                      FI
Other (Specify)                           LI                   L                    LI                      LIIO
B.  Project sustainability                   Likelv                Unlikely              Uncertain
1/)                        (I)                (1)
C.   Bank perforeance                        HiQhly
Satisfactory            Satisfactory          Deficient
(I)                   (U)                   (I)
Identification                          [L                                          LI
Preparation asisstance                                                               I I
Appraisal                                  F7I                                       I
Supervision                              ED'                       ]                D
1 :'



53                                      Appendix B
Hiqhly
D.   Borrower performance                Satisfactory          Satisfactory         Deficient
(/)                   (I)                t/)
Preparation                                                                       O
Implementation                                                                  F i   
Covenant compliance                      ll
Operation (if applicable)                                                        F   
Hinhl y                                                              Hiohlv
E.   Assessment of outcome               Satisfactorv          Satisfactory          Unsatisfactory          uncatisfactory
1 2M












Ir                                      IEr                 I                    lI.                                       1~4                                      IEC
PHILIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
~>lars by                                                        7   17 't                       JPrevious Highway Project Components
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-    1~-C,.w.  1/, \|                                                                                                            -,
-drelrEwaF 'I                                                                                                   \                               ---_ FAiILITE STUDIES ANEIQE  EIRST OIIAOIOSA E3DJECT LAOA Tr-PU-
- at EtboaE..t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OIAft                                                                                            G
r.ME aTE. erEh., tnte -                                                                / t ih ' -                                           COESTPIJCTIOU USE IU,RIVEUEST   S YCOTRDEIUUR4UU TEJECEICEAR PHE-
oT  r a Y v_] _ ! A3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SER WURUSUoPS    ! E JTHzR UIU8IEU  PROJEUTIIOAS rEEl-Rn
as,l Isatyol,                                                        '.                                                               .  _  _RE _    ERIOESSO
t'                                           \         _;/            JS,                1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ E XISOIRO EKIOR EIGWFTATS
PANAYIWAY
,    < / t     a              !                              6~~~~~~ INTEERATIOSUL AIRPORT
_ ~ ~         ~             ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A ;;                RPORTs
Ie...                                                                                                                                                                                                             I.. 21'T_  -'
c.-  .o
A'?                                                                                               0      A,  EIITEI
I   N   D   A                                                                                    R     d      R           I
%   MINDO<O | , . r~~                          ASBT   E  , \   \ -'          SMA                                  I,/
X~~~~~~~~~~ f EG 7 5                                                                                  )I           \" 'D
/K /a s       I I 
,~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                                                      _                                                IFT -  lJ  
llr                                                             /           1t    A          t )              [           </   _        I              /
-AZA_ s zze,,<g    CHI MA                                                              t      )i                                     _ti j/ 'T| iU* *
I~~ ~ N/      AI6*                                                                       
] J ,1,, -';t__ \,, ' '' > w~
/U.R<tO
I'~13                                                                                                                                                   MIN DANA C









IMAGING
Report No:              1t ...-4:S
T y,e   : - .-.   -"



