Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4535-PH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PHILIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
May 1, 1984
Transportation Division 2
Projects Department
East Asia & Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =  Pesos (P)
US$1.00 = P 14.00
P 1.00   =  US$0.07
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AA        -  Advise of Allotment
ADT       -  Average Daily Traffic
AASHTO    -  American Association of State Highway Officials
ADB       -  Asian Development Bank
BAT       -  Bureau of Air Transport of MOTC
BLT       -  Bureau of Land Transport of MOTC
BOM       -  Bureau of Maintenance of MPWH
BP        -  Batasang Pambansa
CDC       -  Cash Disbursement Ceiling;
CIAP      -  Construction Industry Authority of the Philippines
CO        -  City Office of MPWH
COA       -  Commission on Audit
DBCC      -  Development Budget Coordinating Committee
DO        -  District Office of MPWH
EMK       -  Equivalent Maintenance Kilometer
ERR       -  Economic Rate of Return
GRT       -  Gross Registered Tonnage
MARINA    -  Maritime Industry Authority
MDS       -  Manpower Development Service of MPWH
MLG       -  Ministry of Local Government
MOB       -  Ministry of Budget
MOTC      -  Ministry of Transport and Communications
MPH       -  Ministry of Public Highways
MPW       -  Ministry of Public Works
MPWH      -  Ministry of Public Works and Highways
NEDA      -  National Economic and Development Authority
NTPP      -  National Transportation Planning Project
PCA       -  Philippine Contractors Association
PMO       -  Projects Management Office of MPWH
PNR       -  Philippine National Railways
PPA       -  Philippine Ports Authority
PTS       -  Philippine Transport Survey
RO        -  Regional Office of MPWH
SOE       -  Statements of Expenditure
TOR       -  Terms of Reference
USAID     -  United States Agency for International Development
vpd       -  vehicles per day



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES: FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I. TRANiSPORT SECTOR  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                1
A.  The Transport System  ...  .         .  .  .  .  .    .. .             1
B.  Policy, Planning and Coordination  . . . . . . . . . . .               3
C.  Sector Issues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                4
D.  Bank Involvement in the Transport Sector  . . . . . . .                5
II. HIGIIWAYS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                8
A.  The Network .           . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            8
B.  Traffic . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     10
C.  Road Transport Industry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               11
D.  Road User Charges and Highway Expenditures. . . . . . .               12
E.  Administration, Staff and Training   . . . . . . . . . .              13
F.  Planning  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               15
G.  Design  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               16
H.  Construction   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              16
I.  Maintenance . . . . . . . . . .   .18
J.  Financing, Budgeting and Accounting.                                  23
III. THE PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . C           . . .      24
A.  Background  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               24
B.  Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               24
C.  Main Features ....  .         .  .  .    . ......  .    .  .  .  .    .  25
D.  Detailed Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               25
E. Status of Preparation                  .          .32
F.  Cost Estimates   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  33
G.  Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   35
H.  Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               36
I.  Procurement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . .                  37
J.  Disbursements . . . . . . . .           . . . . . . . . . . .         40
K.  Environmental Aspects ....  .           .    ......  .    .  .  .    .  40
L.  Role of Women . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I . . .               40
The report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of
Messrs. G. Trnka (engineer), M.S. Parthasarathi (economist), P. Jensen
(engineer) and W.  Hoehenwarter (financial analyst) which visited the
Philippines in February/March 1983.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
I their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- l~i -
Page No.
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .   .   41
A.  General ......  .  .  ..  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  ..  .   .   41
B.  Reconstruction Program for Bridges  . . . . . . . . . . . .  41
C.  Improvement of National Highway Ba.guio-Mt. Data . . . . . .  42
D.  Restoration Program .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .   .   43
E.  Economic Return on Whole Project  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  43
F. Risks .......................... .  43
G.  Beneficiaries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  44
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  45
TABLE IN THE TEXT
2.1  Expenditures on National Highways . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
3.1  Summary of Project Costs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  34
3.2  Procurement Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
38
ANNEXES
1.  Action Program for Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . .  46
2. Ministry of Public Works and Highways:  Organizational Set-Up. .  50
3. Government Budget Process  . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . .  51
4.  Project-related Documents and Data Available in the Project File   53
SUPPORTING TABLES
1.  Government Investments in Transport Sector Infrastructure  . .    55
2. Public Road Network .56
3. Vehicle Fleet by Type .57
4.  Road User Revenues and Expenditures, 1970-81 . . . . . . . .       58
5.  Motor Vehicle Fuel Consumption, 1970-81 .59
6.  Design Standards for National Highways . . . . . . . . . . . . .  60
7. Expenditures on Highway Maintenance by Road System, 1972-81  .    61
8. Ministry of Public Works and Highways: Medium-term Financial Plan,
1984-89  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   62
9. Reconstruction Program for Bridges on National Highways:
1985  Program  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  63
10.  Restoration Program on National Highways:  Summary Table . . . .  64
11.  Restoration Program on National Highways:  1985 Program  . . . .  65
12.  Consulting and Technical Assistance Services . . . . . . . . . .  66
13.  Proposed List of Future National Highway Projects  . . . . . . .  67
14.  Summary of Project Costs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  68
15.  Schedule of Estimated Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  69
16.  Basic Vehicle Operating Costs  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . . . . .  .   .   70
17.  Restoration Program of National Highways:  Vehicle Operating Costs 71
18  Cost and Benefit Streams for Improvement of National Highway
Baguio-Mt. Data  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  72
19.  Economic Return Sensitivity Analysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  73



- iii -
Page No.
CHARTS
1. Ministry of Public Works and Highways - Organization Chart        74
2. Ministry of Public Works and Highways, Regional Office -
Organization Chart   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
3.  Implementation Schedule  ...... . .............  76
MAPS
1.  IBRD 17013 - Previous Highway Project Components . . . . . . . . 77
2.  IBRD 17014R - Project Components . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78






I. TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. The Transport System
General
1.01      The Philippine economy has been growing at 6.0% a year between
1970 and 1980, thereby generating a strong and growing demand for transport
services, which grew during the same period at 9% a year. To meet this
demand, the Government undertook investments totalling around P 20 billion
(US$1.4 billion), principally in highways, but also in other transport
modes.  As a result, the public road network grew from 65,000 km in 1970 to
155,000 km in 1982. With the majority of the national highways either
already improved or under improvement, the Government has now turned its
attention to improving highway maintenance and to upgrading rural roads,
while limiting highway investments to strengthening weak bridges and highway
sections in the generalLy satisfactory network (para. 3.05).
1.02      Due to its geography, the Philippines depends to a great extent on
interisland shipping and ferry services to link the main island of Luzon
with the other islands. Nevertheless, road transport handles 80% of the
country's passenger movements and 60% of freight movements compared with
water transport (8% of passenger and 40% of freight traffic). The railways
and air transport handle the remaining of 12% of passenger traffic and a
small volume of freight (less than 1%). Basically, therefore, the
Philippine transport system is a predominantly bimodal system, with road and
water transport generally complementing, rather than competing with, each
other.
1.03      During the 1980s, the transport sector is expected to continue to
grow but at a somewhat reduced pace of around 6-7% p.a., in line with the
slowdown of the economy's growth caused by worldwide recession and structural
problems of the Philippine economy.
Highways
1.04      Highways and highway transport are discussed in detail in Chapter
II.
Ports and Domestic Shipping
1.05      There are 18 major and 73 minor national ports, some 400 smaller
municipal ports, and 230 private piers and wharves in the Philippines.
Together these handle yearly about 75 million tons of cargo, about half in
domestic trade and half in foreign traffic, and some 16 million passengers,



- 2 -
almost all domestic. The public ports handle about 45% of the total cargo
and all passengers; about 75% of the cargo is domestic traffic. Of the
public ports, Manila is by far the most important, with over 10 million tons
of cargo in 1979. Private port traffic comprises mainly bulk cargo (oil,
iron ore, sugar, etc.), 60% of it in foreign trade.
1.06      The interisland shipping fleet which handles the domestic traffic
consists of some 3,200 vessels, with over 60% under 100 GRT each. Only some
250 are liner ships with an average GRT of 1,000. A majority of the small
ships are owned and operated by some 200 small companies.
1.07      In the past decade, the main investments in port infrastructure
have been in the country's major ports - Manila, Davao, Cotabato, Iligan,
Cagayan de Oro, General Santos, Cebu, Zamboanga and Iloilo. Improvement
works at many of these ports are still under implementation. Future
investments are expected to shift substantially to the smaller ports which
serve almost exclusively domestic traffic.
Railways
1.08      There are two railway systems in the Philippines:  the Philippine
National Railways (PNR) operating on the main island of Luzon and the Panay
Railways on Panay Island. The Government-owned PNR has 807 km of route in
operation and carried in 1980 some 365,000 tons of freight and 1.28 million
passengers. A project for the rehabilitation of the Main Line South, with
the Asian Development Bank (ADB) financing, is nearing completion. However,
PNR incurs substantial deficits in its operations which have so far been met
by Government contributions, and the Panay Railways receive favored
treatment in carrying sugar mill traffic, and even so barely manages to
cover operating expenses. The railways' role in internal transport is thus
marginal, and there is no prospect of its becoming a major factor in the
near future. The Government has recently initiated construction of a 10 km
elevated light railway transit system in Metro Manila but this system is
likely to require operating subsidies for at least some years to come.
Air Transport
1.09      International and domestic air transport are centered primarily on
Manila, the country's capital, with Cebu as a secondary focal point.
Altogether, there are 83 national airports under the jurisdiction of the
Bureau of Air Transport (BAT) of the Ministry of Transport and Communica-
tions (MOTC), of which two are international airports and two alternative
international airports. There are also 120 privately operated airports,
mostly for private services. A modern international passenger terminal for
Manila airport was completed in 1982 with ADB financing. Scheduled domestic
air services are provided by the Government-owned Philippine Airlines.



Government Outlays on Transport Infrastructure
1.10      During the 1977-81 period, the transport sector absorbed about
P 16.7 billion (US$1.2 billion) in national government expenditures. Of
this sum, roads absorbed 82%, the remainder going to air transport (6%),
railways (4%), and water transport (8%). For the period 1983-87, the
Government has tentatively allocated P 40 billion (US$2.9 billion) for the
transport sector covering ongoing and new projects (but excluding urban
transport). This represents a doubling in annual investments in real terms
over the annual investments in the sector during 1975-81. The highway share
is, however, expected to decline to 71% (Table 1), since future emphasis in
highway outlays will be increasingly on maintenance and not so much on new
investments (para. 2.38). The main increase in future investments outlays
will be in the port subsector whose share will increase to 16% of the total
transport investments. Relative to infrastructure outlays by the Government,
the share of transport (excluding urban mass transit system) will be about 25%
in the future, about the same share as in the past.
B. Policy, Planning and Coordination
1.11      Established in 1975 as a separate Ministry, MOTC is responsible
for transport policy, regulation and administration. It is also responsible
for operational coordination among the different modes. MOTC carries out
these tasks mainly through its Planning Service, the Bureau of Land
Transport (BLT), the Maritime Industry Authority (MARINA), and BAT. The
Philippine Ports Authority (PPA), the Philippine National Lines, and the
Philippine National Railways are all under its jurisdiction. The quasi-
judicial Board of Transport, which is the main regulatory agency for public
transport (routes, fares and tariffs), comes administratively under MOTC.
MOTC has, so far, relied on foreign consultants to execute many of its
functions. There are currently five foreign advisers in MOTC, namely a
transport planning adviser, a transport policy adviser, a railway adviser, an
air transport adviser, and a transport economist. Their services are financed
under the Third Highway Project (Loan 1353-PH) and the Regional Cities
Development Project (Loan 2257-PH). The services of all but the air adviser
would be extended under the proposed project (para. 3.21).
1.12      Planning for the transport sector is, however, the joint responsi-
bility of MOTC (for all modes other than highways), the Ministry of Public
Works and Highways (MPWH) (for highways), and the National Economic and
Development Authority (NEDA), with NEDA having an intersectoral coordinating
role. MOTC undertakes overall sectoral planning through the National
Transportation Planning Project (NTPP) which prepared a five-year (1983-87)
investment plan for transport as part of the national planning exercise. A
ministerial committee - the NEDA Committee on Transport Planning, with
representatives from NEDA, MOTC, MPWH and the Ministry of Tourism - has the
final responsibility on all planning matters for the sector.
1.13      Responsibility for detailed planning in modes other than highways
rests with various semi-autonomous agencies under MOTC - PNR for railways,
PPA for major and secondary ports, MARINA for shipping, and BAT for air



-4-
transport. MOTC's Planning Service reviews investment proposals put up by
the various agencies and advises MOTC on policy matters. Responsibility for
highway planning rests with the Planning Service of MPWH (para. 2.25).
1.14      Intermodal coordination has improved considerably, particularly
because railways are of little significance in domestic transport and roads
and interisland shipping by and large complement each other. However,
transport operations could be made more efficient and less expensive by the
provision of freight consolidation and forwarding facilities as well as
common passenger terminals in the country's main cities and towns. Such
freight consolidation facilities could also improve the transfer of cargo
from trucks to ships and vice versa, an area in which the larger interisland
shipping companies have begun to provide the service in some major ports.
The proposed project would include technical assistance to MOTC to carry
out a comprehensive review of the transport industry and to make proposals
for establishing freight and passenger terminals in the main cities and
towns (para. 3.21).
C. Sector Issues
1.15      In addition to a number of minor issues in specific modes, there
are several important issues that require Government's attention. The first
and most important concerns the need to improve highway maintenance, which
continues to be unsatisfactory (para. 2.36). A second sector-wide problem
is that of attracting and retaining staff of sufficient caliber and
experience in MOTC and MPWH, especially in their planning services, due to
the relatively low government salary scales. The problem appears to be
particularly acute in MOTC, which has so far relied on foreign consultant
teams (para. 1.11). The third concerns government regulations relating to
route licensing and tariff setting, particularly in road transport and
interisland shipping, which contribute to less than optimal efficiency in
their operations. The fourth relates to the distinction between trucks
licensed for hire (TH) and trucks licensed for owner use (T), with some 80%
of the trucks licensed as T trucks but with matiy in practice operating for
hire; T trucks pay lower registration and license fees and do not pay the
turnover and franchise taxes, thereby depriving the Government of legitimate
revenues and distorting the market for trucking services. A fifth issue
concerns the future of the PNR.
1.16      The Government is aware of these problems.  As regards the first,
MPWH now gives high priority to highway maintenance and has successfully
completed pilot maintenance programs with the help of technical assistance
provided under the Fourth Highway Project (para. 2.36). The proposed
project would provide technical assistance to further improve MPWH's
maintenance capabilities (para. 3.20). The second problem of the



unattractive government salary structure is the most intractable. To deal
with salary issue on a government-wide basis would have overwhelming fiscal
implications. The technical agencies may, therefore have to continue to use
consultants (local and expatriate) over the next few years. Concerning the
third issue, the Government has requested, and the proposed project would
provide technical assistance to MOTC to review the road transport industry,
examine the road transport deregulation issue, and develop a plan for the
deregulation of interisland shipping (para. 3.21). On the fourth issue, MOTC
has indicated that it has tightened up procedures for the issue and renewal of
licenses for T trucks to ensure that they are issued only in cases where the
need is clearly established; the Government intends to monitor periodically
this step and take further measures as necessary. As regards PNR, the
Government has for the present decided against closure of the railway and to
retain it for other than economic reasons. At the same time, it has taken
steps to strengthen the management to enable it to operate efficiently and
minimize the need for annual government subsidies for operating losses. This,
however, is not a serious issue as PNR's role in internal transport is
marginal and the subsidy amount involved is relatively small (about P 25
million) (US$1.8 million) year. The technical assistance to MOTC under this
project would also provide guidance to PNR in order to improve railway
operations, facilities and maintenance (para. 3.21).
1.17      The technical assistance provided under this project (paras. 3.20
and 3.22) should specifically enable both MOTC and MPWH to phase out foreign
technical assistance services in transport and highway management after 1986.
However, due to the low government salary structure, MOTC and MPWH would have
to continue employing local consultants. For the Ministry of Local Government
(MLG), expatriate assistance in rural roads project implementation would be
needed at least until the completion of the proposed Second Rural Roads
Project (para. 1.21).
D. Bank Involvement in the Transport Sector
1.18      The Bank Group has assisted the transport sector through four
highway projects, one rural roads project, three ports projects and one
shipping project. The Bank has been involved in the road subsector since
the First Highway Project (Loan 731-PH, US$8.0 million) in 1971. Three
larger Highway Projects (Loans 950-PH, 1353-PH, and 1661-PH) and one Rural
Roads Improvement Project (Loan 1860-PH) followed. Two of the highway
projects have been satisfactorily completed. The Project Performance Audit
Report (No. 2449, of April 4, 1979) for the First Highway Project found that
problems during implementation were largely caused by civil disturbances in
the project area. Still the project's re-estimated economic return was
satisfactory. The Project Performance Audit Report (No. 4757, of October 25,
1983) for the Second Highway Project (Loan 950-PH, US$68.0 million in 1973)
noted that significant difficulties and delays on one road construction



- 6 -
contract coincided with variations from the Bank's procurement procedures,
and that responsibility for maintaining the minor roads financed under the
project should have been clearly indicated. The report estimates that
the economic return of the project will be satisfactory despite some loss in
benefits caused by imposition of tolls and ban on truck traffic on one of
the project roads.
1.19      The ongoing Third Highway Project (Loan 1353-PH, approved in
1976), provides US$95 million for construction and improvement of some 500
km of national roads and 230 km of minor roads (Map 1), the first phase of a
road maintenance program (construction of workshops, procurement of
equipment and restoration of deteriorated road sections), and consulting
services, technical assistance to MPWH and MIOTC, and training. The project
is two and a half years behind the appraisal schedule because of slow
procurement, poor performance of many contractors and inadequate budgetary
planning. It was substantially completed (about 95%) in April 1984. The
loan is expected to be fully disbursed by August 1984.
1.20      The ongoing Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1661-PH, approved in
1979), provides US$100 million for construction and improvement of about
365 km of national and 77 km of feeder roads (Map 1), the second phase of
the road maintenance program, and consulting services, technical assistance
and overseas training. Initially, the implenientation proceeded slowly
because of stricter prequalification procedures for contractors, delays in
the first phase of the road maintenance program, and late start of technical
assistance services. To improve project implementation, MPWH agreed with
the Bank in May 1981 on a 12-month action program and on a similar second
program in June 1982, and has adhered to these programs. As a result,
project implementation has improved substantially over the last two years,
and is now satisfactory. In view of its arrangement with local "in-house"
consultants (para. 2.19), MPWH has significantly reduced the expatriate
technical assistance services under the project, and has been using foreign
experts only for highway maintenance. The project was about 65% completed
in April 1984; it is expected to be completed by March 1985.
1.21      The ongoing Rural Roads Improvement Project (Loan 1860-PH,
approved in 1980), provides US$62 million for improvement of about 700 km
of rural roads in 6 provinces, identification study of rural roads for
improvement in 22 more provinces, and technical assistance for project
implementation and for preparation of a five-year national transport sector
investment plan.  The rural roads identificati:on study and the technical
assistance services in planning have been completed. After an initial one
year delay caused mainly by delays in obtaining budgetary provision for
local costs, and consequent delays in hiring staff for the new Rural Roads
Unit in MLG, construction is now well under waLy. The project was 55%



completed in April 1984 and is expected to be completed in March 1986.
15 months later than the appraisal schedule. ADB is providing assistance
for rural roads in nine provinces under a highway project approved in 1983,
and the Bank lending program for 1986 tentatively includes a Second Rural
Roads Project for the other 13 provinces which were covered under the study.
1.22      In the port and shipping subsectors the Bank assisted the
Government since 1961, when the First Ports Project (Loan 290-PH) provided
US$8.5 million to finance dredgers. Unfortunately, the dredgers were not
operated or maintained satisfactorily; consequently US$1.1 million of the
loan was cancelled. In 1973, the Bank provided US$6.1 million for the
Second Ports Project (Loan 939-PH) for improvement of two major ports,
Cagayan de Oro and General Santos. Slow procurement caused a three-year
delay in project completion; and the project also experienced a cost overrun
of about 60%. The Project Completion Report (April 29, 1981) noted that the
original cost estimates and implementation schedules were too optimistic.
The Project Performance Audit Report is under preparation. The ongoing
Third Ports Project (Loan 1855-PH, approved in 1980) provides US$67.0 mil-
lion for further improvement and rehabilitation and four major ports,
Cagayan de Oro, Zamboanga, Iloilo and Cebu, consulting services, and
technical assistance services. Progress in project implementation was
initially slow but all construction work is now underway. In April 1984,
the project was about 50% complete and 12 months behind the appraisal
schedule.
1.23      The Bank's First Shipping Project (Loan 1048-PH, approved in 1974)
provided US$20 million to assist the Government in modernizing the inter-
island fleet of vessels, and technical assistance for-maritime planning.
The project was completed in 1981, two years behind the appraisal schedule.
Most ships were procured locally and the project thus substantially
strengthened the domestic ship-building industry. The draft Project
Performance Audit Report (December 2, 1982) concluded that the Bank should
have convinced the Government to provide more favorable onlending terms to
ship operators.
1.24      A principal objective of the Bank with transport sector lending in
the Philippines has been to strengthen the institutions dealing with the
sector and to help in the establishment of an appropriate framework for
planning and policy development and formulation. As a result, a major
component in recent lending has been technical assistance in national
transport planning, a task completed in July 1982. Assistance thereafter
will be for policy formulation and implementation, with gradual phasing out
of foreign experts.



-8-
II. HIGHWAYS
A. The Networkl
2.01      The Philippines has an extensive road network of some 154,800 km
(1982), of which 24,000 km are national, 30,000 km provincial, 15,600 city
and municipal, and 85,200 barangay /1 roads (Table 2). National roads
include about 120 km of toll expressways /2 with grade separated intersec-
tions north and south of Manila, and some 2,000 km of the Pan-Philippine
Highway extending from northern Luzon to southern Mindanao. The average
road density of 0.5 km/sq km of land area and' of 3.2 km/1,000 inhabitants
compares favorably with the corresponding figures in Indonesia (0.1 km/sq km
and 1.3 km/1,000 inhabitants) and Thailand (0.2 km/sq km and 1.9 km/1,000
inhabitants).
2.02      The network is, in general, quite adequate in location and extent,
but suffers from many deficiencies. Only some 20,500 km, or about 13% of
the total network, is paved, 8,600 km with cement concrete and 11,900 km
with asphalt. Of the remaining 134,300 km, 82,000 km have gravel and 52,300
km have earth surfaces. The condition of many roads is poor because of
initial deficiencies in design and construction, lack of maintenance and
damage from overloaded vehicles. Missing or weak bridges diminish the
usefulness of many existing roads (para. 2.03); and in remote areas, access
roads are scarce. In general, national roads carry significant volumes of
traffic, provide connections between main population centers and link
provinces. Provincial roads usually carry medium or low traffic volumes,
and constitute the basic network within the provinces. City and municipal
roads are urban roads, while barangay roads function mostly as penetration,
feeder or farm-to-market roads. However, the road classification is often
arbitrary as it is not always based on function. In remote areas national
roads may serve as penetration roads providing the only access to villages.
In many parts of the country, provincial and barangay roads are
indistinguishable, both being characterized by low volumes of traffic and
serving limited areas, mainly connecting communities with administrative and
market centers. Under the Rural Roads Improvement Project the consultants
for the Rural Roads Feasibility Study have reviewed the classification of
/1 Barangay is the smallest political subdivision in the country. Nation-
wide, there are about 35,000 barangays; each barangay has a population
of at least 1,000 and has its elected Barangay Captain and Council.
/2 About 51 km of two-lane toll road has been completed under the Second
Highway Project and is being expanded to a four-lane toll expressway.



- 9 -
all categories of roads in 22 provinces (about 30% of the country). Under
the Fourth Highway Project, the consultants for the Bridge Feasibility Study
have reviewed some parts of the national road network. The proposed project
would include an overall road classification study which would pull together
the results of the above studies and would also review the remainder of the
road network (para. 3.16).
2.03      Major road improvement activities began in 1969 following completion
of the Philippine Transport Survey (PTS)./l The survey recommended improve-
ment of about 6,000 km of national roads, reorganization of the highway
administration, and improvements in road maintenance procedures. Most of the
priority roads identified in the PTS have been, or are being, improved with
local resources, supplemented by assistance from Japan, USAID, ADB and the
Bank. The proposed project includes a further 83 km for a major highway
improvement (para. 3.08). Despite these road improvement activities only
some 10,400 km or about 43% of national highways are paved. Improvement works
on national highways usually include widening and strengthening of existing
substandard bridges and, where necesary, replacement of bridges on the verge
of collapse and beyond repair or with excessive maintenance cost. However,
the pace of general road improvement work is not adequate to keep up with the
need for repairing or replacing deteriorating bridges. MPWH, therefore,
embarked in 1982 on a special steel bridge reconstruction program which
provides for replacement of some 284 bridges over the three-year period,
1983-85. The cost of steel structures is financed through a special MPWH
allocation from the Government's 1981 "jumbo" loan;/2 and the civil works
costs are being met from MPWH budget allocations. In continuation of the
steel bridge reconstruction program, MPWH has formulated a second eight-year
program (1985-92) which includes reconstruction of bridges on 60-70 high
priority national highway links identified through the National Transportation
Planning Project (NTPP) (para. 2.04). The proposed project would provide for
financing of the first phase of this program (para. 3.06).
2.04      In 1982, the NTPP study stated that the deteriorating condition of
the national highway network was a critical issue facing the transport
sector, and that inadequate maintenance was the main factor for this state of
affairs. The study also stated that inadequate maintenance funding might be
a factor, although it was not the only problem to be addressed. NTPP's main
recommendations were that MPWH should: (a) emphasize that maintenance of
/1 A two-year study conducted under UNDP financing with the Bank as
Executing Agency.
/2 US$200 million borrowed by the Central Bank of the Philippines from a
consortium of international banks.



- 10 -
existing facilities has priority over any expansion or improvement projects:
(b) carry out a detailed survey of the conditions of the national highway
network and identify roads that can be adequately maintained, that are to be
restored, and that need to be reconstructed, then raise the road restoration
program to a level that will bring the network to a maintainable condition
within a reasonable time span; and (c) upgrade its maintenance organization,
provide for adequate maintenance funding (including a permanent catastrophe
fund) and institute a monitoring and cost accounting system. The proposed
project would assist MPWH in implementing the above strategy for national
highway maintenance by providing technical assistance and by financing
continuation of the restoration program of national highways begun under the
Third Highway Project (paras. 3.10 and 3.20).
B. Traffic
2.05      In 1980, there were some 942,000 motor vehicles in the
Philippines, of which 471,000 were cars; 81,000 jeepneys;/1 18,000 buses;
293,000 trucks; and the rest motorcycles (Table 3). Between 1970 and 1980,
the fleet grew by 6.8% per year, but there has been very little change in
its composition, with cars and trucks constituting 50% and 30% of the fleet,
respectively. Over 40% of the vehicle fleet is in Central Luzon and Metro
Manila which account for 22% of the country's population and 6% of the land
area. Approximately 65% of the trucks are two-axle trucks, about 25%
three-axle trucks and the balance truck-semitrailers. Almost 90% of the
trucks are diesel-powered. Trucks in use in inter-city movements in the
Philippines range from the two-axle straight truck to the five-axle truck
semi-trailer.
2.06      Overloading of trucks is common and this causes excessive damage
to roads. Loadometer surveys carried out withi the use of weighing equipment
provided under the Third Highway Project indicate that typically 65% of all
loaded vehicles are overloaded, with the average overload for overloaded
vehicles being 4 tons, in terms of both gross vehicle weight and axle load.
The overloading of larger trucks is greater with axle overload reaching 10
tons for the three-axle straight truck.
2.07      Traffic volumes vary widely with over 30,000 vehicles per day
(vpd) on the Manila North Expressway in Luzon to less than ten vehicles
daily on some rural roads. With the Bank's assistance, a nationwide traffic
counting program was initiated in 1975 with a total of 1,377 stations. At
/1 Jeepney is a modified jeep being used in the Philippines for public
transport.



- 11 -
present there are 1,497 counting stations in operation, of which 126 are
automatic. The average mix of traffic on national roads is as follows:
cars/vans - 55%; jeepneys - 30%; buses - 5%; and trucks - 10%.
2.08      At present, the maximum legal load for a single axle is 8,000 kg
and for a tandem axle 14,500 kg; in addition, the maximum legal gross weight
of a two- or three-axle truck is 13,600 kg and of a semi-trailer 24,500 kg.
These limits are low and if strictly inforced, would raise trucking costs
higher than they need be. To review the efficiency of the road transport
system, the Government is carrying out a study of its existing regulations
on vehicle weights and dimensions. The study is financed under the Fourth
Highway Project and is scheduled for completion by December 1984. Based on
its findings, the Government plans to revise the regulations on vehicle
weights and dimensions and take steps to enforce them on the roads.
2.09      Traffic accidents and fatalities constitute a growing and
recognized socioeconomic problem in the Philippines. However, accidents are
neither accurately nor completely recorded, nor have comprehensive,
coordinated and effective measures been taken to prevent them. Speeding is
quite common, driver behavior is often not in conformity with the traffic
laws, and driver education is unsatisfactory. At the Government's request,
the proposed project would include a traffic safety study (para. 3.17).
C. Road Transport Industry
2.10      A majority of the trucks (estimated as up to 80%) are "T" trucks
licensed for noncommercial use (or for use only in the business of the
licensee). Nevertheless, despite their restricted license which implies
lower registration and licensing fees and exemption from turnover and
franchise taxes, most of the "T" trucks unfairly compete with trucks
licensed for hire ("TH" trucks) in the freight market. This results in loss
of revenue to Government from turnover taxes alone of around P 50 million
(US$3.6 million) per year.
2.11      Overall, over 90% of the operators own three trucks or less, and
only about 1% of the operators own more than 10 trucks. The former own 80%
of the vehicles and the latter 10%. Over 30% of the vehicles are owned by
individuals who own only one vehicle. Moreover, the distinctions in truck
licensing (para. 1.15) and the practice of heavy overloading (para. 2.06)
are matters for concern. MOTC is tightening truck licensing to eliminate
the abuse of T licenses and to increase the number of trucks licensed for
hire. A solution to deal with the problem of enforcement of vehicle and
traffic regulations is expected to emerge from the vehicle dimensions and
weights study (para. 2.08) as well as from the traffic safety study to be
financed under the proposed project (para. 3.17).



- 12 -
2.12      The intercity passenger transport industry consists of a small
group of large, mostly family-owned firms with fleets of 150-450 vehicles
offering efficient long-distance services, and of a large number of small
operators. This latter group represents about 7% of the fleet of buses
offering a wide range of complementary short-distance services. In
addition, there are a vast number of jeepney operators offering a mix of
short-distance urban and short interurban services, mostly owner-operated.
2.13      Both truck and bus operations suffer from lack of common terminal
facilities in the main towns and cities which would improve the efficiency
of their operations and contribute to greater convenience for users. Trucks
would benefit from freight consolidation and transfer facilities which would
improve truck load factors, reduce costs and promote through movements,
especially for interisland movements where intermodal transfer is involved.
Bus passengers will benefit from common termLnals that would facilitate
transfers. To review and help improve the efficiency of road transport
operations (para. 1.14), the proposed projecl: would include technical assi-
stance to MOTC which would review the transport industry and would develop a
plan for establishing freight and passenger terminals throughout the country
(para. 3.21).
D. Road User Charges and Highway Expenditures
2.14      Highway expenditures in the Philippines have increased from
P 573 million in 1970 to P 4.5 billion in 1981 (Table 4). During this
period, maintenance expenditures increased elevenfold to P 1.2 billion in
1981 and new construction outlays sevenfold to almost P 3.0 billion.
Meanwhile, highway administration expenditures grew from P 55 million to
P309 million. Thus, although there was a substantial increase in new
construction, the increase in maintenance expenditures was much larger in
percentage terms. Despite this, highway maintenance is still inadequate
principally because of poor planning, diversion of resources, and
insufficient monitoring of maintenance activities (para. 2.36). During the
same period revenues from road user charges (fuel taxes and motor vehicle
fees) rose from under P 300 million to over P 5.1 billion (Table 4).
Currently, road user charges generate more revenues than all highway outlays
- maintenance, administration and new construction - which is a satisfactory
situation.
2.15      There are, however, a few relatively minor problems with respect
to the system of road user charges. The first is the large number of trucks
with T licenses for own use (and paying the lower fees and taxes that go
with it) but operating mainly for hire. The Government has initiated steps
to deal with this (para. 1.15). The second is the lower taxes on diesel
fuel compared with petrol (P 0.59 vs P 1.80 per liter) (Table 5). The
Government has already agreed to eliminate this differential gradually (as



- 13 -
part of the SAL operation, Loan 2266-PH). The third is the inadequate
license fees charged for three-axle trucks. This would be reviewed as part
of the vehicle dimension and weights study financed under the Fourth Highway
Project (para. 2.08).
E. Administration, Staff and Training
2.16      Responsibility for the public road network in the Philippines is
divided, with some overlap, between the national government and local
government agencies. In the national government, MPWH, the recognized
technical highway authority, is responsible for the national highways
system, and for providing technical assistance to other government agencies.
At local government level, provincial governments, cities and
municipalities, under the overall supervision of MLG, are respectively
responsible for the provincial, city and municipal roads in their areas.
MPWH was, until recently, also responsible for barangay roads, but this
responsibility is being gradually transferred to MLG and barangay councils,
which in the near future will assume full responsibility for these roads.
Over the last two years, MLG has gained considerable experience through the
implementation of a number of externally assisted projects and it is now
familiar with the technical and administrative requirements of road network
management. However, some provincial governments and barangay councils lack
the technical expertise and experience necessary to manage their road
networks and will depend heavily on assistance and support by MLG. The
ongoing Rural Roads Improvement Project (Loan 1860-PH) and the ADB Third
Highway Project provide technical assistance to MLG and selected provincial
governments; these services will need to continue under the proposed Second
Rural Roads Project which is being prepared separately.
2.17      MPWH's main responsibility is now for planning, design, construc-
tion and maintenance of national highways. The Ministry was created in 1981
with the merging the Ministry of Public Works (MPW) and the Ministry of
Public Highways (MPH). This reorganization was mainly to assure better
cooperation of government staff on projects and to avoid duplication of MPW
and MPH field organizations.
2.18      MPWH is headed by a Minister who is assisted by three Deputy
Ministers (for planning, administration and finance; construction and
quality control; and design, equipment and maintenance). In addition, MPWH
has six staff services and five staff bureaus. MPWH field organization
which consists of 14 Regional Offices (ROs), 94 District Offices (DOs) and
55 City Offices (COs). At present, MPWH has an approved establishment of
about 19,000 personnel of which about 3,200 are headquarters and about
15,800 regional staff. The number of MPWH personnel is slightly larger than



- 14 -
the former MPH (17,600) but considerably smaller than MPH/MPW combined
(24,600). Most of the reduction has been in the regional staff which has
been reduced by 25%. The organizations of MPWH headquarters and RO are
shown in Chart 1 and 2 respectively; further details are given in Annex 2.
2.19      Because of the low government salary scales there is a shortage of
well experienced middle-level technical staff at MPWH headquarters and in
the field, particularly in the maintenance organization. To handle its
staffing problems, MPWH engaged in 1981 a local management and engineering
consulting firm which has provided a team of some 20 "in-house" consultants.
These consultants assist MPWH headquarters staff in reviewing feasibility
studies, designs, cost estimates, bid evaluations, contractors certificates,
claims, variation orders, accounts, and others. MPWH is funding the
"in-house" consultants services from its own budget and intends to continue
this arrangement in the next few years until its implementation capabilities
reach a satisfactory level.
2.20      Despite the priority MPWH has been giving to maintenance over the
last two years, its maintenance organization remains weak. MPWH engaged in
1981 a foreign consulting firm to provide six maintenance experts to work at
headquarters and in four pilot regions. As an incentive to its maintenance
staff, in 1982 MPWH upgraded the Maintenance Engineers' positions in its
ROs and DOs. Improvement of MPWH maintenance capabilities to a satisfactory
level may take several years, and the proposed project, therefore, provides
for continuation of the foreign technical assistance services in highway
maintenance (para. 3.20). This assistance would, however, prepare MPWH for
phasing out the foreign technical assistance in highway management.
2.21      Training for technical and administrative staff of the Ministry
has been conducted for many years. Since 1974, training activities were
institutionalized, and headquarters and regional training officer posts were
established. To further strengthen its training functions, MPWH carried out
a study under the Second Highway Project in 1975/76 to identify manpower
development needs and to recommend suitable training programs. The study
was followed up in 1977-79 through technical assistance under the Third
Highway Project from three expatriate training advisers to the various
training units.  In late 1978, the Manpower Development Service (MDS) was
established for planning and preparing training programs, including
production of training aids, for implementation of the programs at the
headquarters, and for assistance and guidance to the regional training units
as well as coordination of their programs (Chart 1).
2.22      The internal training courses offeredl by MDS and the regional
training units are satisfactory for the routine! training involving large
groups of trainees. The MDS's training efforts are mainly directed towards
reorientation courses and seminars for all MPWEH employees. In addition, MDS



- 15 -
arranges regular training courses in a wide range of subjects for clerical
and professional staff to attend on a selective basis. The training
includes courses for development of personal skills, for example, in oral
and written communication, and for professional and technical development,
such as materials engineering and quality control, maintenance planning,
programming and administration, and principles of flood control in bridge
and highway design. In 1982, nearly 3,000 staff participated in the regular
training courses conducted by MDS both at MPWH headquarters and in the
regions. The regional training units also arrange training courses
regularly, for example, for highway maintenance crews, drivers, mechanics,
and equipment operators. Every year, several hundred staff attend formal
training courses in each region. Further information and details on MPWH's
training activities are in the Project File (Annex 4).
2.23      In addition to MPWH's internal training programs, a number of
external training opportunities are available for MPWH staff, including
overseas university courses and study tours. The Fourth Highway Project
provided support for external training activities through advanced overseas
technical training of 16 MPWH and MLG staff.  This program met successfully
the training objectives and the proposed project would continue this
assistance (para. 3.23).
F. Planning
2.24      Planning activities for national highways are initiated in MPWH,
and the resultant proposals are forwarded to the Ministry of Budget (MOB)
which incorporates them in a Budget Message of the President of the
Philippines to the Batasang Pambansa (BP), the law-making body of the
country. A brief description of the budget process is in Annex 3.
2.25      National highway projects are initially identified by MPWH's
Planning Service in cooperation with NEDA. In selecting projects, the
Planning Service considers the recommendations of the previous national
transport studies and the NTPP study (completed in 1982), its evaluation of
relative priorities, and the priorities expressed by the Regional
DeveloiPment Councils. The Infrastructure Program comprises large investment
projecits normally spread over several years and approved under the various
Public Works Acts or Decrees. The Planning Service consolidates and
finalizes the overall MPWH program.
2.26      Project proposals for provincial, city and municipal roads
originate at the local government level and are submitted to MLG for
approval on an annual basis. Projects to be implemented with assistance
from external sources are prepared by MLG. In the case of barangay roads,



- 16 -
project proposals are formulated at the barangay level, coordinated by DOs
and ROs and submitted to MPWH headquarters for approval and fund allocation.
These functions of MPWH are gradually being transferred to MLG.
G. Design
2.27      Design and supervision of construction for national highways are
carried out by MPWH, either directly or by employing consultants.  Most
large projects are designed by local consultants, but a few have been under-
taken by MPWH headquarters or ROs. For smaller projects, design and super-
vision of construction are done by ROs, often through their DOs or COs. The
design and supervision of externally assisted projects is usually performed
by local consulting firms, sometimes in joint venture with foreign firms,
and occasionally by PMOs through a specially organized group for RO. For
provincial and barangay roads, design and construction supervision are car-
ried out by the provincial, city or municipal engineering offices, usually
supported by MLG. In general, the quality of engineering is satisfactory.
2.28      Highway design is based on standards which were developed during
the first UNDP-financed transport survey in the early 1970s.  Since then a
number of revisions have been made and additional standards have been
developed. MPWH recently undertook a complete review of its design
standards and intends to issue them officially in the near future. The new
design standards (Table 6) are adequate for various types of national
highways and terrain conditions in the Philippines.
2.29      The role and responsibilities of local consultants for both
highway design and construction supervision have increased considerably over
the last ten years. The Bank assisted this development, particularly under
the Second Highway Project (para. 1.18). At present, over 25 local
consulting firms offer services for highways and bridges, and some of the
larger firms also work overseas. Their performance in technical matters
such as design and supervision work is, in general, satisfactory; some
improvement is, however, still needed in work organization and management.
Local consultants thus continue to depend on expatriate staff for key roles
such as Project Managers or Chief Resident Engineers on large projects.
H. Construction
2.30      Most of the construction work for national and provincial roads is
carried out by contract; some minor projects, particularly for barangay
roads, are also executed by force account, in many cases utilizing village
labor. The Bank is assisting the Government in this field by financing
technical assistance and labor-intensive construction on several sections of



- 17 -
barangay roads./l For government-funded projects, the road contracts are
generally small, and are let to local firms after local competitive bidding.
For large foreign-assisted projects, contracts are awarded following
international competitive bidding. In this field, local contractors are
also quite competitive with foreign contractors and succeed in getting most
of the contracts. The Bank has assisted considerably the development of
local contractors (para. 1.18).
2.31      The major impetus to the development of a domestic construction
industry in the Philippines was the high level of rehabilitation needed at
the end of World War II. In 1945, a group of ten founding members/contrac-
tors formed the Philippine Contractors Association (PCA) which now has about
450 members. In 1982, some 6,000 persons/firms were identified as engaged
in the contracting business in the country, and over 3,000 contractors were
licensed by Government to carry out works in that year. In the last decade,
the domestic construction industry has benefited from several government
measures, such as reviews of Government's contract administration procedures
and implementation rules, designed to assist domestic contractors to become
competitive with foreign contractors. Moreover, the Government has recog-
nized that the present contract documents are stipulated excessively in
its own favor, and that its relationship with contractors should be placed
on a more equitable footing. It established, therefore, in 1980 the
Construction Industry Authority of the Philippines (CIAP) which represents
both government and private sector interests, to evolve an overall strategy
for the development of the construction industry.
2.32      The Bank has been involved in a continuing dialogue with the
Government on this issue for some time. In 1981, the Bank financed a
National Construction Industry Study under the Second Urban Development
Project (Loan 1647-PH). This study has proposed further changes in the
contract conditions, administrative procedures, contract implementation
rules, and classification and categorization of contractors. The Government
has accepted some of the recommendations, and has requested the Bank to
assist CIAP. Accordingly, the Fourth Highway Project is financing technical
assistance to CIAP and three short studies on availability of credit to
contractors, equipment leasing operations, and construction industry data
base requirements. Moreover, the Fourth Highway Project is financing
advanced training on construction technology and construction project
management for two permanent CIAP staff members. The proposed project would
provide for further technical assistance to CIAP, additional follow up
studies and training to CIAP staff (paras. 3.18, 3.22 and 3.24).
/1 The ongoing Rural Roads Improvement Project (Loan 1860-PH) (para. 1.21)
includes upgrading of about 50 km of barangay roads by labor-intensive
methods. Also, the Rural Infrastructure Project (Credit 790-PH)
includes improvement of about 1,200 km of barangay roads of which some
50 km are being built by labor-intensive methods under guidance of
technical assistance experts of the International Labor Organization.



- 18 -
I. Maintenance
2.33      The greatest weakness in the Philippines highway sector has been
inadequate maintenance. Since the Bank's involvement in the highway sector
in early 1970s, it has observed a serious lack of attention to road
maintenance in the field.  The reasons were many:  there was no proper
organizational setup or staff capable of carrying out the required tasks;
funds allocated for maintenance were either grossly inadequate or diverted
to road construction, emergency bridge repairs or other activities; and
maintenance operations and procedures were ill-defined. Essential items of
equipment were unavailable when and where needed; hand tools were in short
supply; workshop facilities to service and repair equipment were inadequate;
and many depots were cluttered with broken-down equipment in scrap
condition. Moreover, years of neglected road maintenance have resulted in
the deterioration of a large part of the network to a point where it cannot
be maintained by normal methods; restoration works are needed to put the
roads in a maintainable condition.
2.34      In an attempt to improve this situation a maintenance study was
initiated in 1972 under the First Highway Project and completed in 1975
under the Second Highway Project. Following the study recommendations, the
Ministry was reorganized in 1974 (para. 2.17), and it has set up field
offices for maintaining national highways, and prepared a Five-year
Maintenance Program, which includes: (a) target annual budgetary
requirements for routine and periodic maintenatnce; (b) substantial road
restoration; (c) procurement and management of maintenance equipment and
spare parts; and (d) a highway maintenance manual.
2.35      In order to reinforce the steps taken by MPWH to implement the
first phase of the Five-Year Maintenance Program, the Third Highway Project
included construction of workshops, procurement of maintenance equipment,
restoration of deteriorated national roads, and technical assistance (para.
1.19). During appraisal of the Fourth Highway Project in 1977, it was
observed that little work had been done on the road maintenance and
restoration work components of the Third Highway Project. In view of this,
the timing of the Fourth Highway Project was delayed until some progress on
road maintenance and restoration work was achieved in 1979. The ongoing
Fourth Highway Project provides for implementation of the second phase of
the Five-Year Maintenance Program.
2.36      Field maintenance of national highways, which continues to be a
problem, is handled at the DO and CO level under the control and direction
of the appropriate RO. Almost all routine maintenance work is done through
force account using MPWH equipment which is managed by ROs.  Although the



- 19 -
MPWH's Bureau of Maintenance (BOM) is responsible for ensuring adequate
maintenance on national highways, it has initiated regular field inspections
only recently. ROs report quarterly to BOM but mainly on financial
accomplishments; and as proper monitoring and cost accounting of field
operations is not performed, maintenance funds are often diverted to new
construction or bridge reconstruction. In general, routine maintenance
operations are being carried out but periodic maintenance is neglected in most
regions. Over the last three years, MPWH has begun to give increasing
emphasis to maintenance operations. In 1982 it started to implement in four
pilot regions annual highway maintenance programs based on physical targets in
each DO and CO together with resource requirements; in 1983 MPWR continued tb
implement these pilot programs with considerable success. These programs were
implemented with the assistance of six technical assistance experts financed
under the Fourth Highway Project. With their help, BOM has prepared a
reliable monitoring system which has enabled an assessment of the adequacy of
funds being currently allocated for maintenance. MPWH is now introducing
similar maintenance systems in all 14 regions. However, periodic maintenance
has still been neglected. MPWH has, therefore, earmarked 20% of its 1984
maintenance funds for periodic maintenance, and this allocation would be
increased to 25% in 1985 and onwards. MPWH intends to execute periodic
maintenance by force account or, wherever it proves more advantageous by
contract. All these changes, however, will require several years to produce
results in the form of improved maintenance operations. As the present
technical assistance services will end in September 1984, the proposed project
would provide for continuation of the technical assistance in highway
maintenance in order to further strengthen MPWH's maintenance capabilities
(para. 3.20).
2.37      In 1971, MPWH developed with the help of its technical assistance
consultants, a system for allocation of maintenance funds for national high-
ways based on the concept of an equivalent maintenance kilometer (EMK), and
has been using this formula since. Maintenance funds requirements are
worked out in BOM by applying to the highway length the base EMK adjusted by
the following factors: pavement width and type, length and type of bridges,
and traffic volumes. The basic EMK norm should cover both routine and
periodic maintenance; however, its last increase for price escalation took
place in 1976 when the present basic EMK allocation of P 11,342 (US$810)
was established. MPWH's requests for budgetary allocations for maintenance
(Table 7) are approved by the Ministry of Budget (MOB); the maintenance
funds are then suballotted by MPWH to its 14 ROs which, in turn, allocate
funds to the various DOs and COs. As proper cost accounting for maintenance
operations does not exist, it is difficult to assess if the yearly
maintenance fund allocations are adequate or not. Following some experience
of implementing the 1982 and 1983 maintenance programs in the four pilot
regions (para. 2.36) MPWH has concluded that the present EMK allocation may
be approximately sufficient to cover routine maintenance, but few funds
would remain for periodic maintenance.



- 20 -
2.38      Consequently, MPWH has prepared a proposal for a revised EMK
formula which would increase the basic EMK norm by some 23% and would thus
provide adequate funds for periodic maintenance, and submitted this proposal
for Bank review in March 1984. During negotiations, agreement was reached
on the revised EMK formula and its biannual review in consultation with the
Bank. The revised EMK formula would be submitted to the parliament for
legislative approval in July 1984. MPWH would reduce its capital expenditure
program over the next five years and increase the expenditures for national
highway maintenance to specific amounts at the same time. The maintenance
allocations are feasible within the current economic climate and should
provide for adequate maintenance levels. The past and projected MPWH
maintenance expenditures in relation to new construction and restoration
expenditures are shown in the following Table 2.1.
Table 2.1: EXPENDITURES ON NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
(Current prices, Pesos million)
Total              Capital expenditures           Mainte-    % of
expendi-   New                    Total   % of    nance    total
tures      construc-  Resto-   capital total   expen-         exp.
Year                  tion        ration      exp.   exp.   ditures
1975       1,603.0   1,339.4          -    1,339.4    84    263.6        16
1980       3,836.2   3,280.0    113.0    3,393.0    88    443.2          12
1981       3,488.2   2,922.3    106.7    3,029.0    87    459.2          13
1982       3,499.0   2,962.0       90.0    3,052.0    87    447.0        13
1983       3,874.0   3,339.0    114.0    3,453.0    89    421.0          11
1984       3,115.0   2,553.0    127.0    2,680.0    86    435.0          14
1985       3,024.0   2,312.0    192.0    2,504.0    83    520.0          17
1986       3,290.0   2,384.0    356.0    2,740.0    83    550.0          17
1987       3,494.0   2,504.0    390.0    2,894.0    82    600.0          17
1988       3,661.0   2,654.0    357.0    3,011.0    82    650.0          18
1989       3,675.0   3,000.0          -    3,000.0    82    675.0        18



- 21 -
The funds allocated for maintenance reflect MPWH's commitment to improved
maintenance and restoration efforts and its intention to reduce new
construction activities as necessary during the project period. The amounts
specified are consistent with the recommendations of the draft EMK formula
and should also provide for future price escalation. The use of increased
maintenance funds would be also enhanced through better management methods,
more efficient application of resources, and monitoring and cost accounting.
2.39      Restoration works on national highways should bring deteriorated
and unmaintainable sections to their original standard and condition; these
works included mainly road resurfacing, shaping of shoulders and improving
drainage. The MPWH Five-Year Maintenance Program comprised restoration of
about 13,000 km of national highways, consisting of some 7,500 km of
resurfacing and 5,500 km of other works (mainly ditches and shoulders). The
first phase restoration program (1977 and 1978) included in the Third
Highway Project, originally comprised 2,200 km of road resurfacing and 2,500
km of other works, but the program was proceeding extremely slowly, mostly
because of lengthy administrative procedures and slow contracting. In 1980,
MPWH completed only 1,100 km of resurfacing and 1,300 km of other works. In
1981, the Bank agreed on revised and more realistic MPWH restoration
programs for 1981 and 1982 which included resurfacing of some 1,250 km of
roads. These two programs were completed in 1982 and some 2,350 km of
national roads have thus been resurfaced. In addition, MPWH completed in
1981 and 1982 some 4,500 km of ditch and shoulder works as priority
maintenance operations and excluded these works from its future restoration
program. The second phase of the MPWH restoration program is now under way
under the Fourth Highway Project, it is proceeding satisfactorily.   Some
800 km of road resurfacing was completed in 1983 and some 500 km will be
done in 1984. Nevertheless, at its completion, the MPWH restoration program
would thus accomplish only some 3,650 km of road resurfacing and some
5,800 km of drainage and shoulder works in total./l This project would
continue the MPWH restoration program in order to complete the restoration
of the national highway network (para. 3.10).
/1 The Loan Agreement for the Fourth Highway Project originally stipulated
the target of 13,000 km of national road restoration. In December
1982, it was amended to include the restoration of about 9,000 km of
national roads, including 3,200 km of road resurfacing and 5,800 km of
ditches and shoulder work.



- 22 -
2.40      Maintenance of provincial, city and municipal roads is the
responsibility of the respective local government authority and a
maintenance equipment pool is generally maintained by its Engineering
Office. Funds are provided partly from the local government budget and
partly through grants from the National Government. The national government
provides 67% of the total funds for provincial roads, 33% for city roads,
and 60% for municipal roads. The total amount available for annual
maintenance of provincial roads corresponds to 75% of the basic EMK for
national highways, or P 8,506 (US$608) per kilometer, to cover both
routine and periodic maintenance, and this is, in general, adequate. The
maintenance funds from the National Government are channelled to local
governments through MPWH.  MLG is responsible for overall monitoring of the
maintenance activities of the provinces. However, little monitoring is
actually performed. This is due to the lack of available supervisory staff
and to the ill-defined maintenance operations and practices of the provinces
which MLG is supposed to monitor. In general, the status of maintenance
operations on provincial roads is unsatisfactory. The Bank is assisting
MLG, under the ongoing Rural Roads Improvement Project (Loan 1860-PH), in
improving the situation in the six provinces included in the project by
providing technical assistance and maintenance equipment. In 1982, MLG and
the governments of the six provinces started annual maintenance programs
establishing physical targets in each province together with resource
requirements including organizational and procedural requirements, and
continued with similar programs in 1983. The accomplishments in the six
provinces have been closely monitored by technical assistance experts. The
1983 programs have been successfully completed and the 1984 programs are now
underway. These activities represent an important first step towards
improving provincial road maintenance; and the proposed Second Rural Roads
Project (para. 1.21) will further assist MLG and provincial governments in
their efforts.
2.41      Maintenance of barangay roads is the responsibility of barangay
councils under supervision of MLG. Funds for this purpose (presently
P 4,500) (US$321 per km) are provided annually by the National Government
through MPWH and MIG to the barangays. No contribution is required from the
provincial and local governments. Again, it is difficult to assess the
adequacy of the yearly maintenance funds for barangay roads because
monitoring of maintenance operations and cost accounting do not exist. The
Provincial Engineer's Office is required to provide equipment, direction and
technical assistance, and barangay labor is used to do the work. This
arrangement is likely to be satisfactory in future, however, maintenance of
barangay roads at present is generally inadequate.



- 23 -
J. Financing, Budgeting and Accounting
2.42      In preparing its five-year financial plan, MPWH applies the fol-
lowing priorities in descending order of importance: (i) foreign-assisted
ongoing projects; (ii) foreign-assisted new projects; (iii) locally funded
ongoing projects; and (iv) locally funded new projects. The MPWH financial
plan for the next five years, as revised with MOB during negotiations, is in
Table 8. The estimated funding requirements for the proposed project
correspond with the MPWH budget amounts agreed during negotiations.
2.43      MPWH's accounting and auditing procedures are satisfactory.
Accounting and auditing staff are well qualified, and despite the low
government salary structure, MPWH has had no problems recruiting qualified
accountants. Several accounting functions are fully or almost fully
computerized (accounting system for MPWH financial/bookkeeping transactions,
project accounting system, personnel system), others are being converted
from manual to computer operation (for example, Cost of Construction
Information System, Equipment Management System). A major effort is
underway (MPWH's Infrastructure Computer Center) to extend the computer
system to include modules supporting the planning and management information
function. An audit unit within the MPWH's Accounting Division conducts
internal audits and is also engaged in streamlining operations and
procedures. The Government's Commission on Audit (COA) conducts a
continuous external audit. After approval from COA, MPWH switched in 1982
from preauditing of transactions to postauditing, which significantly
reduced processing time (especially for contract change orders).



- 24 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Backgroundi
3.01      The proposed project was identified in January 1981.  Subsequently
discussions were held with the Government, particularly MPWH, MLG and NEDA,
on the probable content and timing of the project which was originally
intended to assist both national and rural roads. During 1982, implementa-
tion of the ongoing highway and rural roads projects (paras. 1.19 to 1.21)
was closely monitored and the implementation capacities of both MPWH and MLG
were carefully assessed. In October 1982, it was agreed with the Government
that, in order not to overstrain the implementation capacities of MPWH and
MLG, the MPWH program for national highways would be split into two stages,
the first stage to be assisted under this project and the second under a
subsequent highway project. Further the assistance for rural roads would be
processed in the proposed Second Rural Roads Project (para. 1.21).
B. Objectives
3.02      The objectives of Bank lending for highways are to assist in:
(a) providing an adequate road network; (b) executing proper maintenance and
removing the backlog of restoration works; (c) improving the project
preparation and implementation capabilities of MPWH; (d) developing the
institutional framework of MPWH; (e) improving general highway management
(planning, design, construction supervision, maintenance and cost account-
ing); (f) developing the domestic construction industry; (g) improving the
system of cost recovery from road users; and (h) improving the efficiency of
transport industry operations.
3.03      The specific objectives of this project are to:  (a) improve the
existing network of national highways and bridges; (b) raise maintenance to
adequate levels and in the process remove the backlog of restoration works
on national highways; (c) improve general highway management, particularly
execution of maintenance, and thus further strengthen the institutional
framework of MPWH and its field organization; and (d) develop further the
domestic construction industry. This project would also assist in reviewing
the transport industry in order to improve its operations, and in formula-
ting a proposal for deregulation of interisland shipping. It will thus
carry one step further the Bank's efforts to assist in building up the
institutions dealing with the transport sector in the Philippines.
3.04      The project is an integral part of the Government's five-year
development plan for the period 1983-87 and will support the overall
development objectives enunciated therein.



- 25 -
C. Main Features
3.05      The project would comprise:
(a)  reconstruction program for some 435 bridges and culverts on
national highways with an estimated total span length of 9,282 m;
(b)  improvement of a national highway section totalling about
83 km;
(c)  restoration program for some 1,223 km of national highways;
(d) consulting services for: (i) detailed engineering and
construction supervision; (ii) preparation of future projects; and
(iii) studies related to highway management, traffic safety, and
the domestic construction industry;
(e)  technical assistance to strengthen MPWH highway maintenance
capabilities, to help MOTC in carrying out a review of the road
transport industry in order to improve its operations, and
developing a plan for the deregulation of road transport and
interisland shipping, and to help CIAP in further developing the
domestic construction industry; and
(f) training of MPWH and CIAP staff.
The links on national highways on which bridges would be reconstructed, and
the national highway to be improved under the project are shown in Map 2.
D. Detailed Description
(a) Reconstruction Program for Bridges on National Highways
3.06      The project would include the first four-year phase (1985-88) of
MPWH's eight-year bridge recontruction program (para. 2.03). Under this
program, more than 800 bridges on about 60 national highway links would be
reconstructed. While the NTPP study identified the highway links in the
program, individual bridges for reconstruction were identified through a
feasibility study carried out in 1982 by consultants, Lyon Associates (USA)
in association with Technosphere (Philippines) and financed under the Fourth
Highway Project. The priority ranking of links and bridges over the
six-year program is based on a feasibility study which used an economic
return analysis satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.02). The first four-year
phase in the project would include about 435 bridges and culverts in a total
length of about 9,282 linear meters. They are located on some 40 national
highway links scattered throughout all MPWH regions (Map 2). During
appraisal, agreement was reached with MPWH on the first year (1985) program
which included 72 structures (total length 1,718 meters) on 14 links of the
highest priority (Table 9). For 1986, 1987 and 1988 the preliminary
programs already drawn up would be reviewed by MPWH and the Bank at the



- 26 -
appropriate time and modified as needed. In view of the large number of
national highway links and structures involved, it is important that the
scope of the bridge reconstruction component be kept flexible. During
negotiations, the Government has agreed to submit before February 1, 1985,
1986 and 1987 for Bank review and approval, the list of bridges proposed for
reconstruction in the following fiscal year and an update of their economic
evaluation (para. 5.02). Only bridges with an economic rate of return
(ERR) of 15% and higher would be included in the program.
3.07      The majority of bridges to be reconstructed are existing single
lane timber bridges, Bailey bridges with timber decks or bridges with low
load carrying capacity. These will be reconstructed to a two-lane standard
in reinforced concrete or, for short spans on streams with low flows, with
culverts, also in reinforced concrete. At a few locations with low volumes
of traffic, single lane bridge superstructures will be used; and in some
locations, submersible structures with provision for overflow during
exceptionally heavy rainfalls will be used in order to reduce construction
costs. Some of the existing bridges will be widened and strengthened to
accommodate the projected traffic for 20 years. The waterway openings of
the structures will be designed for 25 and 50-year flood for culverts and
bridges, respectively. Nearly all of the proposed structures would be built
at or near the existing bridge sites for which foundation conditions are
quite well indicated; nevertheless, soil investigations will be thoroughly
carried out at each site. For superstructures, standard designs would be
used to the greatest possible extent. The structural design will follow the
Bureau of Design's "Bridge Design Guidelines" which are similar to the
"Standard Specifications for Highway Bridges" (1977) of the American Asso-
ciation of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO). Structures
designed according to these guidelines would accommodate vehicles with gross
vehicle weight of up to about 40 tons.
(b) Improvement of National Highway Baguio-Mt. Data
3.08      The project would include improvement of a national highway
section between Baguio (Acop)-Mt. Data in Central Luzon, in a total length
of some 83 km. This highway section was selected from a list of 11
national highways with a total length of nearly 1,000 km proposed by MPWH
for financing under the project.
3.09      The Baguio (Acop)-Mt. Data section is a part of the Baguio-
Bontoc-Banawe highway. The existing alignment is located in mountainous
terrain with an average altitude of 1,300 m above sea level. The existing
road surface is mostly gravel with some short stretches of asphalt or cement
concrete pavements. The gravel surfaces are extremely poor and the asphalt
sections are fast deteriorating. Pavement widths range from 4.0-6.0 m on



- 27 -
the gravel and asphalt sections while the concrete pavements are 6.0 m wide
with no distinct shoulders through most of the road. The proposed improve-
ments would be to Class 1 of the MPWH design standards for a national
highway in mountainous terrain (Table 6) and would include a 6.0 m wide
cement concrete pavement with 0.5-1.0 m shoulders. The improved highway
would generally follow the existing alignment except for some minor
realignments. The proposed improvement standards are adequate to
accommodate the projected traffic for the next 20 years (para. 4.06).
Cement concrete pavement has been proposed to accommodate the heavy traffic
from the Mt. Data mining areas, and to reduce maintenance costs in the
mountainous terrain. The existing drainage would be improved and two
substandard bridges would be replaced. The base cost of the proposed
improvement works is estimated on average at US$215,000/km, excluding
contingencies.
(c) Restoration Program of National Highways
3.10      Under the Bank's ongoing highways projects, MPWH was required to
carry out a nationwide road inventory, including data on conditions for
planning road maintenance, restoration, and improvement programs for
national highways. This task was completed in 1979, and since then MPWH has
updated national highway inventory data on an annual basis. In the second
part of 1982, MPWH began periodic inspection of national highways in all
regions to update data on road conditions and assess the adequacy of the
level of maintenance provided. From the preliminary data collected in 1982,
MPWH estimates that, of the total 24,000 km of national highways, some 7,500
km are in good condition, some 13,0nO km of fair condition but requiring
periodic maintenance shortly, and some 3,500 km in poor condition and in
urgent need of restoration or improvement. The restoration program included
in this project (Tables 10 and 11) would implement the balance of the
restoration works on national highways started as the MPWH Five-Year
Maintenance Program under the Third and Fourth Highway Projects, and would
complete the restoration works needed to bring the national road network to
a maintainable condition.
3.11      Under this project, some 1,223 km of badly deteriorated national
highways would be restored to a condition where normal maintenance will be
adequate for their upkeep under the present traffic needs; of that total,
some 183 km of national highways would be overlaid in asphalt concrete. The
restoration works would include resurfacing of carriageways (such as regra-
velling, double bituminous surface treatment on the existing bituminous or
gravel pavement, and 5 cm asphalt concrete overlay on the existing
bituminous or portland cement pavement) shaping of shoulders, and improve-
ment to drainage; raising of road formation over short sections subject to
flooding would also be included. The restoration program would thus correct
deficiencies and eliminate maintenance trouble-spots on existing highways.



- 28 -
The program would be executed over a four-year period starting in January
1985 as an immediate follow-up to the ongoing Fourth Highway Project's
restoration program (para. 2.39) which should be completed by the end of
1984. As with the Fourth Highway Project's program, ROs will use a simple
rating system based on economic and cost criteria to identify the sections
to be restored and to determine the nature of the works. At appraisal, MPWH
had identified the national highway sections to be restored in the first
year (1985) of this program (Table 11), and had tentatively identified the
scope of works for 1986, 1987 and 1988. During negotiations, the Government
has agreed to submit before July 1, 1985, 1986 and 1987, for Bank review and
approval, its proposed list of national highway sections to be restored in
the following year's program (para. 5.02).
(d) Consulting Services
3.12       In addition to consulting services needed for implementation of
this project (detailed engineering and construction supervision) the project
would provide about 1,990 man-months for studies and preparation of future
projects (Table 12). Of the total, about 95% of the consulting services
would be carried out by local and about 5% of the services by foreign
consultants.
(i) Detailed Engineering and Construction Supervision for the
Bridge Reconstruction Program
3.13       Detailed engineering of bridges and culverts for the 1985-88 pro-
grams is being carried out by ten local consulting firms, each covering
design work for about 40 structures. Standard bridge designs satisfactory
to the Bank and developed either during the bridge feasibility study (para.
3.06) or in the initial year of the design works, are being used to the
greatest possible extent for designing the structures in the entire program.
The work is coordinated by one expatriate expert from Lyon Associates, the
same consulting firm which carried out the bridge reconstruction feasibility
study. The same consultants, local as well as foreign, would also be
responsible for construction supervision; the consultants would arrange for
one supervisory team to cover a contract package or a highway link consisting
of several bridge structures. Involvement of the foreign consultants would,
however, be limited to 48 man-months during t'he first year of detailed
engineering and in subsequent years to assist in construction supervision
and contract administration. Detailed engineering of bridges and culverts
for the 1989-92 programs would require an additional 1,600 man-months of
local consultants' services; this is included in the project. The terms of
reference (TOR) for these services have been agreed with MPWH and are in the
Project File.



- 29 -
(ii) Construction Supervision for Improvement of National Highway
Baguio-Mt. Data
3.14      For the improvement of the national highway Baguio (Acop) - Mt.
Data (para. 3.08), construction supervision would be undertaken by the same
local consultants who carried out detailed engineering of the project road.
To strengthen their supervision staff, the local firm will engage expe-
rienced expatriate experts for key positions (Chief Resident Engineer and
Chief Materials/Soils Engineer) if experienced local staff are not available.
TOR for these services have been agreed with MPWH and are in the Project
File.
(iii) Feasibility Studies and Detailed Engineering for Future
National Highway Projects
3.15      The project would provide about 250 man-months of consulting
services to undertake feasibility studies and detailed engineering for about
500 km of national highways identified under the NTPP Study (Table 13). It
is estimated that local consultants would carry out about 200 man-months and
foreign consultants about 50 man-months of these services. TOR for these
services have been agreed with MPWH and are in the Project File.
(iv) Road Classification Study
3.16      To assist MPWH and MLG in reviewing the classification of the
national and provincial road network (para. 2.02), the project would provide
for a road classification study (18 man-months) to be carried out partly by
local (12 man-months) and partly by foreign consultants (6 man-months).
TOR have been agreed with the Government and are in the Project File.
(v) Traffic Safety Study
3.17      In recognition of the pressing problem of traffic safety on
Philippine roads (para. 2.09), the project would include a traffic safety
study (50 man-months) to be carried out mainly by foreign consultants. The
study is to review the adequacy of laws and regulations governing traffic
safety, accident reporting procedures, Highway Police activities, and the
interlinkages of highway design and safety, and to recommend improvements.
TOR have been agreed with the Government and are in the Project File.
(vi) Construction Industry Studies
3.18      To assist CIAP in further developing the domestic construction
industry (para. 2.32), the project would provide some 72 man-months of local
consultants' services for three minor studies on regional profiles of the
construction industry, on the needs of small and medium constructors, and on
the construction materials industry; their TOR have been agreed with the
Government during negotiations (para. 5.02).



- 30 -
(e) Technical Assistance
3.19      In total, the project would provide about 242 man-months of
technical assistance services (Table 12) of which about 72 man-months would
be carried out by local and about 170 man-months by foreign consultants.
(i) Technical Assistance to MPWH
3.20      As continuing shortages of local staff experienced in up-to-date
highway management impede its efforts to improve highway maintenance, MPWH has
requested that the project include continuation of the foreign technical
assistance provided in this field under the ongoing Fourth Highway Project
(para. 2.36). The project would, therefore, include 72 man-months for
technical assistance services to be provided by a foreign firm. A team of
four expatriate advisers would assist MPWH. One Senior Maintenance Adviser
would advise BOM headquarters on planning, technical and operational manage-
ment, control, monitoring, and cost accounting. Another Maintenance Adviser
would assist in introducing in all regions the maintenance management system,
previously tested in the four pilot regions, and a Road Restoration Adviser
would help BOM and ROs in planning, programming and implementing the
restoration program under this project. Moreover, one Computer System
Specialist would assist MPWH in developing and establishing a computerized
data information system for the national highways inventory. TOR for these
technical assistance services have been agreed with MPWH and are in the
Project File.
(ii) Technical Assistance to MOTC
3.21      To help MOTC devise policies which will improve the efficiency of
the road transport industry, make a start in gradually eliminating regulations
in the road and inter-island transport industrLes and improve railway oper-
ations, the project would provide continuation of the present technical
assistance services to MOTC (para. 1.11). Some 98 man-months would be
provided by a foreign firm to extend the services of the present four advisers
with terms expiring in 1984 and 1985 and to provide two additional advisers,
one for 12 and the other for 24 months. The technical assistance team would:
(i) review the road transport industry in order to improve its efficiency,
would determine the feasibility of freight and passenger teminals throughout
the country, and make proposals for necessary deregulatory measures; (ii)
review the efficiency of interisland shipping and recommend a plan for its
deregulation; (iii) develop within MOTC a management data base to provide
information related to commodity flows, trucking industry statistics and
financial data of the industry; and (iv) provide guidance to PNR in order to
improve railway operations, facilities and maintenance.



- 31 -
During negotiations, it was agreed that MOTC counterpart staff should continue
to be assigned to work with advisers and that this assistance would be phased
out by about December 1986, at which time local staff would assume these
functions. During negotiations, outline TOR for the MOTC technical assistance
have been agreed with MOTC and are in the Project File (para. 5.02).
(iii) Technical Assistance to CIAP
3.22      To assist the Government in its long-term objective of further
developing the domestic construction industry (para 2.32), the project would
provide 24 man-months of local technical assistance services to CIAP in order
to continue the ongoing services financed under the Fourth Highway Project.
TOR for these services have been agreed with CIAP and are in the Project File.
In addition, the project would provide 48 man-months of local technical
assistance for developing a construction industry monitoring system and
expanding the CIAP management information system. TOR for these services have
been agreed with the Government during negotiations (para. 5.02).
(f) Training of MPWH and CIAP Staff
3.23      MPWH staff requiring advanced training in specialized subjects are
usually sent overseas to educational institutions or on study tours, and such
a program has been quite successful under the Fourth Highway Project
(para. 2.23) This project would provide for continuation of the MPWH overseas
training programs. Altogether, 30 permanent MPWH staff members would benefit
from the project program. Three staff members would be sent on a one-year
academic course and 27 (in five groups) would be sent on study tours of 8 to
12 weeks. The academic courses would cover highway engineering and structural
design, while the study tours would cover: (i) highway maintenance, including
labor-intensive techniques, (ii) construction and contract management, (iii)
equipment programming, utilization and maintenance, and workshop management
and control, (iv) materials testing and quality control, and (v) manpower
planning and development. MPWH has established regulations that obligate
staff trained overseas to remain in their employment for at least three years
after the training, and to disseminate learning and experience gained to other
staff members.



- 32 -
3.24      In CIAP, short study tours have been provided for two permanent
staff members under the Fourth Highway Project (para. 2.32). lJnder this
project, two staff members would undertake 8 to 12 weeks study tours
covering financia'l management and building research.
E. Status of Preparation
3.25      The consultants for the bridge reconstruction program completed,
as part of the feasibility study (para. 3.06), detailed engineering of ten
typical bridges representative of the entire range of bridge designs to be
used in the program; their detailed engineerinig work is satisfactory.  All
bridge sites on the 66 highway links included in the study were surveyed and
preliminary engineering carried out to determiLne the most appropriate type
of structure. Further refinements and final decisions on the choice of
structure are being made during the detailed engineering phase (para. 3.13).
This phase began in January 1984, with substantial completion of the detailed
engineering for the first year's program scheduled by May 31, 1984. During
negotiations, it was ascertained that the work: on the detailed engineering
for the first year's program has progressed sukfficiently to enable its
completion by May 31, 1984 (para. 5.02). The detailed engineering for each
of the subsequent years' programs would begin about one year before the
scheduled start of construction. Most of the new designs would be for
reconstructing existing bridges at the same location. However, alignment
improvements of the approach embankments would be made at some locations for
which relatively small areas of land may have to be acquired. The land
acquisition process is scheduled to begin in July 1984 for the first year
program upon completion of the detailed engineering and would be continued
in the following years for the remainder of the program. Considering the
long period provided for acquisition, no problems are anticipated (para.
3.45).
3.26      As regards the improvement of the national highway Baguio-Mt. Data,
the feasibility study and detailed engineering for this section have been
completed and are satisfactory. Although improvement works on this highway
section will generally be on the existing alignment and mostly within the
existing right-of-way, some land may have to be acquired for short
realignments. MPWH started the land acquisition process in late 1983.
Considering the relatively small areas of land required and the long period
provided for acquisition, no problems are anticipated.
3.27      Following the satisfactory experience gained on preparation of the
minor works in the road restoration program undler the Third and Fourth
Highway Projects, the relatively simple engineering for this program under
the proposed project will continue to be prepared in MPWH regional offices.
ROs have started simplified engineering for the 1985 restoration program,
and its preparation should be completed by July 1984. Preparation of the
1986, 1987, and 1988 programs would follow. There are no land acquisition
requirements related to restoration work.



- 33 -
F. Cost Estimates
3.28      The total estimated financing required for the project, including
contingency allowances and the capitalized front-end fee on the Bank loan,
is estimated at about P 2,652.5 million or US$189.46 million. Total cost
includes: (a) physical contingencies of 10% of base costs on all items;/1
and (b) price contingencies amounting to about 30% of base costs on all
items, including physical contingencies (estimated for foreign costs at 3.5%
for 1984, 8.0% for 1985, 9.0% for 1986, 1987 and 1988, and for local costs
at 20.0% for 1984, 12.0% for 1985, 10.0% for 1986 and 7.0% for 1987 and 1988).
Overall, physical and price contingencies combined represent about 30% of
the project cost. The cost estimates include approximately 10% for taxes
and duties. Detailed cost estimates are given in Table 14 and are
summarized below in Table 3.1.
3.29      For the bridge reconstruction program, the consultants prepared
preliminary engineering of each bridge site which as a result gave type,
length, and an assessment of foundation conditions for the proposed
structure. Combining these data with cost estimates prepared in connection
with detailed engineering of typical structures and the ten actual bridge
sites, the consultants then estimated construction costs for all bridges in
the program. The unit rates used in the estimates were established based on
a detailed price analysis, and the rates were compared to recent tenders for
bridge and road works. The base cost per linear meter for a two-lane
reinforced concrete bridge ranges from US$3,000 to US$6,000, with an average
of about US$4,000. These estimates are reasonable.
3.30      For the improvement of the national highway Baguio-Mt. Data, the
design consultants prepared cost estimates based on quantities derived from
completed detailed engineering, and unit rates established through a
detailed price analysis and compared to recent tender results. The
estimated average base costs per kilometer, excluding contingencies, is
US$215,000 which is reasonable.
3.31      For the restoration program, the average cost per kilometer
(excluding contingency allowances) is estimated at about US$20,000
equivalent for gravel road and at about US$60,000 equivalent for bituminous
sealed road; and the average cost per kilometer of asphalt concrete overlay
(excluding contingency allowances) is estimated at about USS70,000
equivalent. In view of the experience gained under the Third and Fourth
Highway Projects, these cost estimates are reasonable.
/1 Although the scopes of the programs for reconstruction of bridges and
restoration of national highways are flexible, physical contingencies
have been applied in order to provide for changes in contract quanti-
ties and construction methods during implementation of the agreed
programs.



Table 3.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS /a
Foreign
Local    Taxes   Foreign   Total   Local  Taxes         Foreign  Total    exchange
---     (Pesos million) -------   --------- (US$ million) --              (% of total)
Reconstruction program for
bridges on national
highways                        181.7   51.9    285.9    519.5   12.97    3.72           20.42   37.11         55
Improvement of national
highway Baguio-Mt. Data          87.5   25.0    137.5    250.0    6.25    1.79            9.82   17.86         55
Restoration program of
national highways               337.3   86.5    441.0    864.8   24.07    6.17           31.53   61.77        51
Consulting services                99.8   10.9       47.8    158.5    7.13    0.80          3.39   11.32         30
Technical assistance                6.5    0.7       25.7     32.9    0.46    0.05          1.84    2.35         78
Training                            -       -         6.2       6.2    -        -           0-44    0.44        100
Land acquisition                    20.0    -         -        20.0    1.43    -            -        1.43
Base Costs /a                732.8  175.0    944.1  1,851.9   52.31   12.53          67.44  132.28         51
Contingencies
Physical                         73.3   17.5       94.4    185.2    5.23    1.25          6.74   13.22        51
Price                           293.4   73.4    244.4    611.2   20.96    5.24           17.46   43.66        40
Total Project Cost         1,099.5  265.9  1,282.9  2,648.3   78.50   19.02          91.64  189.16         48
Front-end fee on Bank loan          -       -         4.2      4.2       -        -         0.30    0.30        100
Total Financing
Required                 1,099.5  265.9  1,287.1  2,652.5   78.50   19.02          91.94  189.46         49
/a May 1984 prices.



- 35 -
3.32      Consulting services (Table 12) for detailed engineering of the
MPWH bridge reconstruction program (1985-92) are estimated at the total cost
of US$5.50 million equivalent (excluding contingency allowances). These
costs amount to about 7% of the estimated reconstruction costs for the
bridges. Consulting services for supervision of the reconstruction works
for the project bridges and for supervision of the improvement works of the
national highway Baguio-Mt. Data are estimated at the total cost of US$4.26
million. These costs are based on experience in implementing the Third and
Fourth Highway Projects and amount to about 8% of the estimated reconstruc-
tion and improvement costs for the project bridges and the highway.
Consulting services for the feasibility studies and detailed engineering of
future highway projects will require about 250 man-months at a total
estimated cost of US$0.75 million; and consulting services for studies of
road classification, traffic safety, and construction industry will require
the total 140 man-months at an estimated total cost of US$0.81 million
equivalent. These costs are based on the cost of similar consultant's
services under previous projects in the Philippines and other countries.
3.33      Consulting services for technical assistance to MPWH, MOTC and
CIAP will require a total of 242 man-months at an estimated cost of
US$2.35 million equivalent (Table 12). These costs are based on the cost of
similar technical assistance services provided under previous projects in
the Philippines and other countries. All foreign and local consultants
costs include salaries, social costs, firm's overhead and profit,
subsistence and other allowances, and reimbursable items such as local and,
in case of foreign experts, international air travel. These costs are
considered reasonable.
G. Financing
3.34      The proposed Bank loan of US$102.0 million would finance the
project's foreign exchange costs, estimated at US$91.94 million (or 49% of
total estimated cost) and US$10.06 million of local costs. Local cost
financing is justified in view of the severe domestic resource constraints.
The loan would thus finance 60% of the total estimated project cost without



- 36 -
taxes.  The loan includes US$0.3 million for the capitalized front-end fee
on the Bank loan.  Retroactive financing of US$500,000 equivalent is
recommended for expenditure incurred after October 31, 1983 for the detailed
engineering for the first year bridge reconstruction program, which was
carried out by NPWH through consultants (Lyon Assoc., USA; Trans-Asia, Phil.
Int. Cons., Certeza Dev. Corp., Techniks, A. Lazaro, Philnor Cons.,
Technosphere, F.F. Cruz, R.C. Gaite, and DCCD, all Philippines (para. 3.13).
The Government would finance the remaining US$87.46 million equivalent
through annual budgetary allocations to MPWH (Table 3.1).
H. Implementation
3.35      MPWH, assisted by qualified consultants, will be responsible for
implementation of the project. MOTC will be responsible for execution of
the transport industry study and its technical assistance; and CIAP will be
responsible for execution of the construction industry studies, its
technical assistance and training. In view of the experience gained in
implementing the Third and Fourth Highway Projects, the implementation
capacity of MPWH and its ROs was carefully assessed at appraisal, and the
scope and size of this project has been designed accordingly.
3.36      Concerning the reconstruction program for bridges on national
highways, Table 9 shows the list of links and structures agreed with MPWH at
appraisal for the first year program (1985). For 1986, 1987 and 1988
programs, MPWH will submit by February 1, 1985, 1986, and 1987, for Bank
review and approval, a proposed list of bridges, including an update of the
economic evaluation (para. 4.02), to be reconstructed in the following
year's program (para. 3.06). During appraisal, it was agreed that only
bridges with an ERR of 15% and higher would be included in the program; this
was confirmed during negotiations.
3.37      A similar arrangement has been agreed with MPWH for implementation
of the restoration program of national highways. Based on a tentative list
of restoration for the 1985 program (Table 11) MPWH and ROs will prepare the
final list of proposed projects and their cost estimates and submit it for
Bank's review and approval by July 1, 1984. For 1986, 1987 and 1988
programs, NPWH will submit by July 1, 1985, 1986 and 1987, for Bank review
and approval, a proposed list of national highway sections to be restored in
the following year program (para. 3.11).
3.38      Civil works for the bridge reconstruction program would be carried
out by contract, following international competitive bidding (ICB) for
larger contract packages (value over US$2.5 million) and local competitive



- 37 -
bidding (LCB) for smaller contract packages. Bridges on one road link would
usually be tendered as one package, but links with few structures could be
combined into one package for tender purposes provided the links are located
in the vicinity of each other. The MPWH project office handling
Bank-financed projects would be responsible for all administrative
arrangements, assisted by consultants for contract administration and
supervision. Civil works for the improvement of the national highway
Baguio-Mt. Data would be carried out by contract, following strict
prequalification of contractors and ICB. The works have been divided into
three contracts in the length of 25 to 32 km each. The administrative
arrangements for implementation of the contracts would be similar to those
for the bridge reconstruction program. Civil works for the restoration of
national highways would be carried out under contract, following ICB for
larger contract packages of the asphalt concrete overlay works (value over
US$1.0 million) and LCB for smaller contract packages. Under BOM super-
vision, ROs will be responsible for contract tendering, administration
and supervision.
3.39      The project would be implemented over a four-year period and
should be completed by December 31, 1988. Contractors would be responsible
for maintaining their respective works for a 12-month period after comple-
tion, after which BOM would assume this responsibility. An implementation
schedule is attached as Chart 3. During negotiations, the schedule was
agreed and assurances obtained that the Government would: (a) adhere to the
agreed action program (Annex 1) (para. 5.02); (b) submit semi-annual
progress reports to the Bank; (c) monitor overall implementation of the
project; and (d) prepare a Completion Report within six months of the
Closing Date.
I. Procurement
3.40      Civil works (totalling US$68.33 million) for the improvement of the
Baguio-Mt. Data highway and for larger contract packages of the bridge
reconstruction program and of the asphalt concrete overlay of national
highways would be procured under contracts through ICB in accordance with
the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement (July 1980). Payments under
construction contracts in the Philippines are made exclusively in local
currency, whether the project is externally financed or not. Since
international contractors are allowed to convert a proportion of their
payments (stipulated in the contract) into foreign exchange this regulation
does not impede their participation in ICB. Key procurement information
is summarized below in Table 3.2.



- 38 -
Table 3.2: PROCUREMENT SUMMARY
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
Project element                          ICB      LCB     Other       Total cost
Civil Works
Reconstruction of bridges             34.00   20.88                    54.88
(17.00) (10.00)                  (27.00)
Improvement of Baguio-Mt. Data        25.33                            25.33
highway                            (13.00)                          (13.00)
Restoration of national highways              70.05                    70.05
(35.00)                 (35.00)
Asphalt concrete overlay of            9.00    9.59                    18.59
national highways                   (4.50)  (3.98)                   (8.48)
Subtotal                          68.33  100.52                   168.85
(34.50) (48.98)                  (83.48)
Services
Consulting services                    3.76   14.00                    17.76
(3.70) (14.00)                  (17.70)
Training                                                 0.52           0.52
(0.52)         (0.52)
Subtotal                           3.76   14.00      0.52          18.28
(3.70) (14.00)   (0.52)         (18.28)
Land acquisition                                         2.03           2.03
(nil)          (nil)
TOTAL                             72.09  114.52      2.55         189.16
(38.20) (62.98)   (0.52)        (101.70)
Notes: 1. Amounts shown for each project element include its share of
physical and price contingencies.
2. Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by
the Bank loan, including a prorated share of unallocated funds.



- 39 -
3.41      Civil works (totalling US$100.52 million) for smaller contract
packages of the bridge reconstruction program and for restoration and
asphalt concrete overlay of national highways would be procured under
contracts (value of each package not exceeding US$2.5 million for bridge
works and US$1.0 million for restoration and overlay works) through LCB
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. During the review of each year's
program (para. 3.06), agreement will be reached concerning the specific
packaging of bridge reconstruction contracts. Contractors would be eligible
to bid for one or several packages. The bidding would be arranged in stages
so that unsuccessful bidders on early contracts could bid on subsequent
contracts. International contractors represented in the country will be
allowed to participate in all LCB for Bank-financed projects.
3.42      All bidding packages for civil works estimated to cost US$1.0 mil-
lion equivalent or more (i.e., 50% of the total civil works financed under
the project) would be subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement
documentation. The bidding packages for civil works estimated to cost less
than US$1.0 million equivalent (i.e., 50% of the total civil works financed
under the project) would not be reviewed routinely by the Bank but MPWH
would maintain copies of the bid evaluation for the Bank's inspection and
send final contracts to the Bank prior to submission of the first
withdrawal application.
3.43      Consultant services for detailed engineering/construction super-
vision, studies, and technical assistance would be obtained in accordance
with the relevant Bank Guidelines (August 1981).
3.44      Contractors will be free to choose their own construction methods,
including the most economical use of equipment and labor, subject to their
work complying with the technical specifications. It would be impractical
to stipulate that contractors should carry out the work largely by labor
because of their and MPWH's relative inexperience in managing labor-
intensive projects,/l and because it would be technically difficult to
achieve satisfactory quality.
3.45      The Government acquires right-of-way by negotiation as far as
possible, although it has adequate compulsory powers if needed. As there
have been cases in previous projects where delay in acquiring right-of-way
has caused disruption of scheduling, confirmation was obtained during
negotiations that the Government would take action to make available the
right-of-way on each highway section or bridge site before awarding the
contract for its improvement or reconstruction, and will consult with the
Bank prior to award of contracts in cases where other considerations make it
desirable to begin work before all right-of-way has been acquired
(para. 5.02).
/1 MPWH's staff is being trained in management of labor-intensive construc-
tion projects on the ongoing experimental sections of barangay roads
(para. 2.30).



- 40 -
J. Disbursements
3.46      Disbursements would be made for:  (a) 50% of total expenditures
for civil works; and (b) 100% of total expenditures for consulting and tech-
nical assistance services, whether expatriate or local, and for training.
All expenditures would be fully documented except expenditures: (a) under
civil works contracts whose value is less than US$100,000, and (b) under
consultant's services contracts whose value is less than US$50,000, and
under training programs. Disbursements for these expenditures will be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOE) certified by the Deputy
Minister of MPWH. Supporting documentation would be retained by MPWH and
made available for review by Bank staff. MPWH's detailed audit reports of
SOE for bridge reconstruction and highway restoration works would be made
available to the Bank within a reasonable time. Payments will be subject to
audit by MPWH and COA. The schedule of estimated disbursements (Table 15)
follows, with some modifications, the regional profile and provides for
unexpected delays in implementation.
3.47      In order to facilitate implementatilon of the project, the Bank
would make advance payments into a Special Account to cover the estimated
Bank share of expenditures. The Special Account would be in US dollars in
the Central Bank of the Philippines. The amount on deposit in the Special
Account would at no time exceed US$7.0 million which is the estimated
quarterly Bank share of expenditures including a 20% margin. Replenishment
of the account by the Bank would be subject to review and approval of
withdrawal application justifying expenditures from the account.
K. Environmental Aspects
3.48      The project is not expected to have any significant adverse
ecological effects. Location of the civil works, bridges and road improve-
ments, is largely on existing alignments, thus minimizing the requirements
for additional land and disturbance to property. The improvement works
include features like drainage improvements, raising embankments to avoid
flooding, provision of hard asphalt or concrete pavement surfaces on gravel
and earth roads, construction of wider and better shoulders, and some
alignment improvements, all of which would improve the environmental
conditions along the roads.
L. Role of Women
3.49      Approximately half the population to be served by the project is
expected to be female.



- 41 -
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
4.01      The project has four principal components:  (i) a reconstruction
program for bridges on national highways, (ii) improvement of a high
priority national highway Baguio-Mt. Data, (iii) a restoration program of
national highways, and (iv) consulting and technical assistance services,
and training. The economic evaluation focussed on the first three
components, as the benefits of many of the individual items in the last
component are not quanitifiable. The cost of consultancy services for
detailed engineering and construction supervision of the first three
components were, however, taken into account in their evaluation.
B. Reconstruction Program for Bridges
4.02      The bridge program involves the construction or reconstruction of
some 435 structures that have outlived their useful economic and, in many
instances, technical lives. In addition to evaluating each of over 1,600
structures, the consultants who undertook the feasibility study evaluated
together all structures involved on each section of road, if failure of one
structure could frustrate the better use of the whole section, to select the
435 structures included in this project. A minimum economic rate of return
of 15% was used as the cut-off point.
4.03      The average daily traffic (ADT) on the 435 bridges and culverts
selected under the project is over 300, with a low of 30 and a high of over
6,000. Cars and jeepneys comprise about 50% of the traffic and trucks and
buses 50% on the average, but with low-traffic roads reporting mostly buses
and trucks.  Traffic growth is projected at under 3% p.a. for,passenger
vehicles and at around 9% p.a. for trucks.
4.04      At present, vehicle deceleration and acceleration at each of the
project bridges is estimated to require an additional 1/2 minute for cars to
1 minute for trucks, with added running costs of P 0.30 and P 0.80,
respectively for the two types of vehicles; the proposed project will
eliminate this cost. Without the project, bridge closure in the event of
failure or for floods is estimated to require a diversion of up to 50 km,
with closure for floods lasting several days each year. By removing the low
load limits on weak bridges, the project will also help improve truck load
factors and thus result in a minimum 5% reduction in the number of truck
trips needed to carry freight and a corresponding reduction in trucking



- 42 -
costs. (Although trucks are generally overloaded on the main highways,
overloading is not so common on secondary roads and especially on bridges with
weight restrictions for safety reasons.)
4.05      For a typical 25 m bridge with an economic cost of about
F 1.1 million (US$0.08 million) and ADT of 300, the economic return is
estimated at over 20%.  For a typical link on which this is one of three
bridges to be reconstructed under the project, ERR is over 25%. As some 70
structures are included in the 1985 program, detailed cost/benefit streams
have not been shown. For the bridge program as a whole, the ERR is estimated
at 23%, with 35% for the 1985 program, 26% for the 1986 program, 20% for the
1987 program, and 17% for the 1988 program.
C. Improvement of National Highways Baguio - Mt. Data
4.06      This is the only road which links three inland provinces in north-
central Luzon with the rest of Central Luzon, mainly Manila (Map 2). The
road serves an important vegetable-growing area which supplies fresh produce
to the capital city and surroundings. Copper and other metallic ores are
also mined in the area and the ore concentrates transported out of the area
by trucks. Traffic volume on the present road (which is mostly gravel)
ranges from 2,740 vpd near Baguio to 395 near Mt. Data, with the number of
heavy vehicles (trucks and buses) declining from 300 near Baguio to 150
close to Mt. Data. ADT is estimated at about 700 of which one third are heavy
vehicles. Future growth is projected at 6% a year in the first few years,
declining to under 5% later on, in line with past experience. A somewhat
higher growth is forecast for cars, reflecting the faster growth of passenger
traffic as a whole as per capita incomes improve.
4.07      The principal benefits of the project would be savings in vehicle
operating costs and in road maintenance costs. Vehicle operating cost
savings are estimated at P 0.90 per km for cars, P 0.80 for jeepneys,
E 2.70 for buses and P 2.80 for trucks, after taking into account the
higher operating costs caused by the terrain and geometry of both the old
and the new road (Table 16). The total of such savings are estimated at
P 54.0 million (US$3.86 million) (in October 1983 values) in the first year
after project completion and would increase wijth traffic growth. Maintenance
cost savings are estimated at P 7,000 (US$500) per km per year, or P 0.60
million (US$ 0.04 million) per year. Together these savings are estimated to
yield an ERR of 30% on the proposed investment; the cost/benefit streams are
shown in Table 18.



- 43 -
D. Restoration Program
4.08      The proposed road restoration program will cover 1,223 km of badly
deteriorated national highways. Based on experience it is assumed that road
restoration with asphalt overlay will improve the road condition from fair
to good, and without asphalt overlay from very poor to fair. The Planning
Service of MPWH undertook an evaluation of the roads included in this
program on the basis of vehicle operating cost savings and identified 338 km
of roads for regravelling, 702 km of roads for bituminous sealing, and 183 km
for asphalt concrete overlay.
4.09      As a result of the project, vehicle operating costs are expected
to decline by 26% to 35% in the case of gravel roads, by 15% to 19% for
bituminous sealed roads and by 17% to 22% for asphalt concrete roads, with
around 300 vehicles per day on gravel roads and up to around 10,000
vehicles per day on roads to be overlaid with asphalt concrete. Heavy
vehicles constitute about 35% of the traffic. For all categories of roads,
traffic is expected to grow about 6% p.a. Benefits in the opening year
after completion of restoration works are estimated at P 100,000
(US$7,100) per km for upgraded gravel and bituminous roads and P 1.25
million (US$0.09 million) for asphalt concrete overlaid roads. As some 20
restoration projects are included in the 1985 program, detailed cost/benefit
streams have not been shown. With the projected growth in traffic the above
benefits are expected to yield ERRs of 32% on gravel and bituminous roads
and over 100% on asphalt concrete overlaid roads included in the project.
E. Economic Return on Whole Project
4.10      The weighted ERR on the project as a whole is estimated at over
40%. This is very satisfactory. For calculating the economic returns,
the foreign exchange component of both costs and benefits were valued at
P 15.4 to US$1, 10% higher than the official rate; and both costs and
benefits were adjusted to October 1983 values. Taxes and fees that were in
the nature of transfer payments were, where relevant, excluded from the
calculations.
F. Risks
4.11      The principal project risk is that the construction cost of the
project elements would be higher than estimated. However, several factors
minimize the possibility and consequences of such a risk. With respect to the
bridge reconstruction program, nearly all of the new structures will replace
existing structures, soil conditions at all sites will, nevertheless, be
thoroughly investigated, and standard designs for superstructures employed.
On the national highway section included in the project, the improvement
works are relatively simple. On the highway restoration program, the works



- 44 -
proposed are relatively small-scale and their costs are based on experience in
implementing previous restoration programs. While there may still be some
small risk of cost overruns, the possibility of cost increases making the
project works uneconomic are not considered to be serious.
4.12      In order to test the sensitivity of the economic returns to
possible cost increases, a sensitivity test was carried out to assess the
impact of a 10% increase in costs. It was found that this would reduce the
return on the project only marginally compared with the best estimates. The
returns were also tested to assess their sensitivity to smaller benefits
caused by slower traffic growth than those assumed (although from past
experience, this is unlikely). For a 10% drop in traffic, the returns would
decline only marginally, and the project would still be acceptable (Table
19).
4.13      Another major risk is that improvement works carried out under the
project may not be adequately maintained after completion. Some measures
for improving highway maintenance have already been initiated by MPWH. This
is to be further dealt with through strengthening of MPWH maintenance
capabilities by providing technical assistance under the project. Finally,
there is the risk that the project's policy and institutional objectives
(improving highway management, particularly maintenance; developing further
the construction industry; deregulating road transport and inter-island
shipping; and improving transport sector efficiency) would not be met
because the consultants would not be recruited to schedule. To reduce this
risk, the project implementation schedule has been extended in order to
accommodate unexpected delays of up to a year in appointing consultants.
G. Beneficiaries
4.14      The populations served by the project works will be the main bene-
ficiaries of the investments. Because of the de facto free market in the
trucking industry and the intense competition for freight among truckers,
reductions in truck operating costs will be reflected in reductions in
freight charges. This will also apply to a substantial extent for passenger
transport by jeepneys and, to a lesser extent, by buses. Private car-owners
will, of course, reap the full benefit of all savings in vehicle operating
costs resulting from the project. The construction activities that the
project would generate will give direct employment to some 1,500 workers
over a period of four years. Moreover, the domestic construction industry
would benefit from the project in both work availability and construction
experience.



- 45 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      Prior to negotiations the Bank has received MPWH's proposal for a
revised EMK highway maintenance formula (para. 2.38).
5.02      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on
the following:
(a) MPWH's revised EMK formula for national highway maintenance
allocations, its timely implementation and its biannual review in
consultation with the Bank (para. 2.38);
(b) MPWH's submission before February 1, 1985, 1986 1987 for Bank
review and approval, of its proposed list of bridges to be
reconstructed in the following year's program (para. 3.06);
(c)  MPWH's submission before July 1, 1985, 1986, and 1987 for Bank
review and approval, of its proposed lists of national highway
sections to be restored in the following year program (para. 3.11);
(d) TOR for the construction industry studies (para. 3.18);
(e) TOR for the technical assistance to MOTC and CIAP (paras. 3.21
and 3.22).
(f) completion date of May 31, 1984, for the detailed engineering for
the first year of the bridge reconstruction program (para. 3.25);
(g) MPWH adherence to the agreed implementation schedule and action
program (para. 3.39); and
(h) MPWH's arrangements for timely acquisition of land, for right-of-
way for each national highway section or bridge site before
awarding contracts or consult with the Bank in advance in cases
where it is desired to proceed before all right-of-way has been
acquired (para. 3.45).
5.03      Subject to the above, the project provides a suitable basis for a
Bank loan of US$102.0 million equivalent to the Government of the Philippines,
for a period of 20 years, including a grace period of five years.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
-46 -
PHILIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Action Program for Project Implementation
Implementation
Project item                                                  Start       Complete
A. Reconstruction Program for Bridges on National
Highways
Detailed Engineering
1. Design of structures in 1985 program, includ-
ing cost estimates, bid documents, and update
of economic evaluation                             01/15/84      05/31/84
2. Updating of list of highway links and struc-
tures for 1986 program                             10/01/84      01/31/85
3. Design of structures in 1986 program, :includ-
ing cost estimates, bid documents, and update
of economic evaluation, and submittal of pro-
gram to Bank for review and agreement              06/01/84      01/31/85
4.  Bank review and agreement to 1986 program          02/01/85      02/28/85
5.  Repetition of Steps 2, 3 and 4 on an annual
cycle for the 1987 and 1988 programs               10/01/85      01/31/87
6. Preparation of 1989-92 programs, including
update of economic evaluation, and submittal
to Bank for review and agreement                   04/01/86      01/31/87
7.  Design of structures in 1982-92 programs,
including cost estimates, bid documents and
update of economic evaluation                      04/01/87      06/30/88
Construction (on an annual cycle, shown for 1985
program)
8. International and local advertisement of
prequalification of contractors and descrip-
tion of work to be tendered                        05/01/84      05/15/84
9. Receipt of completed prequalification ques-
tionnaires, screening and evaluation of
these, and classification of prequalified
contractors                                        05/15/84      06/30/84
10. Send out invitations to prequalified contrac-
tors to bid on 1985 construction packages              -         07/31/84
11. Receive and open bids, bid evaluation, and
award of contracts                                 08/01/84      10/31/84



ANNEX 1
Page 2
- 47 -
Implementation
Project item                                                 Start        Complete
12.  Construction, including supervision by design
consultants                                       01/01/85      12/31/85
Land Acquisition (on an annual cycle, shown for
1985 program)
13.  Cadastral surveys                                 04/15/84      06/30/84
14.  Advertisement/notification of landowners          07/01/84      07/31/84
15.  Negotiations with landowners                      08/01/84      10/30/84
16.  Payment: to landowners/acquisition of land         11/01/84     12/01/84
B. Improvement of National Highway Baguio - Mt. Data
Construction
1. Preparation of detailed procurement notice
and submission to Bank for insertion in
Development Forum                                 04/15/84      05/15/84
2.  International and local advertisement of pre-
qualification of contractors and description
of work                                           05/01/84      05/15/84
3. Receipt: of completed prequalification ques-
tionnaires, prequalification of contractors,
and submission to Bank for review and comment   05/15/84        06/30/84
4.  Invite bids from prequalified contractors:        07/15/84      07/31/84
6.  Receive and open bids, bid evaluation and
submission to Bank of Government's proposal
for contract award                                 08/01/84      11/30/84
7.  Bank review and agreement for:                     11/30/84     12/15/84
8.  Contract award and construction                    01/01/85     12/31/87
Land Acquisition
9.  Cadastral surveys                                 04/15/84      06/30/84
10.  Advertisement/notification of landowners          07/01/84      07/31/84
11.  Negotiations with landowners                      08/01/84      10/31/84
12.  Payment: to landowners/acquisition of land         11/01/84     12/31/84
C. Restoration Program
Survey and Engineering
1.  Detailed engineering of 1985 program              03/01/83      06/30/84
2. Finalization of 1985 program, and submittal
to Bank for review and agreement                  07/01/84      07/31/84



ANNEX 1
Page 3
- 48 -
Implementation
Project item                                                  Start       Complete
3. Survey of national highways, identification
of highway sections for restoration, prepara-
tion of 1986 program                               01/01/84      02/29/84
4.  Detai'led engineering of 1986 program              03/01/84      06/30/85
5.  Finalization of 1986 program and submittal to
Bank for review and agreement                      07/01/85      07/31/85
6. Repetition of Steps 3, 4 and 5 on an annual
cycle for the 1987 and 1988 programs               01/01/85      07/31/86
Construction
8. Local advertisement of tender for restoration
work                                               08/01/84      08/31/84
9.  Receive and open bids, bid evaluation and
award of contracts                                 10/01/84      11/30/84
10.  Construction of restoration works                  12/01/84      12/31/85
(on annual cycle, shown for 1986 program):
11. Preparation of detailed procurement notice
and submission to Bank for insertion in
Deve:Lopment Forum for asphalt concrete
overlay work                                       04/15/85      05/15/85
12. International and local advertisement of
prequialification of contractors and descrip-
tion of asphalt concrete overlay to be
tendered                                           05/01/85      05/15/85
13. Loca:L advertisement of tender for restoration
work                                               08/01/85      08/31/85
14. Receive and open bids, bid evaluation and
award of contracts                                 10/01/85      11/30/85
15. Consl:ruction of restoration and asphalt
concrete overlay works                             12/01/85      12/31/86
D. Consulting Services for Studies /a
1. Highwiay feasibility studies and detai:Led
engineering for future projects                    07/01/85      06/30/86
2.  Road classification study                          01/01/85      12/31/85
3.  Traffic safety study                               01/01/85      12/31/85
4.  Construction industry studies                      07/01/85      12/31/86



ANNEX 1
Page 4
- 49 -
Implementation
Project item                                                  Start       Complete
E. Technical Assistance /a
1.  To MPWH                                            01/01/85      12/31/86
2.  To MOTC                                            01/01/85      12/31/86
3.  To CIAP                                            01/01/85      12/31/85
F. Advanced Technical Training for MPWH and CIAP Staff
1. Finalization of program, and practical
arrangements for university courses and study
tours overseas                                     06/01/84      08/31/84
2.  Screening and selection of candidates              06/01/84      08/31/84
3. Implementation of training courses and study
tours                                              01/01/85      06/30/86
/a Appointment of consultants is preceded by standard series of steps as
follows:
Days
1.  Invite and receive proposals                                             45
2.  Evaluate proposals                                                       20
3.  Obtain approval of MPWH and Bank concurrence                             30
4.  Invite and negotiate with consultants                                    15
5.  Prepare initialed draft contract                                         15
6.  Obtain approval of Government agencies and Bank concurrence
to draft final contract                                                  30
7.  Sign contract and issue notice to proceed                                15
8.  Consultants" mobilization                                                45
Total                                                              215
May 1984



-50 -                              ANNEX 2
PHILIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Ministry of Public Works and Highways - Organizational Set-up
1.        In the NPWH field organization, each RO comprises seven divisions
(including planning/design, construction, maintenance, materials/quality
control, and three administrative divisions) and a legal section (Chart 2).
Attached to the office of the Regional Director are regional equipment depots
and materials/quality control laboratories. On average, RO has seven subor-
dinate DOs and four COs. Regional staff range from 600 to 950, of whom around
190 are attached to RO and the rest to equipment depots and shops. In one RO
there are 70-75 senior technical positions composed of civil, mechanical and
electrical engineers, architects and economists. The administrative divisions
and the legal section are supported by about 120-125 personnel. An
organizational scheme of RO is shown in Chart 2.
2.        As now structured, MPWH has at least one DO for each of the 73
provinces; however, some provinces have as many as three DOs because of their
size and location. DOs are classified into tlhree categories according to the
length of national highways supervised: (i) First Class, over 300 km; (ii)
Second Class, 150 km to 300 km; (iii) Third Class, less than 150 km. Each DO
is headgd by a District Engineer (by position a Chief Civil Engineer), with an
Assistant District Engineer. A typical DO has four engineering sections, an
administration unit and a finance unit. The engineering sections each headed
by a Section Chief (Civil Engineer) include: (i) planning and design; (ii)
construction; (iii) maintenance; and (iv) building code. A first class DO has
a total force of about 90 personnel made up of 50 technical and 40
administrative positions.
3.        In addition, MPWH has a pool of 25 P'roject Management Offices (PMOs)
which have been established to oversee special, usually externally assisted,
projects, including all types of public works projects. Occasionally, PMO may
have a specially organized group in RO to carry out specific tasks in the
regions. The PMO established for the Bank-assisted highway projects is headed
by a Director, with a Deputy, supported by three Project Engineers each of
whom is responsible for one Bank-assisted Project. This PMO has about 30
technical and 30 administrative staff. In general, the PMO system is satis-
factory. As PMOs offer salaries slightly higher than the main MPWH organiza-
tion, they attract: experienced technical staff.



-51 -                             ANNEX 3
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Government Budget Process
1.        The overall policy framework for the national budget is set by the
interministerial Development Budget Coordinating Committee (DBCC) which
prepares overall budget levels on the basis of revenue forecasts from the
Ministry of Finance and domestic credit and balance of payments targets
prepared by the Central Bank. The budget process commences about a year and
a half prior to the beginning of the budget year. At that time, MOB sets
the budget guidelines for the fiscal year under consideration. From about
October to about January, the individual ministries and agencies prepare a
first draft of their budget, for the next two years. This first draft is
prepared from "the bottom up," that is, the lowest budgetary units within an
agency prepare detailed lists of proposed projects, expenditures and
expected revenues. These data are then reviewed and consolidated within the
agency during February and early March. As a result, the initial budget
requests may get rearranged or scaled down to what the ministry considers
realistic levels. This budget then is submitted to MOB before March 15.
Concurrently, the various agencies and corporations implementing projects in
the NEDA Infrastructure Program must also submit their investment plans for
the next five years to NEDA. The infrastructure program comprises the
capital investments of major government corporations and capital outlays
implemented by MPWH and MOTC. NEDA staff then consolidate the
infrastructure investment plans into an expenditure program in line with
overall national development priorities. From late March on, MOB holds
budget hearings to review both the technical feasibility of budget requests
and to develop detailed priorities for expenditure, which may lead to
further scaling down or rearranging of the budgets proposals. At the end of
this process, MOB produces a program of expenditure for national government
agencies and estimates of equity contribution to government corporations
that is within the aggregate targets set by DBCC. This final version of the
budget is sent to the National Assembly (Interim Parliament till 1984) as
the President's Budget Message. There are two appropriations Acts: the
General Appropriation Acts and the other is in the Public Works Acts. The
General Appropriation Acts includes the national government's current
operating expenditures, noninfrastructure capital outlays and equity
contributions to government corporations. The Public Works Act legislates
appropriations for infrastructure projects that extend over several years.
Between October to December, NEDA requests the various infrastructure
agencies, including MPWH to submit their program based on the cash ceiling
set by MOB. These Annual Infrastructure Programs of the different agencies,



- 52 -                                ANNEX 3
Page 2
consolidated by NEDA, are submitted to the Cabinet's Committee of
Infrastructure for review; after approval by the committee, they are
submitted through the Executive Committee to the President for final
approval.
2.        Budget execution rests on a system that first controls the amount
of expenditures obligated for a specific purpose, and then controls the
actual timing in the release of funds. First, the Advise of Allotment (AA)
is issued by MOB and specifies the ceiling on obligations the agencies can
enter into. For infrastructure projects, these AA's cover the whole project
construction period broken down by years in accordance with the project
program. The allotment issued for one year is only valid for that year and
any unexpended balance will have to be programmed the succeeding year. As
soon as AA's are received, the ministries are allowed to enter into
contracts up to the total amount indicated in AA. Second, the Cash
Disbursement Ceiling (CDC) is used by the Treasury to control the actual
timing in the release of funds. CDCs are issued on a quarterly basis and
for specific projects. To allow for some flexibility, the validity of the
first three quarters' CDCs is extended up to the end of the calendar year
and the fourth quarterly CDC's validity is extended up to the end of the
first quarter of the following year. The maximum amount of CDC's for a
project would normally equal the sum of AA's. In case of a shortfall in CDC
of one project, the ministry is allowed to realign CDC's every quarter in
order to adjust them in line with the performance of the projects and
provided this does not result in an increase in CDC for the Ministry.
Request for AA's and CDC's have to be submitted to OBM at least by the
middle of December prior to the budget year. The CDC stringency has had
occasional detrimental effects on project implementation as project
expenditures are difficult to estimate that far in advance.



- 53 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project--related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. General Reports and Studies
I. Studies and Reports
A-1 National Transportation Planning Project, Renardet-Sauti (Italy) and
Hoff & Overgaard (Denmark), June 1982.
A-2 Rural Roads Development Program II, Norconsult (Norway), Renardet
(Italy), Philnor (Philippines) and Hoff & Overgaard (Denmark), May
1982.
A-3 Bridge Feasibility Study, Lyon Associates (USA) and Technosphere
(Philippines), March 1983.
A-4  National Construction Industry Study, Redecon (Australia) and DCCD
(Philippines), November 1981
II. Detailed Engineering Reports
A-5 Baquio-Bontoc-Banawe Road Project Executive Summary. Angel Lazaro &
Associates, Inc., March 1983.
III. Government Reports
A-6 Improvement of National Roads Component, MPWH, March 1983.
A-7 Productivity of Heavy Equipment Repair and Maintenance, BOE, March
1983.
A-8 Planning, construction and Maintenance of Philippine Roads, MPWH,
March 1983.
A-9 Land Acquisition Program for Improvement of National Highways, MPWH,
March 1983.
A-10 MPWH: Five-Year Financial Plan, 1983-1987, March 1983.
A-11 Inspection Report on Proposed Overlay Projects on National Highways,
MPWH, R. Jorgensen Asso./TAMS, October 1982.



- 54 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
A-12 Annual Report. Manpower Development. CY1982. MPWH, March 1983.
A-13 CY1983. Training Calendar. MPWH, January 1983.
A-14 Proposed Training Program. CY1983. MPWH Regional Office No. IV-A.
November 1982.
A-15 Training Project Proposal. Fifth IBRD Highway Project. MPWH, MDS,
March 1983.
A-16 Proposed Fifth IBRD Highway Project. Economic Re-evaluation, MPWH
PMO -- Feasibility Studies, February 1983.
A-17 Justification of National Road Restoration Program, 1985-87, MPWH,
March 1983.
B. Selected Working Papers
B-1 Parameters for Price Contingency Calculations
B-2 Cash Flow Analysis and Contingency Calculations for Project Components
B-3  Detailed Cost Estimates, including computer program for calculation
of the cost Table
B-4 Detailed schedule of disbursements and ae graph showing cumulative
disbursements for the project and regional sector profile
B-S Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis Calculations
B-6 Terms of Reference for Consulting and Technical Assistance Services
B-7 Miscellaneous working papers



Table 1
-55 -
PHILIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Government Investments in Transport Sector Infrastructure
(in million pesos, 1980 prices)
Total
Total        1983-87
1977        1978         1979       1980        1981       1977-81      (planned)
Highways &
roads       2,353(86)  2,128(81)  3,133(79)  3,358(87)  2,780(78)  13,752(82)   28,664(71)
Airports &
air navi-
gation        153 (5)    224 (8)    183 (5)    191 (5)    174 (5)           925 (6)    3,000 (6)
Railways        104 (4)    122 (5)    312 (8)    105 (3)    100 (3)           743 (4)    2,267 (7)
Port works      129 (5)    160 (6)    335 (8)    207 (5)    514(14)    1,345 (8)    6,241(16)
Total   2,739        2,634       3,963       3,861       3,568       16,765        40,172
Note:  Figures in parentheses represent percentages.
Sources: NTPP and NEDA.
April 1984



- 56 -
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Public Road Network
1982
Surface
Classification                  Concrete  Asphilt  Gravel    Earth          Total
National Highways
Expressway                         122        -         -         -          122
Other                           5,323    4,970   12,674         868       23,835
Subtotal                     5,445    4,970   12,674         868      23,957
Provincial Roads                     690    2,666   20,074    6,524         29,954
City & Municipal Roads             1,936    3,4Ci5    6,881    3,416        15,638
Subtotal                     2,626    6,071   26,955    9,940         45,592
Barangay Roads                       558      857   42,290   41,559         85,264
Total                        8,629   11,898   81,919   52,367        154,813
1975-82
City &
National      Provincial      municipal      Barangay
Year         highways        roads           roads           roads          Total
1982          23,957         29,954         15,638         85,264          154,813
1981          23,763         29,755         15,136         81,209          149,863
1980          23,674         30,034         14,0151        81,734          149,503
1979          22,912         28,997         13,449         87,465          152,823
1978          22,305         28,224         12,530         56,519          119,578
1977          21,852         29,189         11,954         52,886          115,881
1976          21,255         28,872         13,793         51,842          115,762
1975          21,260         28,431         10,7]L9        32,086           92,496
Source: MPWH.
April 1984



- 57 -
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Fleet by Type, 1970-80 /a
Jeepneys
Year                        Cars /b    /c       Buses   Trucks  EMV /d   Total
1970                       268,260  43,262  13,506  152,664  30,530  488,322
1971                       276,547  43,739  13,018  140,850  32,184  506,338
1972                       301,992  44,940  15,870  152,413  42,593  557,808
1973                       318,022  57,729  17,532  175,582  50,328  614,392
1974                       371,334  59,268  19,199  204,791  54,569  709,581
197.5                      388,890  56,901  18,325  207,758  58,917  730,791
1976                       391,800  59,183  18,721  223,143  59,274  752,121
1977                       433,837  69,008  19,485  246,060  66,974  835,364
1978                       433,527  74,336  18,716  240,015  69,775  836,369
1979                       455,479  64,147  15,499  289,591  74,951  899,667
1980                       471,355  81,228  18,016  292,809  78,610  942,018
Average Annual Change (%)
1970-72                         6.1      1.9      8.4    -0.08    18.1         6.9
1972-74                        10.9    14.8    10.0        15.9    13.2      12.8
1974-76                         2.7   -0.07    -1.3         4.4     4.2        3.0
1976/77                        10.7    16.6       4.1      10.3    13.0      11.1
1977/78                        -0.1      7.7    -4.1      -2.5      4.2       0.1
1978/79                         5.1   -15.9   -20.8        20.7     7.4        7.6
1979/80                         3.5    26.6    16.2         1.1     4.9       4.7
Changing Composition (x)
1976                             51        8        2        31        8       100
1977                             52        8        2        30        8       100
1978                             52        9        2        29        8       100
1979                             51        7        2        32        8       100
1980                             50        9        2        31        8       100
/a  Excludes trailers with no power units.
lb  Includes jeeps (noncommercial).
/c  Jeepneys and jeeps converted  for passenger transport.
/d  Equivalent motor vehicles (4 wheelers) for motorcycles (3 motorcycles
1 EMV).
Sources: MOTC and MPWH.
April 1984



PHILIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHfWAY PROJECT
Road User Revenues and Expenditures: 1970-81
(In -P million)
1981
1970  1971  1972  1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978    1979   1980               lb
Revenues
Fuel taxes             189   198   208   186    467    805  1,172  1,512  1,904  2,280  2,673  4,499
Motor vehicle
fees                  97   102   110    99        145     156    259    242    254        265    337       649
Total              286   300   318   285    612    965  1,431  1,754  1,258  2,545  3,010  5,148
Road Expenditures /a
Maintenance            104   122   156   216    270    533    796    875    894    872  1,138  1,164
New conistruction    414   231   354   531    610  1,440  2,880  1,618  1,586  2,664  3,312  2,977
Administration          55    53    70    05    179    284          234    239    285        305     309     309
Total              573   405   580   852  1,059  2,157  3,910  2,732  2,765  3,841  4,759  4,450
/a Covering the entire public road network.
7-b 1982 data being processed.
Source: MPWH.
April 1984



Table 5
- 59 -
PHILIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Motor Vehicle Fuel Consumption, 1970-81
Gasoline    Diesel fuel
Million Liters
1970                              2,280          1,919
1971                              2,481          1,721
1972                              2,710          1,902
1973                              2,839         2,320
1974                              2,570          2,181
1975                              2,294          1,994
1976                              2,335         2,201
1977                              2,313         2,330
1978                              2,284          2,369
1979                              2,343         2,641
1980                              1,807         2,768
1981                              1,420         2,733
Average Annual Change (%)
1970-73                               7.6           -0.3
1973-75                             -11.1           -7.8
1975/76                                1.8           9.4
1976/77                              -1.0            5.8
1977/78                              -1.3            1.7
1978/79                               2.6           11.0
1979/80                             -29.7            4.8
1980/81                             -27.3           -1.3
Source: Board of Energy Utilization, Philippines.
April 1984



-60-                                                  Table 6
PHILIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Design Standards for National Highways
Class                              Minor       1 /a          2 /b            3 /c            4 /d
roads /a
Average Daily Traffic                200    200-400      400-1,000       1,000-2,000       > 2,000
Mini-  Desir-  Mini-  Desir-  Mini-  Desir-
mum    able    mum    able    mum    able
Design Speed (kph)
Flat topography                     60         70      70      90       80     95       90    100
Rolling topography                  40          50     60      80       60     80       70     90
Mountainous topography              30          40     40      30       50     60       60      70
Radius (m)
Flat topography                    120         160    160    280       220    320      280    350
Rolling topography                  55         85    120    220        120    220      160    280
Mountainous topography              30          50     50      80       80    120      180    160
Grade (x)
Flat topography                    6.0        6.0    3.0    5.0        3.0    4.0      3.0    4.0
Rolling topography                8.0         7.0    5.0    6.0       5.0    5.0       4.0    5.0
Mountainous topography    10.0-12.0           9.0    6.0    8.0        6.0    7.0      5.0    7.0
Pavement width (m)                   4.0    5.5-6.0    -*-- 6.1 --       --- 6.7 --      6.7    7.3
Shoulder width (m)                   0.5         1.0    1.5    2.0       2.5    3.0    --- 3.0 ---
Right-of-way width (m)                20          30    ---  30 --        30     30    ---  60 ---
Superelevation (m/m)                ----------------------- 0.10 (max.) ----------------------
Nonpassing Sight Distance (m)
Flat topography                     70          90     90    135       115    150      135    160
Rolling topography                  40          60     70    115        70    115       Q0    135
Mountainous topography              40          40     40      60       60     70       70      qO
Passing Sight Distance (m)
Flat topography                    420        490    490    615        560    645      615    675
Rolling topography                 270         350    420    560       420    560      490    615
Mountainous topography             190         270    270    350       350    420      420    490
/a  Gravel, crushed gravel or crushed stone; bituminous surface treatment; one
bituminous macadam pavement.
/b  Bituminous macadam pavement; or bituminous concrete surface course.
T7 Bituminous concrete surface course.
7T Bituminous concrete surface course; or portland cement concrete pavement.
Source: MPWH.
April 1984



PHILIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Expenditures on Highway Maintenance by Road System, 1972-81
(P miillion)
System                    1972   1973   1974   1975  1976/a    1977   1978   1979  1980         1981
Routine & Periodic
Maintenance
National highways       94.7   72.1  150.5  263.6  354.1  356.2  397.3  397.5    443.2    459.2
Provincial/city
roads                 39.5   34.8   42.4  100.6  182.5  143.4  180.2  168.1    175.7    183.5
Municipal roads         21.4   23.9   16.2   66.0 {158.8   25.5   35.8   31.1         34.9     36.2                   1
Barangay roads           -      -       -      -   {        114.5  142.5  185.9    370.7    378.4
Subtotal          155.6  130.8  209.1  430.2  695.5  639.4  755.8  782.6  1,024.5  1,057.3                       1
Special Maintenance
(Restoration)
National highways        -      -       7.0   37.3   74.7   40.0   79.9   80.6    113.0    106.7
Provincial/city
roads                  -      -                                   25.7    6.5
Municipal roads          -      -       3.1   16.0   25.8   29.4   12.5    1.5
Barangay roads           -      -                                    19.9    0.6
Subtotal            -      -      10.1   53.3  100.5  143.9  138.0   89.2    113.0    106.7
Emergency Repairs
Calamity fund            -     85.3   50.7   50.0    -       91.5    -      21.0       0.2      -
Total             155.6  216.1  269.9  533.5  795.9  874.9  893.8  871.8  1,137.7  1,164.0
/a  Expenditures from July 1, 1975 to December 31, 1976.                                                                X
Source:  MPWH.
April 1984.



Table 8
- 62 -
PHILIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
MPWH: Medium Term Financial Plan 1985-89
(Current prices, P million)
Financial plan (calendar years)
Approved                                         Total
budget                                          (1984-
Expenditures                      1984   1985   1986   1987    1988   1989        89)
Capital Outlays
MPWH Total                    4,293  4,100  4,300   4,500   4,750  5,000  26,943
Of Which Highways & Roads   2,680  2,504  2,740   2,894   3,011  3,100  16,929
Of Which New Highway &
Road Projects to Start
in 1984-89 Period              195    489   7;91   1,004   1,024  1,050   4,553
Fifth Highway Project          10    300    600       800      800    120   2,630
Other projects (ADB, etc)   185    189    191         204      224    930   1,923
Road Maintenance Outlays
Highways & Roads              1,049  1,231  1,377   1,565   1,776  1,860   8,858
National highways             435    520    550       600      650    675   3,430
Provincial/city roads         185    203    226       252      281    300   1,447
Municipal roads                42      48      55      64       74      85     368
Barangay roads                387    460    546       649      771    800   3,613
Source: MPWH and MOB
April 1984



- 63 -
Table 9
PHILIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Reconstruction Program for Bridges on National Highways   The 1985 Program
Number of
proposed
structures              Estimated
Link                                     Bridges  Cul-   Length    cost /b
Region       No.  From             To                    /a     verts  (lin m)  (US$ mln)
I         4   Bacnotan         Bangar                2        1       160      0.600
II         1   Tabuc            Enrile                2                 41      0.136
III         1   Dinalupihan    Limay               -   7        -        99      0.451
2   Rosales         Baloc                 -
IV         4   Famy             Infanta               4        1        137     0.679
V          1   Masbate         Placer                9        1        162     0.745
VI         7   Escalante        Vallehermosa          3        -        147     0.336
Fabrica
VII          2   Tagbilaran      Trinidad               5       2        118     0.401
VIII         2   Jaro             Maorga                 3       3        138     0.427
IX         3   Pagadian City  Zamboanga City          7        -       200      0.278
X         6   Maramag          Davao                 4        2        199     0.692
7   Oroqueta        Dipolog
XI         2   Carmen           Kapalong              7        2        188     0.773
XII          1   Kabacon         Kibawe                2        5        129     0.192
Total   14                                         55       17     1,718      5.710
/a Span length of more than 5 m.
/b May 1984 prices.
Source: MPWH.
April 1984



Table 10
PHILIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Restoration Program on National Highways: Summary Table
Restoration program
Bituminous                           Asphalt concrete
Regravelling          sealing               Total          overlay program       Total program
Length    Cost      Length    Cost      Length    Cost       Length    Cost       Length    Cost
(km)   (US$ mln)   (km)   (US$ mln)   (km)   (US$ mln)   (km)   (US$ min)   (km)   (US$ mln)
1985              87      1.55       137        6.45       224      8.00        -         -         224       8.00
1986             105      2.06       214       11.94       319     14.00       74        4.79       393      18.79
1987              98      2.10       213       11.90       311     14.00       69        4.93       380      18.93
1988              48      1.13       138       11.78       186     12.91       40        3.14       226      16.05
Total       338      6.84       702       42.07      )040     48.91      183       12.86    1,223       61.77
Notes: (1) Prices as of May 1984, excluding contingencies.
(2) Average per km cost for restoration of gravel road US$20,000, bituminous sealed road US$60,000,
and for 5 cm asphalt concrete overlay US$70,000.
Sources: MPWH.
April 1984



-  65  -
Table 11
PHILIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Restoration Program on National Highways: The 1985 Program
Estimated
Length    Type of                               cost /a
Name of projects and limits         Location         ('000 km)  work        Work involved            (us1$ mIa)
Regign I
CRMnSta. Maria-Tayug Rd.         Pangasinan II       10.00    Bituminous  Resurfacing                 0.50
(km 172.000-182.000)
Carmen-Alcala-Bayambang Rd.      Pangasinan II        8.00    Bituminous  Bit. surface treatment      0.34
(km 172.190-180.190)
Subtotal                                       18.00                                            0.84
Region II
Nueva Vizcaya-Mt. Prov.           Ifugao             20.00    Gravel      Regravelling                0.36
(km 340.000-360.000)
Region III
Nueva Ecija-Quezon Road          Nueva Ecija         10.00    Bituminous  Bit. surface treatment    0.43
(km 144.869-154.869)
Region IV-A
Batangas-Quezon Road             Batangas            10.00    Bituminous  Resurfacing                 0.56
(km 127.130-137.130)
Region IV-B
loogpog-Sta. Cruz Road           Marinduque           8.00    Gravel      Regravelling                0.14
(km 13.000-21.000)
San Agustin-Calatrava-           Romblon             15.00    Gravel      Regravelling                0.27
San Andres Rd.
(km 3.200-18.200)
Subtotal                                       23.00                                            0.41
Region V
Jb13n.-!agallanes Road           Sorsogon             8.80    Bituminous  Resurfacing                 0.43
(km 612.090-615.090)
(km 618.590-624.390)
Region VI
iatuan New Lucena-               Iloilo I            12.94    Bituminous  Bit. surface treatment      0.55
Bangs-Bante Rd.
(km 34.640-47.580)
Guimba-Igdaros Rd.               Iloilo I             8.00    Bituminous  Bit. surface treatment    0.21
(km 31.000-39.000)
Cara-San Dionesio Rd.            Iloilo II            6.00    Gravel      Regravelling                0.11
(km 106.000-112.000)
Capiz East Road                  Capiz                8.00    Bituminous  Bit. surface treatment      0.34
(km 135.689-143.689)
Subtotal                                       34.94                                            1.21
Region VII
Dumaguete North Road             Negros Oriental      4.78    Bituminous  Resurfacing                 0.20
(km 7-9, 17-20)
Cebu South Road                  Cebu II             21.30    Bituminous  Resurfacing                 1.28
(km 18.00-39.00)
Subtotal                                       26.08                                            1.48
Rsegion VIII
San Prancisco-Pintuyan-          South Leyte         18.00    Gravel      Regravelling                0.32
San Ricardo Road
(km 315.400-333.400)
Region IX
Pasaain-Zamboanga City Rd.       Zamboanga del       11.73    Bituminous  Resurfacing                 0.59
(km 232.000-236.000)             Sur
(km 247.000-249.000)
(km 308.174-312.306)
(km 330.963-332.563)
Dipolog-Oroquieta Road           Zamboanga del        3.45    Bituminous  Bit. surface treatment    0.15
(km 299.270-302.720              Norte
Subtotal                                       15.18                                            0.74
Region X
t.   nolo Fortich-Libona-       Bukidnon            10.00    Bituminous  Bit. surface treatment      0.44
Cagayan de Oro City
(km 203.500-213.500)
Region XI
SouthlCotabato-Davao del         South Cotabato      10.00    Bituminous  Bit. surface treatment      0.43
Sur Coastal Road
(km 387.000-397.000)
Recion XII
( 2t.a1-Bukidnon Road            North Cotabato      20.00    Gravel      Regravelling                0.35
(km 223.000-260.917)
GRAND TOTAL                                   224.00                                            8.00
la  May 1984 prices.
Source: MPWH.
April 1984



- 66 -
Table 12
PHILIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
C                                      Services
Consultants        Estimated
Item                                             Local  Foreign  Total   cost /a
- (Est. man-months) -  (US$ mln)
Consulting Services
Implementation of This Project
Detailed engineering for the 1985-88
bridge reconstruction                      1,588      12    1,600      2.50
Construction supervision for the 1985-88
bridge reconstruction program              2,488     48    2,500       2.90
Construction supervision for improvement
of the national highway Baguio-
Mt. Data                                     528     36       600      1.36
Subtotal                                  4,604      96    42L70      6.76
Studies & Preparation for Future Projects
Detailed engineering for the 1989-92
bridge reconstruction program              1,600      -    1,600       3.00
Feasibility studies and detailed engi-
neering for national highways                200     50       250     0.75
Road classification study                       12      6        18     0.10
Traffic safety study                             -     50        50     0.55
Construction industry study                     72      -        72     0.16
Subtotal                                  ]1884    106    1,990       4.56
Total                                     6,488    202    6,690    11.32
Technical Assistance Services
Technical assistance to 'MPWH for highway
maintenance                                      -     72        72      1.00
Technical assistance to MOTC                       -      98       98      1.20
Technical assistance to CIAP                      72      -        72      0.15
Total                                         72    170       242     2.35
/a May 1984 prices, excluding contigencies.
Sources: MPWH, MOTC, CIAP and Bank staff.
May 1984



- 67 -
Table 13
PHILIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Proposed List of Future National Highway Projects
Estimated
construction
Length           cost
National highway                   Location            (km)         (US$ M) /a
Santiago-Tuguegarao                Luzon               124.0            20.0
Limbog-Banga                       Panay                42.0             7.0
Vallehermoso-Sibucao               Negros               78.0            17.0
Tagbilaran North                   Bohol                52.0             6.5
Tagbilaran East                    Bohol                63.0             7.0
Davao-Calinan-Bukidnon             Mindanao            141.0            11.5
Total                                             500.0            69.0
/a April 1984 prices.
Source: MPWH.
April 1984



Table 14
PHLIPPINES
FIFTH HICHWAY PROJECT
Summary of Project Coat /a
Local           Foreigo    Total   Local           Foroigo    Total      S
cost     Taxes  exchange   cost    cost    Taxes  exchange   cost   foreign
Length    --- (Pesos million)-                --   (USS millio.) /b -           enchange
Reconstruction Program for Bridges on National
HiR ways
1885 program  ( 12 structoreas                        1,718 Iin        28.0    6.0     44.0       80.0    2.00   0.57     3.14      5.71     55
1986 program  (108 structores)                        2,121 lin m      42.0   12.0     66.0      120.0    2.89   0.86     4.72      8.57     55
1987 progr-a  (122 structures)                        2,138 lin -      42.0   12.0     66.0      120.0    2.99   0.86     4.72      8.57     55
1988 progra.  (133 structures)                        3,305 liI D      69.7   21.9    109.9      199.5    4.99   1.43     7.84    14.26      55
Subtotal (435 atructure.)                        9.282 lin *    161.7   51.9    285.9       519.5   12.97   3.72    20.42    37.11      55
Ieprovement of National Hish, y0
lagolo (Acop) - Mt. Data Road                            83 kl         87.5   25.0    137.5      250.0    6.25   1.79      9.82    17.86     55
Restoratio. Prograo of hatlomal HighwaY$
Re.toration of national highways
1985 program                                          224 kb         44.8   11.2     56.0      112.0    3.20   0.80     4.00      8.00     50
1986 progra                                           319 kb         78.4   19.6     98.0      196.0    5.60   1.40     7.00    14.00      50
1987 program                                          311 ku         78.4   19.6     98.0      196.0    5.60   1.40     7.00    14.00      50
1988 program                                          186 k.         72.2   18.1     90.4      180.7    5.16   1.29     6.46    12.91      50
Subtotal (i)                                     1,040 km        273.8   68.5    342.4      684.7   19.56   4.89    24.46    48.91      50
Asphalt concrete overlay of ostional highays
1986 program                                           74 bk         23.5    6.7     36.9       67.1    1.68   0.48     2.63      4.79     55
1987 program                                           69 k.         24.1    6.9     38.0       69.0    1.73   0.49     2.71      4.93     55
1988 program                                           40 ku         15.9    4.4     23.7       44.0    1.10   0.31     1.73      3.14     55
Subtota1 (Si)                                      183 k.         63.5   18.0    98.6       180.1    4.51   1.28     7.07    12.86      55
Subtotal (1 And iI)                              1,223 kl        337.3   86.5    441.0      864.8   24.07   6.17    31.53    61.77      51
Consulting Services
Detailed engineering for bridge rec-structioo
1985-88 programs                                                     23.0    2.5      9.5       35.0    1.64   0.18     0.68      2.50     27
1989-92 progr-ms                                                     27.7    3.1     11.2       42.0    1.98   0.22     0.80      3.00     27
Subtotal (i)                                                      50.7    5.6     20.7       77.0    3.62   0.40     1.48      5.50     27
Construction 9operviaion for bridge
reconstruction (1985-88 programs)                                    26.0    2.9      11.7      40.6    1.86   0.21     0.83      2.90     29
Co.structio. ssper"isioo for Isprovement of
national highway  Seguoi  - Mt. Data                                 12.2    1.3       5.6      19.1    0.87   0.09     0.40      1.36     29
Sobto.tl (it)                                                     38.2    4.2     17.3      59.7    2.73   0.30      1.23      4.26     29
Feaaibility studies snd detailed engineering for
fotor. highway projects (250 e)                                       7.6    0.8      2.1       10.5    0.54   0.06     0.15      0.75     20
Seed clas.ifiation *tudy (16 m)                                        0.8    0.1       0.5       1.4    0.06   0.02      0.02     0.10     35
Traffic safety study (18 m)                                             0.7    0.1       6.9       7.7    0.05   0.01     0.49      0.55     90
Co.stroctioo i.d.stry studies (72 m)                                    1.8    0.1      0.3        2.2    0.13   0.01     0.02      0.16     20
Subtotal (iii)                                                    10.9    1.1      9.8       21.8    0.78   0.10     0.68      1.56     44
Subtotal (i to iii)                                               99.8   10.9     47.8      158.5    7.13   0.80     3.39    11.32      30
Tchboical Asaistace
Technical assistace to IYW1  (72 ee)                                    2.5    0.1      11.4      14.0    0.18   0.01      0.81     1.00     81
Technical aesistauce to  Y.TC (98 ee)                                   2.4    0.4      14.0      16.8    0.17   0.03      1.00     1.20     83
Techoical easi.taoce to CIAP (48 m)                                     1.6    0.2       0.3       2.1    0.11   0.01      0.03     0.15     20
Subtotal (iv)                                                      6.5    0.7     25.7      32.9    0.46   0.05      1.84     2.35      78
Traimino
Training to HWWH staff                                                                   5.9       5.9                     0.42     0.42    100
Traialog to CIAP staff                                                                  0.3        0.3                     0.02     0.02    100
Subtotal (v)                                                                       6.2        6.2                    0.44      0.44    100
Subtotal (i to v)                                                106.3   11.6    -t9.7      197.6    7.59   0.85     5.67    14.11      40
I-ad Acquisition                                                         20.0                       20.0    1.43                      1.43      z
Total                                                            732.8  175.0    944.1   1.851.9   52.31  12.53    67.44   132.28       51
COntinsawie#
Physical /c                                                            73.3   17.5      94.4     185.2    5.23   1.25      6.74    13.22     51
Price /d                                                              293.4   73.4    244.4      611.2   20.96   5.24    17.46    43.66      40
S.btotal            -                                            366.7   90.9    338.8      796.4   26.19   6.49    24.20    56.88      4;
Totol ProJwct CoDS                                             1.099.5  265.9  1.2|92.9   2,648.3   78.50  19.02    91.64   189.16      48
18 Prices as of Nay 1984.
AS 081.00 - Pasos 14.00.
77 Phyical contingencies of 102 on all itew.
j   Price iper-ses on all item, including physical co.tisgancies<  (1) for foreign  oepo-ent at am *stiated rate of 3.52 for 1984, 8.02 for
1985, And 9.0S for 1986, 1987 snd 1988; nd (1i1 for local compooent at An *stimates rate of 20% for 1984, 12.02 for 1985, 10.02 for 1986,
7.0S for 1987 and 1988.
Soorosa MMVR, MOTC, ClAP, coonultawto and Beak ataff.
Way 1984.



- 69 -                            Table 15
PHILIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
Fiscal                    Cumulative disbursements
year and                       at end of semester
semester                         (US$ million)
1985
First                               8.0
Second                             12.0
1986
First                              20.0
Second                             28.0
1987
First                              38.0
Second                             50.0
1988
First                              62.0
Second                             74.0
1989
First                              86.0
Second                             94.0
1990
First /b                          102.0
/a Includes retroactive financing of about
US$0.5 million.
/b Closing Date: December 31, 1989.
April 1984



- 70 -
Table 16
PHILIPPINE'S
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Basic Vehicle OperatLng Costs /a
(on level paved road, in pesos per km)
Cars/vans        Jeepneys        Buses       Trucks
Fuel cost                0.35            0.23           0.57         0.71
Taxes                    0.04            0.05           0.10         0.20
Maintenance              0.15            0.15           0.25         0.38
Depreciation             0.18            0.14           0.29         0.22
Total               0.72            0.57           1.21         1.51
/a Economic costs.
Sources: MPWH.
April 1984



- 71 -
Table 17
PHILIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Restoration Program of National Highways
Vehicle Operating Costs /a
(pesos per km, excluding taxes)
Gravel roads           Bituminous roads              Overlay
Unim-    Im-             Unim-    Im-              Unimn-    Im-
proved  proved  Saving  proved  proved  Saving  proved  proved  Saving
Cars/vans  1.439   0.980   0.459   1.176   0.901   0.275   0.901   0.752   0.149
Jeepneys   1.320   0.881   0.439   1.057   0.804   0.253   0.804   0.673   0.131
Buses      4.044   2.699   1.345   3.239   2.307   0.932   2.307   1.799   0.508
Trucks     4.026   2.674   1.352   3.209   2.294   0.915   2.294   1.783   0.511
/a  These take into account terrain conditions.
Sources:  MPWR and Bank staff.
April 1984



-72 -                                 Table 18
PHILIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Cost and Benefit Streams
for Improvement of National Highway Baguio-Mt. Data
(0000's Pesos)
Year            Costs            Benefits
1              187                  0
2              375                   0
3              564                   0
4              837                300
5                0                578
6                0                613
7                0                619
8                0                688
9                0                628
10                0                768
11                0                810
12                0                855
13                0                701
4                0                950
15                0                998
16                0              1,047
17                0              1,099
18                0              1,154
19                0              1,211
20                0              1,266
21                0               1,322
22                0              1,382
23                0              1,443
24                0                754
ERR                     30%
Source: MPWH and Bank staff.
April 1984



Table 19
- 73 -
PHILIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Return Sensitivity Analysis
Best    +10%    -10%
estimate  cost   traffic  (2)+3)
(1)     (2)       (3)      (4)
Bridge Reconstruction Program /a                 23       20        20       18
Improvement of National Highway
Baguio - Mt. Data                              30       25        27       25
Highway Restoration Program
Asphalt concrete overlay                      175      159       157      143
Regravelling and bituminous sealing            32       28        28       24
Total Project                                    43       39        39        36
Sources: MPWH and Bank staff.
April 1984



PHILIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Minhstry of Public Works and Highways
OrganizatIon Chad
D vMinistvel 3
COO,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~prtc  Manoemds
SrotAstc                    mFroni,oro,                           ,ty      Mone, 5              i4t ( 3 )                                               Mim
I j-- I.        IL
As 0Mni*rorAs &e iseo a c                               Ast &eedot for           t               oidrlo               &Ass   nedoo cA5   4nseo
De-                         Coogoolxe         |           Md      .fio r -te o*                                                                      Comptrollersh p
S.e ysice                    sesvice                     Administrativ &erJd SeWon-wot                                 MotebpricO esOoA                                  _
r~~~veWgotoo                                                         t'ior~~~~~~~~~~& ewlt       &  eeof  d
|  ,r, [ Rmeto   |                 8Etdger                       I t odsOne    |              E Comptotns&   |       L    G&o-Tnlote& |             U      AtutX
D.nninCo                         W f   _.                a ltlredges               E|       hluooc      |         |     gneerin       |
*1dote,c                         ah         l        |       [eod &O900           Ll      Egdpvoent s                    n rcTorahir te                  Fo
Fretst&     |   Ilasti ros&  l    W/hvocale               CooEd | E| Ri r&                    Mate o                   QIshty
tatistics  l  1       rnedging                                                 S  ecpv      atex FRets Diso      Pssolon/      |      LCmde    ne 
M-h~~ II                                                                                                                                    Sstmse 
Borangay ~ ~          ~             ~             ~             ~                          peaios       t~t
|   DesSn    l    l       Constu rtctlo   M ce          Mogeenotnt                      Ecegsondn  Eapsoent                             Matea5 &r5Oio'
Ll  FtvdrouNic  |  L|   FtoostContro    |  Ll    HdCntid    | |    L|  EaetptsnCo|tro hspector<ate 
H SW Uc JO |oN               Hol eroHSb                                                                                                                                     2 .|        S9eF t|     rou9b 
tcct 1 903



PHILIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Ministry of Public Works and Highways
Regional Office
Organization Chart
Office of the
_ _____   Regional Director (_
Materials&Qai
Project                                          Regional Equipment            Control
Management Office                                            Depots                Laboratories
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
PlFonning &                    Cons ructror)              Mrainterx|                  Roniu&                    Adn i1nisatirzve             Comnptrollership
Source MP8/H~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ie                                    oagret                        hiso                       ivso
Design Divs8 n                                                                                                                                     W  Division  Division  Division
q  Section  l      q      ~~~~~Section                             Section        Srco                        Section     l      -        Section     |^
2    hchitecturcil   |   l  8rldges  l    | ~~~~~Roads & Bridges      r      Crash                   De Mnpvelorr|nt                ProjectOrg
Design ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sechono|n Section                                      Sectiorn)  Section l 1 Dworetg           1     Mntrn
Hydrr tulic   Flood Control &         ~~~~Flood Control &            Procuremnent                 Record                  Assets & Supplies
_    Design Section   _    Water Supply   _~~W.te Supply                    Sezction            _       Section            _    Control Section
r   Structural    l   |  Ports & HartDors  |                                      l   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Facilities & j
_  esnSehn]         _       ScinMateriols &                                                                     Sectineonc
Qauality Control  _                                           eto
M Eechanial  !-S                  cto                     Division
_   Section                                              Insp LCorater
Highway Design                                           Section     |
Fragonrning j
Section     j
Soufce MPWVH
March 1983                                                                                                                                         world Bank-24910



- 76 -
PHILIPPINES
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
CY          1984                   1985                  1986                   1987                   1988
ITEM
ITEM              ~~1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4             1     2    3    4
_y   7              7 _     /777 7          .       __7,,  7             77,                    7,'7  77J
BOARD PRESENTATION
LOAN EFFECTMTY
BRIDGE RECONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
1985 Program                          IF15     m  _
1986 Program                                     TTT  F      o  l                -      11 _1_1_
1987 Program
1988 Program                                                                            kF  FtkT  YET7 I            *
IMPROVEMENT OF NATIONAL HIGHWAY                                   -                  mm   -    - _                -    -
BAGUIO - MT. DATA
RESTORATION PROGRAM
1985 Program                          allTTT t_    I
1986 Program                   |                       lii  iii l     Ill
1987 Program
1988 Program                                                                                  NINE lo  ll             a _
CONSULTING SERVICES
Detailed Engineering for 1989
- 92 bridge reconstruction programs                            i
Feosibility Studies & Detailed Engineering
of Future Highway Projects
Road Classification Study
Traffic Safety Study
Construction Industry Studies                                -                -         r            -
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Technical Assistance to MPWHil
Technical Assistance to MOTC                                 -                -       i      I       -
Technical Assistance to CIAP
TRAINING
MPWYH Staff                                                  -                -    -
CLAP Staff
Legend for Civil Workrs:
kE111111 Detailed Engineering Period
m m m Tendering & Award Perod
Construction Perlod
'/1/7/ /     RainySeason
May 1984                                                                                                                                 World Bank-24967



I OR 17013
- - - ---------- -------------------~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F<04< 14
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                        f:W
40                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -'        >
~~~ln~ 
C  00  s     
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g  1                                                   0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9
~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                9#40 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'






ieaasnrsnasatasaman                   baa                                                      ~~~~~~FIFTH   HIGHWAY   PROJECT
-1 lh~ ~  a                                                                                                                    Project Components
flaeanabsnnttaeanca aNsntotsbra  * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  tan---anFCflSsTnucnmOn FB5GAM FOP, BRIDGES
tanG ANAL OUONDAH-E
MINDORO
'AnAl    A Y
a~~~~arlat*e~~~~~~~~~~    ~FT
at ,eaa -tn                    5' 
las                              -  -                   I                                  \      MASBATE  rants  "ran         Sa4MAR                          'a-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
-                       *5g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                            -~~~ 
na   , 
'~~~~~~~VIST NAV ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ g51a 
I A I,,, A,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DA0Y                                                                                 se 
N b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:aaOdF                                                                 Cne                                       la
ea  0 asa   a                            aLone~~~~~~2
*   -                 -- am~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



