AJ - A2- (-Q c                                                    Z, vMA
RESTRICTED      C      /3
Report No.  P-1076
This report o for official se only by the Bank Group and specfic;lly ax thorized organizations
or perSons. It rrnay not Le t .i%ed, quoted o, cited without Bank Group authorization. Thc
Bank Group does not ac-e.t rf.ponsabidity for the accuracy or oimplctrness of the rrport.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR A
DE'VrELOPMENT PROGRAM AND EXPORT EXPANSION PROJECT
May 31, 1972



CURENC! QUIVALENTS Y/
USjl            - Pesos ( Col*  ) 21.78
1 Peso          - US$0.04591
1 million Pesos - S$445,910
1/ Estimated end-May, 1972



IT¶SItNATIOtAL BANK FOR TBOCCSTfUCTIW AND DEVELOPMT
REPORT AND REaXBDATIO
OF THE
PRESDENT TO THE ECUTIVE DZRECTORS
Ca A
PROPCSE  SgEOMNTPM           AD KU         EASIC     X
TO THE REPULIC OF COLOMBIA
1.        I submit the following report and recomuendation on a proposed
Program and Export Expansion Loan to the Republic of Colombia for the
equivalent of US$60 million. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including 5 years of grace, with interest at 7-1/4 percent per annum.
PART I - BANK GRCUP OPERATICAS IN COLOMBIA
2.        The proposed loan, which would be the forty-ninth made tp Colombia
would bring the total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$ 927.9 million
(net of cancellations), of which US$ 719.9 million is now held by the Bank.
IDA has made one credit of US$ 19.5 million for highways in Colombia. Histo-
rically, the majority of Bank loans to Colombia have been in the electric
power and transportation sectors, although beginning in 1966 an increasing
share of the loans has been for agriculture, industry, and telecommunications,
and more recently, for education and water supply. Disbursements have been
completed on twenty-five loans and the one IDA credit. Of the twenty-three
with undisbursed balances, progress on the majority is satisfactory.   IFC has
made investments and underwriting commitnents in 18 enterprises in Colombia,
totalling US$ 19.7 million of which IFC now holds US$ 10.4 million. Annex I
contains a sumtary stataeent of Bank loans, the IDA credit and IFC invest-
ments as of April 30, 1972, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects
with particular reference to those which are encountering problems in execution
and giving rise to delays in disbursements.
3.        In addition to the proposed loan, I plan to submit to the Execu-
tive Directors shortly a loan of US$ 5 million to the Republic of Colombia
for use by the Agrarian Reform Institute (INCORA) for the Second Atlantico
Development Project. For FY 1973, an active lending program is being
prepared. The staff has recently appraised a medium-size cities water
aupply and aewerage project, a aixth railway project, a fifth deve'--
tent finance coRpanies project, and the Guatape II hydroelectri      -,
I hope to be able to recommend loans for most, if not all, of tt.-
loans during the next six months.   In addition, loans are under     .ration
for presentation in the latter part of Fl 1973 for a third education project
and a second Caqueta land colonization project.



-2-
4.        Over xhe past few years, Bank lending in Colombia has become
increasingly diversified. In earlier years, the Bank focussed primarily
on power and tr.nsport. As Bank activities in Colombia expanded and as
the Bank assumed increasing re.-:nsibilities as head of the Consultative
Group for Colombia, it has move..i increasingly into industry, agriculture and
the social sectors. In formulating conditions for lending and in selecting
fields of activity, we have been motivated by the following principal con-
sidera:ions: (a) to provice capital for high-priority sectors where other
sources of external finance have been difficult to mobilize; (b) to assist
the Colombians in obtaining capital from other sources on adequate terms;
(c) to contribute to important institution-building objectives, including
the development of an improved fiscal system and institutions capable of
increasing public savings; (d) to give support to governmental programs
and projects designed to remove the balance of payments constraint on accel-
erated economic development; and (e) to associate the Bank increaningly with
the efforts of the Colombian Government to distribute the benefits of economic
progress more widely.
5.        In accordance with these considerations, we expect over the next few
years to make a substantial contribution to the expansion of agriculture and
industry, with perhaps as muca as 60 percent of our total lending in those two
sectors. We would hope that through our lmnding in agriculture we shall be
able to assist in tackling the problems of the lower rural income groups. A
major objective in both fields *4ill continue to be to help remove the balance
of payments constraint on development. We shall be continuing with additional
projects in education and water supply where we have important institution-
building objectives, as well as providing direct support to Govermnent efforts
to pnovide widening opportinities for the development of human capacities, and
for broadening the geographical distribution of the benefits of economic
growth. While our future lending for transport and power will be significant,
we would hope progressively to encourage other members of the Consultative
Droup to asaume a growing role in these fields.
6.        The Colombian Government has recently prepared guidelines for a
revision of its development programs, to give increased emphasis to urban
development, to balanced regional growth, and to stimulate a pattern of de-
w-nd which will maximize employment cpportunities.  The planning authorities
in Colombia hope that a program can be formulated Which will better serve
the needs of the lower income groups. One of the principal elements of this
program is to stimulate urban housing. We shall maintain close contact with
the Colombian authorities to adjust our own lending program to the changes
which emerge from the current re-evaluation.
7.        If the Colombian Government is to meet its growth and employment
objectives, the net transfer of external financial resources flowing from the
Consultative Group will have to continue at high levels during the next five
years. Bank disbursements expressed as a percentage of total public dis-
bursements to Colombia should peak at X0 percent in 1973-74 and then decline.
rhe Bank's share of total debt service is also projected to peak at about
40 percent in 1974-75 before turning down, and the Bank group share of



total debt disbursed and outstanding should stay at about 33 percent during
the next several years, assuming that Bank lending over the next few years
averages about $120 million per annum. Thanks to the relatively large supply
of assistance from development agencies, and careful borrowing policy,
Colombia's debt structure is favorable; suppliers' and financial credits
account for only one-tenth of the total medium and long-term debt. This has
boen an important factor in holding down the debt servicing burden despite
the large capital inflow. Colombia is one of the countries whose debt ser-
vice ratio has fallen in recent years. The ratio was 15 percent in 1965-66
and 13 percent in 1971. Under the impact of projected growth in gross bor-
rowing, the ratio would be back to 15 percent by 1975. The debt servicing
burden in the more distant future will be influenced by the terms of borrow-
ing:   a decline in assistance by AID and other bilateral long-term develop-
ment agencies would result in a peak debt service ratio of 25 percent in 1982.
If commitments from bilateral development lenders increase pari passu with
total capital requirements, the need for private credits would be reduced and
the debt service ratio would stabilize at 21 percent in 1982. These projections
assume a relatively low price of coffee. Should export earnings from coffee
improve notably, 'external borrowing requirfents would be reduced and debt
service would accordingly be lower. It is nevertheless likely that the burden
will increase from the present level, but this should be manageable as long
as domestic savings and non-traditional exports (discussed in Parts II and III
below) continue to rise at a satisfactory rate, and terms of borrowing do
not deteriorate seriously. In the light of past perfonmance and present
prospects, therefore, I believe that Colombia is creditworthy for the bor-
rowing presently contemplated.
PART II - BACKGROUND OF LOAN REQUESr
8.        When the present Government took office in August 1970, Colombia's
economy was in a period of steadily acceleratlng growth. Coffee prices,
while declining from late 1969 and early 1970 highs, were F' Hl well above
the prices prevailing throughout the previous decade. The rate of increase
of gross domestic product and both public and private investment had been
rising strongly since 1967. Industrial growth was moving ahead of historical
averages, agriculture was keeping ahead of population growth, the rise in
prices was being held down to a manageable 7 percent. annual rate, and
Government planners were predicting a 7 percent real GDP grovt.+ Ln 1970
(actual growth was 6.7 percent, the third highest since 1950).
9.        Although encouraged by these improvements in the overall economic
situation, Government planners were convinced that the existence of deep-
seated rural poverty and a high rate of urban unemployment made it necessary
to accelerate development. Depressed rural incomes reflecting low pro-
ductivity and the extremely small size of the vast majority of farms, coupled
with inadequate water supply, health care, education and the generally inferior
public sorvices compared to urban areas, had led to a massive migration into
the cities and towns thus increasing urban unemployment. Between the early 1950'r
and mid-1960's, the largest cities grew at 7 percent a year, more than double



- 4 -
he rate of natural increase.  'he rate at which Colombia's labor force
as growing made the employment problem especially difficult. A 1970 ILO
eport estimated that for the noxt 10 to 15 years the labor force would
row at 3.5 percent per year, one of the highest rates in the world. The
eport estimated that open unemployment had reached as much as 10 percent
n Bogota and somewhat higher in the cities outside the capital, and that
isguised unasployment and underemployed amounted to another 15 percent of
.he urban work force. More recent estimates indicate that open unemployment
n Bogota had declined slightly to about 9.8 percent in 1969 and 8.2 per-
ent in 1970, and it is likely that unesployment in other urban centers
,lso declined. (A noteworthy feature of these more recent developments
.s that 1969 and 1970 were years of accelerating output growth and rising
.nvestment.) During the last two decades saployment rose by 2.2 percent
,er year. This was associated with an output growth rate which averaged
bout 5 percent per year. At an average productivity growth rate of
1.2 percent per year (IIO estimate), output would have to increase by
1.7 percent per annum to absorb new entrants into the labor force, and at
a even higher rate if unemployment were to be reduced.
0.       The new Government, therefore, drew up a development plan
tesigned to achieve or surpass 7 percent GDP growth in 1970-73. The plan
tressed partic-alarly the need to associate higher growth rates with the
reation of increased esployment opportunities.  It called for a continu-
Ltion of the Agrarian Reform Progrm and an increased effort to provide
Lgrarian reform beneficiaries with supporting services. One aspect of
lhe latter effort was the initiation during 1971 of a program to increase
lhe number of extension offices of the Colombian agricultural research and
ixtension agency from the present 59 to 450 by 1975, a goal which is
mbitious, but if achieved would enable the agency to reach 900,000 farm
*amilies, or 70 percent of the total of about 1.3 million families.
Lddressing itself to disparities between urban and rural development, the
,overrment also embarked in 1971 upon a plan which gave priority to adding
:lassrooms to incomplete rural schools and the development of rural
'concentrations" (designed to provide educational, health, social and
wgricultural services in rural country towns and villages) . Reflecting
-he directions indicatud in the plan, the investment program gave increased
imphasis to industry, education, housing and agriculture and relatively
ess emphasis to investments in power and transport.
.1.      The prospects for carrying out the development proposed in the
kew plan appeared favorable. A major reason for this was the apparent
.essening of the foreign exchange constraint. This was derived from two
sources. First, the continuing deficit of world coffee production relative
o consumption, reflected in the dramatic reduction of stocks in the hands
if producers, led to the expectation that the price of coffee, which still
*epresented almost two-thirds of merchandise exports, would decline only
Iradually over a period of several years from the 58 cents average price



-5-
exchange rate policy and the minor export subsidy,-/ doubled between 1966
and 1970 and Gcvernment planners were predicting a continued strong growth
of these exports, although at a somewhat alower rate. A further reason for
optimism was the demonstrated increase in the capacity to undertake develop-
ment projects.  This was reflected ih an increase in aggregate invest-
ment, in particular a shaxp rise in public investment, and in a sub-
stantial increase in the flow of projects submitted for financing to
international lending agencies. The proportion of fixed capital investment
to GDIP in 1967-69 was around 19 percent which is higher than the historical
average, and the rate of project conmitments from external lending agencies
increased from an average of US$ 115 million per year from 1961-67 to an
average of US$ 232 million during 1968-70. The main constraint, as it
appeared then, was the availability of local finance for investment, parti-
cularly in the public sector. From 1950-58 public savings averaged 4-5 per-
cent of GDP. In 1969-70, they reached nearly 7 percent of GDP, as a result
of a sharp increase in public revenues (40 percent in real terms in 1966-69).
Nevertheless, withthe expansion in public investment, it was apparent that
the need for public savings would continue to expand; in particular the
demand for local savings to support foreign-financed projects was increasing
rapidly.
12.       The Colombian econcmic situation and the Goverment's development
policies and programs were analyzed in the Bank's comprehensive economic
report, Economic Growth of Colombia: Problens and Prospecta (WH-200a,
November 1, 1970 -- hereinafter referred to as the 1970 Economic Report).
The Consultative Group for Colombia, at its meeting in February 1971,
considered this report and concluded that the development program was
feasible and merited the support of the Group, provided that economic per-
formance continued to improve in accordance with the Government's stated
policies. Subsequent to the meeting the Government took the principal
actions considered necessary to support the developmernt program. Sales
taxes were raised in April 1971, stamp taxes were increased on a long list
of itens and, in June, the "petroleum dollar" exchange rate applicable to
crude petroleum transactions was raised from Col$ 9 to Col$ 20, eliminating
a costly subsidy paid to consumers of fuels by the Government. It resulted
in a 45 percent increase in the retail price of motor gasoline, and will
produce substantial new fuel tax proceeds.
13.       Unfortunately, during 1971, there was a sharp, unexpected
drop in coffee prices and unusually heavy and prolonged rainfall, which
broke the momentum of growth and disrupted development. GDP growth
slackened to an estimated 5.5 percent in 1971, while prices, spurred
by reduced supplies of foodstuffs, rose by 10-12 percent (see para-
graphs 14 and 15 below). The authorities cut the import budget, stepped
1/ Exporters are issued "Tax credit certifJcates" equal to 15 percent
of the FOB value of non-traditional exports, which can be redeemed



-6-
up efforts to promote non-traditional exports, and imposed strict monetary
measures to dampen demand. At the same time, however, the Government felt
that extraordinary assistance was necessary, and requested the Bank to
consider, as an extraordinary measure, a program loan designed to restore
the deve'lopment program to the levels approved by the Consultative Group.
14.       The Government had prepared the quantitative targets for its
1970-73 development plan associated with GDP growth of 7 percent on the
assumption of an average New York coffee price of 56 cents per pound for
1971. The coffee price had reached 60 cents in 1969 and held firm for
several months in 1970, averaging just under 58 cents per pound during
the first semester. As indicated above, it was projected that prices would
gradually weaken beginning in 1971 and reach a level of about 50 cents after
several years. Nevertheless, and for reasons outside the control of the
Colombians, prices dropped sharply from 57 cents per pound in June 1970 to
less than 52 cents in December. Shipments from Colombia also fell off
rapidly through the end of 1970. In 1971, the coffee price unexpectedly
continued to fall,reached a low point of 48 cents, and averaged 49 cents
per pound for the year. Thus, Colombia was faced with the situation
in which coffee prices declined in one year to the level that had'been
expected only after at least three or four years. The extent of the
problem is emphasized by the fact that for each one cent per pound drop
in the average coffee price Colombia's foreign exchange receipts decline
by U3$ 8.4 million. In recent months the New York coffee prices have
recovered to 52-53 cents, but the dollar cost of Colombia's imports has
also risen and the foreign exchange constraint has continued.
15.       The coffee problem was compounded by the heavy rains which fell
almost continuously from late 1970 until mid-1971. In the Cauca Valley,
for example, which is probably the most important agricultural area of the
country, ths Cauca River established a new monthly flow record in November
1970 and reached average flow levels during January - April 1971 which were
the highest since 1950. The unusually severe weather flooded large areas,
interrupted transportation and cormunications, delayed farm planting
end exerted strong upward pressure on domestic food prices. The Colombian
Government was required to make unexpected public expenditures for road
and bridge repair, emergency medical and food assistance, and relief.
No precise data are yet available on the effects of flood and rain damage,
on agricultural production in 1971, but current estimates are that there
was little or no real growth in agricultural production in that year and
that weather damage was one of Lhe principal causes.
16.       Another disappointment in late 1970 and the first half of 1971
was the slowdown in the growth of non-traditional exports, i.e., everything
other than coffee and crude petroleum. These exports rose little if at all
during 1970. During the first semester of 1971 export registrations rose
7 percent above the comparable period in 1970. The unexpectedly poor
performance may be attributed to two factors. First, an increase in
domestic demand associated with a high rate of econonic growth diverted
production from the export market to the domestic market. Secondly, after



-7-
three consecutive years of rapidly expanding exports, there remained
considerably less excess capacity in the industries concerned than
before. There is evidence that these problems had had their maximum
effect on minor expcrt growth by mid-1971. Non-traditional exports picked
up significantly during the latter half of 1971 and, for the year as a
whole they increased by 15 percent over the level achieved in 1970.
17.       Colombia's immediate problem is that although the Government has
taken important fiscal and other actions to cope with these problems (see
paragraph 21-23 below), they will not have their full effects for many
months. Over the next 12-18 months, .unerefore, unless Colombia can obtain
extraordinary external assistance which can be disbursed rapidly, balaice
of payments and budgetary constraints will continue to disrupt Colombia's
development, and seriously delay the resumption of a high rate of economic
growth. The balance of payments constraint is particularly important
since Colombia's economV, and hence the pace of its growth, is highly
dependent on imports. Moreover, Colombia is not in a position to increase
imports by drawing on exchange reserves. From a peak of US$ 185
million at the end of June 1970, these reserves had fallen during most of
1971, and although they recovered to US$ 170 million at the end of the year,
they were at that point less than 18 percent of the estimated value of
imports for 1971.
18.       According to the latest figures, investment spending by the
central government in 1971 was up 6 percent from 1970, in real terms.
This compares to an increase of 8-9 percent, in real terms, envisagec
in Colombia's development plan. In the absence of extraordinary external
assistance, the rate of investment growth (4 percent) in 1972 would be lower
than in 1971, and by falling considerably short of the goals established
in the development plan, would frustrate Colombia's efforts to reduce
unemployment and generally raise the welfare of the Colombian people.
Particularly affected in 1972 would be various high-priority invastments
in the public sector, many of which are designed to address urgent social
problems but which are normally financed purely from domestic sources
(unassisted investment). Such investments had been neglected in earlier
years; the tentative estimates suggest very little increase in 1967-71.
Such investments would also have to be shelved in 1972 in order to free
the funds needed to support externally-assisted projects. The indications
are that, even with a 4 percent real increase in total central government
investment in 1972, unassisted investment spending through the budget
would decrease by almost 30 percent, in real terms, in the absence of
extraordinary external assistance.



PART III - JUSTIFICATION FOR THE LOLN
19.       The economic situation in Colombia Which has Just been described
appears, for a number of reasons, to present a good a priori case for some
fomn of extraordinary assistance.  First, Colombia has a satisfactory econo-
mic development program, including well prepared preinvestment studies,
which has been reviewed by the Bank and received the support of the Con-
sultative Group, and this program haa been diarupted by circumstances be-
yond the control of the borrowing countrj.  Secondly, the proposed ertra-
ordinary assistancea would not imply the sabstitution of non-project financing
on a 8ustained basis for project finar-A..g, since Colombia has a good record
of project preparation and saubmitted a .'.;.able list of projects to the Con-
sultative Group for calendar year 1972. Furthermore, project loan ccmmit-
ments have increased from an average of about U5S 115 million per annum
during the period 1961-67 to US$ 232 mllUion during 1968-70 and US$ 323
million in 1971. There have been some delays in recent months in now com-
mitments but comditments in 1972 are ne'ertheless expected to exceed the
level achieved in 1971. Even in the bust of circiustances, however, the
addittonal c.~.sbursements provided from ongoing and planned project and
sector loans would not be enamgh to enable the Goverrnent to carry out its
development program effectively and expeditiously. Moreover, a review of the
supporting economic and financial policies and of the need for ron-proJect
assistance to assure the needed transfer of resources, showed that (a)
Colombia achieved its target of a 15 percent increase in non-traditional
exports in 1971; earnings from such exports now account for :imost US$ 300
million, or 40 percent of total exports and there are reaso:able prospects
for further increases in 1972, given the Government's intention to continue
pursuing its policy of flexible exchange rates; however, several more years
will be required to raise their relative importance in the balance of
payments to that of coffee; (b) the Government had taken the conLsiderable
fiscal measures considered necessary at the 1971 Consultative Group meeting
to support its investment program and -JaS considering additional measures;
and f-, Colombia had followed an enlightened coffee policy, which had be-in
successful in keeping output down, and had been ir. the forefront cf inter-
national efforts to stabilize coffee markets.
20.       The effects of the changed circumstances of 1971 were analyzed
in the 1972 economic report (Economic Position and Prospects of Colombia,
WH-211a, January lb, 1972) which concluded that balance of payments and
fiscal constraints had again become the main obetacles to the maintenance
of a high level of growth in output and employment. The report concluded,
however, that Colombia should be able gradually to reach and sustain a
7 percent growth rate by the mid-1970's if (a) non-traditional exports
grew at a rate of 15 percent per annum (b) adequate new tax measures were
adopted to yield Col$ 1,000 million per annum, beginning in 1973 in order
to ensure a satisfactory rate of grawth in public investmrent,and (c)
Colombia continued to borrow eu'ficient amounts externally on favorable
teras.



-9-
21.       Since the end of 1971, there has been considerable progress in
these areas. With respect to non-traditional ezports, it appears that
expor'., registrations during the first three months of 1972 grew by at
least ±. percent over the caqparable period in 1971, and the Government
in late 1971 and early 1972 adopted a number of measures, in addition
to continuing its flexible exchange rate policy,l/ which should give
further impetus to minor export growth: the requlred holding period for
tax credit certificates was reduced from 9 months to 6 months for some ex-
ports and 3 months for others. The National Monetary Board issued a re-
solution authorizing the export promotion agency (PROEXPO) to borrow up
to US$ 30 million equivalent from the Banco de la Republica for the financ-
ing of private sector exports and for financing imports required by ex-
port enterprises. The main purpose of the new measure is to provide a
substitute for foreign sot,       export financing, but it should also
provide a twofold stiu)J '. tj . orts. PKrbt, many firms wit, established
lines of external credit. -ill probably choose to maintain their traditional
financial arringements,     to this extent the new measure would increase
the total resources available for export financing. Secondly, as exporting
firms will no longer be obliged to seek financing from foreign financial
intermediaries, the new measure should help increase the export potential
of newer and smaller firms who do niot have access to external sources of
finance. The same Monetary Board resolution increased by approximately
US$ 7 million equivalent the local' currency funds available to PROEXP0
for financing trade fairs, export publicity and certain other investments
of exporting firms.
22.       The investment climate in Colombia is currently favorable, as
evidenced in part by the rapidity with which irnustrial investors have
taken up sub-loans under the most recent Bank loan (742-CO) to the privately-
owned development finance comqanies (see paragraph 37 below). It is likely
that recent political developenets will continue to be favorable to invest-
ment. As for the agriculture, there have been widespread reports during
the past year that the lack of clarity in application of the Agrarian
Reform Law has caused investment uncertainty. However, proposed amencnerts
to the Agrarian Reform Law which have passed the Senate and are awaiting
concurrence of the Chamber of Deputies should help improve the investment
climate in agrlculture.
23.       Ir. the fiscal area, the Colombian Government has already reformed
the customs tariff and additional revenue neasures are expectedto yield about
Col$ 700 million beginning in 1973, and se -iral other measures, designed to
yield at least ar. additional Col$ Y" ml'.' n, are at various stages of
processing. The Consultative Group, In its February 1972 meeting gave its.
support for US$ 350 million in new extenrual commitments for projects in
Colombia for 1972, agreed that it was essential for the preservation of
Colombia's creditworthiness to receive external financing on terms which
would avoid deterioration of its debt structure, and agreed further that
substantial non-project assistance was necessary to enable the Government
to achieve its growth and investmenlt objectives.
1/ The exchange rate with respect to the US dollar has been depreciating
paLi passu with domestic price increases, thus assuring an effective
devaluation vis-a-vis the world's major currencies.



- 10 _
24.       In the light of the measures which toe Colombian Government
has alroady taken to maintain the pace of development, and considering
that it intends to take fx. her measures and would Ls prepared to
agree to quantitative targets in connection with a Bank loan, I consider
the Bank would be justified in making a loan of the kind proposod.
It would help Colombia to resume a high rate of economic growth and to
achieve a rapidly diminishLig dependence on coffee export.   It would
help the Government finance proJects and programs, many oi' which are
aimed at fulfilling the country's social and employment-creating goals
(see paragraphs 3hand 35 below); and it would transfer resources needed
to support development which cannot be achieved effecLively and expedi-
tiously by the financing of specific projects.
PART IV - DESCRIPTTON OF THE LOAN
Components of the Loan
25.       In devising an operation to meet Colombia's needs, it was
clearly important that it. shculd not indutce a growth of public sector
investment, and hence of the economy, which could not be sustained
after the loan had been disbureed. It should not require the author-
ities to adjust to sharply lower budgetary investment levels and for-
eign exchange availabilities wher the loan funds had been exhausted.
In view of the importance of the foreign exchange constraint, it woul'
be desirable to ensure that the loan would contribute to the prconotion
of non-traditional exports; this would call for allocation of a part
of the loan to support private investment in the commodity-producing
sectors.  Furthermore, given the E-. .i's substantial and long-standing
role in many sectors of the Colombian economy, it was essential to
arrange the loan in a way which would not iiaply a shift from project
to program lending in the future.
26.       In discussions with the Colombian Government an agreement
was therefore reached on arrangements designed to have a sustained
effect on public investment, balance of payments and economic growth.
It would consist of a loan of US$60 million. Two-thirds of this
amount, or US$4O million, would be sold to industrial firms for pesos
and used to pay for imports of raw maierials, intermediate products,
and capital equipment. The balance, or US$20 million, would be
channeled to the export sector for fixed investment. Of the peso
counterpart generated from the import financing, US$30 million equiv-
alent would be used to support the public investment program and
US$10 million equivalent to finance working capital for the export
sector. The counterpart for the investment program, and the customs
duties and other taxes generated by the additional imports financed
by the loan, would enable public investment expenditures of the
^entral government to increase in real terms oy 9 percen. in 1972 and
12 percent in 1973.  (See Table 1 in Annex VI.)



This rate of expansion would serve to restore the momentum interrupted in
1971; for the 1970-73 period, total investment would grow at an average
annual rate of 9 percent in real terms, thus Aeeting the Development Plan
target. The pub' a sector investments to be financed from counterpart
funds would be those which are not externally supported on a project basis,
and the loan would thus fill a need which could not be met by normal project-
related borrowing. Ls mentioned in paragraph 18 above, unassisted invest-
ment would decline by almost 30 percent In real terms in 1972 without the
proposed loan. Even with the loan there would be a real decline in un-
assisted investment in 1972; however, this decline would be more than made
up by expansion in 1973. With the loan, unassisted investment would rise
at an anmual average rate of 17.5 percent in real tenms over the 1970-73
period as a whole, thus enabl-ng such investment to increase folloindg the
earlier stagnation and decline. Tha loan component for the export sector,
and the peso counterpart to be used for working capital financing, would
help increars capacity in export incbistriee and thus work towards the ful-
fillment of Goverrnort non-traditional export targets.
Tranches
27.       The lcan would be divided into two equal tranches.  The first
tranche, which would be Jaade available for commitment upon completion of
nonmal legal conditions to effPictiveness, would be. US$ 20 million for the
program component, and US$ 10 million for the export projects component.
US$ 15 million equivalent of rhe counterpart funds generated under the
first tranche of the program component would be made available for the in-
vestment budget and US$ 5 million equivalent for working capitaI~ of the
export sector. The funds in the second tranche to be released only after
a sat'sfactory performance review in about six months' time, would be di-
vided in the same manner as in the first t.anche.  The allocation of loan
funds between the two coMponents and of the local currency counterpart gezi-
erated ur*s er the import prograa component are illustrated as follows:
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(million US$)
First Tranche   Second Tranche   Tztal
Program Component                       20               20           h0
Co mterpart used for -
(a)  Goverment Investment
Budget                       15               15           30
(b) WorkLng Capital of
Export Sector                 5                5           10
Export ProJect Component                10               10           20
TOTAL                                   30               30           60



Performance Review
28.       About six months after effectivenees, a review of performance
under the loan would take place. The principal items to be considered
at the review would be: (a) whether non-traditional exports registrationa
during 1972 had increased by at least 15 percent over 1971; (b) whether
revenue measures taken after 1911 would proluce a net yield of at least
Col$1,000 nillion p.a. beginning in 1973; (c) whether the current budgetary
surplus achieved by the Government in 1972 exteeded the current surpluB for
1971 by 19 percent and (d) the level of the coffee price at the time of
the review. Concerning the third item, the indications are that current
expenditures have been ris.ing more rapidly than current receipts. The
current surplus in 1971 increaaed by 15 percent over 1970, but the ratio
between current receipta and current expenditures in 1971 was 1.17 to 1,
which indicated a continuation of the decline in this relationship since
1968, when the ratio was 1.64 to 1. During the recent Consultative
Group meeting in Parit, the Colombian Minister of Finance recognized
that a continuation of this trend would wake it increasingly difficult to
generate the public savings necessary to support Colombia's development
program, and stated his intontion to exrrcise firm expenditure control
during 1972 and 1973. It was agreed during negotiations, therefore, that
the Bank accept as satisfactory evidence on this point an increase in the
current surplus in 1972 by at least 19 percent relative to 1971. This
would be in line with the Minister's stated intention, and based on
projections of the level of current receipts in 1972, should have the
effect of reversing the decline in the ratio between current receipts
and current expenditares. It was also agreed during negotiations that,
for the second tranche to go forwcrd, the coffee price should not
exceed 57 cents. This price ceiling incorporates an allowance for
the import cost increases which Colombia has suffered as a result of
recent international monetary revaluations, It is believed thao if
the coffee price were to climb above this level at the time of the tranche
review, export receipts and fiscal ievenues would also rise to the point
at which further loan disoursements would be unnecessary. It at the time
of the review, it is established that the conditions (a), (b) and (c;
referred to above have been fulfilled,then, if coffee prices have not
exceeded the preseribed limit, the second tranche would be released,
permitting commitment of the remainder of the loan.
Commitment Fee on Second Tranche
29.       Since the availability of the second tranche of the proposed loan
depends partlb on circmatances outside the control of the Ooveinnment, the
commitment fee on the second tranche would accrue from the outset but would
become payable only after the second tranche were released. If the second
tranche were cancelled, the commitment fee for that portion of the loan
would be cancelled also.



- 13 -
Program Cocponent
(a) General
30.       An amount of UW$ 40 miUlion of the proposed loan would finance
irports of raw materials, intermediate ptoducts and capital equipment in
aiy of the following comodity groups: agricultural machinery and imple-
ments; fertilizers, pesticides and herbicides; basic metals, metal products
and minerals for industry; mezhanical and electrical machinery, equipment
and tools, including trucks, and construction equipment and materials.
Only payments made to suppliers after the date of the Loan Agreeireni would
be eligible for financing under the loan. To provide assurances that the
desired impact on import levels would be attained, the Goven.ment nonfi me.
during negotiations that the import budget established by the Natior.al
Morietary Board during 1972-74 would be increased by the imo3nt -: t"   ;
(b)  Adcinistration
31.       The Banco de la Republica (BOR); u,hi_ch ha3 long experien^e *:
AID-financed coimodity import programs, would acbminister the progr-L..
Since procurement under this component would depend essentially on the
business decisions of many individuals .Or a large number of small it^-ns,
it would not be practicable to require interrational conpetitive bidding.
The importing arrangements and procedures would be carried out in accord-
ance with the normal requirements of the Colombian import licensing systen.
While the licersing s7stem has as one of its major purposes the protection
of domestic industry, it does not appear to have,had the effect of zTpawning
large numbers of inefficient local industries. The available evidence is
that most Colombian manufactures are produced at prices which are reason-
ably competitive with foreign prices. (See 1970 Economic Report, Vol. 1,
Chap. IV A (b).
32.       Bank funds would be used to reimburse the BOR, against the normal
documentation required for import financing, for payments made for eligible
import transactions. It is likely that, if there are no substantial delays
in the release of the second tranche, disbursements of the program component
could be completed within one year from the date of signing the Loan
Agreement. The counterpart funds for the budget would be placed in a spe-
cial governme.v account in the BOR and the first release from this account
would be by way of an advance of US$ 5 million equivalent, which would be
replenished against documentation showing to the Bink's satisfaction that
the advance had been used for eligible investments. The Bank would retain
the right to withhold the initial advance and any subsequent replenishment
if any required local contributions to public sector projects financed by
Consultative Group members were not up to date.
(c)  Allocatirn of Peso Counterpart for Government Budget
33.       The US$ 30 million in counterpart funds to be made available for
the government budget is designed to permit the Government to maintain
planned levels of irvestment during 1972-73 and to benefit particularly
those investments which are not suitable for normal external assistance.



- 1  -
There is no specific list of investients that would be financed from the
counterpart funds. However, the proposed uses of these funds were reviewed
with the government representatives during negctiations in order to ensure
that they would not be used (a) to substitute for required local contribu-
tions to projects fi nnced by cxternal loans, (b) to finance projects suitable
for external financing (i.e., the counterpart funds could not in general be
used to help finance projects on the Consuli'.tive Group Project List) and
(c) to finance non-developmental expenditures, such as administrative
buildings, military works, etc.
34.       The addition of the counterpart from the proposed loa:i should
enable total unassisted invcstments during the next 12 months to reach
approximatcly US$ 140 million equivalent, only a smali percentage of Wtsi ch
would be ineligible for Bank financing under the abcve criteri.a. The
Government thus has a wide choice as to the specific uses of counterpart
funds, and the following list, taken from the Government's unassisted in-
vestment program, is merely illustrative of the types of investments for
which the counterpart funds may be used:
hural Dovelopnt;nt: oecondary roads, flood damagt repair,
agricultural rs.earch and extension, comrmmity develop-
ment and rural public health.
Education: Secondary, university and vocational.
Hospitals
Industrys Small and medium manufacturing, handicrafts and
the industrial development corporation.
Low income housing
35.       The rural development projects are helping to integrate
rural communities into the national economy, raise their standard of living
and in general improve tneir economic and social welfare. The secondary
road projects are administered by the Ministry of Public Works, while
the flood damage repair is administered by the Public 'Works Bureau of
Departments and Territories. Agricultural research and extension, carried
out by the Colombian Agricultural Institute, includes experimental and de-
monstration work in a variety of crops grown in the tropical and temperate
areas of Colombia. The comunity development and rural public health
programs involve financial and technical assistance by a number of different
public agencies in rural public works and community organization (e.g.,
fishing and forestry cooperatives). Perhaps the most important of these
activities is the coamunity action program for the Community Development
Fund which assists comdnity-sponsored self-help projects. The educational
programs on the list include equipment for vocational schools, secondary
school construction, teacher training and scholarships. (The absence of rural
primary education from the list reflects only the heavy involvement of AID in
the programs which are under way or ready to proceed in this area.) The
publIc health projects include the completion of existinig, and construction
of some new, hospitals throughout Colombia in accordance with .he national
hospital plan. The industrial projects include loans for small and medium
industry and equipment, b-tlding construction, and technical assistance
for "Artesanias de Colcnbi.a", the agency of the Ministry of Devolopnment
responsible for tte development of handcraft industries. The housing



- 15 -
projects are administered by the Instituto de Credito Territorial, the
public agency responsible for housing programs in citied of more than
30,000 inhabitants. One of its largest programs involves the construction
of public service facilities and minimum housing in "barrios jovenes",
new neighborhoods (often squatter settlements) populated by low-income
families.
(d)    Allocation of Peso Counterpart for Working Capital
36.       US$10 million equivalent of the peso proceeds of the program
component would be used for working capital financing for the private
exDort sector. There was some indication of a lack of adequate working
capital for industry at the time of the 1970 Economic Reportl1 and
this shortage became increasingly evident with the tightening of domestic
credit following the decline in coffee prices. The funds involved would
complement government measures (discussed in paragraph 21 above) which
would ease the shortage of working capital for exporters. They would
be deposited in a special Government account within the Banco de la
Republica (BCR) and loaned to BOR, at 15-1/2 percent Interest fcr 20 years,
including 5 years grace, for use in tho operations of BCR's Private
Investment Fund (PIF) and Industrial Financing Fund (FFI). The funds
would be loaned for permanent working capital purposes, through development
finance companies, commercial banks and other appropriate financial
intermediaries, to enterprises submitting projects which neet the export
criteria spelled out in paragraph 43 below. The loans would be made
available at 16 percent interest to the financial intermediaries who
would add a 3 percent spread, making the interest rate to the investment
enterprisa 19 percent; the period for repayment by an investment enterprise
would not exceed 15 years. These terms are thus approximately the same as
for loans made ir. local currency under the Bank's most recent development
finance companies loan--see discussion in paragraph 45 below. lEo limit
has been placed on the use of repayments from the working capital loans,
and it is expected that, to the extent the funds are not needed to service
the 20-year loan from the Government, they will be retained by PIF and
FFI for usae in their normal lending operations.
Export Projects Component
37.       In order to assist the Government to carry out its policies and
programs for the promotion of minor export growth, US$20 million of the
proposed loan would be allocated through financial intermediaries to export-
oriented sub-projects of industrial and agricultural enterprises. It is
difficult to develop any precise estimate of the demand for funds under
this component. The best available indicator, however, is the most recent
loan for development finance ^o,anies (Loan 7h2-CO), which was signed in
May 1971. Of the loan amount of US$40 million, almost US$37 million has
already been committed to sub-projects, and loan applications covering most
of the balance are under review within the Bank.  Of the amount already
committed to sub-projects under Loan 742-CO, over one-half is for enterprises
which export at least part of their oul1ut. Assuning continuation of
reasonably satisfactcry minor export policies by the Goverrment, the export
projects comjonent would probab   be fully conndttes. to sub-prolects within
12 to 15 morths from the date o  ef?ec?iveness.
I/ "Economic Growth of Colombia: Problens and Prospects," Volume I,
WH-200a, November 1, 1970, pp. 22-25.
ANNU IV
Page h



- 16 -
38.       This componant is intended to provide finance for a large number
of enterprises and it was therefore necessary to arrange for it to be
channeled through a correspondingly large number of credit institutions,
with whom they have banking connections, rather than confine it to those
deve1opment finance companies which are the bensficiaries of the Bank's
nonmal DFC loan.
(a) Structure and Administration
39.       The Government, as borrower, would place the Bank funds in
trust with the Banco de la Republica (BOR) for administration by the
BOR's Department of Development Credit (DDC). This Department also
administers tiLe four Bank loans for JFC's in Colombia, totalling
US$102.5 million. The DDC would channel the US$20 million export proj-
ects coeponent through two BOR funds which it administers, the Private
lnvestment Fund (PIF) and the Industrlal Financing Fund (FFI).
40.       PIF, which was established in 1963 as a means of channeling a
substantial flow of external and internal credit for medium and long-
term financing of productive investments in industry, is now one of the
principal channels for such financing in Colombia. PIF has received over
US$30 million equivalent in long-term loans from AID, IDB, KfW and a Dutch
bank. This entire amoun. has been committed for approved sub-loans.
Approved loans fromnlocal currency resources had reached Col$1.7 billion
by December 31, 1911. FFI was created in 1968 to serve small and medium-
size industry. Its funds have so far been derived f-om the sale of bonds,
from a commitment of US$8.4 million by AID under its urban sector loan
signed in August 1971, and from a Col$65 million resos loan from the
Government which forms part of the matching contribution required under
the AID loan. Loans rade by FFI through December 31, 1971, totalled
Col$446 million. The objective of including FFI in the loan is to assure
the availability of adequate resources to smaller finms, which are
generally labor intensive and which the Government believes contain sub-
stantial potential for the development of new types of exports. Additional
data on the operations of PIF and FFr are contained in Annex IV to this
report.
41.       PIF and FFI, in accordance iwith their rormal regulations, would
relend the Banik funds through DFC's, commercial banks and public develop-
ment banks which are in good standing with BOR and which are willing and
able to appraise projects and follow their execution. The inter-
mediary will be expected to submit appraisal reports with its loan appli-
cations to PIF and FF1 and will assume the credit risk on all approved
loans. DDX would review fully the intermediaryts appraisal and carry out
supplementary analyses where necessary. DDC would also be responsible
for reviewing sub-loan supervision by the intermediaries. Final approval
of all PIF and FFI loans within BOR would rest wirth its Board of Directors
except that all FF1 loans of less than Col$200,000 would be approved by
ANNEI IV



- 17 -
the Director of DDC. In order to avoid concentration of Bank funds in a
few investment projects, the ma.is= amount of Bank financing for anr'
investment project has been fixed at US$1 million equivalent.
)42.      The Director of DIC is caqpetent and experienced.  Professional
staff in general have good training and adequate experience in project
appraisal and follow-up work. DDC has recently been reorganized, and two
separate operating unita have been established, one to deal exclusively
with PIP and Bank loans for DFC's and the other to deal with FFI, other
funds of BOP/ and supporting engineering, accounting, disbursing and sLatis-
tical services. The reorganization, which was accompanied by an increase
in professional staff, would considerably improve DDC's capacity to hanile
the proposed loan operation. Tbe enginrering staff, however, needs further
strengthening, and 'be DOR is obtairnig two additional engineers for DDC.
BOR also is obtaining the full-time services of a consulting engineer
experienced in appraisal and sgpervision of industrial investment
projects. This consultant, who will be available for at least one year be-
ginning August 1, 1972, will assist DDC to develop criteria for the engineer-
ing appraisal and supervision of investment projects and will train DDC
staff to review the englneering aspects of project appraisal. Given this
reinforcenent of the appraisal capacity of the intennediaries and their ex-
perience in analyzing export-oriented projects (the sub-loans will be ex-
clusively oriented to exports), it is not necessary to subject sub-loan
comitments to prior Bank approval. However, the Bank would check DDC's
work through rpv_a,sing the adequacy of DDC's evaluations of appraisal
reports, thrc;. .i normal Jupervision missions and through the review of
DDc progres.-.,  ports.
(b) Eligible Export Projects
43.       Export projects eligible for financing under the Bank loan would
be those in which the enterprise applying for a loan could establish that
the project would create new capacity or increase existing capacity for
the production or transportation of export coamodities or commodities for
foreign tourists at prices which would yield net foreign exchange earnings
over a five-year period from completion of the project. TW q definition is
similar to the one currently used in PIF operations, except t.iat detailed
criteria for export proJects in the transport and tourism sectors have not
yet been developed. It was agreed during negotiations that projects in
the latter sectors would not be financed urder the Bank loan until su.wh cri-
teria had been approved by the Bank. Following no¢nmal DDC procedures, each
application for a sub-loan would have to be supported by a satisfactory
export plan (market study, export arrangements, etc.). For small enter-
prises not currently producing for export, the Govemnment's export promotion
agency (PROEXPO) would provide technical assistance, and PIF or FFI, as
the case may be, would require a certificatior by PROEXPO of the feasibility
of the export plan.
In addition to PIF and FFI, DDC administers an Urban Development Fund
and three discounting operations. Most DDC staff spend the bulk of
their time on either PIY or FF1.



- 18 -
(c)   Eligible Zxpenditures; Sub-Loan Terms and Conditions
44.       The Bank funds would finance investments in fixed assets.  The
Bank would reimburse the EOR, under this compment of the loan, for
(a) 100 percent of the foreign costs of gooda procured abroad, and (b)
50 percent of the cost of goods procured locally (including goods procured
off-the-shelf), except that the aggregate amount which could be financed
in this latter category is US$5 million equivalent. Some Bank financing
of local costs is possible under this formula, but the foreign exchange
component of fixed assets procured locally and financed under the loan
ia likely to be so large that any Bank financing of local costs would be
very small. In accordance with their normal regulations, the PIF loans
vould not exceed 80 percent of total costs of eligible projects and the
FFI loans would not exceed 65 percent of the amount of the intermediary's
loan. (The reason for the different formulas for PIF and FFI loans is
principally that, in FFI operations, a higher parcentage of working capital
financing would ordinarily be involved, and the intermediary is expected
to finance a subatantial share of such financLng.)
45.       Sub-loans, whether made by PIF or FFI, would be for terms of up
to 15 years, at an interest rate to the ultimate sub-borrower of 10-3/4
percent, plus an 8-1/4 peicent charge by BOR when the enterprise elects
to have the BOR assume the exchange risk. This rate would thus be virtually
identical with the rate of 10-3/h percent plus 8 percent exrhange risk
coverage charged under the most recent DFC loan (Loan 742-oo). As in
Loan 742-Co, the 10-3/4 parcent rate would be allocated as follows:
7.25 percent for Bank interest rate, 0.50 percent for BCR administration,
and a 3 percent spread to intermediaries. Repayments on smb-loans not
required to service the Bank loan would be retained by PIP and FFI to
finance investment projects, giving priority to projects designed to
increase the production of non-traditt.onal exports, ir. accordance wit.h
their normal regulations.
(d)   Procurement and Disbursement
46.       Procurement and disbursement procedures would be the same as
under normal B nk DC loans. Commitments could not exceed the US$10
millior. allocated to this ccaponent under the first tranche of the loan
until satisfactory completion of the performance review discussed in
paragraph 28 above. The disbursement period for this component is
expected to be about 2h-30 months.



- 19 -
PART V - LEAL INSTRUMENT AND AUTHORITY
47.       The draft Loan Agremwent between the Bank and the Republic of
Colombia and the Report of the Comnittee prnvided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a resolution
approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive
iLrectore separateoly. The draft Agreeoent contains provisions to reflect
the various arrangements described in Part IV, above.
48.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreenmt of the Bank.
PART VI - FECCHOuMICNI
49.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 31, 1972



ANNEX I
Page l
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATICNS IN COLOMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As at April 30, 1972)
US$ million
Loan                                                     Amount (less cancellations)
Number    Year   Borrower                  Purpobe       B-nk      IDA  Undisbursed
Fully disbursed loans
and credits                             356.5    19.5
369       1964   Empresas Publicas de
Medellin                 Power           39.0             1.4
451       1966   Banco de la Republica     Industry       25.0             o.6
499       1967  Enpresa Nacional de        Communica-
Telecomuricaciones        tions          16.0             1.5
502       i967   Instituto Colombiano de
la Refoma Agraria        Irrigation       9.0             5.0
534       .Aj63  Banco de la Republica     Industry        12.5            1.2
536      i968    Empresa de Acueducto y Al- Water
cantarillado do Bogota    Supplb         14.0             2.5
537       1968  Empresa de Energia
Electrica de Bogota      Power           18.0             3.5
550       1968   Colombia                  Roads          17.2             3.5
551       2968  Ferrocarriles Nacionales   Railways       12.4             1.3
552       1968   Colombia                  Education       7.6             2.6
575       1968   Interconexion Flectrica
S. A.                    Power           18.0             8.5
624       1969   Colombia                  Agriculture    17.0            14.7
625       1969   Banco de la Republica     Industry        25.0            3.9
651       1969   Colombia                  Agriculture    18.3            17.6
679       1970   Colombia                  Education       6.5             3.7
680       1970   Colombia                  Roads           32.0           20.6
681       1970   Interconexion Electrica
S. A.                    Power           52.3            39.1
682       1970   Empresas Municipales de   Water
Cali                      Supply         18.5            16.8
738       1971  Enpresas Municipales de    Water
Palmira                   Supply          2.0            1.9
739       1971  Colombia                   Agriculture     8.1             8.o
-740      1971  Enpresa Nacional de        Communica-
Telecomunicaciones        tions          15.0            15.0
741       1971   Empresa do Acueducto y Al- Wdater
cantarillado de Bogota    Supply         88.0            83.8
742       1971   Banco de la Republica     Industry       40.0            34.0
Total                                    867.9    19.5
of which has been repaid                147.2     0.1
Total now outstanding                    720.7    19.4
Amount sold                    18.3
of which haa been repaid      17.5        0.8
Total now held by Bank and IDA           719.9    19.4
Total undisbursed                        292.7           292.7



ANNEX I
Page 2
B. STATWW~ OF lit fl4?ESTITS
(as at April 30, 1972)
Lmount in US$ million
year             Obligor              Type of Business     i     t3    Tota
1959         lmainas del Caribe, S. A.    Fiber-bdard       0,50     -     0.50
1)60-1965    Industrias Alimenticias
Noel, S. A.                 Food products     1.98   .O0    2.06
1961         &Evases Coltbianos, S.A.     Metal can"        0.70     -     0.70
1961-1968    Morfec-Productoe para el
Hogar, S. A.                Home furniture    0.08    0.09   0.17
1961         Electromanufacturas, S.A.    Electrical
equipment        0.50     -     0.50
1962         Corporacion Financiera       Development
Colombians                   Financing         -     2,02    2.02
1962-1963    Corporacion Financiera       Development
Nacional                     Financing         -     2.04    2.Oh
1963-1967-   Compania Colombiana de
1968-1969    Tejidos, S. A.              Textiles          1.86    0.27   2.13
1964-1970    Corporacion Financiers de    Development
Caldas                       Financing         -     0.81    0.81
1964-1968    Forjas de Colombia, S. A.    Steel forging      -      1.27   1.27
1966         Almacenes Generalesa de
Deposito Santa Fe, S. A.    Warehousing       1.00    -      1.00
1966         Industria Ganadera Cola-
biana, S. A.                Livestock         1.00   0.58    1.58
197-1970     IO(A do Colombia, S. A.      Taxtiles          1.00    1.65   2.65
1969         Ccpania de Dbsarrollo de
Hoteles y Turiwio, ltds.
Hoturisno                   Tourism            -     0.01    0.01
1969         Corporacion Financiera del   Development
Norte                        Financing         -     0.43    0.43
1969         Corporacion Financiera del   Developnent
Valle                        Financing         -     0.h3    0.43
1970        fPrnotora de Hoteles de
Turismo M4edellin, S. A.    Tourism           0.23   0.11    0.314
1970         Pro-Hloteles, S. A.          Tourism           0.80    0.22   1.02
Total gross commitments                        9.65  10.0o   19.66
less cancellations, terminations,
repayrents and sales                          7.75   1.50    9.25
Total commitments now held bIy IFC             1.90   8.51   10.41
Total =ndisbased                                -     0.25    0.25
=        =      =



ANNEX I
Page 3
C.  EROJE=S IN EIECUYIOI
There are now 24 effective loans under disbursement and these are
proceeding without significant delays in disbursements except for the
followings
US$39 million (Electric Power) loan of Februarv. 1964 (Ln. 369)
In Septesber 196?, the Executive Directors approved amendments
to the Loan Agreement to permit the financing of additional
generating unite out of project savings. Subsequent delays in
the delivery of equipment made necessary a postponement of the
Closing Date to October 31, 1972, and it is expected that the
loan will be fully disbursed by that date.
US$9 million (Irrigation) loan of June, 1967 (Ln. 502)
This project has suffered from unexpected difficulties in selecting
suitable irrigable soils. Construction is now two years behind
schedule and disbursements will probably not be completed before
the end of 1973.
US$18 million (Electric Power) loan of December, 1968 (Ln. 575)
In June 1971, the Executive Directors approved a change in the
project description for this loan for a power interconnection
project to allow the use of savings for the construction of an
additional -transaissior line (R 71-130). The original project
has been completed and disbursements for the project addition are
proceeding at the forecast rate.
US$17 million (Agricultural Credit) loan of June, 1969 (Ln. 62h)
This loan finances a 4-year supervised credit program of INCORA
to improve productivity on about 2,500 medium-size irrigated
and rainfed farms. The project has been affected by many problems,
one of wh4.L.h is that INCCRA inow prefers to concentrate its
resources on farmers who have already benefitted frmn the agrarian
reform prograF thus excluding areas presently undergoing nuch
programs. As only US$2.2 million of the US$17 million loan has
been disbursed through April 30, 1972, the Government is in the
prOCeSS Of preparing proposals for restructuring the project.
US$18.3 nillion (Livestock Development) loan of December, 1969 (Ln. 651)
TIie loan haa been affected by policy and administrative problems,
among which are the unsatisfactory investment climate arising
from the lack of clarity in application of the Agrarian Reform
Law, and the failure on the part of the Government to provide
sufficient short-term financing for working capital and purchase
of feeder steers. The latter problem has left some pa.ticipating
ranchero unable to service debts and has ccntributed to the



ANNEX I
Page 4
slowdown in the demand for Bank funds. The Government feels that
proposed amendments to the Agrarian Reform Law, which have nassed
the Senate and are awaiting House concurrence, should go a long
way toward resolving investment uncertainties in the agricultural
sector. The Government also has recently increased substantially
the availability of short-term funds for the Bank-financed project.
The losn is being kept under close review, however, so that an
appropriate course can be embarked on if the rate of progress does
not improvo substantially in the next few months.
US$18.5 million (Cali Water Supply and Sewerage) loan of June, 1970
(Ln.6P,2)
Of this loan for a water supply and sewerage project in Cali,
US$1.7 million was disbursed as of April 30, 1972. The project
lost about one year due to a change in the Cali Municipal Govern-
ment that occurred after the loan was signed. It has since
progressed slowly mainly because of administrative difficulties
arising from i'3 change In the Cali Municipal Government, which
resulted in a reduction in the borrower's independence, the
resignation of qualified staff and a reluctance on the part of
the Government to provide counterpart contributions. As a result
of a further change in the Municipal Government after recent
elections, a new management will be installed this autumn which
it is hoped will improve the borrower's administration, and the
Bank is discussing with the Government a schedule for   payment
of its counterpart contributions. The project is being kept
under close supervision with a view to determining appropriate
Bank action if improvements fail to materialize during the course
of this year.
US$6.5 :_jlAion (Education) loan of June, 1970 (Ln. 679)
Disbursements under this loan (June 1970, US$6.5 million) for
an education project started slowly because of a change in
the administration of the executing agency that occurred after
the loan was signed. Recent Drogress has been satisfactory;
construction has started on c.ght of nine schools included in
the project, and disbursements are ecpected to be completed
by the present Closing Date.



COUPTiY DATA
CCtN'TBY: COLOMBIA
AREtA    I, 139.000 2.                                    '0001*7208      22.3 Cillltn (1971 .idJ..ar, -i-..            DENsITY    19.6 p.   I
-.3. ol Gool,h   3.2£ ltfo  19D9 t9 1i0o)                     ibid       0 1.6 per       .,"I. 1.04
LOPVLATIO. CHbACTE I ST3C2HL
OL%LTh.
Crod. 31lh R.aC Ilpl  1.0001           *7 1961.
Cool. 00.3) 3.9. 19.00 1.0001           15 i264                                            9,002.1200 lo  p.O physIc..  22D  12966
laff00  Ooorllltr up0  i.08i 1900 390161  28 I 967                                        PopIls11o  p00 hoopi,.  .4   400 11966)
IhC0YC DIST N TIIL0:.1                                                                    DOSTI'2T10S OF LAOD OIPIEORSHP1
S.0o na-loojI 1n0. 2050 9,1019          2.21                                               o, land 0    d by lop 20' or-          82.2
1156053          td10990  66.06                                       :2 lood o,ood by .*2 lst 107 0000      0.1
AC0S. T0 P01AS:E iAStlR    It P.lWPlalonI                                                  ACCESS TO LECT7IC1TY   It ol popla.lon.
tob.n  61                                                           Or~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cbon  70
R-4j    20                                                                                 a,.     7
9tRIT700                                                 CGP PEI CAPITA   5125 229702                ED.CATIOy0
Calor to I nl.6n as  *2 POquolt 0.00.  39 1 200.31                                                   *6 900 Ad910 IiI-Y r-        . I:40b6
Per 0. 0t  pnoCeloI,tOlaoO  2,0.     49 * 1$661)                                                   Pr.00r soflool ntolnt ci__ _  it 1909
cross NA0TINAL P  .11 2970)                                                                         A&VWAL R0ATt OF CRo6TH I  00fl51pflI
croIo  In 1031        :2 2  2                                          19600                             19 270
001.o Salional SaotoaO          121221727 .2                                                                        1 9            21 5
C     Irnn A0C00,0 .. I           -               .1. I
CF.p ,,,  f C2 0d. wrs             02              :.6                                               2.1             4 b             0 7
0...3, of Cood.. ors              116               ).0                                                             0.0             1.2
0.2, A4d0d                          Labor Ior-,                             1.2W. Addd P-r W-rk-r
2.3 NOllIlonI    :.                    01221003   2.                    200 Sl             t o) nAonal a roao.
1.0010021000                   2300          09 2                   2. 91.9  40.7                     002                      2
lnd-,loo                       2701          2P                     I 226    29 1                     246                    233
S                              NDO0,  2920   CA.7                   2 279     39 5 0221                                       223
sol09al20000.500            00-          200.C i.164                     200.0                    2226                    100
P13 IC FtSLSCO 1 2070 o                                                                                                  KasAlllonal -oV.r-n.o  _
I Jluo0s 20203 01221001                                                         . : ol 40 OA,.,,            1un09    2.o, CDr      o.: CDP A4,0...
IA,OUt)    2. of CDP    Iast Chr   ..ars                                   Iast Ih.. ...
C,,fnl RoolpI.                                                                                                6`b        9.2            8. 
Coo:r,5 E I podls*.os 22002. srOn.l00*I                                                                       428        6 2            3.0
CoptCal Elpo-di t.-.,  811-21 ... 2. f.                                                                                                 10
Etlornal 6302320230  10.1)                                220         2 2                                      75        2.             2.2 
P8C., 0253 11102.
C0 0 bOar                   61.O2f..l  Porl. 2,d0.                    B-b1 C-6dil 90 P.b6It S.-10            b,, Cr dlt to Pr    0 Se0tor
1d0. 22363.1001    1                                           ta0  (A   2. h-,n3.  ()At,uIr          ' thn..
2960             2~~~~    ~      ~~6.05  6.0
2969                   260.             6.*1
2970                   194.6            7.6
III                    211.6            9.8
Fob. 197!                   211 7
rob. 1272                   227.2            I2 0
s*2.AOcE or PAY*4)t0                                                    8111NDtoS0 EXPORTS o*0      f 190 968  1969  19702 -
(R III--- Vs 37                                                                              211S 2(VS$ l n-      I
2968     169       70                 C  l                                                        390.4           o2.9
100003. ,9 .1.04.. SF0  188    870i-   2088                 40021                                                         9.6             .
Itt.p Co-s 0ro Zf ..d.. XFS  C oK                                      :.s .1
P.- or. Coo ( 2.1619.-           .18     .69      .369              . 002.2.17.
2000000t F.y-nt3. 29                                                  Catt92 n.  ..8                                                               :.0
0oobI-. 0090                                                          AII3 1h32  0093 Sog.0                                         0.1             2.
0000  Palostr Pyoo    sI        .822    .244     .280                 *13a 030. Co     0                                           9.1             20.
003 Oraoofon Curr.nT A u         .820   .1216     244                  tOXEUAL 6E0T Ol D.CCE   1. 1940
Balaoo. torn 0,00005  - "000    .2         5 20  ."9
4.dlun Dd Long-t-rD L. DA 19-.1 112       111      Itl                 tleni-A ADd L-n--t.r- Cr40t8. PbI- 9  C012 9
d  bb. n1o23                                 1261                                P No01  06 iL aC NI.T.                       152  2
A_"9a3Ci_ 071                        266)     (209
07ft1.91 C'On.-                   R0       n                                  .0 1,3.2 00t3000d0g .Dd Of.b r.d.                   1229.1
09600 00p99.  1n091               .        .       27 j2'
00003. In '209600.1 8.3.0,05 6-         b 0      36               0DST SE0VIC0 RATIO  19001- 11.4 2
All OT-r It---                             .2      19                 ItUlD/IDA L2ND2. C. DitC 213 21 1971                              (S .il.9
C..s. B--rn-   "                 212      201      230                 %3C.0.4108 And D0.b6.04d                                    292             20
0.t ..-n.                         3        31      30152                mdib.r6.d                                                  321             -
00t.t3d0 n  I.,l. tUdl.b.r-d                                712             20
3030 of 10h065: Ls: 1.08    * C.02  23,10            D0..:       -ay 19. 2972
I023 1.00 -   C1S 0.0861           0 paO,t900:  500t0  AYP10 110900t-
V1  3J.9t onus.  rl8orps ro9or olItt.. 320*                                                       k4p0 vn1p EnrorprnsO.).
jd  20,,4.. 7.310,a  CooOr.9. 0a3003 go8..9o02tho 1Ch.9.p,..    Adoparbl.otot.-d.. .1
PIS,os ar. Int-ndod a. .0309,2 aosto.a_3lonf Oath.. 96,0 pr0ldb  oalt..  -nd ar. ..bJocl 30 00013900 *- 10000 6*nv   60,00  a,o12a62..
M-.     IC,30 d- *00_t 3936t3.tath
1, ITn Sp. C., Dnf-_uAt d ti.nsfer
XIC..t-a lI.k rsre



ANNEX III
COLOMIA
WAN SUMMARY
Borrower:                Republic of Colombia.
Amount:                  Tne equivalent in various currencies of US$60 million,
divided into two tranches of US$30 million each.
Terms:                   Repayable in 20 years, including five years of grace,
at an interest of 7-1/4 percent per annum.
Project Description:     (i)  Program Component:  US$10 million (US$20
million from each tranche) to finance imports
of raw materials, intermediate products and
capital equipment which  ill be associated with
the higher economic growtr: rate contemplated
under the Government development program;
counterparc funds from import financing to be
used to support public investment program
(US$30 million aquivalent) and working capital
needs of export enterprises (US$10 million
equivalent);
(ii) Export Projects Component: US$20 million (US$10
million from aach tranche) to finance enterprises
producing non-traditional exports by means of
sub-loans made through Banco de la Republica and
financial intermediaries at Bank's interest rate
plus one-half of one percent, to Banco de la
Republica for adminiatrative costs, plus 3 percent
to financial intermediaries  plus 8-1/4 percent to
cover exchange risk assumed by Banco de la Republica.
Estimated Disbursements:                         1972  1973  197h   Total
On Imports               20    20     0     L0
Export Projects           0    10    10     20
Total           20    30     0     Z 
Consultants:             The Banco de la Republica is making arrangements to
obtain for its Department of Development Credit,
beginning August 1, 1972, the services of a consulting
engineer experienced in the appraisal and supervision
of industrial investment projects.



ANNEX IV
Page 1
BANCO DE IA REPUBLICA
PRIVATE }}VESTMENT FUND AND INDUSTRIAL FINAAN]CTNG FUND
PRIVATE ThVESTMEN FUTND
The Private Investment Fbnd (PIF) was established in 1963
by Resolution No. 11 of the Board of Directors of the Banco de la Republica
(BOR), "olonbials central bank. It operates as an account in the BOR
and is managed by that institution's Department of Development Credit (DDC).
The BOR has operated a system of selective credit oriented towards develop-
mental objectives since 1950; and the operation of PIF therefore has
involved the intensification of existing techniques of development financing,
rather than the introduction of a complete innovation in its procedures.
Resolution No. 11 provideB that the resources of PIF shall be used in the
financing of private investment in manufacturing industry and mining (various
tvpes of agriculture have been added by subsequent resolutions), selected
according to economic criteria in the following order of priority; ti)
diversification and promotion of exports, (ii) elimination of shortages in
the production of goods and services, particularly those related to production
for exports, and (iit) import substitution. In 1971, following the adoption
of a revised economic development plan for 1970-73 by the Pastrana adminis-
tration, these priorities have been modified to give the employment generating
effects of a project equal weight with its export potential. Also, in its
appraisal of projects, PIF gives important weight to the project's contribution
to regional development and 'ts utilization of domestically-produced raw
materials.
Originally PIF loans could be used only for the financing of fixed
investments, including: purchase of machinery and equipment; construction
of buildings: machinery installation: and the cost of technical studies
required for the preparation of investment projects. Certain other types
of investments could also be financed in the case of agricultural projects
with a long period of gestation. More recently, however, PIF has been
authorized to lend for working canttal financing uD to 20 percent of the
total PIF financing for a project. For the working capital loans made from
counterpart generated under proposed Bank Program and Fxport Expansion Loan,
the ?O percent lir.4tation would be waived.
PIF loans are made through all banks and other financial inter-
mediaries having access to the services of,and in good standing with, the
BCR. The financial intermediary is required to submit with loan applications
to the PIF a technical, economic, and financial study containing detailed
information about the investment enterprise involved and the investment
project. The MC staff evaluate this information, paying special attention
to how the project conforms to the PIF priorities listed above. After
completing its evaluation of the study, it recommends either approval or
rejection of the proposal to the BOR Board. The Board's decision is final.
In PIF's normal lending operations the maximun term Of loans is
10 years; the interest rate to the investment enterprise varies with the



ANN.FX TV
Page 2
term of the loan, the mariLnu being 18 percent for 10-year loans.   For
the proposed Bank loan, the maximim term would be 15 years and the interest
rate to the investment enterprise would be 10-3J4 percent, plus
an 8-IA percent charge for exchange risk coverage where the investment
en.t4rprise chooses to have that risk assumed by BOR. PIF financing cannot
exceed 80 percent of the total cost of a project, nor 50 percent of the
investment enterprise's net worth. The financial intermediary assumes the
credit risk on all PIF loans and is allowed an appropriate interest rate
spread (3 percent in the case of the proposed Bank loan). The attached Tables
1 to 4 describe PIF operations through December 31, 1971.
INDUSTRIAL FINANCING FUMD
The Industrial Financing Fund (FFI) was established in 1966
by resolutitn of the National Ybnetary Board. As with PIF, it is operated
as an account in the BOR and is managed by the DDC. The primary objective
oi FFM is to provide working canital financing to small and medium-sized
industry, but it can also lend for fixed assets to such industry, and has
a special credit line for the purchase and sale of capital goo produced
locally. The same financial intermediaries which participate in PIF are
eligible to receive fin ncing from FFI. Its requirements and procedures
for the review and approval of loans applications are essentially the same
as for PIF, except that for loans of less than Col$20C,000 the Director of
DD5, rather than the Board of BOR, can approve the loan. FFI finances ur to
65 percent of the financial intermediary's loan. To be eligible to participate
in FF1 financing, industrial enterprises must have total assets which do not
exceed ColS 20 million. Firms with between Col$5 million and Col$20 million
must pass the additional test of having no more than Col$100,000 pesos in
total assets per employee, except that this relationship is raised to
Col$150,0 per emp2oyee for firms whose projects wi2l produce exports yielding
a net increase in foreign exchange. If the loan is for fixed assets only,
it cannot exceed 20 percent of the net worth of the investment enterprise,
with a maximum. of ColS? million. There are no similar limitations for loans
solely for working capital. If the Joan is for both working capital and
fixed assets, the only limitation on the si7.e of the Joan is that the fixed
asset portion cannot exceed 50 percent of the total loan. The interest rate
on FFI loans varies from lh percent to 16 percent for loans ranging from
one to five years. For loans made with the resources of the Program and
Export Expansion loan, the interest rate and maximmu term would be the same as
those described above for PIF loans.
FFI received its initial cap'tal of Col$O0 million in 1968 through
the sale of BOR six-month bonds. The next substant- aL1 injection of resources
came when AI) in Axgust lQ71 allocated to FFI US$ RA. million equivalent from
the proceeds of an urban sector loan siened in August 1971. The AID allocation
called for a matching contribution from the Goverranent of approximately
Col$180 million, of which Col$65 mdfllion has so far been contributed. The
operations of FF1 are described further in the attached Tables 5 to 7.



TABLE 1
PRIVATE INVESTMENT FUND (PIF)
SUMMAPY OF OPERATIONS TO DECEMBER 31, 1971
Local Resources            External Resources
OPERATIONS                         No.             COL$   (Thousands)             US$ (Thousands)
Applications Received              986                  3,009,724                     41,666
Applications- Pending               42                    189,836                      4,124
Applications Withdrawn              45                    144,992                      1,589
Reductions and Cancellations        51                    404,903                      4,096
Applications Denied                 122                   498,640                      1,233
Applications Approved              745                  1,771,353                     30,624
1/   The PIF obtained about US$33.4 million from the following sources:   IDB (US$3 million),
AID-USA (US$20 million), KfW-Oermany (US$8.8 million equivalent), Herstelbank-The Netherlands (US$1.6 million)
equivalent). The Banco de la Republica informed the Bank that as of April 30, 1972, these funds
were fully committed.
Source: Banco de la Republica                                                                                     a



TABLE 2
PRIVATE INVESTMENT FUND (PIF)
LOANS AFPROVED AT DECEMBER 31. 1971 - CLASSIFIED BY DEPARTMENTS
LOCAL RESOURCES                      EXTERNAL RESOURCES
COL$                                    US$
No.     %      (Thousands)   %           No.     %    (Thousands)   %
Antioquia                    235     38.2     355,410     20.1         43     33.1    8,818    28.8
Atlantico                     21      3.4     166,440      9.4         13     10.0    2,975     9.7
Bolivar                       12      2.0      79,096      4.5          5     3.8     2,444     8.0
Boyaca                         3      0.5      67,701      3.8         --      --      --       --
Caldas                        20      3.3      62,152      3.5          8     6.2     1,932     6.3
Cauca                          4      0.7      32,350      1.8         --      --      --       --
Cesar                          2      0.3      13,580      0.8         --      --      --       --
Cordoba                       --      --        - -        - - -    --        -                  -
Cundinamarca                  56      9.1     227.089     12.7         33     25.4    4,170     13.6
Choco                           1     0.2         900      0.1         --      --      --       --
Huila                         --      --        --         --          --
Guajira                       --      --        --         --          --      --      --       --
Magdalena                     170    27.5      89,754      5.0         --      --      --       --
Meta                           5      0.8       8,352      0.5         --     --       --       --
Narino                         4      0.7       4,738      0.3         --      --      --       --
Norte de Santander              7     1.1      64,697      3.7         --     --       --       --
Quindio                       --      --        --         --          --      --      --       --
Risoralda                      6      1.0       4,248      0.2           1     0.8      264     0.9
Santander                      18     2.9      79,418      4.5          1      0.8      250     0.8
Sucre                         --      --        --         --          --      --      --       --
Tolima                          1     0.2       4,570      0.3          2      1.5      382      1.2
Valle                         48      7.7     509,658     28.8         24     18.4    9,389    30.7
Putumayo                        1     0.2         500      0.0         --      --      --       --
San Andres                      1     0.2         700      0.0         --      --      --       --
TOTAL                   615    100.0   1.771,353    100.0        130   100.0    30,624   100.0
Source: Banco de la Republica



TABLE 3
PRIVATE INVESTMENT FUND (PIF)
LOANS APPROVED AT DECEMBER 31. 1971 - CLASSIFIED BY ECONOMIC ACTIVITIES
LOCAL RESOURCES                      EXTERNAL RESOURCES
COL$                                     U S$
No.     %    (Thousands)     %           No.     %   (Thousands)   %
Agriculture                  389     63.3     311,867     17.6          -     -         -       -
Mining (non metalics)           1     0.2      21,400      1.2          _      -        _       _
Food                          33      5.4     263,421     14.9         17     13.1     ,179    10.4
Tobacco                        1      0.2         800      0.0          1     0.8       227     0.7
Textile                       18      2.9     114,249      6.5         20     15.3    6,3U8    20.6
Footwear and clothing          7      1.1       7,694      0.4          4      3.1      200     0.7
Wood                           6      1.0      30,893      1.7          6     4.6       679     2.2
Furniture                       1     0.2       4,700      0.3          1     0.8       544     1.8
Paper                         11      1.8     121,626      6.9          7     5.4     5,667    18.5
Printing                       7      1.1      44,939      2.5          4      3.1    1,327     4.3
Leather                         3     0.5       4,080      0.2          5      3.8      623      2.0
Rubber                          2     0.3       2,600      0.1           1     0.8      124     0.4
Chemicals                     43      7.0     349,516     19.7         18     13.8    5,385     17.6
Petroleum and Coal              1     0.2       1,000      0.1          1     0.8       500      1.6
Mineral Products (non
metallic)                   20      3.2     124,232      7.1         13     10.0    2,809     9.2
Basic Metals                   9      1.5     101,150      5.7          6      4.6      615     2.0
Metallic Products
(except Machinery)          13     2.1       18,126      1.0         13    10.0     1,11;     3.7
Non-electric Machinery         10     1.6      35,132      2.0          3      2.3      310      1.0
Electric Machinery             4      0.6       9,263      0.5          3      2.3      125     0.4
Transport Equipment            5      0.8       7,941      0.4          3      2.3      181     0.6
Miscellaneous Manufactures     4      0.6       6,471      0.4           1     0.8      196      0.6
Construction Equipment          1     0.2       4,000      0.2          -      -        -        -
Transport                      4      0.6      11,153      0.6          -      -        -        -
Storage                        7      1.1      75,476      4.3          3      2.3      506      1.7
Recreation                      1     0.2          242     0.0          -      -        -        -
Hotel for Internatic-al        14     2.3      99,382      5.7          *      -        -        -
Tourism
Total                   615   100.0    1,771,353    100.0        130   100.0    30,624   100.0                7
\n
Source:  Banco de la 'Republica



TABLE 4
PRIVATE INVESTMENT FUND (PIF)
ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION OF LOANS MADE AT DECEMBER 31, 1971
LOCAL RESOURCES                      EXTERNAL RESOURCES
COL$                                     US$
No.     X     (Thousands)    %           No.     %    (Thousands)   %       _
Import Substitution        171    27.8      474,919    26.8          42    32.3     9,610    31.4
Exports                    410    66.7    1,010,178    57.0          75    57.7    17,612    57.5
Substitution and                             -
Export                    13    - 2.1     106,802     6.0           b     4.6     1,986     6.5
"Bottleneck"                21      3.4     179,454     10.2          7     5.4     1,416     4.6
TOTAL                   615   100.0    1,771,353   100.0         130   100.0    30,624   100.0
Source: Banco de la Republica
fly



TABLE 5 -
INDUSTRIAL FINANCTNG FUND
SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS TO DECEMBER 31, 1971
For Working Capital                        For Fixed Capital
No.               COL$ (Thousands)         No.             COL$ (Thousands)
Applications Received                    2,513                  994,011              44                  196,276
Applications Pending                       121                   57,583              11                  123,043
Applications Withdiawn                     133                   97,209               6                    4,695
Applications Denied                        237                  210,000               3                   10,252
Reductions and Cancellations                 4                   31,067               -                   10,448
Applications Approved                    2,018                  627,921              25                   58,286
Amount Rediscounted (65% of Total)           -                  408,149               -                   37,886
Contribution by Financiul
Intermedians (35. of Total)                                   219,772                                   20,400
Source:  Banco de la Republica



TABLE 6
INDUSTRIAL FINANCING FUND
LOANS APPROVED AT DECEMBER 31. 1971 - CLASSIFIED BY DEPAPTMENTS
For Working Capital                                  For Fixed Capital
No.        COL$ (Thousands)          %               No.          COL$ (Thousands)       %
Antioquia                       255           78,127             12.44              1                 7,684           13.20
Atlantico                       131           59,969              9.55              2                 1,834            3.10
Bolivar                         41            11,801              1.88              1                   586            1.00
Boyaca                          42             6,699              1.07              -                   -
Caldas                           53           17,242              2.75              2                   264            0.50
Cauca                            10            4,347              0.69              -                   -
Cesar                            4               740              0.12              -                   -               -
Cundinamarca                    562          264,645             42.15             14                33,734           57.90
Choco                             2              760              0.12              -                   -               -
Guajira                           1              464              0.07              -                   _               _
Huila   -                        26            2,603              0.40              -                   _               _
Magdalena                         6            1,656              0.26              -                   _               _
Meta                             17            2,077              0.33              -                   _
Narino                           29            6,035              0.96              -                   -               -
Norte de Santander              40             6,535              1.04              -                   -               -
Quindio                          47            5,711              0.91              -                   -                -
Risoralda                       131           23,280              3.71              -                   -                -
Santander                       170           25,563              4.07              -                   _
Sucre                             7            2,115              0.34              -                   _
Tolima                          89            13,750              2.19              -                   -                _
Valle                           354           93,787             14.94              5                14,184            24.30
Putumayo                          1               35              0.01              -                   -               -
TOTAL                   2,018           627,921            100.00             25                58,286          100.00
Source:  Banco de la Republica
01



TABLE 7
INDUSTRIAL FINANCING FUND
LOANS APPROVED AT DECEMBER 31, 1971 - CLASSIFIED BY ECONOMIC ACTIVITIES
For WorkinR Capital                                  For Fixed Capital
No.      %      COL$ (THOUSANDS)     %              No.      %      COL$ (THOUSANDS)    %
Coal Mining                    5      0.2         1,845        0.3
Clay and Limestone Mining      1      0.1           150        0.01
Non-MotalUc Minerals           2      0.2           550        0.09
Food                         225     11.1        67,334       10.7
BDvarages                     13      0.7         5,977        0.9
Tobacco                        8      0.4         1,540        0.3
Textiles                     146      7.2        66,611       10.6
Footware and Clothing        330     16.4        78,391       12.5
Wood                          78      3.9        13,584        2.2
Furniture                    113      5.6        15,172        2.4
Paper                        46       2.3        19,161        3.1
Printing                     74       3.7        24,573        3.9
Leather                       53      2.6        10,811        1.7
Rubber                        28      1.4        10,335        1.6
Chemicals                    118      5.9        45,928        7.3
Petroleum and Coal           17       0.8         5,345        0.9
Mineral Products
(Non-metallic)             139      6.9        44,568        7.1
Basic Metals                  64      3.2        20,975         3.3                5      20.0        31.,232        51.
z*aalic Products except
xac*inery                  249     12.3         83,197        13.3                3      12.0           Wh
Son-electric Machinery        62      3.1         19,339         3.1               10      40.0         1,872         13.5
Electric Machinery            53      2.6         19,172          3.1               1       4.0         7,684         13.2
Transport Equipment           87      4.3         37,010          5.9               4       16.0        8,257          14.2
Miscellaneous                100      4.9         34,336          5.5               -         -           -              _
Construction                   5      0.2          2,017          0.2               -         -           -              -
Transport                                                                           2        8.0        2,355           3.9
TOTAL                   2,018    100.0        627,921       100.0               25     100.0        58,286         100.0
.0
Source: Banco de la Republica



ANNRX V
Page 1
TABLE 1
OOLOMBIA: NATIONAL GOVERNMENT CASH INVESTHENT
WITH AND WITHOUT PROPOSED IERD LOAN, 1971 _ 73 -
(Millions of Pesos)
1971         1972                1973
CURRENT PRICES:
Without Loan
Total               6,282     7,085   (12.8)      8,290  (17.0)
Unassisted          2,632     2,055  (-21.9)      3,520  (71.3)
With Loan b/
Total               6,282     7,412  (18.0)       8,950  (20.8)
Unassisted          2:6'      2,382  (-9.5)       X,180  (75-5)
CONSTANT 1970 PRIC_S:
Without Loan
Total               5,785     6,014   ( 4.0)      6,512  ( 8.3)
Unassisted          2,424     1,744  (-28.0)      2,765  (58.5)
With Loan b/
Total               5,785     6,292   ( 8.8)      7,031  (11.7) C/
Unassisted          2, 424    2,022  (-16.6)      3,284  (62.4) C'/
a/   Percentage changes compared with the preceding year shown in parenthesis.
b/   Includes direct and induced revenue effects of proposed IBRD loan (induced
revenues consisting of higher customs duties and sales tax collections
associated with increased imports).
c/   Average annual percentage change:       Total               Unassisted
1970-73   8.9              17.5
1967-73  12.1               7.5



ANNA V
Page 2
TABLE 2
COLOMIA: SUIMARY OF NATIO)OL GOVERNHENT CURRENT
RECEIPTS AND EXEDITURES, 1971 - 73
(Cash Basis, Millions of Pesos)
1971       1972             1973
Without      With
Actual                Loan       LoMn
Results
Current Receipts 1V               14,416     16,885     19,925     20,228a/
Current Expenditures               9e,796    11,400     13,185     13,185
Surplus                            4,620      5,485      6,74-      7,043
(% Change compared with
previous year)                             (18-7)     (22.9)     (28-4)
"Coverage Factor"                  1.47        1.48       1.51       1.53
(Receipts/Expenditures)
/ Minus tax credit certificates issued -a export bonus.
a/ Includes induced revenue effects of proposed IBRD loan, consisting
of higher customs duties and sales tax collections associated with
increased imports.
Sources National Plenning Department



ANNEX V
Page 3
TABLE 3
COLOMBIA: SUMMARY CASH ACCOUNrS OF THg
NATIONAL GOVERMNENr, 1971- 1973
(lillions cf Pesos)
1971          1972-          1973a
*Current Receipts                         lh,416         16,885        20,228
Current Expenditures                       9,796        11,400        13,185
Current Surplus                            4,620         5,485         7,043
Foreign Debt Amortization                    3, o          800           825
Domestic Debt Amortization                   626         1,025         1,065
Investment                                 6,282         7,412         8,950
Gross Foreign Borrowing                    1,606         3,007          3,027
Gross Domestic Borrowing                   1,167           7L5           770
Change in Treasury
Deposits (increase - )                   ^ 115             0             0
a/  Includas direct and indirect effects of proposed IMRD loan in 1972-?3
(induced revenues consisting of higher customs duties and sales tax
collections associated with increased imports).
Source: National Planning Department



ANNEX V
Page b
TABLE 1s
COLOMIA: Balance of Payments, 1968-7#"
(Millions of US Dollars)
Projected
1968       1969       1970       1971     _1972       __
Merchandise Exporta     609        672        788        756      785        825
Merchandise Imports   -615        -648       -802      -784      -800       -925
FOB Trade Balance       -6          24       -14        -28       -15       -100
Service Receipts        179       198        212        235       255        275
Service Payments      -251        -291       -347      -360      -365       -375
Service Balance         -72        -93      -135       -125      -110       -.10C
Goods & Services
Balance               -78         69       -149       -153     -125       -200
Net Factor Payments   -113        - j       -180       -185      -165       -175
Net U3nrequited Transters 31        38        36         25        25         25
Current Account        -160       -175      -293       -3._,     -265       -350
Balance
Net Pritate Capital      52        714       160        196       325        350
Not Public Capital       90        143       124 j
SDR Allocation           0          0        21         17        17          0
Net Reserve Change        6          3         6        100       -77          0
(Increase -)
Errors and OmiaaSions    12        -15       -18          0         0          0
/ Revised 1968-6f Mnd provisional 1970 figures from IMF Balance of Payments
Yearbook; 1971-73 projections by IBRD (with i971 partly estimated
from preliminary data). Merchandise Imports, Service PAymelts, ancd Met
Capital Inflow entries include US$50 nilli.,n IBRD speciil loan disburse-
ments in 1972-1973. These disbursements will raise imports of goods and
non-factor services by an average of about 2 percent per annum in 1M72-73.
Source: IBRD.



