Q                            -  
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '1  i  1L |
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '                    '      'i
-      ,.  ,~ I.
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- o    '  ,,"  



'- ` cuWaEIOY EQUImE``?B-
Currency Unit s CFA Franc (CFAF)
U.S. Dollar s CFAF 286
MEGETS AD H>EESUEES
Metric System
&PEEEITIO     AM ACROYS
AR        Animatrice rurale
CAA       Caisse autonome d'amortissemnt
CAPENI    Centre d'assistance et promotion des entreprises
nationales
CECI      Centre Canadian pour l'étude de la coopération
internationale
CIDA      Canadian International Development Agency
CIDT      Compagnie Ivoirienne de développement des textiles
CIDV      Compagnie ivoirienne de développement des vivriers
CILSS     Côte d'Ivoire Livins Standards Survey
CREP      Caisse rurale d'épargne èt des prêts
CTFT      Centre technique fôrestier tropical de Côte d'Ivoire
DDO      -Direction des opér*tions-
DO        Development Organization
DEF       Direction de l'éducation féminine-
DID  --  Division de l' information .t         4ocaeutalrion
DU(C      Direction  e la mutualité et de la coopération -
\~~~ ,         Î ._... 
GTZ       Geselischaft fuer Technische Zusammenarbeit (Federal
Republic of Germany)
GVC       Groupement à vocation co9pérative
ED        Humn Resources Developmènt
ID'SSA    Institut des savanes
, - q     ^  IDÈF       Institut de l'éducation féminine
ZIADES    Institut africain pour le développement éc*nomique et
social
INSP      Institut national de la santé publique
k            IRCC       Institut de recherches du café et du cacao
IRWA      institut de recherches sur les fruits et agrumes
HMPF      Ministère de la promoti>n f m  ine
NGO       Non-Governmental Agency
OCPV      Office de commercialisation des produits vivriers
SATHACI   Société d'assistance tedhnique pour la modernisation
de l'agriculture en Côte d'Ivoire,
SOCADEVI  Societé Canadienne pour le développement
international
SODEFEL   Société de développement des fruits et desUldgumes
SODEPRA   Société\pour le développement des productions animales
WiD  -     omen in Development
FISCAL 1tER
Governments  January 1 -.December 31
X ~    ~~ ',k\;-1



FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
mE  IN DEVELOPMEUT PILOS SUPPORT PROJCT
Table of contents
Pate
DOCUKENT8 CONftAINED IN PROJECT FILE. ....... ........ *. `  * ** * ....      i
SUMMARY ............*.**.*.*..*..*..*.*.**.**...,....*............           ii
II. BACKGROUNDD1
A.   Socio-Econonic Setting  .... ........ ............ ,
1.   The economy..        ............................             1
2.   Rural sett                  t .......                         4
3.   Socio-Demographic Characteristics...............              -4-
B.   The Role of Vomen in Ivorian Societyc.....                          6
C.   Institutional Enviro ient....                                       8
1.   Agricultural Institutions and Services ..........             8
2.   Educational Prograis, and Vocational Training....              9
3.   Creditr.. .       ..........................                   9
4. Bealth Services .....O
5.   Mon-governmental Organizations ............ ......           10
6.   The Nifistry for the Advancemet of V  «en ..... ..           il
D.   Goveromeut Policy and Strategy .......................             12
B. Bank's Role .....                                                    is
III. THES PRROJECT..                                                         13
A. GTE  eral .............          ............. . ,                   13
1.   Project Rationale .............                              13
2.   Project Concept and Obe       es ... . .                     14
3.   Froject Description  ..... . ............. ....... . .       15
E.   Detailed Features    ...................... ......                 16
1.  Institutional Strengtieuing .......................           16
2.  Rural Outreace Pro               g     r    am....            21
3. Skills Training Program  ........................              24
C.   Project Costs and Plnancig............                             26
Procurement ...............         ,        ..64............. 27
Dibusemetrs..em..en..t                                             28
`eprt        e     po........                                      29
Accouats and Audits ......... ...... ...................           29
This report is based on the findings of au IBiD appraisal mission which-
,took place in April 1989 and a subsequeut post-appraisal mission in March
1990, consisting of Messrs. Jean-Paul Chausse and C. Fauliau, and Mmes. K.
,Kawabata and E. Karp.  Tiie lesd advisor is M1. K. Saitto (PHRUD).
This document has a rosticted distribution and may be used by recipients onby in the performance
of their offlcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dlscloucd wthout Word Bank authorizon.



Table of Contents Cotinued)Pae
rv.8EITB AND R     UIR ......................                       30
Bcni,e ne                       fits .....
Econoic . e.ef.ts.........    .      .....              *           30
ai8k8                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~31
Enviroumeutal IMact ........................................        31
V.                                    JGFEEUsGTS Au                      32
1. 1989 Social Tndicators Data Sheet
2. Average Years of Education and Enroliment Rates
3. Average Labor Supply for Economically Active Ken and vomen
4. Share (Z) of Household Labor Supply Provided by Different Types
of Uousehold MKebers
5. Average Time Spent ln omemaking Activities by Economically
Active Household Members
6. Percent of Adult Females Among Unpaid Fsmily Vorkers and Own
Accouat Vorkers
7. Division of Labor la Two Rlice Production Zones
8. Organiration Chart of Ninistry for the Advancement of Vomen
9. Linkages between the WID Pilot Support Project and the Numan
Resources Development Project
10. Detailed Description of Project Activities (Prepared by >PF>
1l. List of Associeted Mlnisterial Departmaents
12. Eligibility Criteria for the Development Pund
13. Project Cost Summary
IAP s IBRD No. 22328



COTE3 D'IVOXIE
iOHE9 I DEVELOPMENT PILOT SUPPORT PROJECT
DOCHNSS COGTAnE  T1      E PROJET   MLE
A.  VORIKG PAPER
1.   Stratégie et Programme d'Action du XlaistEre de la Promotion de
la Femme, MP?, Novembre 1988.
2. Program for Pilot Project for Vomea lu the Republic of Côte
d'Ivoire - Suggeetions and Recomendstions. B. Thellman,
Jauuary 11, 1990.
B.  DOCUHENTS AND REPORTS
1.   Training and Visit Extension, D. Benor and M. Baxter, The World
Bank <1984>.
2. Education sad Skill Tralaing for Rural Informal and Rural
Employment ln COte dIvoire, The World Bank (1987).
3.   Rapport d'Identification pour un Programe de Soutien au
Ministère de la Promation de la Femme en Côte d'Ivoire.  C.
Fauliau, Banque mondiale (juillet 1988).
4.   Analyse du Systéme de Santé et Financement de son
Fonctionnement. Banque mondiale (novembre 1988).
5.   Progra_  MPPF/anque Mondiale - Projets Pilotes. Ministère de
la Promotion de la Femme (12 décembre 1988).
5.   Document de Travail sur les Ressources Humaines, Banque mondiale
(janvier 1989).
7.  Draft paper on Gender Differences in Educational Attalument and
la Labor Market Participations An analysis of the Côte ;
d'Ivoire. Appleton, Collier, aud Horsuell, Oxford University
(February 1990). (To be published as SDI Paper No. 3, onmen and
Social Dimensions of Structural Adjustmuat).
8.  Draft Initiating Nemorandum for the ICI Human Resources
Development Program, Vorld Bank, March 1990.
9.   Detailed Cost Tables.



COTE D'I,OU&
VOM! IN DEVELOPHUNT PILOT SUPPORT PROJECT
A  AUD PROJECT  8JtIRY
Eorro.ers      Republic of Côte d'Ivoire
Beneficiarvt   Uaiistry for the Advancemiet of Vase» (HP?)
Loan Amouuts   $2.2 million equivalent
Ternms:        Standard
CofInancilns: NIA
Prolect
Obiectives:    The proposed project vould be the pilot phase (24 menths)
of a medium-term program to establish a v4able process for
stretgtbeulig the institutional capacity of suppor't
services, lditially throug; NPP, to better address women's
Issues la tbsee sub-reglons and specifically; (t) iprove
the productivity of the ta-pliig systems of the 
participatlig ruràIl-meu and their ability to market their
produces (îi) upgrade the marketable and employable skills
of the urban vomen eurolled lu selected Institutes for the
gducation of Vomeus (iii faprove the velfare of rural and
urban houseeiolds beuefitting f rom the projects and (iv)
change,the perceptiou of the role of vomen by managers and
staff iho provide support serviëes. as vell as by society
at large and vomen thes_elves.
Prolect
Descritlons   The project comprises three componentss
(a) Starting the process for the strengthening of the MP?
istitutional capacity îwM<) policy sad program
formulation through strategy development, studies,
5 itoring and evaluatiou, and information feedback and
dîssemination; and (ii) coordination and promotion of
activities descrubed below concerned vith the
lmprovemeut of the statue and velfare  f owmem.
(b) Improvement of the economic and social velfare of tural
housebolds in the pilot ares. by enabling the rural
outreach progra  iu tehree sub-'rgions to support rural
vome  in (i) lncreasing their productlvity through
botter acces. to agricultural extension messages sud
assistances (il) formi»g more vame  cooperatives; (<ii)



1ii
Iuprovng food cropa stors ., proceisLug *nd marketing,
through transfer of -toc  ology sud povision of funda
to ficilitate investsunt requred l  this are  (iv)
improVJIg their llteracy, uueracy, knowledge of
household econmics, priusry health care, nutrition,
snd personal sud rural hygi8eme end (>) bacreasng
their capacity to save. -
c>) Improvemeut of the mazketable skills and social velfare
of margialised urban imm e *nrolled La solected
Institutes for the Education of Vcuen through (1>
tra iing la skllls for which there la a murket demsnd;
(i1> better preparation la co.petig. for epecialized
vocational training progra_s; (Li) assistance lu
fUding employment or other incomn geueratLng,
activities; Md (iv) traini"g la literacy, zumeaecy,
home econoadcs and primary health care.
Estlmated Proiect Costa
Local     Forelan   Total
-   _______---0(S  )-------
Institutional Strengtheniag
-Planning end Management              198        89       287
Capacity Buildng                     -327       41       367
Konltoring asu Rvaluation         - =    98     88        186
fnfomation aud Documentatione        131    . 3          185
Studies                              157       189       346
sub-Total                   -             911       460     1.371
-lural Outreach Program     '              342       313       655
skills Tfaing                  -          537       362       899
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS       -_  1,791              1,435     2,925
Physical Contingencles                    116        79        195
Price Contingencies                       331       180        511
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                     2,28      1,393      3,631
<Including Taxes)
Taxes                                   636)         (O)     (736)
TOTAL PIOJECT COSTS                     1,502     1,393     2,895
(Net of Taxes)
I~ ~~~~~~~~ )  



l.v
Local   :oreln        Total
------_---- ($ 000)-----
IERD                                            915       1,270      2,185
Beneficiaries                                    se                     58
povernment                                    1.266         123      1,389
Total                                         2,238       1,393      3,631
Benefits and Risks
Voumen in  CI vould benefit from the increased lustitutional
capacity of goverumoet entitieW to address womens issues (l.e., through
the strengthe,ning of MPP and its ability to coordinate vith, and seek
collaborationof, line miuistries).  The eshanced promotional activities of
M1<? vould translate $nto a greater avarenesa cf wommn's needs, Issues and
rights couatrywide and the incorporation of these concerne iuto future
,ainstream investment programs. The direct principal beneficiaries of the
pilot project vmuld be vmen in the three sub-regions covered. Over a 24-
math period, about 4,800 rural vemea and 1,200 urban vomen vould benefit
from the pilot project, respectiveli through increased fond production and
income from foodf processi4g and marketing, and urban employment. During
tie main phase of tIe pro3ect, lt is expected that about 60,000 rural vomen
vill benefit as all the rural outreach vorkers and the extension agents of
line miniçtrie. woul_ more activl1y provide support services to rural
vonen. About 8,009 urean vc*ma would benefit diuring the main phase since
î11 the Institutes for the Education of Ihmen vould participate.  The   -
ndirect benefits are multiple, as the families of these vomen 'ould alse
benefit from iprovet family velfare both in incore -atd healtb.
Productivity of aIl members of bouseholds would Improve as illuesa ii
reducet.  Since vomen are responsible for the velfare of the family, the
indirect effect, particularly la rural areas snd for future generations,
shoouldbe uuch greater.  The pilot project vould enable the GQoverament to
l`ern from experience aud to design a national program to support vmen,
uhich vould bav, mot ouly a social but also an economic Impact at the
national level.  lu the long-term, slAce vowme are the principal producers
of food crops, the project vould lead to ectious with an Important impact,
on their food security. Furthermore, vWsmllus enhancet role in the national
denelopment effort would contribute to better overall economlc performance
and to poverty alleviation.
The main risk of the project il that HP? vould not have the
capacity to undertake the dynamic operational role requdred under the
project. 8ecause of the decentralised nature of support services 1n COte
d'Ivoire, the task of reorienting each entity to better meet the needs of
vomen, although esseetial, vill take timo.  It vill be difficult to change
the traditional attitudes toward the role of vomen in society, including
those of the civil servants-respoasible for providing support services  iu
the agricultural and twalih)sectors.  TUs task ip further complicated by-
-the eme traditional attitudes that voume have toiard t4emselves.  la spite



ov S   t   \    v          -     - 
of tisag  am Kinistry.  1W? haî  ayuaic suld o.nthuuiatic atliff, moat of
wham art secwded frm tecuilcal ministries.  Stwigthun   th. support
preog ` for wmu on a pilot ecal. woUd iot ouly gLve Lt ,or. tte to
dev-lop, but *leeve tee am*-a chace to observe the evolutton of ?PP',
capabllitLs . Another ritak la the oiffIiultty of d.aign     s8  ip àplmeting
a prolect vith a priorlty theme auch as wu   Luen     developmw Wt,  hlc
requites a multisector approach end for uhlih kiovl.dg  is limited. The
incorporation of a large number of surveys and atudles uslug local
consult&vits  hiere feasible lucreases the use of .mpLrical evidence for
decisions on specîfic fnterveuttons thus redu4ing the risk of adopting
inappropriate approaches for snlancing')the statu* and velfare of wmei.
i~                         `                               -
_  -



COTE D'IVOIRE
VOEN IL DEYELOPMENT PILOT SUPPOT PFOJECT
I. INTRODUCTIOE
1.01      The Government of Côte d'Ivoire has requested Bank assistance in
promoting the advancement of vomen lu the country.  The project ls the
outcome of a dialogue vhich bas been carried out with the Govermnent since
May 198t, on how bout to addrees the constraints and issues facing vomen on
a sustainable basis. As such assistance is multisectoral in nature, both
the Goverzment sad the Bank have been faced vith the difficult task of
designing a project which would address priority areas to improve vomen's
productivity, income earaing potential, velfare. and status. It has been
generally agreed that over the medium- and long-term, the governmeut
support services would have to be reoriented to cover the special needs of
vomen more adequately. This task is made complicated by the Ivorian
decentralized approach to support services which includes numerous semi-
independent agencies and parastatals which supply specialized services.
1.02      The Ministry for the Advancement of Vosen (HPF) in Côte d'Ivoire
has not only a firm political base but also an extensive operational
uetwork throughout the country.' Although various alternatives have been
considered, lt has been decided that iu the case of C^te d'Ivoire a.
strengthened 1<F would best address the key issues facing vomen in the
short-term and facilitate a more rapid incorporation of vomenus issues into
mainstream services over the medium- and long-term. The Impact of this
assistance would be enhanced by parallel efforts through MPP to change the
tzaditional attitudes that both men and vomen have on the role and
potential of vomen. Eovever, given the novelty of the concept of an
accelerated Intervention in support of women and the untested capacities of
=FP. lt has been decided to test these polictes and action programs vithin
the framework of a pilot operation in three representative regions (North,
Center-East and South) of Côte d'Ivoire (Nao IBRD No. 22328).
II. BACKGROUND
A. Soclo-Economic Settins
1. The Economy
2.01      With a GNP per capita of $740 in 1988, the Republic of Côte
d'Ivoire (RCI) i8 a middle lncome country among the most developed in the
Vest African Region. During the 15 years following independence in 1960,
RCI achieved rapid economic growth averaging 7.7 percent p.a. vithout major
external and internal imbalances as a result of favorable resource
endowments, inflows of cheap labor frm néiehboring Sahelian countries,
political stability, and appropriate macroeconomic policies sad au
agricultural-based and export-led growth strategy.



2.02      Despite this favorable initial period of rapid growth, RCI ie
today in the midet of a deep macroeconomic snd financial crisis.  The
country's two key economic problems are a very large structural fiscal
deficit and the lack of competitiveneso of productive sectirs. Vith regard
to the firat Issue, following two years of growing fiscal deficites, the
deficit (on a comaitment basis) reached in 1989 the record level of 16
percent of GDP. Unable to finance such large deficits through internal and
external borrowing, the public sector has been accuoulating external and
ieternal payment arrears. In mid-1987, the Gowerament suspended puyments
to the London and Paris Club creditors. The stock of internal payaient
arrears bas been rapidly expanding, reaching at end-1989 about 20 percent
of GDP, precipitating a serlous liquidity crises sad a loss of confidence
by the private sector.
2.03      The competitiveness of the Ivorian economy has been serioualy
eroded since 1979 by a sharp appreciation of the real exchange rate. For
example, from 1985 to 1988, the real effective exchange rate appreciated by
about 30 percent; the level of real overvaluation may in fact be larger if
one takes into accouant that since 1985 there has been a large deterioration
In the terme of trade sad increases in outstanding external debt. Other
key structural constraints which limpede improving competitiveness are an
inappropriate regulatory framework, excessive interference by the
Government in markets, and a large and inefficient public enterprise
sector.
2.04      The roots of these problems can be`traced to a large extent to
the miemanagement of successive external shocks beginning vith the
couuodity boom of the mid-1970s. Between 1975 asd 1977, the terme of trade
Improved by more than 60 percent, snd public expenditure increased
dramatically from 26.5 percent of GDP in 1975 to 41.4 percent ln 1978.
Novever, when the boom ended, the Goverument, rather than cutting back on
expenditure, financed its ambitious expenditure program through foreign
borrowing. The fiscal deficit vhich vas at 2.2 percent of GDP in 1975 rose
to 11.2 percent la 1981 and has remained hglh except during 1985 and 1986
when the cocoa sad coffee markets experienced another temporary boom and
the Goverument sharply reduced investment expenditures snd temporarily
froze vages sad salaries. This has occurred despite continuous cuts in
public investmont--from 15.2 percent of GDP in 1982 to 3 percent in 1989.
The reason le that current spending 1/ has been on a rising trend (from 18
percent of GDP in 1975 to 32 percent in 1989), and revenues have fluctuated
videly around a virtually horizontal line.
2.05      Large fiscal deficits financed through commodity surpluses or
heavy borrowing led to au acceleration of inflation compared to partner
trading countries sad a loss of coepetîtiveness for the tradable sectors
which did not share in the boom.  thus, RCI las been unable to diversify
out of cocoa and coffee and has remuined extremely vuluerable to changes in
their vorld prices. In addition, because of thepe inappropriate policies,
Ml Net of stabilization deficits and lnterest payments on external debt.



ICS i  nov facing an extremly high external debt burden; public debt
outstanding amounted to about $9.3 billion, or 91 percent of GDP in 1989.
The debt service ratio for 1990, 1  estlmated at 48 percent of merchandise
exporte.
2.06      ln order to address these issues, in mid-1989 the Gowernment
embarked on an economic recovery program vith the assistance of bilateral
creditors, principally Prance, as vell as the M  und IBRD through the
medium of an M  Stand-by arrangement approved ln November 1989, and Bank
financed sectoral adjustment loans approved la October and Decmber
respectively ln agriculture and energy. However, the program's 1989
revenue targets could not be achieved because of a sharper than expected
reduction iL econouic activity and a further decline lu cocoa and coffee
prices. To restore financial viability, the Goverament prepared la May
1990 an enhanced program which la expected to be presented to the M
Executive Directors in June 1990.
2.07      The enhanced recovery program bas two phasess (a) a stabilization
phase (July 1989-Decdmber 19Q0) vith the key objective of reducing the
financial disequilibrium to manageable levels and beginning to repay
internal arrears so as to mitigate the liquidity-crisis, and (b) tie
medium-term program which aims at restoring competitiveness by bringing
about a real depreciation, and enhancing the efficiency of the economy,
vhile achieving a primry fsecal surplus 21 of approximately 8 percent of
GDP by 1995.  The main characteristics of the two phases are as followss
(a)   Stabilisation Phase.  Vith regard to public finances, the program
eudeavore to achieve a small (less thau 1 percent of GDP) primary
fiscal surplus and repay about CFAP 100 billion of internal
arrears. This objective vill be achieved by reversing the
negative revenue trends of 1989 through a rapid, comprehensive
and sustained improvement lu tax and customs administration in
order to increase revenues alightly over their 1989 level and by
slaahiing expenditure, especially non-wage current expenditures,
by about 16 percent compared vith 1989.  The stabilisation phase
also includes measures vhich begin to address medium-term
constraints such as finaucial sector reform, iaproved public
enterprise monitoring, price liberalization, review of labor
policy and simplification of trade regulations.
(b)   Medium-Term Proaram.  In order to restore competitiveness aud
taking into account the fixed exchange rate, the Government has
adopted the route of internal deflation to achieve the required
real depreciation. The Goverumeut bas prepared a detailed
outline of thls phase of the program which vill includet (i)
further cuts in public current expenditures in order to achieve
the medium-term budgetary target and deflate lnternal costs and
prices, vhile lncreasing capital expenditures; 11) privatization
sad public enterprAse reform to improve public finances and, more
iùportantly, to reduce the excessive co0t structure of the
I,orian eçonomy; (Lii) deregulation in order to mprove the
2/ Excluding Lnterest paymemts on foreign debt.



- 4-
investment climate for private investors, reduce distortions sad
increase th. flexibillty of both factor snd output markets to
facilitate the required improvement ln the relati.ve price of
tradables and the consequent shift of resources toward the
production of these goods; (iv) tas and tariff reform that vill
reduce the excessive tax burden on the modern sector, while
decreasing the incentive to fraud and distortions; and (v)
financial sector reform. In addition to the measures to be
adopted during the stabilization phase, the recently completed
IBRD Public Expenditure Review analyzes in detail the ways and
means of reducing the vage bill; substantial progress vill be
achieved during the coming two montha ln preparing detailed
programs in the areas of deregulation and tax and tariff reform,
financial sector and public enterprise reform.
2. Rural Setting
2.08      Côte d'Ivoire is endowed vith rich but unequally distributed
agricultural resources. The total land area of 320,000 km2 can be divided
Juto tvo regions vith different ecologies, farming systems, and demographic
characteristices the Forest Region (about 140,000 km2) in the South where
the maii sources of grovth are concentrated and the drier Savanna Region
(about 180,000 km2) ln the North. The average farm size (about 6 ha) ln
the forest zone is larger than in the savanna (3.6 ha) due mainly to the
presence of tree crope. Cocos and coffee (about 2.5 million ha) occupy
two-thirds of the total crop area and dominate the foresX region economy.
Pinnual food crope (rice, maize. yams, plantains and cassava) cover about 25
percent of the cropped area, while other tree crops (oil palu, coconut and
rubber) and industrial crops (banana and pineapple) cover about 5 percent.
2.09      Agro-climatic conditions ln the savanna are riskier than ln the
forest region, vith louer and erratic annual rainfalls. Soils are
Senerally lipt and of medium to poor quality.  Savanna farming is based on
annual crope ln pure or mixed stand. One third of the farmers grov rainfed
cotton. Mslze is the dominant crop (about 26 percent of the total cropped
area), followed by yams (24 percent), cotton (16 percent), rice (13
percent), sorgihum/millet (9 percent), groundnut (7 percent), sad cassava (4
percent).
2.10      The agricultural sector contributes about 35 percent of the
country's GDP and 80 percent of its export revenues. It provides
employment for about two-thirds of the national vork force, generates
substantial fiscal revenues and provides the basis for much of the
couatry's industrial and services development sector.
3. Soclo-DemoRraphic Charyecteristics
2.11      Côte d'Ivoire's population of 11.5 million ls groving at an
annual rate estimated at 3.5 percent (1980-88), partly because of high
imiugration (0.7 percent) from neighboring countries. According to Vorld
Bank projectiuns, RCI's population will reach 17 million by the year 2000.
The already high dependency ratio (over 45 percent of the population vas
under the age nf 1S in 1985) ls expected to vorsen. At present, RCI's
rural population la estimsted at 6.1 million (55 percent of total



- 5 -
population), of which 4 million in the forest region end 2.1 million lu the
savanna.  The number of farming families la estimated at about 500,000 in
the forest region and 300,000 in the savanna.
2.12      The urban population i8 lncreasing at au alarmlug rates from 19
percent of total population in 1960 to 28 percent in 1970 end presently 45
percent. It is estimated that by the year 2000, urban population vill have
reached 60 pevcent of total population. Such figures illustrate the
challenge facing the rural sector to feed the population and t' provide the
economic base necessary to develop the couutry's lndustrial sector.
2.13      The key social indicators in RCI compare unfavorably vith those
of couatries at similar levels of lncome and even vith some lover income
couatries in the region (Annex 1). The health status of Ivorians is poor,
vith life expectancy at 52 years, infant mortality at 119 per thousand and
maternal mortality rate estimated at close to 500 per 100,000 live births
in 1986. Malnutrition ls a serlous problem in poorer regions and a number
of important preventable health problems such as malaria and maternal
morbidity continue to be serious in RCI. The infant malnutrition rate has
stagnated at about 25 percent since 1981, and is caused more because of the
ignorance of mothers in nutrition matters than lack of access to food.
2.14      The level of education and literacy in RCI is low.  Primary
education enrollment rate remains at approximately 71 percent and may
decrease as population growth outstrips efforts to expand the system.
Disparities lu access to education are vide vith primary enrollment rates
of 100 percent in Abidjan and 30 percent in northern rural areas. Girls
are 91 percent more likely not to go to primary school than boys. Eaving
completed primary schooling, they are 37 percent less likely than boys to
proceed to secondary school. Only at the level of upper secondary
schooling is the differentlal reduced to 14 percent. Girls are more likely
than boys to be pulled out of school to assist the family vith productive
activities or to take care of younger siblinge vhile their mothers vork.
Acceas to higher levels of education is also stagnant and disparities by
region, income group and gender are more pronounced. Adult female
illiteracy rate is 69 percent compared to the national average of 57
percent. Average years of primary education for vemen in rural areas are
0.6 compared vith 1.9 for men, and in cities other than Abidjan 2.2
compared vith 3.9 for men (Annex 2).
2.15      Except for the informal sector, employment opportunities declined
dramatically during the 19808. Unemployment rose dramatically from 2.1 to
11.2 percent between 1975 and 1985. Vomen who have traditionally found it
difficult to get access to the formal labor market are finding it even more
so today. liore and more vamen in urban areas are also finding it necessary
to supplement their husband's income to support the family. Many have
entered the informal sector, but their potential is limited by the lack of
necessary skills and of access to credit. Girls in their teens find the
stumbling blocks particularly lnhibiting.
2.16      The standard of living, particularly ln the rural are"s, remains
low in RCI. For instance, today, 72 percent of the urban population (87
percent in Abidjan and 60 percent la other cities) has access to safe
vater--comparéd vith lees than 30 percent in 1974. About 13,500 modern



6-
vater points (vells and boreholes) bave been constructed ln more than 8,000
villages and equipped vith hand pumpa. Thus, the eoverage ratio vould be
above 80 percent ln rural areas (vs. lese than 10 percent in 1974). This
performasce. however. remains largely theoretical since a large proportion
of these vater points are not in vorking condition. About 25 percent of
velle vith pumpe and 70 percent of those vithout pumps are polluted. One
third of the Abidjan population ie served by the severage system through a
number of tertiary severage networks.  Forty five percent of the population
is served by septic tanks and leaching pits and the remaluing 20 percent
lacks any sanitation service.  In other urban centers, size and low housing
density cannot justify the construction of severage networke and only part
of the population relies on individual sanitation. There is no sanitation
coverage of rural villages. Pood crope sold ln markets rarely meet minimum
sanitary conditions. This precartous enviroument makes the maintenance of
even today's inadequate standard of living in householde more difficult and
vomeuns taeks vithin that context more and more burdensome.
B. The Role of Vomen in Ivorian Society
2.17      Women's role ln the economy and the velfare of the family has
been traditionally underestimated ln RCI and continues to be so. Unlese
there le a fundamental change in perception of the role and contribution of
vomen to the ecenomy and society, economic recovery and improved velfare of
the population vill be difficult to attaln.  The results of the Côte
dlIvoire Living Standards Survey (CILSS) which csavassed a nationally
representative sample of 1,600 householda between February 1985 and
Pebruary 1986, confirm this point. (While there are no more recent data
available, empirical findlaga confirm that the studyls general conclusions
are still valid today). The study concludes that the labor supply of vomen
le only slightly belov that of men (Aunez 3).  The number of weeke per year
vorked by vomen ln rural areas exceeds that of men 142.3 weeks per year
compared with 41.8 for men and 47 weeks per year compared vith 44 in the
very poor bracket); this supports the argument that vomen vork on food crop
production all year round, vhereas men are primarily responsible for cash
crop production and seasonal contributioti to food crop production.
2.18      The study als  confirme that besides the near equal contribution
of poor vomen in the provision of labor in economic activity, peor urban
and all rural vomen vithin each household provide a substantially greater
input to the household labor supply thsn mmn (Annez 4>.  lu the case of
rural vomen, this difference is 32.8 percent compared vith 21.8 percent for
men. In addition to this important contribution to economic activities
(Aunex 3 and 4) vomen assume the largest share of home making activities,
such as cooking, cleaning, child care, etc. Aunez 5 shows the average
hours per day and days per week devoted to homemaking actlvities by those
household members who are economically active. The average time vomen are
active rises to 10.9 hours per day in Abidjan, 11.1 ln other cities, and
10.5 in rural areas compared vith 9.1, 9.1 aud 8.3 respectively for men.
Furthermore, adult females spend 5.9 days per week on hioemaking activities
compared with 1.8 days per week for adult males <Aimez 5). ,On average,
both genders vork a comparable number of days per week on economic
activities.



_ 7-
2.19      Legal Statue of Vomen.  The legal (de jure) rights of vomen
differ substantially in RCI from the traditional (customary) practices in
the couutry.  In 1964, lave on marriage ànd the family abolished the
practice of dowry; lt adopted monogamy in marriage and set the legal age
for marriage at 18 years. These lavw forbid repudiation and union vithout
the agreement of both parties, give vomea the right to inherit, and impose
joint ownership of property as the only marriage settlement. In 1983, the
lave vere further revised to introduce a new regulation for dividing joint
property. Vomen no longer needed permission of the husband to vork or own
a bank account. Property acquired during marriage is administered by the
huaband, who may not dispose of Lt or engage lt vithout hie vife's consent.
2.20      In practice, pàrticularly in the rural areas, these regulations
are ignored. More than 20 percent of vomen are married before they are 15
years of age and 41 percent of unions are polygamous. In case of divorce,
rural vomen rarely obtain the share of joint property they are entitled to
under the new legislation. The Ivorian Association of Vomen Lawyers, which
has acknowledged these various situations, has been disseminating
information on vomen's rights in local languages but to a limited audience.
2.21      Accees  to Land. Vomen do not usually have a problem of accese to
land cultivated for food crope for family consumption. This access is,
however, obtained through a complex network of relations which form the
social fabric of these agrarian societies. This access becomes suddenly
limited when vomen divorce, or when they vieh to use the land for more
expanded production, or for collateral in obtaining credit because they do
fot officially own the land.
2.22      Vomen and Agriculture. Although agricultural production is a task
shared by members of each household, vomen have primary responsibility for
food crope production for family consumption. They also provide Important
support in the production of cash crops. The recent collapse of
international prices for RCI's principal export crops has given a
dramatically renewed importance to the income generated by vomen activities
ln meeting household needs. Today, women are responsible for three-
fourths of food crop production. Rural vomen are very receptive to
innovations which permit. them to lmprove productivity and reduce work
burden. They also seek to increase the added value of their food
production by carrying out processing activities--from cassava grinding to
fieh drying--using primitive technology.  For many women living lu the
periphery of cities, processing is their sole source of livelihood.
2.23      Vomen and Emuloyment.  The CILSS study confirme that vomen are
more active in the informal sector than lu the modern sector.  Less than
one fourth of modern sector employees are vomen. A much larger fraction of
vorkers for their om account are vomen, especially In urban areas (Annex
6). In Abidjan, the rate is 55 percent--a percentage that iL even higher
among the poor and very poor.  The finding that women, in particular poor
vomen, are concentrated in emall-scale activities for their oWn account is
fairly general and probably reflects the greater compatibility of such work
with women responsibilities in the home. Moreover, the activities of vomen
vorking for their own account are limited to a feu types: in Abidjan, sales
occupy 92 percent of vomen versus 23 percent for men. Moreover, the
majôrity of these sales enterprises are in one sectors food producte which



is a lov earnlmg activity. The survey comcludes that there is a need for
practical training, particularly for female entrepreneurs in Abidjan, many
of whom came from poor and very poor households, whose business is not
likely to 8enerate more income vithout some outaide information and help.
2.24      An analysis of gender differences In educational attalment and
la labor market participation in RCI (Appleton, Collier, and Horsnell,
February 1990) determined that vomen are less likely to vork for vages than
men and that it is partly the direct result of limited level of female
education. Other plausible reasons are 8ender discrimination of employers
and lover aspirations of the vomen themselves.
C. Institutional Environment
1. Apricultural Institutions and Services
2.25      Agricultural extension services are highly decentralized in Côte
d'Ivoire. Crop-specific parastatal development agencies have been created
to address mainly the principal export crops. The main ones are the Cotton
Development Agency (CIDT) which handles cotton and food crop development In
the savanna region; the Company for Modernization of Ivorian Agriculture
(SATHACI) responsible for coffee, cocoa and food crop development in the
forest region; and the Food Crop Development Agency (CIDV) which deals
exclusively vith food crop development in the coastal region. Since 1978,
these agencies have been restructured to provide more lntegrated services
and cover both crop-specific and regional development activities. There
are other entities such as Palm Oil Development Agency (SAPH), the Rubber
Coupany of Grand Eereby (SOGB), and especially SODEFEL (Fruit and Vegetable
Development Agency), whose activities are of potential importance for
vomen. The Office for the Marketing of Food Crops (OCPV) vhich, under the
sponsorship of the Mlnistry of Commerce, provides market information on the
supply/demand situation for food crops, is particularly relevant to women.
2.26      To date, the agricultural extension services have foeused on cash
crops. Even vith the reorientation of CIDT, SATMACI and SODEPALM to give
them both crop-specific and regional responsibilities, very few vomen have
been reached. Although there is no policy of exclusion of vomen, in
practice, extension agents, who are mostly men, usually meet with heads of
households who may not be theaselves involved in food crop production and,
therefore, do not represent accurately the agricultural practices and
constraints of all household members. It is usually left to the discretion
of the head of the family whether or not to invite members of the family to
participate in meeting extension agents. Social taboos very often forbid
these contacts. As a result, vomen, while being the major food producing
agents, have very limited contact with nev technologies (Annex 7 describes
the division of labor in two rice producing regions of Côte d'Ivoire).
2.27      Since 1986, the three main extension services (CIDT, SATMACI and
CIDV, vith about 2,600 extension agents) have adopted the Training and
Visit (T&V) system under a Bank-financed project. Although the program is
increasing its coverage of food crops, extension agents continue to
overvhelmlngly cater to a male audience because of social customs and the
absence of female extension agents in line agencies. The Ministry of
Agriculture la la the process of assessing the number of contact farmers by



_ 9_
gender reached under the T&V system. So far, efforts to recruit and
effectively use female extension agents have by and large been unsuccessful
because of a lack of suitable candidates and a very strong male bias in the
management of extension agencies. Both issues vould be tackled under the
project. la the meantime, about 118 female NPP outreach workers are
informally seeking the assistance of agricultural extension agents to
provide desperately needed assistance to vomen food crop farnmers.
2.28      Aaricultural research is hamdled by several research lnstitutes:
the Tropical Forestry Technical Center of RCI (CTPT) handles industrial and
export crops grown in the forest area; the others, grouped under the
Savanna Research Institute (IDESSA), deal vith cotton, livestock and food
crops. Research in agricultural technology is carried out by the Ivorian
Technological Research Center (CIRT) and the Ivorian Tropical Technology
Institute. Ivorian agricultural research is excellent, and in some cases
outatanding, lu particular for cash crops. Hovever, it has important
shortcomings: (a) food crop research has so far concentrated mainly on rice
sad maize--until 1980, there vas no meaningful program on starchy staples;
(b) a strong crop-specific orientation has not permitted research on
essential issues such as intercrop linkage or economic and financial
viability for technology packages; and (c) the relationship between
research institutes and extension agencies has been inadequate. Linkage
between research institutes and extension services is being strengthened
under the Bank-flaumced Agricultural Extension Project. The research
component of the Agricultural Services Project under preparation would
address all other outstanding issues iL Ivorian research.
2. Educational Piograms and Vocational Training
2.29      Responsibility for the formal educational system in Côte d'Ivoire
is shared between the Ministry la charge of Secondary antd igher Education,
Scientific Research sad Culture, and the Ministry of Primary Education.
Vocational training is supported by two other ministriess Technical
Education and Vocational Training; and Youth, Sports and Social Affairs.
They provide skill-related courses such as mechluics sud carpentry, and an
adult literacy program.  Finally, several government_funded institutions
include activities on cooperative development. Most vocational training
prograom are targeted to the urban male population and are usually under-
funded and lack supervision. In addition, skills taught do not necessarily
match vith skills in demand. Many of these programs have low attendance
records and are continued mostly to ensure that teachers, who are usually
civil servants, receive their salaries. Because of vomen's restricted
access to these vocational training programs and the strong male bias of
these programs, MPF has developed its oun training program vhich
specifically caters to vomen vith no or little education sad focus on
literacy programs, seving, cooking and basic preventive health care.
3. Credit
2.30      Vomen, *ho normally have oaly limited access to credit from
formel financial institutions (usually because of lack of collateral as
vell as a lack of knowledge as to hou to organize themselves to apply for
and receive credit), are faced vith a near lmpossibility to find funds for
financing investments in either agriculture or the informal sector.



- 10 -
'Toatlaes' * CWiuool saviage groups) exist, although in a limited way. An
active form of short-teru credit le found in the marbet place iiere
ladividual money leaders provide short-tonm credit. The National
Agricultural Development bank (ENDA) is respolible for the provision of
formal credit to the agricultural sector, but le presently in a state of
qussi-bankruptcy. A rural sasvings sd loan cooperative system (CliPs)
existe in RCI but the majority of these cooperatives are also facing
baniruptcy. A pilot project to rebabllitate *eme of the best CaEPs la
being formulated for back funding as le a pilot schere to set up micro-
credit to groups aloug the lines of the Grameen Bank approach in
D1gladesh.
4. Uealth Services
2.31      The bealth care system la RCI le top heavy, urban biased and
seeks to cope vith diseases rather thin promte bealth through a carefully
balasced policy aud strategy to Integrate curative and preventive services.
Primary health services are underdeveloped and poorly organi:ed.  Couuwity
bealth concepts and practices are totally neglected.  The Ninfstry of
Public Health and Population has seven directorates, eight health regions
snd twenty-five health care rural sectors. Public sector health care le
provided In 1,156 health facilities. Bowever, rural facilities lack
essential supplies and staff In crucial services, and over 200 facilities
remain luoperative for lack of nurses aud mid-wives. The Human Resources
Development Program being developed vith Bank assistance seeks to reform
sector policy and give high priority to mother and child care, safe
motherhood, sad nutritional progrme which have been neglected in the past
strategies.  The problems of high fertility and rapid population grovth
which have an lndependent depressing effect on efforts to improve health
care would also be addressed.
5. Non-Govermental Qranizations
2.32      The number of Non-Goveramental Organisations (NG10) actively
addressing Issues on vomen In developmeut in XCI is limited. The Canadian
Center for the Study of International Cooperation (CECI) has a rural
development project begun In 1984 in BengE (a sub-regiou in the North
adjacent to one of the proposed pilot project ateas). They recelve
financlag from the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA)   They
have a strong outreach program Ia h alth, home econmices and agriculture.
They maage a rural development fund vhich ls used to complement the
contribution of beneficiaries la the purchase of tools, processing
equipment and construction of storage facilities. The proposed project
vould collaborate vith thls NGO and learn from its experience la RCI. The
Canadian Company for International Developsent (SOCADEVI) is luplementlng a
credit scheme in the toun of Bonoua, just outside of Abidjan.  It also
recelves financing from CIDA. Its experiene* la not replicable for the
project as they do not deal vith savings. UNICEF has an extensive program
la XCI especially in the ares of health sud nutrition. There is a recent
rural development program with a component. for vomen funded by the German
Techuical Cooperation Agency (OU>) la loundiali (a sub-regiao in th. North
also adjacent to one of the proposed pilot project aress). There ie a
small health project in Tankes". Tanda la the north vith Italian



n il -
volunteers. The United States Agency for international Development (USAID)
bas al8o funded a fev NGO activities in the health sector.
6. The Hinistry for the Advancement of Vaen
2.33      As a follov-up on the conference on the DI Decade for Vomei
(1976) Côte d'Ivoire created a Ministry of Vomen's Affaire. Although Lt
played en Important role In sharpeuiug people's avareness of problens
facing vomen, the Mlnistry operated mainly as a political vehicle for the
womeu's faction of the governing party vith little techbical basis to meet
the changing needs of vosmm. It vas dissolved lu 1986 snd replaced in 1987
by the Ministry for the Advancement of Vomen (MPF), vhich, in addition to
ite conceptional and promotional rolee, vas given the operational function
of providing outreach services to vomen la rural areas and skill training
to vomen In urban areas. Uufortunately, HP? vas created at a time of
increasing budgetary coustrainte.  In the last two years, public speding-
has been siguificantly curtailed and budget allocations to HP? have
virtually remained at their meager initial level.
2.34      MPF le divided Lnto four departmentss Operations, Education,
Information and Documentation, and Finance and Administration (Aunex 8).
HP? has tvo operational main programss a field outreach program consisting
of lie rural outreach vomen vorkers (Aie) assigned to different villages
and a basic skills training, literacy sud home economice program given at
76 Institutes for the Education of Womem (IDEFs) in urban areao around the
country. hese programs have very little operational rapport vith one
amother.  aie AUs usually operate from the office of the Provincial
Goveraor of their juriediction even where there ie a HPP's IDEF nearby.
2.35      The Women Rural Outreach Program began lu 1972 with the
recruitment of 60 rural outreach workers as part of a resettlement program
In the Bandama Valley.  In 1980 when the Bandams Valley program vas
terminated, these workers vere traneferred to HPF's predecessor. Since
1976, additional AUs have been recruited and received a two-year training
program on rural home economice end coemunity development at the National
Institute for Youth and Sports.  The current n.twork of 118 AMs nationvide
le characterized by a loi level of education, minimum vages, and a non
civil servants statue. They recelve little to limited operational funds, i
have no means of transport asd are assigned only to those villages that can
guarantee them free housing.  Although these vorkers receive little
supervision or guidance, mauy of them are highly dedicated asd motivatedT1
In spite of these severe constraints, demand for their services le greater
than the number of ARe available.
2.36      The skills trainina prosras bas been Ln place since 1958, under
the auspices of the Ministry of Youth, Sports snd Social Affaire, and vas
transferred to MPF's predecessor in 1981. Of the 3S0 educators assigned to
IDEFs, one-third operate vithin the periphery of Abidjan. Attendance is
very high around the capital, vith on. IDEF (vith 28 educatorse  registering
an enrollment of 1,000 etudents. Hovever, aeveral institutes ln the
provinces have ouly a handful of students. This cen be e.plained by
several factors.  The most evident is that demand le much greater for
vocational training ln major urban centers vith cash economies, a veaket
family support system and high unemployment. Auother reason ls that IPF's



- 12 -
supervision is vesk ln the interior sud teachers there are ofton less
motivated.  lu spite of a three-year rotational policy, sorn teachers bave
been in the esme institute for 20 years. Pinally, course vork bas been
designed to reflect more the needs of urban vomen than rural vomen. In
general, most ZflUe are housed la run doen buildings snd are very poorly
equipped.
2.37      The main activities in ail IDEFs are seving and cooking (about 40
percent); other subjecte include literacy and numeracy, personal aud
environmental hygiene, nutrition, and prenatal snd maternal health care.
T$e majority of students are young teenagers who failed the secondary
school entrance examination or whose fathers chose not to continue to
finance their education. Although seving classes have attracted many of
these young vomen. Lt le not evident that at the end of the three year
period, many of them find employment in this field. In general, IDEFo are
considered more as social centers than true vocational schools for
unemployed vomen.
2.38      In spite of these veaknesses, MPF has had a positive impact  on
women. Many IDEFs remain overcrowded even though they are poorly equipped.
A total of about 8,000 young vomen were enrolled in this program lu 1989.
For many teenage girls, this is their only option to acquire some basic
skills. The demand for both services to date has not been met due not only
to lack of budgetary meaus of the MPF but alseo to lack of a coberent
strategy and efficient programmini of their activities and linkages vith
other ministries and technical entities.
D. Government Policy and Strategy
2.39      The Government is avare of the important contribution of vwmen as
mothers, educators, food crop producers, traders and small entrepreneurs in
the economic and social development of RCI. Important progrese has been
accomplished to promote their role in the economy and society. The
Government has established legal equality for vwmen through the
promulgation of lave in 1964 and 1983. It has alseo established social
programs to addrese special issues concerning vomen.  Nevertheless,
progrese le slow and goverument comitment iL not as strong at the
operational level. The traditional programs of social services and
vocational training do not reach vomen in RCI as they should.  ln rural
areas, even though agricultural extension services do not try to exclude
vomen, very fev vomen are reached because oÉ traditional prejudices. The
Goverament has therefore asked HPF to strengthen public services in favor
of vomen and to launch a multi-year program vhich would put this strategy
into action. This strategy is presented in the Working Paper No. 1.
2.40      For the medium-term, MPF strategy seeke to promote the
integration of vomen into the economic and social life of the country by -
(a) identifying the principal constraints to this integration; and (b)
identifying snd promoting, vithin every ministry sad public agency,
activities to lift the»e constraints. In the meantime and for the short-
ternm, thii  strategy foresees the direct intervention of NP? in providing
badly needed support services to vomen. Over the medius- and long-term,
HP? vill be disengaged from these directly operational activities which



vould be integrated into entities whose responsibilities are to provide
support services to the population at large, ouch as the agricultural
extension services.
E. Bank's Role
2.41      The Goverument bas developed a National Strategy to address
vomeen's concerns and issues.  Vomen have by and large only marginally
benefited from Bank support to RCI to date. Pipeline projecte are slowly
being reoriented so that they better incorporate vomenons issues into
project objectives.
2.42      The Vomen la Development Pilot Support Project vould facilitate
the acceleration of the incorporation of vomen's issues into mainstream
activities, of which the principal ones are, or vill be receiving Bank
support. The project is being prepared in close collaboration vith other
pipeline projects, namely: the RHman Resources Development (MRP)ISocial
Dimensions of Adjustuent (SDA) Project; the Agricultural Services Project;
the Rural Sector Support Project and the Rural Infrastructure Project. The
objective is that some of the activities initiated under the VID project
vill eventually be absorbed by mainstream projects at a later stage.
2.43      A particularly close linkage vill be established vith the ERDISDA
Project. Through this collaboration the issues of equity and decentralized
access of human resources services to low lncame vomen vould be addressed.
Policy dialogue vith the Government will be undertaken through the HRDISDA
operation and will ease the vay for further mainstreaming of the activities
of the WID project and ensure their sustainability.  A monitoring codittee
has been established to prepare the Declaration for the Valorization of
Human Resources, in vhich XPF has full membership. Some of the studies to
be financed under the VID pilot support project vould be the empirical
basis for executing country-vide studies to be financed under the HRDISDA
project. This linkage le further described in Annex 9.
2.44      The rural outreach compouent of the project vould closely
collaborate vith the on-going Agricultural Research and Extension Project..
The linkage vould be strengthened in the preparation of the Agricultural
Services Project. Rural credit vould be addressed under the proposed Rural,
Sector Support project sad vomen are expected to be important beneficiariei
of a reactivated rural credit network. Finally linkages vould be
established vith the extenslon agents of the Department of Vster through.
the on-going Second Vater supply project, and continued and strengthened
under the Rural Infrastructure Project.
III. TEE PROJECT
A. General
1. Proiect Rationale
3.01      The 6overnment has developed a national strategy to address
vomen's concerns sad issues sad has called on the Bank for assistance to
further develop snd implement this strategy. The complexity of the issues



involed, including the need to vi.iblv "',sage the prevailing traditional
attitude8 of society concernlng women's al>ilit es sud socio-ecouomic role
La the moderm world and wmen'. perception of thieselves due to a lack of
education snd avarenes of their rights, warrante support for a free
standing operation on a pilot basis. The pilot nature of the project
pemits the design and testing of nev approaches to address vomen's issues.
3 02      Sbe Ivoriau decentralized approach to support services makes lt
all the more difficult for each entity involved to better meet the special
needs of vomen. TSh Nl4istry for the Advancement of Vomen (HPF) cen bridge
the Sap by strengthening lts baoic services to (t) better prepare vomen to
benefit from the specialized technical services available; (IL) bring, in
the short-term, som of these basic services to voment (iii) coordiuate the
programs of existleg technical agencles sad promote attitudinal changes
within these agencles; and <iv) ensure that over the medium- and long-
term, the technical entities vill be reoriented to provide equal assistance
to mon and vomen.
2.  Prolect Concept and Objectives
3.03      The proposed project would be the pilot phase (24 months) of a
medium-term program vith the Goverament to establish a viable process, for
'1) improvlig the productivity of rural vomeio's farming systems snd their
access to markets; (iL) upgrading urban vomenus marketable and employable
skills; (ilU) improving the velfare of rural and urban bouseholde through
training vromn Lu literacy, numeracy, household econoe- c management,
prlimary health care for the famlly, particularly children, nutrition, and
hygiene; (iv) stre4gthening the Institutional capacity of support services,
initially through KPF, to better address vomen'. Issues; and lv) gradually
changing the perception that managers and agents of support services,
society at large and vomen themselves have of the role of vomen.
3.04      la addition, this pilot project vould be strengthened through
cojuon objectives set up vithin the IRDISDA operation under preparation for
Bank finaucing. The main objective of this latter operation is to develop
and implement a comprehenslve Buman Besources Development Strategy vith a
strong focus on poverty alleviation. Mechaisms vould be set up to
reallocate public expenditures and tbus reduce regioal disparities sad
iacrea»s overall equity and internal effiçiency of Nusms Resources
Services. The .RDISDA operation vill bê geared toward increasing coverage
asd distribution of services in marginal areas and to poverty stricken
groups often made up of low income vomen. This would be done through
interventions in the education, vocationai training and primary health care
sectors. A more detailed description of the linkage vith the present
project is presented in Aunez 9.
3.05      The pilot Wl» project vwuld assist HPF lu stret gtenlug its
coordinating sud promotional capacity and lu establiselng a more coherent
ami systematic approach to the provision of support services to rural asd
urban vomen lu the pilot project regions (<ap IBZD 22328). A system of
supervision asd monitoring vould be established following the basic
principlee of the-T&V management system for agricultural field services.
The project vouid drav from the experience gained by the various parastatal
agencies applyJng-the T&V systes umder the Bank-financed Agriculture



- 15 -
EztsusioU Project (Lu. 2765-ICV).  5ne principles of the T&V system vould
also be applied to uon-agrieultural message sud the urban vocational
training program. A multi-year nattonal progrum of action, based on the
experience of the pilot regions, would be prepared for further external
finuncing.  It la expected that during the main phase of tbe project, the
integration of voumen concerns lato the mandates of the teeimical mluistries
and entities vould be accelerated.
3.06      After tlie 24 month pilot phase, measurable results would be
obtained as to whether project activities as designed bave succeeded in
accelerating the lntegration of women luto mainstream support services.
Three possible scenarlos may take place duriag the follow-up phase of the
project.  In the first scenario, If the pilot project succe#tIs la
lacreasing support services to vomen ln the pilot regions through MPF rural
outreach workers (AUs), the second phase voult concentrate in repeating
similar arrangements in other regions. The initial pilot regions vould
nove into a new phase where the project vould assist mainstream ministries
Lu providing direct support to rural vome.  The ARs lu these areas vould
be reassigned to new areas.  In the second scenario, the experience gained
from the pilot phase vould be such that the follow-up phase could
concentrate on having the mainstream services execute all the operational
compouents while  iPF vould ouly retain lts coordinating role la those
areas.  lu the third scenario, the pilot phase vould have determined that
NPP lacks the iiestitutional capacity to handle operational activities or
coordinate those of others; the follow-up phase vould then further focus on
eusuring that vomen are reached by the mainstream services and vould
exclude future support to MPF for its operational activities.
3. Proiect Description
3.0      TShe pilot project vould support, over a 24 month period,  lPF in
general and la its rural outreach and urbsa vocational training programa
for vomen in particular in tiree pilot regions. A detailed action plan has
been prepared by NPP and is presented lu Aunez 10. The project comprises
three components:
(a)  Starting the process for the streugthening of the NPi
Lnstitutional capacity in (i) policy and program formulation
through strategy developm.nt, studies, monitoring sud
evaluation, and information feedback and dissemination; aud (ii)
coordination asd promotion of activities described belov
concerned vith the Improvemeat of the status and welfare of
momen.
(b) Improvement of the economic and social welfare of rural
households in the pilot areas by enabling the rural outreach
program lu three sub-regious to support rural vomen in (i)
lncreasing their productivity t'.rough better access to
agricultural exteueion messages sud assistance; (ii) forming
more vomen cooperatives; (1ii) improving food crops storage,
processing sad marketing through transfer of tecbnology and
provision of funds to facilitate lnvestments required ln this



*                                      -16 _
area; (iv) improving their literacy, numeracy, knowludge of
household oconomues, primary health care, nutrition, and
personal and rural hygiene; and (v) lncreasing their capacity to
save.
(c)  Improvement of the marketable skils and social velfare of
margtnsllzed urban vomen enrolled la selected Institutes for the
Education of Vomen through (1) training in skills for vhich
there is a market demand; (ii) better preparation ln competing
for specialized vocational training programm; <ill) assistance
findlag employment or enter into lnicome generating activities;
and (iv> training In literacy, nueracy, home economice and
primary health care.
These components are expected to be completed by De!ember 1992.
B. Detailed Features
1. Institutional Strengthenina
3.08      The project vould assist NPP la executing its mandate tc
formulate policies and actively promote the advancement of women in RCI, by
5i) strengthening its planning and management capacity through the training
of staff at aLl levels and the provision of consultancies to assist the
ministry in prepariag a medium-term multi-year program of action, expanding
on the pilot operations, whlch vould cover the entire country ant vould be
used to mobilize further external financing; (1I) atrengthening its
coordinatlag and pronotional role to ensure that other branches of
goveroment are more effective In helping vomen. This vould Includc the
creation of an inter-ministerial coordInating c adittee, and the sponsoring
of vorkshops on women's issues for central and regional goverraent staff of
various ministries; (Lii) strengtbening information gatherlag and
dissemination capacity vhich would provide Input to both the rural outreach
and 8kills training programs; (iv) creating a monitoring and evaluation
unit capable of measurlng the impact of the pilot program on  vmen; and (v)
carrying out studies In collaboration vith technical ministries, to
identify key constraints facing vomen lu RCI ant possible solutions to
resolve themi-
3.09      Planning ant Management. The NPP vould be in charge of
e:ecuting the project. The pilot phase would cover specific zones selected
la the North, Center-East, and South regions of, Côte d'Ivoire.  The HPF has
selecetd three zones, each with at least one Institute for the Education of
bomen. The principal institute of the zone veuld be designated as MPF's
regional center. The MPF vould designate a coordinator for the urban
skills training program, who vould be responsible for overall project
i"lhementation in the concerned zone, and one deputy coordinator for the
rural outreach program.
3.10      The HP? i8 vell staffed at the cabinet level vith competent
personnel seconded fram varlous techuical ninistries, who brought in a vide
range of experience. Therefore only lnimted tecbalcal assistance would be
made available under the pilot phase to assist HP! in preparing the



- 17 -
detalled multi-year action plan to promote the integration of women into
the socio-economic llfe of RCI. Thls plan vould be developed over a period
of one year, based on the preliiniary experience of the pilot regions.
3.11       Coordination between NPF's two operational artm  (the rural
outreach and the skills training programs), vwich have been vorking
independently of one another, vould be strengthened. In the pilot regions,
MPP vould appoint regional coordinators wiho vlll be in charge of both
programe. This person would be assieted by a deputy la charge of
administering the rural outreach program. Both vould vork lu the principal
IDEF of each pilot region.
3.12      The project vould support the establisbment of multi-year
agreements between 1PP and the techbical ministries, particularly the
National Institute for Public Eealth (INSP), the agricultural extension
agencies (CIDT, SATMACI, etc.), the research iistitutes (Institut des
Savannes - IDESSA, etc.) aud the training entities (Center for Assistance
and Promotion of National Enterprîses - CAPEN), to institutionalize a
client/supplier relationship for specific services.  The list of
ministerial departments whose cooperation would be sought le given in Annex
11.  Vithin the framevork of these multi-year agreements, annual contracte
between MPF and the varlous technical agencies vould specify the type of
concrete cooperation and assistance required, the resources necessary to
execute them, and the cost of these resources. They vould, inter alia
covers Ci) training of the outreach vorkers (ARs); Cii) the establishbent
of extension messages for ARs, and strengtheuing of training programs
provided by the IDEFs. the signing of annual contracte between MPF and
technical ministries for their support for the rural outreach and skills
training components respectively, vould be a condition of disbursement for
the cooperative contracts category.
3.13      An inter-ministerial Coordination Comittee, chaired by HPF, and
comuprising representatives of the Ministries of Agriculture, Waters and
Forestry, of flealth, of Technical Education and Vocational Training, Youth,
Sports and Social Affairs, as vell as CIDT, SATACI, SODEPEL, and OCPV has
been established and vould meet quarterly during the project period to
coordinate rural outreach and skill training activities, and to monitor.the
formulation and implementation of the VI» action plan. It would also
assiet in the preparation of the project vork program and budget, provide
proposals to HPF for their modification, if any, and ensure the necessary
collaboration and coherence between varlous agencies' activities. Specific
contractual arrangements vould be made directly by NPF with the technical
ministries and entities for the provision of clearly identified services.
The general terme of reference of this committee vere reviewed and agreed
upon during negotiations. To ensure the implementation of these contracte
at tbe regional level, MPP vould seek the collaboration of prefecte in the
project areas.  In their capacity as principal representatives of the
Goveroment ln the region, they would be able to oversee collaboration among
the different regional representatives of the technical ministries.
3.14      The project would assist MPP in organising a number of vorkshops
for eusitising both central and regional government staff of the different
ministries to 8ender issues.  The Bank vould assist MPF ln organizing the?e
vorkshops by providing successful examples from other African cduntries.



- 18 -
Under thus subcompouent, the project would finance technical assistance,
materials and logistical support to the workshops, and lncremental
operational coste. The project vould also finance a vehicle to be shared
by the -central management of the Departmuet of Female Education (DEF) and
the Department of Operations (DDO) for the supervision of the skills
training and rural outreach components.
3.15      CaiacitS Buildina.  Training vould be provided to central and
field management staff on management, monitoring and evaluation of the
operational programs. principles of the Training and Visit (T&V) system,
data collection and information gathering and dissemanation. Continuous
training of field operational staff ls described below vithin the context
of the rural outreach and skill training components.
3.16      Both fellowships abroad and local training would be provided to
central and field management staff. This would iacludes
(a) An introductory seminar on the principles of the T&V system.
(b) A 3 wenk in-house training by a consultant for the staff of the
Ifonitoring and Evaluation Unit, to prepare for the monitoring
antd evaluation of the rural outreach and skills training
programa.
(c) A 10-week course ant study tour for the chief of the Information
and Documentation Service to countries in the Africa Region with
successful experiences on information collection and
dissemination about different types of appropriate technology
and communications skills.
(d) Subsequent local training for coordinators and deputy
coordinators in managing the TIV system, lcnluding supervision
and monitoring.
HP? has prepared a plan for the selection of candidates and the location
and tlming of training programs. During negotiations, the Goveroment and
the Bank agreed on the candidates ant programs.
3.17      Monitorina and Evaluation. A Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
(MIE) vould be established vithin the cabinet of the minister. A feedback
system vould be developed to analyze periodic reports produced by IDEFP,
AUs and the agents of technical ministries  involved in MPP programa.   Thia
system vould serve as (i) a varning system to MPF management on trends ln
specific areas and needs for corrective action; and (ii) a means to measure
the impact of NP? activities on vmen.  This ln turn vould serve as an
Important basis for adjustuent of HPF strategy and programs.
3.18      An initial database vould be created by each AR and IDEF
participating in the pilot project, for each village and urban area to be
covered. This vould help to measure the impact of services provided by ARs
and IDEFs after the 24 month pilot phase.  Data collection vould be built
lato reporting and supervision activities 80 as not to increase
significantly the vorkload of field staff.  There vould b. a planning
vorkshop at the beginning of the project, vith the monitoring and



- 19 -
evaluation units from the extension agencies and the hend of the Studies
progrmu la CGTX, to clarify who le doing what ln terms of data collection
sad analysis, snd to agree on on-going coordination and exchange of data.
With the information available and additional information to be obtained by
the ARs, au initial database on specific households for the rural outreach
program vould be established. The progrees report format would be
redesigned to introduce this element. Field l,formation vould be
systematically processed and analyzed by the MHE Unit and discussed vith
MPF Operational Departmeuts. A simple computer system vould be lnstalled
vith the assistance of a local consultancy firm.  The project vould finance
the consultant to set up the system, a vehicle for monitoring project
activities, office furaiture, and lueremental operational and maintenance
0eots.
1.19      Information and Documentation.  This sub-component vould assiset
HP? lu strengthening sud reorienting its Department of Information and
Documentation (DID) to better execute its promotional role aimed at
increasing avareness of women's issues among policy makers and the public
at larges and, at the operational level, to improve the flow of information
teo and from targeted groups. Messures would includes
(a) Preparation of pronotional materals in the form of nevwletters
vhich would include cbsages ln government policies with an
impact on vomen, identification of new opportunities for women,
reviev of successful programe for vomen, actual and potential
contribution of vomen in economic activities, and programs of
HPF and other ministries supporting the advancement of women;
(b) Establishament of a mechanism for the systematic collection of
socio-ecouomic messages and appropriate tecbnology used ln
vartous regions of the country, or ln other countries, through
contacts vith techuical ministries and bilateral and
international organizations;
2c) Preparation, on th. basis of collected information, of specific
messages vell adapted to target groups, to be passed on to vomen
by NP? operational units and other concerned goverument agents;
(d) Establisebent of a feedback mechanism to enable popular
participation lu the formulation, design and implementation of
communications5 and
(e) Strengthening of MPF's program for radio and television
messages.
3.20      The project vould finance a vehicle, some audio-visual
equipment, and incremental operational coste which would include funds for
contracting out the preparation of audio-visual and printed information and
messages.
3.21      Studles.  MPF plays a pivotal role lu ldentifying way* to
improve the socio-economic velfare of vomen and ln designing mechanisme
through vbich varlous techalcal ministrles snd entities could better
Lntegrate vomen lnto mainstreau activities.  To strengthen MPP's



- 20 _
effectiveness, the project vould finance a merles of studles on critical
constraints to the adysucement of women in RCI and the identification of
solutions. The studies vould be carried out by local consultants in close
collaboration ith HP! staff.  Studies with  umodiate $mpact would be
carried out upon project effectiveness. .he $nformation obtained from
these studies would be lncorporated into HPF operational programs. Initial
priority studies vould includes
-   The detailed analyses of agricultural production and marketing
arrangements to develop ways of iuproving womense access to
extension services, inputs, Information and markets;
-  A study to deflne a strategy to promote a botter lntegration of
vomen into the lndustrial and service sectors in urban areas,
and to identify.specific job opportunities and skills needed in
these-sectors; and
-   Identification of small-scale businesses which vomen could
establish, particularly in agroprocessing.
3.22      Another set of studies vould address constraints affecting the
statua of women, whose conclusions would be used by MPF to establish a
strategy for change and for other Bank assistance such as the proposed
Human Resources Development ptoject. They concernt
-  An up-dated basic survey on rural vomen by local consultants to
comile basic statistical information on their socio-economic,
demographic, historic, cultural values and legal rights;
-  A detailed study to identify the iupediments to increase vemen's
acceso to credit. both formal and informal, and measures that
vould modify actual systems or lntroduce new oQes to improve
this access;
-  A reviev of vomenls legal statua, both lu the modem  and
traditional system, and the design of measureslprograms to
inform the population, particularly lu rural areas, of vomen's
legal rights asd to sensitize people to respect these rights
(which include age of marriage, divorce, land rights, access to
credit and arbitration); and
-   Identification of cultural and economic reasons for lover female
school enrollment rates in the pilot regions and remedies.
3,23      The atudy on credit vould be carried out in conjunction with the
ongoing proparation of a pilot project to rehabilitate the coumnity-
managed savinge sud loan cooperatives (CEPS). It should lead to nev ideas
for cooperative credit serving vomen. The study on vomen's legal rights
would be an in-depth analysis on the finding8 of the survey on the statue
of vomen lu general vlth proposals on the course of action that could be
taken to promote the acceptance of nev laws protecting vomen's rights.
These studies vould serve as a basis for future courses at IDEF and
techaical messages to be dissemnlated by ARs.



- 21 -
2. Rural Outreach Proam
3.24       The pilot project would organise and strengthen iPF's rural
outreach progran in three areas vithin three distinct regions.  Although
the T&V concept vould be applied, modifications vould be introduced to
adjust for the fact that MPF's rural outreach program is a multi-functional
service which primarily relies on existing technical agencies for the
provision of technucal messages. The role of HPF l to bridge the gap
between traditional extension services from the different agencies and
ministries, and vomen. Over the medium-term, as contact groupe are able to
direct themselves to traditional services. the need for services from HPF
rural outreach workers will diminish and eventually disappear.  $ince the
target group for these programa le vomen, areas of intervention are those
for which vomen have the principal responsibility. This does not exclude
the participation of men. On the contrary, vomen vould be encouraged to
have male members in their contact groupe. Experience in other countries
has demonstrated that this ensures men'sa participation in specific tasks
and facilitates. acceptance by the rest of the coummmity.
3.25       The Ais vould also be In a position to provide feedback to
mainstream extension services to better umderstand household organization
and labor division, and the constraints facing vomen vithin households.
3.26       The vomen rural outreach program vould also assist female
farmers not only on the production side but also on the demand side. This
vould entail helping vomen's groupe to better negotiate vith traders and
arrange for long-term contracta where possible, seeking ways to have
information on market trends reach vomen more effectively, and introduce
storage techniques to circumvent losses from seasonal price fluctuations.
The main themes to be covered under economic activities are food crop
production, processing, and management of household finances. On the
social aide, the themes are primary health care, nutrition, home economics,
and literacy. A limited number of subjects vould be chosen from the
following litt of priorities in rural areas. The choice would depend on
the socio-economic characteristica of each s«b-region, the cost-
effectiveness of the approaches, and their replicability on a national
scale.  These themes would be coummnicated by the ARs vith the
collaboration of the technical services.
Socioloaical Subiects
- Environumental hygiene (village cleanliness)
- Personal hygiene
- Potable vater
- Appropriate use sad maintenance of village vater pumps (e.g.,
avoiding the creation of pools which are breeding sites for malaria-
carrying mosquitos)
- Construction and maintenance of village latrines
- Nutrition (introduction of balanced diets and increased nutritional
value of foods by an appropriate combination of traditional
ingredients)
- Food preparation techniques
- Improved stoves for increasing fuelwood efficiency



- 22 -
- Proper storage of kitchen utensils. $ncluding the construction of
elevated shelves
-  Introduction of phanmaceutical boses equipped vith basic items such
as dehydration salts and ovulation cycle beade La villages vithout
dispensarles, including the tralnJug of specific individuals on
simple diagnosls of illnesses, bookkeeplag on sales and stock, and
purchase of repleuishment supplies
- Pamily planning for the proper spacing of childbirths to ensure
health of »other and child
- Prenatal care
- Maternel care. lacluding breast and other forms of feediug
- Day care arrangements
- Household economics
- Simple literacy programs and calculations
- Basic sewing
- Legal -ights and duties of vomen.
Sublecte on Productive Activities
- Group formation
- Organisation to vork ln communal field
- Crop-specifie planting and maintenance techniques
-  Prevention and treatment of crop diseases
- Crop rotation, intercropping. and agro-forestry techniques
- Vegetable production (home gardens)
-  Marketing techniques, including organisation of sales through study
of market, arrangemont of transport. etc.
-  Livestock health care
- Conservation of fish
- Storage techniques, includiug the organisation and techaiques of
constructing storage facilities sad techalques of conservation for
mai:e, etc.
-  Processing techniques to produce, among others, palm oil, groundnut
paste and milled cassava (ati,uké).
3.27      Each AR vould be assigned to a specific sone of intervention
covering a determined number of villages. Bach AR, after an initial
refresher course. vould undertake a detailed study on the socio-economic
characteriatices of the area of coverage, provide thls lnfo-mation to the
M&E Unit for use as baseline data, and plan work progras accordingly. ARs
vould identify contact groups (composed of a majority of vomen vith common
characteristices and interesto). Bach AR vould participate ln fortnightly
training sessions to be provided by the subject matter specialistu of the
technical ministries or other entities, ln order to transmit specific
messages to rural vomen during visits.
3.28      The ARs and the regional coordinators' deputies vould be trained
by the technical specialiets of the agricultural development agencies
(CIDT, SATMACI, CIDV, SODEPEL, SODEPRA), the researchers of the Research
Institutes (IDESSA, IRCC, IRPA) and the responsible staff for the agencles
concerned (Health Niuistry, OCPV, CAPEN, etc.) la the context of the annual,
service contracte mentioned above. Several of these agencies vould aleo be
requested to develop new technical messages to be disseminated to rural
vomén.



- 23 -
3.29      MPF has received a limited budget to reactivate itS training
school at Kaniasso in the North for the purpose of proUiding refresher
courses to lts staff. Courses concentrate on general home-econoumics and
coemmuity development, as vell as seminars from specialiets from the
teebnical ministries, ln particular agriculture and health. Although the
school would be utilized la the future for some training activities, in
principle, the projecta training courses vould be regionalized. To the
extent possible, MP? field staff vould participate ln existing structured
courses provided by other technical agencies or ministries (wvere
necessary, cooperative arrangements vould be made to have these same
agencies tailor-make courses for the needs of the HPP). The courses vould
be designed to give ARs a good command of the basic issues surrounding a
given theme and the necessary skills to efficiently cowmmicate these
messages to participating vomen. Thereafter, they vould be responsible for
elther guiding the vamen to where they can gain more in-depth advice or
arrangiug for follow-up visite by subject matter specialists.
3.30      Zach AR would be responsible for covering one village per day
over an eight-day period per fortnight. AUs vould relay messages on
productive activities one half of the day and on social activities on the
other half. The sixth day of each week would be used to provide punctual
services requested by vomen from a village under the AR's responsibility.
The fourth day of the second veek would be devoted to personal
administration, and synthesizing data and work done in the eight villages
visited, sad the fifth day to training on messages to be relayed during the
following week.  The AUs would participate to the extent possible ln the
regular training sessions provided by the subject matter specialists of the
extension agency on topics relevant to their work.
3.31      AR supervision would be carried out by the deputy coordinator
assigned to each pilot zone. Each deputy coordinator vould supervise about
eight Ais, be in the field vith an AR four days a veek, and vould therefore
be able to work with eachAR in the field one day every tvo veeks.  The
remainder of time vould be devoted to analytical work and training every
two weeks, preparation for this work, administration vork sad contacts vith
other institutions.    These contacts would include close contact vith
supervisors of extension agencies to test how male extension agents cau
vork with vamen groups ln preparation for the main phase of the project.
The project vould finance the training, a vehicle for each group of four
ARs and a vehicle for each supervisor, their travel costs, snd incremental
operational costs. The use of vehicles for transporting ARs have been
justified on the grounds of security and cultural resistauce by vomen to
use mopeds. The pilot phase would review these arguments and sensitize ARi
s0 that if the follow-up phase is to cover the vhole country, the project
vould finance oaly mopeds to ensure cost-effectiveness.
3.32      Rural DeveloDment Pund.  A  _ ll rural development fund of
$150,000 equivalent vould be established to lncrease the earning capacity
and incame of vomen through lnvestments ln productive assets and
appropriate technologies. It would be used to finance the initial vorking
and investment capital to start up incame generating activities, processing
and other equipment, and construction of storage and other simple
facilities. Vithout some acces. to funds, vomen vould have difficulty ln



24 -
pursuing lncome generating activi'.ies.  Today they are faced vith low level
of incom  and savinge and restricted acceas to formal credit <in particular
medium-t.rm) and saving facilities. The situation la aggravated today by
the liquidity criais facing the banking sector.
3.33      The Fumd would be administered by a Development Organisation
(DO) which bas experience in thus area. The DO would be responsible for
revieving requeste for funds vith the assistance of regional coordinators
and the IDEF teachers and iRs. Eligibility would be limited to groupe or
individual wamen members of a group who have either been trained ln the
skills tralinig program or the rural outreach program. These vomen vould
bave to have received training on the importance of savings and the
economic management of their incame.  They vould have to contribute from 50
to 70 percent of the value of the investmant (depending on the size and
risk factor of the investment). Detailed eligibility criteria are
presented lu Aunex 12. During the pilot phase, the balance of the funds
vould be provided as grant. but with the condition that the recipients open
au account through the DO to which savings would be regularly deposited to
ensure their ability to maintain and replace the asset at the end of its
useful life.
3.34      Tnvestment subsidies are justified during the pilot phase when
the credit constraint vould be under study and participating vomen would be
expected to tike a bigh risk by expanding or reorienting production whose
sales potential has not been tested. It would therefore be premature to
expect vomen to obtain credit.  The importance and value of savings, and
the potential and responsibilities in using credit. however, would be
introduced at this stage. It is expected that, by the end of the pilot
phase, the separate rural sector micro-credit schemes would be established
as part of the Rural Sector Support Project under preparation. At that
time, vomens groups vould b. more familiar with the value of techuological
improvements and vould therefore be ready to apply for and receive credit.
The Identification of the DO to manage the Development Pund and the
Goverument establishing au agreement acceptable to the Bank vould be a
condition of disbursement.
3. Skills Trainini Proaram
3.35      The IDEFs' curriculum vould be modified from its present home
making emphasis to include specific courses which vould provide students
vith basic tools to better prepare themselves for economic activity.  These
courses would be based on local surveys of market demand, so as to adapt to
local conditions aud teach marketable skills. Similar to the T&V approach
proposed for the rural outreach program, close collaboration vould be
established between MPF and the other agencies concerned vith vocational
training both at the central and regional goverument levels. This program
vould be formulated in close collaboration vith the Ministry of Technical
Education.
3.36      The NPP has completed the review of the status of the eight
institutes selected for the pilot project, identifylug  their ludividual
characteristics, particularly their strengths and veaknesses. Durlug the
project, NPP would correct these weaknesses and replace teachers Who are
insufficiently motivated to experiment vith the modification of the



- 2S -
training program. During negotiations, the Goveriment Mud the Bank
reviewed sud agreed on the staff situatio  lu the IDEls  The teachers
selected to participate in the pilot progrma vould teke refresher courses
sad be lntroduced to nov themes *ici would mke IDEF curricula more
responsive to vcmen's needs.
3.37      Bach IDEF would be staffed wlth teachers vho vould also serve as
the subject matter specialists for rural outreach. One vould serve to
promote the literacy program la rural areas.  The others would serve as
subject matter specialista for themes such as prenatal and materaity care,
basic seving, and cooking. The number of teachers required in the three
pilot zones would vary sud vould be adjusted according to demand as the
project develops.
3.38      The objective of the IDEFs training program would be to teach
young women to a level vhere they could either start up their oim ecouomic
activity la the informal sector or enroll Ln more specialised vocational
schools which prepare students for higher skilled jobs.  The IDEFs vould
continue to empihasie teaching skills where vemen have a comparative
advantage.  Training vould include a reorsentation of the traditional
cooking and seving classes to become good homemakers, tovard commercial
activities. Cooking would be oriented toward the production of regionally
popular foode such as sugar bread and snack ltems that could be sold in the
market and on street corners, or the preparation of regional dishes for
informal food stands.  These skills would be supplemented with training on
the management skills required to run such operations along vith sales and
marketing techniques. L$kewise, seving classes ould be modified to
emphasize lndustrial sewing and talloring, and supplemented by cooperative
development, marketing and management sk$lls. Training in service skills
vould be Lncluded, such as sales techniques, simple accounting and cashier
ukills, typing and secretarial skills.
3.39      The HEDISDA operation would encourage a policy change on the
enrollment criteria of vocational training schools. The requirement of a
high sc]hool diploma often eliminates a large percent of girls, who have
already been biased against at enrollment level la prlmary and lover-
secoadary schools. Girls who received pre-trainian; from IDEFs vould be
eligible to apply.
3.40      The IDEF coordinators vould play su active role Ln identifying
potential employers for IDEF graduates. Where possible, internships would
be arranged so that graduates could gain practicsl esperience before
venturing to start their ovn business.  Vith the assistance of a
consultant, MPF would seek innovative vays to Licrease the demand for
producte produced by vomen. Au example vould b. to encourage local or
foreign investm.nt in manufactur$ng industries which vould hire
seamstresses paid on a piecework basis. The project would finance
training, the repair coste of the buildings housing IDEFs, demoustration
equipment such as sewing machines, and incremental operating costs of the
IDEFs.



- 26 -
C. ftoiect Costa sed Fiancin
3.41      Cost Etimates.  The cost- ef tihe proposed 24-moth pilot project
la estiuted at CFA  1,039 million ($3.6 million).  The proposed  ank loan
of 82.2 mililon would finance about 77 percent of project coats net of
taxes.  The covernwent would finance inreemwtal staff, part of the
incrometal operating couts sud all taxes.  (Althoue  this percentage 1*
le8s than the 70 percent Bank financing rube, the Goveroment's overall
contribution for BEnk financed project. for mO  e maintained at above 30
percent. No projecta vero processed la MT9.) Base costs are given ln
March 1990 prices. Physical contingencies have been caleulated at 10
percent on aIl project cotts, except for training at S percent, and
personnel and techuical assistance at sero porcent. Price contingencies on
foreign ezchsnge costs based on Bank projections have been ±ncluded at as
average of 4.9 percent for 1990 and 1991. Price contingencies on local
casts are 8 percent. Total price contingencies amouat to 17 percent of
base coste. Pro3ect costs are sumuarised belov. A project cost sumary le
presented ln Auner 13, and detalled cost tables are provided ln the Project
File.
Prolsct Costa Sumary
Z Foreign
Local    Porelan     Total      Exchanae
,________($'000)
A. Institutional Strengthen«Ig         198        89        287          31
- Planning and Management
- Capacity Building                327         41        367          il
- Monitoring asd Evaluation          98        88        186          47
- Information and Documentation    131         33        185          29
- Studies                           157       189        346          55
Sub-total                          911        460      1.371          34
B. Rural Outreach Progran              342       ilS        655          48
C. Urban Vocational ?raing             537       $62        899          40
Total Baseline Costa                 1,791     1,13S      2,925          39
Physical Contlngencies                 116        79        195          40
Price Contingencles                    331       180        511          35
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                  2,238     1,393      3,631          38
(Including Taxes)
Taxes                                 (736)      (0)        (736)
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS
(Net of Taxes)                      1,502      1,393       2,895



.27_
3.42      Pinulna Pla.  The ftlung of project cotts, lacluding taxes,
would b. shared.1a the folloviug amoutt  and proportions (participants'
contribution bai beeh lacorporated tô that of Goveent).
- inuanc&   Plan bv Componet'
Sou    ovlfo   Sese lAere    TIt          xw.h
A. I.sUtutloaeu StrUq hb18    1,'o       Gu         O      `    1,       144
S. fhare Oubrut Prmegr         4S8       8         au                    279
C. s&Ite Tr.luiol              712                                       812
TouI 1*s_                2,158     1,#0         S          1,01      788
Procuroment
3.43      All goode and services flnanced under the project vould be
procured in accordance vith Bank puidelines. The table below lists
contracta to be avarded and procurement methode.
Procurement Affram~ments-
XC,           LCI       Others          Total
Civil Vorks                                   609                        609
(426)*                     (426>
Vehicles                        391                                      391
(235)                                    (235)
Equvipeast                                    351                        351
<214)                      (214)
Techalcal Assistance and
Contractual Services ai                                 628            628
(502)          (M02)
Tralinng bJ                                               451            451
-<) (2?1)   .<(271>
Developmast Fmd                               192                        192
(115)                      (115)
Operathig   Costs                                         922            922
(369)          (369)
Cooperative Contracts                                      87             87
(52)           (52)
Total         i            391         1,152      2,088           3,631
--       - (235)         (755)-   (1,194)         (2,184)
*  Amouats in parentheses fadState Bank financing.
8J  All teebaical assistance would be recruited In accordance vith Bask
guidellaies.---                                                   - 
bI Local and laternational training-related travel, MYF spontored courses,
cooperative agreements with tecbalcal ministries, and a llmited number
of specialized fellowships aud study tours.



- 28 -
Procurement programe for vehicles and equipment vould be prepared on a
semi-annual basis and procurement vould be bulked to the extent possible.
Contracts for the procurement of goode valued at $100,000 equivalent or
more would be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB).
Such contracte vould comprise ma$nly vehicles (about $391,000). Vhen
bulking is not feasible, contracta for vehicles and equipment not exceeding
$100,000 but over $50,000 up to an aggregate amouat of $250,000 vould be
procured under local competitive bidding (LCO), or under $50.000 up to an
aggregate of $100,000, by local shopping (vith three quotations from
reputable suppliers) because of the relatively amall value of these
contracte. Under ICB procurement of goods, local manufacturers vould be
allowed a 15 percent margin of preference or the applicable customs duty,
vhichever le lover. Civil vorks which consist of the renovation of the
,institutes ($609,000) vould be scattered both geographically and time-vdse
and therefore not suitable for ICB. They vould be carried out through LCB.
Operating coste for vehicle maintenance and fuel, travel, office expenses,
training courses, and miscellaneous items for NPF would follow governent
procedures acceptable to the Bank. The threshold for prior review of
procurement by the Bank vould be $50,000.
Diabursement
3.44      To improve the efficient and timely implementation of the
project, the bank vould deposit $270,000 in a Special Accouant opened with a
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank to finance the Bank's share of
project eligible expenditures for a period of imalementation of about four
months. Special Account replenishment would be done against full
documentation except for expenses based on Statements of Expeuditures
(sOEs), which vould be made available to Baink staff, other operating cOste,
and expenditures less than $10,000.  SOEs would be certified by the HP
Financial Director and subject to specific reviews by auditors (para 3.49).
To enmure efficient and timely project implemontation, the Goeveruent vould
channel its contribution to project financing through a Project Accouat
opened at CA&. As a Condition of Effectiveness of Bank Loan, the
Goverament would deposit CFAF 75 million in the Project Accouant,
representing its contribution for four months of project expenditures. All
Bank eligible expenditures would be financed from the Special Accouant
unless other«Ise previously agreed to by the Bank. Should any dimbursement
made from the Special Accouant not be acceptable to the Bank, the Government
vould be required to deposit the corresponding amount back into the Special
Accouat or, if the Bank se requests, refund to the Bank an amount equal to
the non-eligible amount. Except in case of direct payment. no
reimbursement application for less than $50,000 equivalent would be
accepted. Assurances concerning the conditions of operation of the special
accouat vere obtained during negotiations.
3.45      A standard profile for disbursement is not available for a 24
menth pilot project.  The proposed loan vould be disbursed over a period of
three years alloving for a twelve month lag over the 24 month expected
duration of the pilot project.  The closing date would be an additional six
monthe after the disbursement period, June 30, 1994. The standard
disbursement profile iL not applicable here due to the pilot nature and
short duration of this project. Disbursements would be made against SOIs



-                        ~~~~~~~~- *9 -
for aIl opera tlg cotte and ail contracte equivalent to lese than $50,000.
Documentation of SOWE vould be held for annual reviev by Bank supervision
missions.)
3.46      TheB ank Loan vould be disbursod against the  folloving
categories ln the porcentages £ndicated below.
Diebursements
IBRD          Percentage of
I.mouut (S000)     Expenditures
To Be iua!nced
(Exclu4ing Taxes)
Civil Vorks                 400                70
Vebicles & Equipment        420               100
Techuical Assistance        400                80
Training & Fellowehips      250                60
Development Fund            150                70
Operating Coste             330                40
Çooperative Contracte        50               100
ùnallocated               '200
Total               2.200
Reyortius
5.47      The regional coordinators wvould prepare monthly progress reports
to be submitted to Mæ., hich would ln turn be consolidated with activities
at central level into annual reports to be submit.ted to the Bank. The-
reports wmuld assess progress (physical, institutional, budgetary) against
agreed annual progras and budgets of operations and targets. HPP would
submit to thé Inter-muaisterial Comuittee to be established under the
project (para 3.13) and to the Bank for review and comments each year
before October 31, a detailed draft annual work plan and budgét includingt
(a) program of operations; (b) trainuLg programe; (c) monitoring and
evaluation prograns for the outr5ach and skills training programe. The
draft work progra  and budget for the second semester of 1990 vould be
submitted to the bank at negotiatione. Annual consultations vould take
place before the end of each year on the progress of the project.
Assurances to this effect vere obtained at negotiations.
Accounts asd Audits
3.48      The project would maintain accouating records for project
activities, consistent vith souwd accouating practices which would reflect
fairly, in accordance vith international accouating principles, the pverall
financial situation of the project. It vould also keep separate detailed'
cost records !or centraliled activltie8 (project management, monitoring and,



supervision, consultacieis an  studilos), the rural outreach program
including the aurai Development Fnd, sd thal scills training program.
Assurances to this effect ver. obtained at negotiations.
3.49      Th. fla"ncil director of NP? would be responsible for
consolidating project accounte, and preparing and submittiag documentation
to ÇAA for prepariag disbursement applications. Project finsacial
statements and 80Es vould b. audited'annually, la accordneo vith
laternatlonally accepted auditing standards, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Baik. Audited accounte and reports vould be submitted to
the Bauk for reviev vithin sitx months of the end of- each fiscal year. The
audit vould include an opinion on the reliability of the 80E procedures snd
on the proper utilization of goode end service financed under the project.
Iv, EBUEPITS AND 118S
Isueffts
Vomen la RCI vould boefit fron the iaçreased -ustitutional
capacfty of goveruint entities to addrest woumn'a issues (i.e., through
tie streagt-eniag of NPF sad its ability to coordinate vith, and seek the
collaboratioi of, line ministriee).  The enianced promotional activities of
'NP? vould translate into a greater awareness of vomen*s needs, issues and
rights countrywide and the incorporation of those concerna into future
mainstream finestmant programs.  the direct principal-beneficiaries of the
pilot project wuuld be vomen ln the regions covered. Their velfare would
be impoved through income, iacreased productivity through the introduction
of labor saving technaques. and reduced maternal morbidity through lmproved
maternal bealth care.  The velfare of the fdilies of participating vomen
vould improve due to a better understanding of primary health care,
nutrition and hygiene. ;Since vomen are respousible for the velfare of the
family, the indirect effect, particularly ln rural areas and for future
generations, should be much greater.  Even at the pilot phase, about 12,000
people vould derive some benefit from project activities. The qualltative
bewefits to vemen vould be high. The pilot project vould ensble the
Goveroment to learn from experience and to de igu a national progrsm to
support vosmn, ,vich vould bave not only a social but also an economic
Impact at tbe national level. la the long-term, since vomn are the
principal producerse of food crops, the project would have an important
impact on food security. Over the long-term, vomea enhanced role.fin the
cçuntry's development effort vould contribute to better overall economic
performance aud to poverty alleviation.
Economic Lenefite
4.02       the project le expected to have a positive impact on the
economy, albeit limited at the pilot phase.' SÏnce much of the activities
vould be experimental la nature, it ls difficult to messure benegits at
this stage. Revertheleçs, project activities vould enable rural aud urban
vomen to participate more la lacme gen.rating activities.  Over a 24-
month period, about 4,800 rural vomen  ould directly derive econocic
benefilte from the project through iacreased food production, storage,
processing and marketing; nud 1,200 urban vomen "uld benefit throughi



-31 -
increased suployment opportunities sud participation in income georation
activitieos.  During the man phase of the project, it la expected that
about 60,000 rural wmem vill bonfilt au aIl rural outreach work;ers and
*tenut in agents of the lice ministries would more actively provlde support
services to rural vome. About 8,000 urban vomen uould beneflt during the
main phase as aIl the TDEFs vould participat.. Tb. indirect benefits vould
be multiple as the familles of thea. vamen vould also benefit from Amproved
family velfare. Productivity of all members of householdo vould laprove as
illaess le reduced and autrition uad hygiene are ihproved. During the
course of its pilot plase, tiie project vuld masure its impact on vomen,
lncome, and employmeut so that the full national project vould contain a
couprelenive ecouomic analysis.
Riska
4.03      The main risk ie that MP vould »ot bave the c8pacity to
umdrtake the dynamic operational role required under the project.  Because
of the deceutraliz.d nature of support services la Côte d'Ivoire, the taesk
to reorient each entity to better meot the needs of vome, although
assential, vill take timn. It wiLl not be easy to change traditional
attitudes toward the roli of oesn la socity, *acludlag those of the civil
servamts responsible for providiug support services la the agricultural and
bealth sectors. This task i8 furtber complicated by the same traditional
attitudes toward vomen by vomen themselves.  Anotier risk il  the
difficulty in designing aud implementing a project vith a priority theme
such as vomen in development, 'hich Le maltisectoral la spproach.  The
incorporation of a large aumber of surveys and studies using local
consultants  iiere feasible increases the use of omirical evidence for
decisions on specific intervemtions.  lu spite of being a new Ministry, NY
has a dynamic and enthuslastie staff.  Strengt ening the support program
for vomen on a pilot scale vould not only give th. ministry more time to
develop, but would also give the Bank a chance to observe the evolution of
1P1P' capabilities.
Environmnutal Xmnact
4.04      The project vould have a positive impact on the environrent as
the agnicultura1 messages to be provided througb the rural outreach program
vould guide voeen aewy from the practices of ohifting agriculture vhich la
destructive to the environment. Agrieultural messages vould foeus on the
use of naturel forme of fertilisation such as alle.  cropping requiring free
planting sad application of muleh, not only to minimise production costs
but also to protect the environment.  Other hm  eonomics messages both
through the rural outreach program and the Institutes for the Education of
Vomen would contribute to the protection of the enviroument.  They include
the use of fuel efficient stoves, as well as camumanl and household
hygiene.



32 -
V. AGREEMENS8 AND RECOMMEUNATION
S.01      During negotiations. the following agreements were obtaineds
(a) Establisbment of, and operating procedures for, special accounts
(para 3.44).
(b) Annual work plans and budgets reviewed by the Inter-mlnisterial
Committee and by the Bank, sad consultations vith the Bank <para
3.47).
(c)  The maintenance of accouating records for project activities
(para 3.48).
5.02      The deposit of GFAF 75 million by the Goverament lu the Project
Accouat, representing its contribution for four months of project
expenditures would be a condition of effectiveness (para 3.44>.
5.03      T,he following measures vould be conditions of disbursements
(a)  The choice of DO and the contractual agreement between HPF and
DO to manage the Development Pund (para 3.34).
(b)  The signiug of cooperative annual contracte required under the
rural outreach and skiull training components (para 3.12).
5.04      Recommendation.  Vith the above assurances and conditions, the
project would be suitable for a Bank Loan of $2.2 million.



. 33 _                       Page 1 of 2
COTE D'IVOIRE
liH         IN   DEV OPoe     PILOT  SUPPORT PROJECT
S.d4iIln&mo2    fDo e0>Do     . 1989
Côte d'Ivire
33.30     13.20     rots       S.*    'ér          hahe
HIMYRSURC
Touai pwaIamm (use n 1988>    --          pnis         4.0       d7S4      t11.     466à      629 t4    4w4
Puimetu                                un' a1t    2 3 9             j2       4.10°s 
6.?       6 37'.4  1 £}  3  3.  3.1
-*aftulgmtbdffuUia  -if   4.  4.4      4.7       4.1       2.         3.
prc~oeeiap1nn2a                    Énae                                 7,7~   673.34      800.0 3521.03
~~~Zbh~~~urn           yoe1~~~~~Lp~~      736                                                  26.34
=e:  y  «,                               @                _         _                   _                   3..
3gL"      i (U                       par       _           -"                   -         - -                  *-
4%7o      47.0      525       S           38       67.2
Liheq,umcye1d*oVUUa                                    42.        48        556                            69.8
T3,1f5_ *.380    181481    232.3       156.018
139       36        34.4      380        312       29
76 _                      ..     -
Ruai                                                      -        1dl00 3          4 ffl        O      8. 
~~ai                    -                             -i         -         -     "      
NATIJEALIEUoIIcU                                                              3~      22.142    17,<1     20.=
8 J 144              24                  383
'                      ÉÉù                 i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  Ylf   M6   631j7 7
j44    ..     ~~~~~79.4
- *                                                                            Îa_ol
'                                                                             19
I .
* I                                     p 
e                               e                                       e~~~~~~~~~~



-34-.
Page 2 of 2
COTE DIVOIRE
VOJE IN DEMOPNT PILOT SPORT PROJEOT
SocIacarsd l.vgà7pmm. 1989
Z1JO    1340    rltu     S.    L..r   AaqAwr
U*4~~~~~~~~~~Lf- (} X 35 
U4tOMV.4ND?OVEltIY
ID epo?oepOfr.19U)               US os 190            s0       7* S l         1, 0    2S40
T~1bausb@W    s_               *«- o
ShlmobUad4OUbIâIS                *                     9o      s.
. m5O     ccémi4              USS_3 _                           _
_eced~     ua _I.<pj.                      -       .. _. _                           .
milk, hu~qp _P       "-|_             14       q                         iM  33 296
'   2=   2j 24  2.  2$
E._g               ffdGD                        ..     ..  *-
PIzii ^                             -t                  - _             _.
t  _  sd _ " _ _~~~~~~.                    .       ..
gj; =it 4di1_.eaoe-   S .                              si l7 ,1.
o     ^     _~-                              n      3. -_  
_~~~~~~~ -                              l       1 9
Popdamosp.r                                      n             U47~~~~~47J
s.. ~    ~      d"9             -                -       -é 
AOaustBhIIlk                    d_             _        _               U 
rnga <oe13méDh                                  * `     ..      »                .       .
n               d_ç_              M       M        {       §       |        B- .. 
99.4
37
wa__ 3,           t_               g    t           "    X          u1 32 
Ne_              __  _           Z       S       tJ       S      tU !8 .9  L?  8L
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~                 S         - '  _
l~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~4                                .       .       93      M



- ~- 35 -
COTE DoIVOIR
WoI IN DnEEOPHEN PILOt 9S1P110  PROJECT
v rsa. Y tars of tEucatlon and Enolmt R"tes
Aduit HZ             Admit VUa         Percant      Petcsnt
taros of  y.az' of   y..:, of  Yeats cf of chLldm  of ado.
priaac    poffl-      p:iaay   Pott-    at:.dug    lescents
.ducatos pamey    Oducation pr,n    scboio              attemdLsg
ducatiUoa             etUcaCoL               schoo@
LbUI an
Vary ftor           3.9       1.1          2.0        0.6      41.7      50.0
POot                3.5       1.4          2.1        1.2      64.4      50.0
Lou Inceme          4.2       2.5          2.3        0.9      71.4      41.l
;  2de Incane        5.0       4.3         3.0        2.2      85.7      60.9
R:c                 5.6       7.6         -5.0        1.1    100.0       90.9
Ail                 4.6        3.6         5.0        1.7      71.2      53.6
Vary noot                1.8       0.2        1.S        0.3       50.0       27.8
Foor                    3.6        1.3        1.2        0.2       00.0       42.9
Lou Imams               31         1.3        1.8        0.5       89.0       42.5
Middl Icoa               4.3       3.1         2.8       1.3       79.1       3?.
Lch                     5.3        5.8        3.1        3.4       94.7       75.0
£21                     3.9        2.6        2.2        O.9       72.4       49.6
v.,y Foot               0.1        0.1        0.3        0.0       30.8        3.9
Foor                    1.6        0.4        0.2        0.0       32.4        6.7
Lou Inco                1.7        0.6        0.6        0.0       51.9       21.9
41e zacom              2.S        0.7        0.7        0.2       *0.B       26.1
Rlcl                    2.2        0.9        0.8        0.2      40.7        15.4
£12.                     S.9       0.6        0.1        0.1       53S        22.2
-SIES'     Grootart, Chrilstia  and tUg, SUaS, Povsfrty Md .  Labor
of Vot   asd ChLldia  Côte tIvol.e, Vorld Eank. Dec.
x ~19V7. 



36 -
s                           |           ~~~~~~~~~~~~ANNEX 3
COTE D'IVOIRE
JEEN IN< DEVELOPFKET PILOT SUPPORT PROJECT
Average Labor SuiZply for Ezouomc*llv Active Men and vomen
Men                             Women~
Bours       Days      Veeks       Hours      Days      Weeks
per day    par week   per year   per day   per week  per year
Abidian
Very Pooç               8.7        6.5       47.8          7.1       6.7      49.0
Poor                    8.3        S.6       46.8          8.4       6.8      43.8
Lou lucome              8.5        5.9       47.7          7.5       6.3      43.2
4iddle Incomu           8.4        5.8       45.3          7.8       5.8      41.8
Iich                    7.4        5.6       44.2         .6.2       5.6      40.3
All                     8.4        5.8       46.1          7.6       6.1      43.0
Other Cities
Very Poor               8.2        S.2       45.3          7.5       5.5      41.2
Poor                    7.9        5.4       44.7          6.2       5.1      43.6
Lou Ineoe               8.5        5.7       40.8          6.6       5.0      41.8
Middie Ineome           8.,5        5.7      43.9          7.0       5.4      40.2
Rich                    7.7        5.6       40.7          7.7       6.1    i 37.8
Ail i                   8.4        5.7       42.7          6.8       5.2      41.1
Rural Areas
Very Poor               7.8         5.4      44.0          6.3       5.3      47.0
Poor                    7.7        5.2       44.1          6.5       5.2    .46.6
Lou Incoo               7.4         5.0      43.2          6.4       4.9      43.8
Middle Incmoe           7.4        3.1       40.9          6.4       4.9      40.5
Rich                    7.2        5.0       37.8          6.3       5.0      36.1
Ail                     7.4         5.1      41.8          6.4       5.0      42.3
Sources    Grootart, Christia snd Yism, Suan, Poverty end the Labor of Vormn
sad Childron la COte d'Ivoire, Vorld Bank, Dec. 1987.
I~ ~~~~~~'



-37-
COT ' DIVOIRE
VOMEN IN DEVEL,OPENT PILOS SUPPORT PROJECS
Shar. (1> of Bou,ehold Labor Sw>po1v ?rovid,ed bv
Diffeu TPS o   ousehol4 M ubers
Chtldreu      AtdolescerutS     HOMen       '.omen       EIderV
art Hr       fl    Days    Brs   Days    Ers  Days   aru  Days
x                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~Ab±imta
Vert-Poor            5.2    4.3    4.3    4.6   40.4   36.3   40.7  46.5   9.2   8.3
Poor     '           O.0    0.0    7.6    7.6   31.8   29.3   39.7  43.8  20.9  19.3
toy Iacoue           1.5    2.3    8.0    7.4   47.4   43.4   33.0  36.3  10.0  10.5
Middle Income        0.1    0.8    3.3    3.4   S3.4   51.9   32.9  34.7   9.7   9.2
Rich                 0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   68.2   64.7   26.1  29.9   3.7   5.4
À11                  1.2    1.5    5.0    4.9   49.8   47.0   33.6  36.6  10.4  10.1
Other CLt.es
Very Poor            64l   6.7   11.2   11.6   26.1   26.5   37.8  36.9  18.8  18.3
Poor                 9.3    7.7   13.4   13.3   22.0   19.9  .32.9  35.4  22.3  23.6
LoW  côm.            5.4    5.5   13.6   14.6   33.1   30.6   30.7  32.2  17.l  17.0
14ddle Znou.s        }.0    2.9   10.2    9.5   45.5   43.3   27.0  29.6  14.4  14.7
Rtch                 0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   76.1   73.8   22.4  23.5   1.5   2.7
Ail                  4.4    4.5   11.3   11.4   39.1   37.1   29.7  31.3  15.5  15.7
Rural Areas
Very Poor           15.4   17.5   17.6   16.8   19.4   17.5   29.8  32.2  17.7  16.0
Poot                13.3   13.6   12.3   11.7   20.8   19.2   34.2  37.3  19.2  l.3
Lov Sucome          14.4   15., 12.4   12.0   22.6   20.§6  30.7  31.9  19.6  19.8
Middle Sncoe        11.6   11.6   11.4   11.7   24.5   22.9   31.7  32,8  20.8  21.0
RiLc                 7.7    7.3    7.6    7.7   28.6   27.3   29.8  32.4  26.4  25.3
âA.1                12.6   13.0   12.2   12.0   22.5   21.8   31.3  32.8  20.4  20.4
Sources     Grootegt, CChristian ad Yi", Suan, Poerty *a  the Labor of W  n
Md ChldrQd la CGte d'Ivore, Vorld InDk, rec. 1987.



38
Wo   25 Dlu LOI   PILOT  UPOT Dm
Average TiSe Speut in Hoeakins Activities
___bY Ecounocall Acti  Househoid 3tember
Hours      Dars     Bouts       Deys     mours    Days
per day   per veek  pet da;  pet week  pet day per week
AbLd£41            Other Cities        Rural Arias
Childrem              2.0        3.2      1.7          3.6      1.8      4.3
Adoleczete            2.3        2.6      2.1          3.7      2.3       4.2
male Adulte           0.7        1.1      0.7          1.5      0.9       2.2
V..ale Adulte         3.3        5.1      4.3         5.        4.1      6.1
Elderly               0.9        2.0      2.0          3.2      2.0       3.7
lhole Costwy
Male Adulte         irnle Adulte
Rours     Dayys    Koura       Daye
par da' par week  per day    par wer
Very oot               0.9       2.3      4.3          6.6
Ioor                  0.9        2.0      4.4          6.2
Lov eZc               0.8        1.8      4.1          6.1
1M11e Zacomeme        0.7        1.7      4.0          5.8
1ich                   0.9       2.2      2.7          4e0
£11                    0.8       1.8      4.1          5.9
Soumcet    (rootart. Christla  aad Yia, S8p, ?orty and the Labor of Voua
uad ChiUre La Cate d'lvotre Vorld Bank, Dec. 1987.
.1



)J
Pretof &dualt'Lernale, Amona Unpaid  Faiaily Vork.re
and Oua AccowIt Workers
Abidjan          Other Cities        lRural Ar,eas
UWU      OAW        UPU       OAV        UPU       OAW
Very Poor                       64.3        20.0     48.1.       321      33.3
Poor.                   -                   31.8..   47.8        39.0     30.7
Loy tIncore            41.7     5.           04      46.3        31.3     32.0
Middle tIncorn         4-0.0    50.7        31.7     38.8        36.6     27.0
RLch                            54.5        50.0     42.-        37.4     29.9
Ail                    41.2     55.9        30.2     43.8        34.6   '~4.6
J                  .                         )
Sources~an  O r,Chitm  -andua Ti,Sua,PoryksheLbo   f  ee
)i
I 



- 40 -
Page 1 of 2
COTE D'IVOIRE
WBEE I DEVELOPMENT PILOT SUPPORT PROJECT
Divislon of Labor in Tvo Rice Producina Zones
1.       The increase of 3.3 percent ia the food crop subsector of Côte
d'Ivoire between 1975 and 1985 has accelerated over the past two years and
generates lncreased ferm revenues. Hovever, such growtb te precarious in Côte
d'Ivoire due to the rapid demographic growth of the country.  Confronted vith
the licreasing food crop demand during the last decade, the Governmunt vill
have to explore ways to Improve production and the role of vomen--and lts
evolution--must be taken lato account when designlng future strategies.  In
1985, 66 percent of the Ivorian active population vas rurale men represented
52 percent and vomen 48 percent, the slight Imbalance being due to the high
number of immigrant vorkers In the male active population.
2.       The contribution of vemen farmers to food crop production has
$ncreaaed *long vith the Importance given to export crops cultivation wiich
takes a large part of men's vorking time. The nature of female participation
depends on hou vork l defined la each household (vhich ls also a production
unit) and on the production requirements of each crop.  It should be
empiasized that the division of labor for a given crop shifts according to the
Importance that the group gives to the crop in terms of food and revenues.
The ex   le of rice production ln tvo zones vith different climates and
sociological coaditions explains to some degree food crop production and the
division of labor required.
3.       In Senoufo country, rainfed rice is cultivated in association vith
other crope, especially yams. la family fields, both men and vomen do the
soving by hand; veeding is done by vomen vlhle harvesting ls a collective task
done vith a sickle by me  an d vith a knife by vomen. Production of
commodities such as yams, millet, aud maize ta insignificant.  In Sorn places,
ralafed rice production tends to recede because of louer rainfall, to the
benefit of flooded or irrigated rice cultivation in bottomland areas. The
ploving of these bard soil areas is done by mon (Coulibaly, S., 1978). Seed
gardens are esttablshed by vmen, planting is done by mmn and followed by
transplanting by vmn. Earvestlng is done collectively.
4.       ln the Conter and Center-ast of Côte d'ivoire, consumers eat more of
one crop (Dote sud Guere). It replaced taro md la nov a vell established
cash crop. Within families, which are often polyganous, the firot vife
organizes the economic and social llfe of the household by allocatiag tasks
and distributiug produce to the other vomen. Before the establiobment of
coffee and cocoa plntations, field uork vas done vitS machetes by the amn and
the vomen  f the houséeold. Since  the Introduction of these crope, the mmn
only prepanes the land snd leaves all other taskha tsoing, harvesting, drylng



- 41 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2
and hulling) to  mons. Maise and cassava in Guere couatry, sad plautaia La
Bete country. are cultivated in association vith rice to which are often added
tomato, pimento, and eggplant. The need for varlous nutrients le met througb
this association of secondary cropu with basic crope. 1Whle African
vegetables are sold by  oemen farmers, European vegetables (lettuce, cabbage,
:ucchlna, pepper) produced by vegetables grovers la p.ri-urbaa areas are sold
byv omen retailers.
S.       PIshidg by net and traps ln rivers and streas, and the Satherlag of
esaile, are activities alo carried out by vena. These producte allow thei
to satisfy the famuly>"  need for proteln, especially la the forested area
viiere climate does not favor animal breeding (especially cattle). VWmn
process and preserve these producte as 8Sthey do vild game huated by sa.



- 42-                                     `~LIK  8
*4  *.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~4
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a
Il -j



- 43 -
AUE  9
Page 1 of 2
COTE D'IVOIRE
Linkapes Ietweeu the VD Pilot uMpfort Pro1ect
and the Bumun Resources Develovmeut lmD) Proiect
1.        Integration of the objectives of the two projects would be
achieved tirough the follovinga
(a)  Policy dialogue wlth the Ministry for the Advancement of Vomen
OUF) and the other Miaistries iivolved in the preparation of
the ERD project (all tecbalcal miulstries involved in lumau
Resources lasues plus Pinauce, Planning, Interior, Agriculture,
and DCOT) in order to achieve the full iutegration, et the
pollcy level, of VID issues i the 'Numau Resources Developmeut
Declaration^ (URDD). This declaration, available in a draft
version, is the product of an ongoing Inter-ministerial dialogue
vithin the Monitoring Committee set up for the preparation of
tie DM  project. A delegate from   haP bas r.cently been
nomizated to thls comimttee. He vill participate in the vriting
of the HRDD and in the elaboration of the ERD project so that
the objectives of the MID pilot project are coustantly taken
hito accouat and iategrated in a medium-term perspective.
(b)  The above dialogue vill be successfully achieved througp the
findinsg of selected operational studios conducted vithin the
framework of both projects. These studies vill be matually
reinforcn8g. Tbey vill foeus ou three major areast
(i)  The analysis of the legal framework concerning the status
of wamen in society.  This Study 1ill highlight areas of
constrainte for the advancement of voule and the Insertion
of voman li the labor force.
(ii) The restructuring and lstreamli*iagg of vocational and
techuical traiinng activities la BCI. The NID project vill
concentrate a substattial part of its efforts on
understanding and enhancclg the efficiency of activities in
fhnanc ig and design8ng techical training. This effort
vill be based on the analysis and uuderstadhing of the
functloning of the labor market in RCI. Productive aress
vill be identified for the labor force in general asd for
vomsn specifically, both lu the moderm  and linormal
sectors. Training vUl consequently be reoriented during
t.e llfe of the HaD project. Both projects atm at reachlg
thi* objective. Contiuity on tiit point vill be essured
through the ERV project at the end of the VI» pilot
project.



-44-
Page 2 of 2
(iii) The identification of productive areae and adequate
training echemes will be accompanled by the study and
t.sting of vlable savings and lonis alternastives for the
promotion of mmall-scale busineses in the forml and
informal sector. This aspect vill benefit particulrly
vomu ho are primarily self-employed ln the informal
sector.  The savingo and loans isue vlll take lto
consideration and vill bulld on existins ongoing
esperiences.  The feasibility of Orumeen type bankAag
approaçh for RCI vill be assessed and reviewed vithin the
context of a separate the pilot project to be finmnced by
the Bank.
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



Paie 1 Of 22
COTE D'IVOIU
MoN  IN DEVElOPHENT PILOT suPPOaT PROJECT
Detailed DescrEbtion of Proièct Activities as Prepared bv >PP
I. DeDartmeat for the Education of Women's (DEPI
A. Pilot Proloect Identification ver Zone
1. South Zonet Institute for the Education of Yomen (MDEM) at Port-
Bouit.
2.  Center-East Zones  IDEFs at Bonsounou, M'Batto, Arrah and
Daoukro.
3.  North Zones  IDEFs Xorhogo, Ferke, Tiononaradougou. Rarakoro.
I.  Main Coordinator
Hr. Koffi Sab Maurice. Assistant Director for outreach sad
pedagogical lspections.
C. Distribution of Kesponsibilities
1.  Pacility rebabilitation activities  ) Krs. Maty Treore
2.  Equipment activities                 ) mrs. Guet Justine
3.  Training activittes                     Mr. Kirouin Paul and
Mesdames Tchimou Madeleine
et Djigbenou Thérése
D. lacility Rebabilitation Activities
1. Port-Bount
la chairMa Hasdames Guet Justine and Traore Haty
-  coastruction of a o-rk shop
- construction of a storage facility
- construction of au open shed
2.  Xorhoso and Perk6
- construction of a work shop
- equipuwnt of a lUteracy rom
- construction of a kitchen
-  fonce and open shed



<'a .0                      O
ts "       q014                                                         "4    «b« 
i~~~4 i              i                      ;'0
4,1 8 &8                           D    ç^ ^0                 0  *09.O 
454



- 47 -
Pe80 3 of 22
2. Tra8zda ActLvSd.s
- Seviugt 60 persona
- Vuactional literacys 90 persona
-   etrataingt  pedtatrics, Lemra laud food 4yglenet 90 pereons
(a>  ?ra)ing sessions in nv fields on the basi8 of murket
analysie.
(b> SOvgIU
-    ?8,areted ioiulationst  60 persous (pilot regioue
Iatructors)
Trabinii stes Abidian (IN.J.8.)
Durationt 4 veeke (30 days)
2 vekslgroup of 15
Perlods from July 15 to Auguot 14, 1989
Aaentst 2 traimer (techaical education)
2 mintenance specialiste
2 permanunt education counselors
(c)  Llteracy
Theoretical trainLua
Targeted nopulations` 90 persons (instructors and rural
outreach vorkers)
Locations Abtdjau <2.14.8.>
Durations  2 weekslgroup of 15
Periodi 1 month for the six-groups. September 1989
A-ente:   2 professors from I.LàA.
a permanent educatton counselors
2 Zandragogues      ,
(d) Retralaina Sessi.on on Health Iducation
_araeted populationse: 90 persone <.E.P. and A.R.)
Locations Abidjan
Duration: 1 w.ek (7 days)
Periods  October 1-15, 1990`



-48-
ANNEX 10
Page 4 of 22
Asepts:  1 representative from Publie Health Institute
<I.N.8.P. )t
2 permanent education counselors
1 representative from the Hygiene Institute
G. Proarsa
1.   General Objective
The proposed activities alm overall at providing vomen vith the
necessary tools tot
-    integrate theaselves effectively in income generating
activities in the informal sector or to obtain the basic
training necessary to pursue more specialized training in
order to enter the formal job market;
-    be more effective in ensuring their well being and that of
the family.
2.   Iuaediate Objectives
-    give to vomen opportunities to do remunerated vork
(initially seving, cooking) through appropriate
professional initiation in these fields;
-    provide vomen vith the basic preparation necessary to;
eompete better for specialiaed training;
train and retrain NPF agents lu charge of implementing the
progrfm;
-    rehabilitate and equip IDEFs la the concerned areas;
-    give to vomen the means to become better lnformed about
their potential, and rights and obligations In a constantly
changiog societyt
i - contribute to reducing vomen illteracy rate la the
couatryg
-    contribute to protecting mother and infant health through
sensitization, information and training actions In the
fields of hygiene, nutrition aud birth spacing.
3. Tara.ted P&nulations
Participants  a InDEP8 and Vomen Groups In flme satellite
villages.



- 49                               .
Pas. 5 of 22
4.  Activities
(a)    Normal activities
- Seving 7 1-2 h.iheek or 30 hrslmonth or 240 hrslyr
- Literacy 6 1-4 h.Iveek or 25 brs/month or 200 hrslyr
-  Pediatrics 2 abruIwek or a bru/montb or 64 hrs/yr
- Cooklng 6 hrslweek or 24 hrstmonth or 192 brslyr
-  Hygiene 4 brslweek or 16 hrs/month or 128 hrslyr
-  Pottery 5 hrsleek or 20 hrelmonth or 160 hrslyr
-  I$EIEN 3 hrslweek or 12 hruImontb or 96 hrslyr
(b)   New activities
- vegetables
?dyeing
p pastry maklug (sveet bread)
industrial seving
tailoring
-  other activities to be deflied accord1ng to the
respults of studies on market demand.
Activities'are organized in the IDEs from Monday to Priday
<8s30 to 12 a.m. and 2:30 to Ss30 p.m.).
a.  Exoected Results
1.  O.meral
,-    Placement, by 1994, of at least 20 percent of graduates in
apprenticeship.
-    Placement, by 199S, of a least 20 percent of graduates lu
coumercial activities in the Luformal sector.
-    Placement of at least 5 percent of graduates lu Coveroment
sponsored specialiszed train ns.
-    Improved health and nutritional statue of students and
their families.
-    Funetional literacy of all graduates.
2.   Tarpet Numbers
IDEF iL Port-Boult
-  -    Reach 500 participants durlag the uchool year 1991IP2 from
380 participants in 1988189



-50-
aNNE 10
Page 6 of 22
Create an adequately equiped lab tbat vill be used as the
pilot center for training, r.trainAag and upgrading of
permanent education teachers
Reach la esch of the fve satellite villages at least 80
vomen vith ieading, vritimg and mathematice as part of
their occupation and sensitlae them an general and food
hygiene
la cooperation with the Operations Directorate, create two
sevlng cooperatives
Retrain ln sevlng at lesat 200 permanent education teachers
and 50 participants who fluished their trainlng and
establiehed their own business.
In Center-East
Reach a miatmu- of 60 participants, each throug8  the IDEF
for Dtoukro and "Batto, and 50 participants for Àrrah.
Teach to read, write sad calculate as part of activities
integrated into the occupation of wn.  iThese actions
should reach at least 25 vomen per village by the end of
the operation (or 600 vommn in the 12 targeted villages).
ZEDs n Kooao and Perk6
-    Eeacch 120 participants from 80 la Korbogo and 50 from 2S Ln
Fernk  by the end of the program
-    Provide traninfg la literacy, hygiene and home economics to
Vom en Groupe per village for Korhogo and 3 Groupe per
vlllage for Ferk4 (30 vamen per group or village, or 240
umeu An total).
I. Monitorin and Evaluation
1. Nonitonina
At the Central Directorate levels
1 team of 3 persons An charge of perament miesions for
administrative, technical and financial supervision.
Mbothly visits
4 days la the North, 6 days lA the Center-East and 2 days
ln the South.



AUNl10
Page 7 Of 22
At th. re&Ional level:
The Regional Coordinator wyl lead every 1S day. a mission
to upervise activities under her competence at the
regional level.
2.  Evaluatio
Evaluation r     ôill Cover
-    competence and performance of teachers la the fields
-    number and involvement of participsmts la ZDUFs'
activitles;
-    tecbalcal material and infrastructures;
-    the Impact of teachers' actions on the populations targeted-
in the five selected villages%
the degree of integratioz of educational Messages;
-    placement of graduates Lu incoms generating activities.
DF? Vork Plan la a niven reion
The coordination of an activity in the esperimental region vill
be the resposeibility of a Coordinator selected according to grade- ad
abilities. Selectioe vill be based on four criterias administrative
soundmess, financial sounes., b.8igh techuical qualifications, and good
hums relations lu order'to represent the  intistry before other
institutions and ensure effective integration of the actlvities of all
ministerial divitsios.
At the begmlng. tibe Coordinator yull have tbroe maln taskst
-    Admlnistrative task.  TUs task v1ll conslst at
admiisterizag the region according to ministerial
procedures in matters dealing vith DID, DE and DDO
personnel. Hovever, for transfrs. *appointmsnts,or
sanctions of personnel tecbalcally attached to D0D  or DEF,
approval frci. the person in cbarge elther lu DDO or DEP
will be necessary.  lu case of dispute, the Central
-Directorate and the Cabinet vill decide.
-    Financial task.  Iecentrallaation vill be Decessaem  to
expedite execution of escental teeke. TIbree second
generation accountslvould be opened under the  PP'es special
account, o-i An each of the pilot regions, iaa branch of
the smae commercial banks, or tie local brandh of a
*,                                         . 



- S2 -
AUNEZ 10
Page 8 of 22
correspondent bank wihen there le no local branch.  The Zone
Officer vill b. respouuible for espenditures to be financed
by this fund, no natter the type of personnel lnvolved
(DID, DE?, DDO). Advance payments covering four monthe of
estisated expenditures vould be made to these second
generation accouants by CAA from the main special account.
The regional budget vill be formulated on a six mwnth basis
under this experimental prograta. It vill be established by
the Coordinators of DE? and DDO la the framework of the
program. In case of dispute, it vill be presented to the
Central Directorates and, aS a last resort, the Cabinet
vill rule.
-    Technical task. Monitoring of DE? personnel, supervision
of the IDEP8, regular teacher meetings and lnvolvement ln
upgrading education program if necessary. The person vill
play the part of acting education counselor for IDEP in
hisber region.
ID E?;jersonnel vill continue to vork vithin a framework closely
similar to the present one. Novever, each of the learnaing prograns defined
in total hours/year vill have clear objectives and execution vill be
systematically evaluated. Moreover, DEF personnel vill laclude ln its
activities the systematic dissemination of DID's work, namely digsem4lation
of written informative documents, management of a library, and extension in
matters of radio and television programs or video materials concerning
vomen. The.e activities vill be part of the agenda for designated
teachers. Research, analysis and appropriation of information should be
t-he basic training elements for definlag the traiiing program of young
vom  ia IDEFs.
Il. Department of Operations (DDO)
Mail Coordinators Mr. Sahou Koula, Engineer, Agricultural Methodology,
Assistant Director for operations ln the rural sector.
Other Officers ln Charse:  Mr. Kouakou tonan Benjamln sad Miss Ebol Marie
Angele.
Zone Coordinatorst South, Mrs. Okani Jeannet East, Mr. Légré Dakpa
Philippe; North, an A.P.V.A.
Local Traailas of Staff
- Senior Officers and Coordinators
*Preparatlon for Amplementing an adapted training and visit (T&V)
system aud field vork organimation.



AUINEZ 10
Page 9 of 22
Number of persons concerneds 30, of vhich
Cabinet a 3
DD»t      7
DZF?      7
DID:      4
DAAF*    3
Zones:    6
Organizera8 ZBRD
Timings one week in November 1990
- Rural Outreach Vorkers (ARs)
Initiation to the T&V system.
Continuous training (once every otier week) on messages to be
extended.
Number of persons concerneds 31
Participantes Zone Coordinators or senior staff fron headquarters or
external participants (DMC, INADES or other specialised institutions)
Initiation training periods  one week In November 1990
Continuous trainings once every other veek, starting vith the
project.
- Epected Results
-    Continuous training of 31 ABs and 3 Coordinators vith a view to
improve their performance.
-    Setting up of new cooperatlves and strengtheni g those
ldentified ln villages already provided vith extension.
-    Increase in vomen revenues due to new activities (in
agriculture, livestock, trade, etc.) and to nev tecbnologies.
-    Impiovement in mother çnd child health, as vell as the overall
population health through fimproved diet.
-   Vomen financial contribution to the socio-collect&ve
infrastructures in their locale sechools, markets, vells,
latrines, etc.).
-    Traintig of 220 vomea in cooperative organisation and
management, agriculture and fish breeding (10 vwmen per
village).



-54-
AIIU 10
Page 10 of 22
Creation of 50 production   d marketin  GYCe * of which 19 la the
North. 24 in the Cemter-Eat aud 7 la the South ClortBout)
- Proaosed Proaram
Specific eleumsts iwil be selected fras the folloving trainang
subjects. They could be specific to the region.
Ai àArIculture and Livestock Productiou
lice, maue, maaioc. yam. vegetables snd livestock.
-Sub1ect la Sovin
- so8l selectiou and preparation
- msthod sad density of plautingt
Subiect 2: Maintenance
- veed control («nual sad cheuical weedicg)
- fertilizsation (fertilisert p.riod, type, dosage and
opreadlng)
- plant treatmuet (disease, insect snd parasite controlt type
of product, dosage, treatment mthod and tilmng)
Sublect S:t -arvest
- Harvest periodt physiological and technological maturity;
conservation
SubJect 4s Livestock
- Pacilities anud aterial for livestock activities
- Feedas principles and needs
- Disease and parasite coutrol.
Bi CooDerative Oranization and Management (vith DMC techuicians)
Subiect 1s Creation, oierations ud mauniemut of GVCs
-  Sensitize sad motivate fara wou  to group into ¢YCs, by
showing the benefits of such orgauisation -



Page 11 of 22
- Teach participants the rights snd obligations of cooporative
members
- Prepare internal regulations
- 1o1d regular meetings to accouat for activitios and make
decisions collectiv.ly
- Teach management to cooperative members by opening management
registers (cash, bank, crodit, stores, sales and paymente
books, etc.)
-  Bstablish sa  analyse expense accouat sud balnce sheet
- Familiarise cooperative members vith amortization.
SubJect 2, Produce marketing
-  Familiarise cooperative members vith market studies,
consumer needs, outlets, periodu of deficit and abundance
- Organise the grouping of products vhich requiresa
*  CV equipment (storage facility, weight material, bags,
etc.>
 signature of sale and purchase contracte vith buyers
a8reed by the State
- Seek credit, particularly seasonal credit.
Ci Hyglene asd Health
Subiect 1 Enviroumental Ryglene
- Up-keep of house and surrouanding
- Separation of habitat and kitchen
- Installation of shovers
- Building of storage shelves for utensils
- Construction of ditches for draining used vater
- Construction of latrines la villages
- Provision of specific places for trash (hou to dispose of it
or couvert it lnto eneqgy)
8ub1ect 2s Potable vater
- Construction of welles management sud maintenance of these
wells (presentation of benefits and constraints>
-  Conservation of "ater for consumption



6-
AUNE 10
Page 12 of 22
Subiect S, Nutrition Education
- lagredients of varlous foode for adulte and chlldren
- Nutritional value and diversity of foode
The eubjecte vill be presented,accordLng to a hande on
metbodology since the objective le to apply uhat vill have been learned.
Tims Distribution &mwM Activittes
Nature of Activities          Subecte        No. of day.
Agricultural snd
livestock production          1.  Sowing          4
2. Maintenace       4
3. Harvest          2
4. Livestock        2
Cooperative organisation
and management               31. OVC creation,
operations, ad
management      S
2. Marketing of
produce         3
Nygiene and health            1. Environmental
Mygiene         2
2. Potable vater   2
S subJectes       -24 days
DDO Vork Oransization la a Reuion
Staff directly attached to this Directorate vill consist ln a sn
Aselstant Coordinator to the Regional Coordiaator and 20 AR (4 per
subprefecture) and 4 for Port-Eou t Zou.).
The program operrtes on a 2-eek rotation. Bach AR will cover 8
village (1 village each day>.
During the firet veek, she vill spend 5 days iu the field sad during
the second veek 3 daye. The sixth day of each week vill be used to provide
pUctual services requested by vomn from a village under ber  "
resposeibîlity. 5he fourth day of the second week vill be devoted to



57
Page 13 of 22
personal ad*nlastg*tJon   synthesizla5 data antd vo   do.e la tbe 8 villages
vlit$td, etc., aud the fifth day to trainaig o  »ssagesoto be relayed ln
the (ollowing veek.  training v111 be. give by the Assistant Coordiaator La
conjunction vith a techalcal entity at the Central IDEF of tbe regicu.
First Week
Monday thtough                Outreach la onu villages       basic program
Friday
Saturd*y                 Outreach ia oue villages     specific probleme
Second Veek
Monday through
Wednésday                Outreàch la one villaget       basil progrma
Tlursday                 Adiinistration, recap of
vork doue la the 8 villages
Friday                   Analysis of thi prOcedang
tour and training for the
following two veeke
Saturday                 Outreach ain «eu  villaget     *pecific probleus
- For travellus, a vehicle,vill be made avallable for 4-Ais. The
region vil not b. divided lnto lutekventloa zones but,lnto vorn
itlaeraries. ach AR vlll have one villlage to visit on thls Itinerary.
Actions la a village vill always bees done by the same A. The AR assigned
to the furthest village)wouid drop the others in the.moruig to  their
-respective village and plck the up in the evelng.        =
- Their seuervision wiii be carried out by the A&sistait Coordlnator
vho vill be la the field with san Air four days a veek. IeIsie _ wvi  therefore -
be able to vork vith each AR la the field ome day every three veeke. She
rmainder of hua lher tine vill be devoted)to aalytical vork sud trainlag
every tvo weeks, preparation for this vork, adnUasdtratio  vork sud
contacts with other institutions to encourage them to dl.Ign pkograms for
-  The contents of TralaiR for Woue. will Laclude tuo large
elents:  _
-grculture. storag, marketing and maage t
-..éeaitlib. hygie sud nutrition
The AR vokday la a-'villa*e vill therefore b. divided 4nto tvo baie
ayst ome for producti7e açtivities and the other for social activities aud
bealth,.
c_   .~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/
. . 



- 58 -
AUNEZ 10
Page 14 of 22
Vork vill be carried out according to tie system Trainiag-Action,
amely traini.g vith a program for action and coutrol of progra
implemsutation.
- Duration of Trainina for Voman
If one exclude vacation tmne and an anual upgrading course, one
obtains about 20 days of training la eacb village, or 20 half day. on
agriculturefuanagement and 20 balf days o  bealth.
This choice of vorkdays ls necessarily ltlit.d because vomen are
already overloaded vith work. More Inteasive work vould probably lead to
more absenteeosm. One day every 1S days should not perturb too much their
persoal lives.
In addition, training a&ms at briaging about behavioral changes sad a
certain time la needed for integration aud assimilation. À multiplicity of
techmical messages and higher frequency vould not necessarily be
beneficial.
Relationshi> vith DEF and DID Staff
DEF
Thie urban center IDEP vill be considered as a village and progrsmmed
as such ia the AR itinerary.  Participants fron this center vlll therefore
receive the sae. training ln agricultural issues and bealth problems as
villagé vomen. It i8 important to note that some of these participants,
especially ln small touas, may one day roturc to their villages.
AUs will carry out a sensititation program on literacy during their
visita, vith the objective of eventually settiug up village literacy
stations.  The trained and experienced DE? staff should be able to train
future literacy vomen lastructors.
DID
DID vill provide ARs vith informative materials. la return, somu ARs
vlll collaborate vith the audio-visual production teom to create
informative materials on £mplemented prograus.
Remuneration and lenefits
The large difference between DE? staff *ho serve as civil servants
and DDO staff vho have a temporaty status can only b. detrimental to
program laplementation. la tuhs context, it *eems necessary that the
salaries of Ais lavolved in th. experimental program be lncluded ln the
agreement at the rate of CIYA 50,000 for baslc salary, plus traveling
erpeases of CFA? 1,000 per day, or CFA? 16,000 for 16 days per month, and
rent for CFAP l5,000.



- 59 -
AUN9Z 10
Pose 15 of 22
It doet rot sea possible to tie monthly lucentive premius to
service qulity. Ais' iork te à medium- to long-tem activity.  It la
thorefore Amportat tbat a  noxmal' vork claste prevalis ,o that iork
quality in the field cam be evaluated. This does not hoiever excludo
penalisation for a negative annual evaluation of services rendered
by a rural outreach vorker.
IIl. Division for Information sud Documentation's (IDD)
Activities usder the Proaran
Coordination
(a) Main Coordinator
lirs. Allechi Donga Michèle, REporter, Assistant Director for
Advice snd Information
(b) Distribution of Responsliblities
_ Audio-visual production uits Kra. Adji
- IDEP audio-visual equipseuts Mrs. Assale
- Advertizing Documentation Conters Kra. Traore Nafatoumata
staff Local Training
Location: Abidjan
DID'. enlor staff
Nuabers 6 per group of 3
Participantss Ninistry of Information
lai&stry for Cultural Affaire
Duration: 1 veek per group
Perîods October 1990 (two veeke)
Coordinators and their Assistants
Number: 18
Participants, Ninistry of Information
Ministry of Cultural Affaire
Duration: 1 week
,eriode October 1990
- Two main objectives: Gatherlng and production of;information
Disemsmnation--f lnformation
- Production of Information



- 60-
AUNEZ 10
Page 16 of 22
*   Sitce DID alteady has a production unlt for vritten materials,
lt will be able to produce most of the vritten documents needed
under the program.
It does not seem necessary to set up a print shop in the
Minuitry. For large jobs that require prînting, there are
enough vell established print shops vith which the Ninistry
could contract vork under competitive bidding to enmure quality.
*   However, DID should be equipped vith sme audio-visual equipment
for the review end preparation of material to be distributed to
IDEPe. The actual production of information cassettes vill be
contracted out.
_ Dissemination of information
This activity vill be carried out according to the measures
described in paragraph *DID's vork organization la a region.0
Exvected vork proauram for dissemination at tih reptional level
1.  Taraeted Populations
IDEF participants and vomen in the neighborhood
100 percent of participants for day sessions
25 percent of participants for night sessions
10 percent of other vomen from the neighborhood vho are not
registered vith IDEF, and vomen students from schools
25 percent of men (it is hoped that husbands vill accompauy
their vives to night sessions)
2. Disseuintion (messages)
Messages vlll covers
(a) Hyuieme
Gemeral hygiene
lygiene at houe
Vater as t.he source of life
Diseases associated vith absence of hygiene
Hygiene of food consumption items near schools and markets)



- 61 -
AUNEZ 10
Page 17 of 22
(b) Iconomy
Womien's role in agriculture
Benefits of savings
Women's access to bank credit
Village rural credit
Women's participation in cooperative movement
. creation and operations of cooperatives
. production cooperatives
* services cooperatives
. Zépréguhé (example)
Women involved in economic activity (all sectors)
(c) Rome economics
(d) The proaram aiss at informing vomen about their
colleagues do, based on feedback fro production unit
Ail meseages vill be used at IDEP level
Bach message vill be followed by a debate to obtain
participants' reaction and their degree of comprehension.
Radio-cassettes vill be used to tape vomen programn that the
person in charge vill find lnteresting in the context of
vomen training; listening viii be one of the activities
Ais could use the same materials in villages.  They will
sensitise rural vomen lu information gathering and processing
Participants vill al8o be able to listen to direct programs
offered during activities (IDE? program vill be processed
accordingly)
Radio-cassettes vill also be used to tape several talks-
debates.
3. Prograumins
Tvo dissemination programs per week (Tuesdays and Fridays fron
3s30 to 4s30 p.m. and from 7:00 to 8:00 p.m.), or 8 programs a month or 104
a year.
If possible, a special session should be added on Thursdays to
reach vemen students In schools or other wvmen not reglstered at IDB?.
- ProDosed program for documentation and advice
1. Documentation includes magazines amd newepapers dealing in vomen
Issues, especially vitb regard to:



-62-
AUX 10
Page 18 of 22
vomeeus role la the development process
miman's traditional and modern social statue
* legal statua of vomen la Africa regardlag vork and family
vomen'. statue la rural sud urban areas
* education for vamen
2.  Duration:  2 days a week <ondays and Thuredays fron 8:3O to
1100 a.m. sad 3:00 to 5:00 p.m.)
3. Taraeted nopulation: 15 to 20 persons per day
a ZE  participants
. studentes l settlement areas
. other readers (mon and vumen)
4. Informtion-advice
One talk-debate every month onu
* current national probleme
* eurreut regional problems
* curreut local problemo
* sub3ects covered by TV-radio program  already shown (subject
of the day vill be made known to the public through posters
at the Documentation Center and IDEP)
e.  Suimestions and coemmet follovina talke-debates
Suggestions aud comments made efter talks-debates vill be
transmitted to MPF (Information asd Documentation Directorate) for analysis
sud solutions.
6. Documentation
Positive points fron these talks-debates vill be compile&  ato
documents by the Information and Documentation Directorate and made
available to readers at the Documentation Center. These elements could
constitute a data bank.



-63 
ANPIX 10
Page 19 of 22
Documents on lfmmn's Issues for IDE?
These documents vill covers
1.   The role of vome  in the process of econumic development
at the public level
* at the social level
2. Statue of voeea in society
traditional society
m modern society
3. Legal statue of vomen in Africa
in the work place
ln the family
4. ?amily and development
i n rural areas
* la urban areas
5.  Education for leomm
. modern sector
* lnformal sector, etc.
Did's Vork Organization Il a Resao
DID vill have no stsff la the regions but vill vork through DEF and
DOD staff.  This approach aime at not burdenaing th. program vith staff vho
would not b. _mloyed full tine. 
uIn oach room uhere IDEF courses are given, shelves vill be
lastallod to present curreIt vritten documents.  The objective
is to create t.he habit of uaIng information. Each in;tructor
vill encourage read$n8 and tb4inking about contents.
*   Each MW!? viil set up a mlai-library vith books and basic
documents about vomen's issues, sud create a book loan system
umanaged by a inustructor under the supervision of the IDEF
Director.
nl each IDEP, video and audio equipuent vil allow to build
Sessions around program created or selected by DID. Thiese
sessions vîll be mainly  for ID    but could be opened to extemnal
vieving to pr«omte IDIE at the city level r., better still, to
ai,e lt part of locallife.
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 64 -
AUU10
Page 20 of 22
This equipment should be portable so that programa agreed vith the
legional Director and the Assistant Director could be used by Ais during
sessions at village level.
Outreach sessions vill al8o ba prograumed and organized around
certain national radio or TV programs.
The approach for a permanent mobile information unit has been
abandoned because lts operation and maintenance are very costly and its
efficiency has never been clearly demonstrated. lu addition, lt vould be
unvise to have more participants facing the 8mae farmer group.  On the
positive side, the possibility for ARs to consolidate their actions through
appropriate video vieving vill strengthen their impact and their
credibility.
Production Unit for Didactic Materials
The core of such a unit is already in place. The unit vas created
especially for the birth spacing program and includes 5 persons of good
academic background and experiences 2 DEF counselors (high achool
graduates plus 5 years of training), 1 DEF teacher, 2 DDO agents in charge
of studies (1 Master's Degree) and 1 vith good field experience. This
staff gives the unit the capacity to address problems at the Ministry
level. It vould be useful to add, at least on an ad hoc basis, a
reprographice tecbnician from DID to address reproduction constraints in
the conte.t of producing didactic materiale.
Collaboration vith the DID technician in charge of creating audio-
visual materiale vill also be essential to ensure effective support to the
various programs.
To execute these tasks, the team vill recelve complementary training
on designing and testing didactic materiale responsive to specific
objectives.
A team could then work on improving, if necepsary, existing mate rials
and on creating new materials based on the training planned for vomen in
various fielde.
The vork program vill be prepared annually by a Commission made of
all the directors.



- 65 -
AUNEZ 10
Page 21 of 22
IV. The Monitorina and Evalustion Unit
The monitoring and evaluation unît ie a central unit in charge of
external evaluation and of controlling satisfactory monitoriaglevaluation.
It is composed ofs
- a cabinet coordinator
- a WOD technician
- a DID technicisn
- a DEF techalcian
- a DAY technician
The four technicians (DDO, DID, DEF, DAF) ore ln charge of their
respective directorates, and implementatiea and follow-up of the evaluation
process tu these directorates.
They vill receive specific complementary training to help them to
carry out their tasks, particularly regarding the setting up of an
effective monitoringlevaluation system and programing evaluation
operations.
Their monthly agenda could be divided into vork veeka at divisional
level and one vork week at the Central Unit te synthesise and analyze the
overall program. Indeed, the central unit can be useful and efficient only
if it benefits from viable and systemic field data.
The technical qualifications and personalUty of the coordiaator
should be such as to ensure transition from the stage of
evaluationusanction to the stage of evaluationlimprovement of the program.
Assertiveness remains necessary In notiag and reporting deficiencles, but
ir a positive manner. Technical competency, authority and good human
relations are therefore essential vorking tools.
The tole of technicians can be divided into tvo componentst the
establishuent of a monitoring and evaluation procese and, If necessary.
external evaluations. Although these tvo compenents are quite distinct,
both are essential. The monitoring and evaluation component concerns all
agents involved in a program--from the grassroots agent to the director;
each must be able te monitor their activities and to evaluate the first
results at the coemunity and household level. Therefore, the evaluation
agents viil be responsible for sensitizing all agents to integrate feedback
from clients into their normal vork program and for building vith them the
tools necessary to carry out this evaluation.
Points to be addressed by these technicisas and staff concerms clear
defiaition of objectives with interested parties. delimitation of
parameters to be evaiuated, selection of criteria and usans to evaluate
them, division of labor between the departments and the mnmitoring unit,
and analysis of results on which plan future action.



- 66 -
AUNEZ 10
Page 22 of 22
Such a system vill therefore allow a penaent readjustmast of the
program if the agent bas a solution to the problem. It could happen that
he vill not have lt.  la such a case, au external elaluation led by the
evaluation uait could be necessary to define actuel constraints and seek
appropriate solutions.
The objective la thus to go beyond the traditiaonl type of
"administrative' evaluation based oa gatherd data hLch are seldom
processed and has no impact on the program. The rlsk ia to avold adopting
the opposite approwch where a large quantity of data is collected and never
used. Therefore, specific training either by attending a course or through
training by short-term consultants is needea for the difficult task of
focustug on uhat le to be evaluated and bow the evaluation should be
carried out. Iwmediately upon effectivenese, HP? vill meet vith the heads
of uainstrea agencies to ensure the coordination of their respective vork
programs.



fi   Mi         Mi            yi       t IP I  i             TM Mi    ti    M                   t
é eR " " k g O.rti                          e.
,G I
!~~~~~~ ,
'I ~  ~         ~        ~        1M
I  |   l                 i;4                           s                                            qj                       1                             .



- 68 -
ANNEX 12
Page i of 2
COTE D'IVOIRE
VOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT PILOT SUPPORT PROJECT
Elipibility Criteria for the Develement Fund
1.          The objective of this component je to incroase the earning
capacity and income of vomen through investment s in productive assets and
appropriate technologies, and to increase their propensity to save.
2.          Description.  The Fund would be used to finance the initial
vorking and investment capital to start up income generating activlties,
processing and other equipment, and construction of storage and other simple
facilities.
3.          Amount.  An amount of $150000 equivalent would be allocated to
this Fund in a separate category of the proposed Bank loan. Under this
category, the Bank vould finance 30-50 percent of the investment cost and the
beneficiaries vould contribute the balance.
4.          Administration.  The Fund would be administered by a DO to be
designated in accordance vith procedures and eligibility criteria satisfactory
to the Bank. The DO vould work closely  ith OPP regional coordinators.  IDEF
teachers and ARs vould make the initial identification of eligible candidates
and investment requests. The DOa would visit each candidate and, then review
and approve or reject the application.  The services provided by the DO vould
be considered technical assistance.
5.          Elimlbility Criteria. 'here applicable, the following criteria
could be used to determine the eligibillty of vomen to benefit from this Fund.
-     Only women who are participating in the Rural Outreach program or
in the skills training program of MPP are eliglble.
-     Only vomen who have received training in cooperatives and are
themuelves in a group are eligible to receive finaces from the
fund.
-     Through the above participation, vomen who have saved at least 50
percent of the cost of the investmaent are eligible.
-     The candidates vould have to agree to open an account to which
savings vould be regularly deposited to ensure that these vomen
can maintain and replace the asset at the end of its useful life.
-     The proposal vould require endorsement from the AR or the IDEF
teacher working with the Group, as vell as from the tecbnical
support service where relevant.



- 69 -
AUNEZ 12
Page 2 of 2
The proposal vould have to outline a seimple cost-benefit analysis
lncluding the cost and avallability of lIputs Ceither production
or rav materials) and the expected output, marketing strategy, and
esxpected market.
The proposal should ldentify recurrent or operational cost
requirements to be generated by the sub-project and stipulate how
these costs would be met.
lihere a proposal includes provisions of equipment, materials,
buildings, their future owneruhlp uhould be clearly identified as
vell as the rights aad oblegation of each member of a group.
The proposal should include a monitoring and evaluation plan for
tihe IDEF teacher or AR to enable the pilot project to review the
value and feasibility of thls Fund.



- 70-
ANE 13
!sX1 l°2lIusO   '
I  03X38  | | l!  I
- 5 - s - XX "R §X! g té~~~~~~p
X          01|..!i "            !            -



-   \                                                    (
c    -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(
t           .         1-                             o



E   3     e   g .              r                   r                    r                    4. WJ
2 \ % L MALI                    !                               | %` BURKINA
FASO
| ~      ,.  4/t                                                                                  '- ,v
.GUINE A<                                                                                                 
- \ t t' > /` f -                       L    ?e   :
W-0.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
, >h tz0 /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k-                                                                         G H  N
ou~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u.
I~~~~~~~                                                                                                      -
,.                   : )                                        -  ,' ''.''.              '    '                       '
ATLANTIC OCEAN              ._°                 ____
.*       -           r                    r.                   5.                      -j
CÔTE D'IVOIRE
WOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT PILOT SUPPORT PROJECT
--;   +                 PROJET PILOTE D'INTEGRATION DES FEMMES
AU DEVELOPPEMENT ECONOMIQUE ET SOCIAL
t Proied Pilot AiO /Zoeos du hl4et
o  Sub-PreFecture Capitals / Chefs-Lieux de SousPelecfurus
O  Depasuent Capial / Chefs.  de Depasememnhf
<  ç 144                                       * 9   - . c    Nutionil Coptoal /CpiWal. d'Elta
'..id;t  .11gZ r\-<                              -   Sub-Prefectue Boundaries /Umites des Sous4Wefesure
-  Department Boundaries Uiites des Dopcrements
iX    ,-  .           Js't-                                         Internati'onal oundaris /iLmite  d4Etst



