Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16116
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
WOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT PILOT SUPPORT PROJECT
LOAN 3251-IVC
November 15, 1996
Human Resources Development III
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



C'URRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(June 10, 1996)
Currency Unit       CFA franc'
US$          =      515.40 CFA franc
SDR 1        =      US$1.49
US$ 1        =      SDR.67
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AR           Animatrice Rurale (Rural Animators)
CIDA         Canadian International Development Agency
CREPs        Cooperatives Rurales d 'Epargne et Prets (Savings and Loans Cooperatives)
DAA          Debt and Amortization Agency
DCGTx        Direction et Contr6le des Grands Travaux (Department of Works)
DID          Department of Information and Documentation
DO           Development Organization
DRFs         Directeur Regional des Finances (Regional Director of Finance)
FONDEV       Fonds de Developpement (Special Development Fund)
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
HRDP         Human Resources Development Program Project
IDEF         Institut d 'Education Feiminine (Institute for the Education of Women)
IMF          International Monetary Fund
MEP          Ministere d 'Education Primaire (Ministry of Primary Education)
MFPF        MVIinistere pour la Promotion des Femmes (Ministry for the Advancement
of Women)
NGO          Non Governmental Organization
PIU          Project Implementation Unit
RCI          Republique de C6te d 'Ivoire (Republic of the Ivory Coast)
SAF          Service d 'Administration et Finance (Service of Administration and
Finance)
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
WID          Women in Development
Vice President            Jean-Louis Sarbib, AFRVP
Country Director          Shigeo Katsu, AFMC 1
Technical Manager         Helena Ribe, AFTH3
Task Manager              Elizabeth Morris-Hughes, AFTH3
The CFA franc is tied to the French franc (FF) in the ratio of FF I to CFA franc 100, following the
January 12, 1994 devaluation of the CFA franc from a ratio of FF1 to CFA franc 50. The French
franc is currently floating.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION  SUMMARY ..............................................................i
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT    .                                                   ............................1
I. INTRODUCTION .............................................................1
A. Macroeconomic Setting ..............................................................
B. Women in Development: the Role of the Government and the Bank .......2
II. PROJECT  OBJECTIVES ...........................................................3
A. Original Project Objectives ............................................................3
B. Project Description and Components ........................................................3
C. Credit Covenants and Special Agreements ..............................................4
D. Evaluation of Project Objectives .............................................................4
III. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS ............................ 4
A. Assessment of Project's Success and Sustainability ................................4
B. Summary of Costs and Financing Arrangements .....................................6
C. Implementation Schedule .............................................................7
D. Analysis of Key Factors Affecting Major Objectives ..............................7
E. Assessment of the Bank's and Borrower's Performance .........................8
F. Assessment of Project's Outcome ............................................................ 10
IV. SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY
LESSONS LEARNED ............................................................                                10
A. Important Findings of Project Implementation Experience ...................... 10
B. Future Operation and Sustainability .......................................................... 12
C. Future Operations ............................................................                 13
D. Lessons Learned .............................................................                  13
PART  II: STATISTICAL  TABLES .............................................................                           15
APPENDICES:
A.    Mission's Aide-Memoire
B.    Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
C.   Map IBRD 22328
TWs document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
oricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.                        l






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
WOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT PILOT SUPPORT PROJECT
Loan 3251-lVC
Norwegian Grant TF21505
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) on the Women in
Development Pilot Support Project in the Republic of Cote d'Ivoire, for which Loan
3251-Cl in the amount of US$2.2 million equivalent was approved on August 2, 1990,
made effective on February 22, 1991, and closed on June 30, 1995, after two extensions
of one and one-half year, and one year respectively. The Norwegian Grant TF 21505 in
the amount of US$.27 equivalent was signed on November 19, 1991 and after an
additional six month extension, was closed on December 31, 1995. Of the total loan,
US$1.132 equivalent was disbursed, and US$890,698.73 equivalent was cancelled; of the
total Norwegian Grant US$.23 million equivalent was disbursed, and US$956,976.96
equivalent was cancelled.
The ICR was prepared by a team led by Ms. Elizabeth Morris-Hughes (Task
Manager, AF4PH) of the Africa Region, and composed of two members of the
completion mission: the Mission Leader, Rachidi Radji (Operations Officer, AF4CI);
Ibrahima Diore (Consultant); and Djeneba Diarra (AF4PH, Consultant). The ICR was
reviewed by Ms. Irene Xenakis, Senior Implementation Specialist (AF4PH), Messrs. I.
Porter, former Division Chief (AF4PH); and F. Kaps, former Operations Adviser
(AF4DR). The ICR was processed by Ms. M. Ruminski, Task Assistant (AF4PH) and
Mr. I. Yansane, Lang. Task Assistant (AF4PH).
Preparation for the ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/
completion mission in July 1995. It is based on field investigation, coupled with material
in the project file. The Borrower participated in the preparation of the ICR by providing
to the final supervision/completion team views and field data which are reflected in the
ICR. The Borrower agreed to provide a contribution to the ICR by September 30, 1995,
but later explained that preparations for the Fourth Women's International Conference in
Beijing had taken precedence. There were three formal follow-up invitations between
September 30, 1995 and June 14, 1996, for the Borrower to provide a contribution, which
was received on July 2, 1996, and the Borrower's comments on the draft ICR were
received on October 17th, 1996.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COTE D'IVOIRE
WOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT PILOT SUPPORT PROJECT
Loan 3251-IVC
Norwegian Grant TF21505
EVALUATION SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION
1.    Bank's role in the Country and Sector. The Republic of Cote d'Ivoire (RCI)
experienced an extended period of rapid economic development and maintained balance
of payments equilibrium in the 1960s and 1970s, but since the late 1970s, continuing
expansionary policies combined with the effects of a sharp decline in the terms of trade
have resulted in a steady loss of competitiveness and the country has experienced a
lengthy period of severe economic and financial crisis. Recognizing the need to reverse
the economic decline and to address the growing social problems with internal
adjustment measures, the Government also initiated an austerity program supported by
the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank, 1981-1992. Given that the
program did not suffice to restore the country's competiveness, in January 1994, C6te
d'Ivoire embarked on a new comprehensive adjustment strategy based on the realignment
of the parity of the CFA franc in relation to the French franc, which included a tightening
of macroeconomic policies and the acceleration of the structural reforms (paras 1.1 and
1.2).
2.   In 1987, the Government had developed a National Strategy to address women's
concerns, and from August 1988, had begun work with the assistance of the Bank to
develop the Women in Development (WID) Pilot Support Project. The underlying
rationale of this project was to use Bank support to expedite the incorporation of
women's issues into mainstream activities and to this end, the project was prepared with
close attention to related projects in the portfolio and to other project ideas under
discussion. In this way, equitable and decentralized access to human resource and
financial intermediary services, by low income rural and urban women, were to be
addressed through a range of Government programs and related lending operations (paras
1.3-1.6).
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.    Project Objectives. The project was to be the pilot phase (24 months) of a
medium-term program to establish a viable process for strengthening the institutional
capacity of support services, initially through the Ministry for the Advancement of
Women (MFPF), to better address women's issues in three sub-regions with four specific
objectives: (a) improve the productivity of the farming systems of the participating rural
women and their ability to market their produce; (b) upgrade the marketable and



ii
employable skills of the urban women enrolled in selected Institutes for the Education of
Women (IDEFs); (c) improve the welfare of rural and urban households benefiting from
the project; and (d) change the perception of the role of women by managers and staff
who provide support services, as well as by society at large and women themselves.
(para 2. 1).
4.    Project Description and components. The pilot project was comprised of three
components, respectively addressing the underlying rationale and all four objectives of
the project by: (a) strengthening the capacity of the MFPF in both policy and program
formulation, and specifically the coordination and promotion of the pilot project
activities; (b) increasing rural women's access to agricultural extension services, food
processing technologies, financial services and training for basic household health and
education needs; and (c) improving the marketable skills and social welfare of
marginalized urban women through programs offering training in specialized vocational
skills, basic household skills and identification of employment (para 2.2).
5.    Credit Covenants and Special Agreements. During negotiations, the following
agreements with the Borrower (RCI) were obtained: (a) establishment of, and preparation
of operating procedures for, a Special Account; (b) annual consultations with the Bank
and joint annual review of the budget and workplan by the interministerial committee and
the Bank; and (c) maintenance of project accounts. A condition for loan effectiveness,
required the Borrower to deposit CFA franc 75 million (equivalent of 4 months of
counterpart funds) in the project account; conditions for disbursement were (a) selection
of a Development Organization (DO) and agreement between the MFPF and the DO on
management of the Fonds de Developpement (FONDEV); and (b) signature of co-
operative annual contracts for the rural outreach and skills training components.
(para 2.3.).
6.    Evaluation of Project Objectives. The pilot project was risky given its novelty
and the short institutional history and very limited administrative experience of the newly
recreated MFPF. Project implementation could be expected to be complex, addressing
the multiple, simultaneous and cross-sectoral roles of rural women.  Given these
constraints, the project objectives were suitably focused for a pilot project. However,
neither a feasible timeframe, nor recognition of the necessary sequential, rather than
simultaneous, implementation between the underlying rationale of the project and the
first three objectives was articulated, nor was there any explicit recognition of the
complex implementation issues arising from such cross-sectoral objectives. An explicit
distinction was not made between input objectives (a) - (c) and the output objective (d),
and the requirement for different categories of monitorable indicators was not addressed
(paras 2.4-2.5).



iii
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
7.    Assessment of Project's Success and Sustainability. The implementation of the
first component of the project was clearly unsatisfactory, and only partially successful in
strengthening the capacity of the MFPF in policy and program formulation; only four of
the nine studies were completed, but no documentation of intended impact or follow-up is
available. Efforts to strengthen MFPF's project coordination and promotion activities
were equally unsuccessful; the initial success of the Interministerial Committee
established in 1990, and iterative training provided for Ministry and Project Team Staff in
1992-94 could not compensate for understaffing and frequent staff changes in the MFPF
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) (para 3.1.)
8.    Slow and limited progress was made in the first two years in the implementation
of the second component of the project, to increase rural women's access to a range of
agricultural and financial services and training programs; however, no baseline was
established against which to measure progress and continued-expansion and consolidation
of these rural outreach activities was not sustained. Partial and unsustainable progress
was made towards establishing the FONDEV, a special development fund financed by
the Norwegian Grant to support income generating activities of women in rural areas;
Financing of proposals only began in 1993 and although after project extensions of two
one year each, and an additional one-half year extension for the Norwegian Grant, only
US$0.04 million remained undisbursed, the heavily bureaucratic administration' and
management of the FONDEV could clearly not keep pace with the processing of
financing requests and monitoring of small loans; the subregional distribution of project
loans remained very uneven, and the maintenance of available records inadequate (paras
3.2-3.3).
9.    Sixty-six percent of all project funds disbursed financed the first stages of the
implementation of the third component of the project, the welfare and skill training of
marginalized urban women. Although by the end of the two and one-half year extension,
additional construction and rehabilitation of six of the seven IDEF satellite centers was
successfully achieved, the lack of counterpart funding for maintenance, security
protection, and equipment, put in question the sustainability of their continued function.
A range of IDEF courses and targeted field visits were successfully initiated in 1992-93,
and although equipment delays and lack of counterpart funds restricted activities
thereafter, essentially, sustainability was not achieved, because the IDEF's were not able
to adjust the originally delivered training to their clients needs (paras 3.4-3.5).
10.   Summary of Costs. The total cost of the pilot project was estimated at US$3.91
million of which US$2.2 million was to be an IBRD loan, US$1.39 million of
Government counterpart funds and US$0.06 million from the beneficiaries. The Bank
loan was to finance 77 percent of project costs, net of taxes and duties, and the
Government funds were to finance incremental staff, a portion of the incremental
operating costs, and all taxes. The Norwegian Grant, NOK million (US$0.27 million),
was to finance small scale initial working and investment capital for women (para 3.6).



iv
11.  Implementation Schedule. The loan was signed on October 1, 1990, and
became effective February 22, 1991; the Norwegian Grant TF21505 was signed on
November 19, 1991. Identification and appraisal were conducted, as of August 1988,
over a period of one year and seven months, and in the context of a Government
reshuffling, associated with political events (1989-90) a rapid and brief post-appraisal
was conducted in March 1990; with Board approval in August 1990. Disbursements
were consistently slow, at an average rate of 12 percent per year, as compared to the SAR
estimate of 100% disbursement over a two-year period, and initial disbursements from
the Norwegian Grant did not even begin until 1993. The pilot project was executed over
a period of four years and eight months with the loan closing date of June 30,1995, after
two one-year extensions and only 61.7 percent of the loan disbursed; with the Norwegian
Grant closing date of December 31, 1995 and 85 percent disbursed (paras 3.7-3.8).
12.   Analysis of Key Factors Affecting Major Objectives.  Lack of project
management capacity was an issue from the outset; by mid-term review (September 16,
1993), there were problems in all areas of implementation; and thereafter, together with
weak availability of counterpart funds, these difficulties were significantly exacerbated by
a series of radical administrative changes within the Ministry, resulting in failure to
sustain, let alone expand, field activities. The price increases consequent to the CFA
franc devaluation of January 1994, and the pace of increasing demand for FONDEV
financing were additional confounding factors for the MFPF during the final 18 months
of project implementation (paras 3.9-3.10.)
13.   Assessment of the Bank's Performance. Given the MFPF's shortcomings and
the fact that this was only the second World Bank free-standing loan for women in Sub-
Saharan Africa, there were considerable risks related to Borrower capacity for
implementation and coordination, and a situation--specific need for particularly
responsive supervision by the Bank. The Bank's performance was unsatisfactory,
characterized by inadequate and inconsistent quality of supervision. Quite appropriately
the first seven supervision missions focused on project management and procurement, but
nine of the overall total of twelve supervision missions did not include a Gender
Specialist, which clearly weakened the capacity of the supervision team to recognize and
address the importance of the cross-sectoral institutional issues at the heart of the project
implementation. Inconsistency characterized some core supervision recommendations; at
mid-term review, on the basis of the Borrower's new project management team's lack of
familiarity with contractual and procurement procedures, the Borrower was advised
against undertaking construction of the third IDEF satellite center, but in the same
context ambitious discussions about preparation for a proposed follow-up project were
held (paras 3.11-3.13.)
14.   Assessment of the Borrower's performance. The main risk for the Borrower's
performance was that the MFPF would not have the capacity to undertake the dynamic
coordinating and operational role required for the project. Clearly both the Borrower and
the Bank considerably underestimated the range and sustained intensity of skills training
required, for despite the initiatives in training and interministerial collaboration over the



v
first two years, the Borrower's performance was unsatisfactory, and fundamental steps,
such as, MFPF divisional preparation of work programs and implementation calendars by
Fiscal year of Project Management, were not achieved. Following mid-term review, the
weak and recently established Borrower performance capacity deteriorated to a critical
level, given that the staffing of the PIU was changed completely twice in a twelve-month
period.  The team's complete lack of familiarity with procurement and bidding
procedures, was amplified by the poor performance of the Borrower's Ministry of
Construction, characterized by that Ministry's consistent failure to consult MFPF
regarding the management of such contracts; ultimately the Borrower only fully complied
with one of the 17 Legal Covenants--the establishment of the FONDEV--and did not
comply with two; namely the provision of counterpart funds and timely substantiated
audits. For all other covenants, the Borrower either only achieved partial (4) or delayed
(10) compliance (paras. 3.14 and 3.15).
15.   Assessment of the Project's Outcome. Despite the weak implementation, the
project initially supported the development of MFPF's institutional capacity with the
provision of staff training and by establishing the institutional means of collaboration
with other line ministries. Over the four-year and eight-month time frame, seven of the
eight IDEF satellite centers were constructed or refitted and the initial income generating
activities had positive outcomes for beneficiaries. However, the project outcome was
unsatisfactory since neither the continually required skills training for the frequently
changing PIU, nor the initial outreach activities were sustained. In addition, although the
FONDEV achieved 85 percent disbursement, in eight of the average repayment rates of
50 percent, and the lack of information on the structure of the portfolio, it is unsustainable
(para 3.16).
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS
LEARNED
16.   Important findings of Project Implementation. The possibility for effective
project implementation was severely constrained for the duration and for all components
of the Project by the comprehensively bureaucratic administrative environment of the
PIU. Key structural constraints were the concentration of authority for decisions in the
Minister, lengthy approval procedures, and an associated lack of transparency, which
generated staff rivalries, effectively blocking implementation.
17.   The essential interministerial cross-sectoral nature of the project was defeated by
the heavy and complex administrative procedures and this resulted in a chronic pattern of
delay in every field of activity. With regard to the first project component, the possibility
for sound project implementation, on the basis of institutional strengthening and skills
training, was frustrated by the continual staff changes both among project staff and in the
ministry. Clearly, given the lack of requisite project management experience and skills,
the originally estimated two-year pilot project duration - inclusive of the construction and
rehabilitation of seven IDEF centers--themselves a key requisite step in the
implementation of the second and third project components, was always unfeasible.



vi
Documentation of the measure of achievement of any of the project objectives was
frustrated from the outset, since the staffing of the monitoring and evaluation unit was
always inadequate, and lack of systematic feedback about progress pervaded the entire
project. Despite this consistently problematic implementation experience, it is important
to recognize the enthusiastically positive response by women beneficiaries to the initial
rural outreach services and IDEF center activities (although these were not sustained) and
to the FONDEV when this was belatedly established. Their response confirmed that the
project objectives were on target and perceived by beneficiaries to be responsive to their
needs (paras.4.1-4.5.)
18.   Future Operation and Sustainability.  Project implementation has been
unsatisfactory. In this context, a possible future operation has not been discussed with
the Borrower, but should the Borrower address the identified fundamental project
implementation issues, the following feasible recommendations support any such effort to
continue to obtain value from investment todate: (a) renew efforts to foster the catalytic
role of the Interministerial Committee, to address the cross-sectoral institutional nature of
project implementation activities; (b) organize regular maintenance and security program
for the IDEF centers, and develop thematic rather than modular training schemes to
ensure feasible, beneficiary-responsive outreach services; (c) develop flexible
management of the institutional function of the IDEF centers, as centers of continuing
education for women by providing training in household management and linkeages with
FONDEV; (d) establish autonomous up-to-date quality management of FONDEV, and
structure loans to meet beneficiaries request for support for integrated (from production
through processing to marketing) activities (para 4.6).
19.   Future Operations.  Although the outcome of the Pilot Support Project is
unsatisfactory, measurable progress has been made towards the incorporation of women's
issues into mainstream activities financed with Bank assistance, an interim step towards
achieving the incorporation of women's issues into the mainstream of the Government's
programs, as per the underlying rationale of the project. Three recent lending operations
in the current portfolio are good examples of this, specifically addressing the range of
those issues highlighted in the first three objectives of the WID Pilot Project; namely the
National Agricultural Services Support Project (effective December 1994); the Savings
and Loan Rehabilitation Project (effective December 1994) and the Agricultural Exports
Promotion and Diversification Project (effective April 1996) (paras 4.7, - 4.8)
20.   Lessons Learned.
(a) A feasible timeframe for the necessarily sequential implementation of the cross--
sectoral project objectives should form the outline of the lending program. Since
achievement of each of these objectives requires a Pilot implementation phase,
each successive phase should only be undertaken if achievement of the objective
of the preceding Pilot phase is evaluated, by the Borrower and the assisting
Agency, as satisfactory.



vii
(b) the effectiveness of the interministerial committee during the initial stages of the
project: a particularly valid modality for an investment operation with women as
direct beneficiaries, for, by definition, the technical objectives are cross-sectoral
and all the contributions of participating institutional agencies are of equal
importance;
(c) the energetic responsiveness of the beneficiaries to the intial rural outreach
activities, a clear confirmation that the second and third project components
addressed their felt needs;
(d) the overriding reality of the lack of institutional coherence and capacity in the
implementing MFPF which was grossly under-estimated, and therefore the
required intensity and duration of the capacity building activities could not be met
by the provisions for training under the project;
(e) the unsatisfactory performance of the Ministry of Construction, again
compounding the already limited project management capacity of the PIU;
(f) the heavily bureaucratic administration and management of the FONDEV, which
could not keep pace with the processing of financing requests nor maintain the
necessary quality of follow-up;
(g) the management and institutional status of the IDEF satellite centers, which
prevented the required iterative adjustment (of the initially delivered and well
received outreach training) to client needs;
(h) the evident unfeasibility of establishing a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit, which
requires a recognized degree of autonomy of function, and two-way information
sharing with all levels of the project, in the office of the Cabinet Minister.
Responsibility for Project monitoring would have strengthened the role and
credibility of the Interministerial Committee; evaluation activities would have
been more feasible if subcontracted to an NGO or a University Unit, for different
technical programs, or for the different outreach areas assisted by the lending
operation. (para 4.9).






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
WOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT PILOT SUPPORT PROJECT
Loan 3251-IVC
Norwegian Grant TF21505
PART I
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
I.    INTRODUCTION
A.   Macroeconomic Setting
1.1   The Republic of C6te d'Ivoire (RCI) experienced an extended period of rapid
economic development and maintained balance of payments equilibrium in the 1960s and
1970s, based on favorable prices for the country's two main export crops, coffee and cocoa,
which provided an average 52 percent of export earning. Since the late 1970s, continuing
expansionary policies, combined with the effects of a sharp decline in terms of trade, have
resulted in a steady loss of competitiveness and were associated with persistent impediments
to development; until the early 1990s, the country experienced a lengthy period of a severe
economic and financial crisis. The macroeconomic imbalances had grown to unsustainable
levels, with a budget deficit of about 10 percent of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and a
current account deficit of about 17 percent of GDP. Recent estimates indicate that associated
with natural population growth (3.7 percent per year) and inflows of migrant workers, urban
unemployment reached 22 percent in 1992, and during the period 1985 to 1993 the
proportion of the population in poverty has steadily increased (from 30 percent to more than
50 percent below poverty line).
1.2   Recognizing the need to reverse the economic decline and to reduce the growing
social problems with internal adjustment, additional reforms were deemed necessary to more
effectively remedy the distortions still hampering economic recovery, the Government
initiated an austerity program supported by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the
World Bank. An Extended Agreement between the Government and the IMF was reached in
February 1981, followed by five Stand-By Arrangements in the 1980s and another in 1991.
World Bank support included three Structural Adjustment Loans in 1981, 1983, and 1986,
and several Sector Adjustment Loans between 1986 and 1992. The IMF and the World Bank
provided financial assistance for reform programs to address the need to reverse economic
decline and to improve social sector development focusing primarily on assuring
macroeconomic stability through public sector reform, promoting private sector
development, and expending and improving programs targeted at education, health,
environment, and poverty alleviation. In addition, in January 1994, RCI together with other



- 2 -
African members of the CFA zone, embarked on a new comprehensive adjustment strategy
based on the realignment of the parity of the CFA franc in relation to the French franc, which
included a tightening of macroeconomic policies and the acceleration of structural reforms.
B.   Women in Development: the Role of the Government and the Bank
1.3  In 1987, the Government developed a National Strategy to address women's concerns
and issues. As of August 1988, at the request of the Government, the Bank began to assist
the Government to identify and appraise the Women in Development (WID) Pilot Support
Project.
1.4   The underlying rationale of this project was to expedite with Bank support the
incorporation of women's issues into the mainstream of Government programs. The project
was prepared with close attention to linkages with other related portfolio projects. The
objectives of the WID Pilot Project were also to be explicitly incorporated in the objectives
of three Projects which were included in the proposed lending program at that time, namely
the Human Resources Development Program Project, (HRDP) the Rural Sector Support
Project, and the Rural Infrastructure Project (Table 2); the goal being to ensure that some of
the activities initiated under the WID project would, at a later stage, be taken up by such
mainstream projects (paras 4.7 - 4.8).
1.5   The original intention was to establish a particularly close linkage with the HRDP,
which became a Sector Adjustment Lending Operation in FY92. Through this collaboration,
the issues of equity and decentralized access of human resource services to low-income
women were to be addressed. The related policy dialogue with the Government was to be
undertaken as part of the preparation and implementation of the HRDP operation to ease the
way for further mainstreaming of the activities of the WID Pilot Support Project and to
ensure their sustainability. A monitoring committee, in which the Ministry for the
Advancement of Women (MFPF) had full membership, was established to prepare the
Declaration of the Valorization of Human Resources. Studies financed under the WID Pilot
Support Project were to be the empirical basis for executing country-wide studies to be
financed later under the HRDP.
1.6   While activities of the rural outreach component of the project were designed to
closely collaborate with those of the ongoing Agriculture Extension Project, this rural linkage
was to be further strengthened during the preparation of the then proposed Rural Sector
Supply Project. Rural Credit was to be addressed and women were expected to be important
beneficiaries of the reactivated rural credit network. Finally, linkages were to be established
with the extension agents of the Department of Water through the ongoing Second Water
Supply Project, and this linkage was to be continued and strengthened under the proposed
Rural Infrastructure Project.



-3 -
II. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
A.   Project Objectives
2.1   The project was to be the pilot phase (24 months) of a medium term program to
establish a viable process for strengthening the institutional capacity for support services
initially through the Ministry for the Advancement of Women (MFPF) to better address
women's issues in three sub-regions and specifically: (i) improve the productivity of the
farming systems of the participating rural women and their ability to market their produce;
(ii) upgrade the marketable and employable skills of the urban women enrolled in selected
Institutes for the Education of Women (IDEF)s; (iii) improve the welfare of rural and urban
households benefitting from the project; and (iv) change the perception of the role of women,
by managers and staff who provide support services, as well as by society at large and the
women themselves.
B.    Project Description and Components
2.2   The pilot project was comprised of three components:
(a)   Starting the process for the strengthening of the MFPF institutional capacity in
(i) policy and program formulation through strategy development, studies,
monitoring and evaluation, and information feedback and dissemination; and
(ii) coordination and promotion of activities described below concerned with
the improvement of the status and welfare of women.
(b)   Improvement of the economic and social welfare of rural households in the
pilot areas by enabling the rural outreach program in three sub-regions to
support rural women in (i) increasing their productivity through better access
to agricultural extension messages and assistance; (ii) forming more women
cooperatives; (iii) improving food crops storage, processing and marketing
through transfer of technology and provision of funds to facilitate investments
required in this area; (iv) improving their literacy, numeracy, knowledge of
household economics, primary health care, nutrition, and personal rural
hygiene; and (v) increasing their capacity to save.
(c)   Improvement of the marketable skills and social welfare of marginalized
urban women enrolled in selected IDEF through (i) training in skills for which
there is a specialized market demand, better preparation for specialized
vocational training programs; (iii) assistance in finding employment or other
income generating activities; and (iv) training in literacy, numeracy, home
economics and primary health care.



-4 -
C.   Credit Covenants and Special Agreements
2.3  In addition to the agreements reached during negotiations, agreement was reached on
the following condition of effectiveness: the Government would deposit CFA franc 75
million in the project Account, representing its contribution for four months of project
expenditures. Conditions of disbursement were as follows: a) the choice of a Development
Organization (DO) and the contractual agreement between MFPF and DO to manage the
Fonds de Developpement (FONDEV); and b) the signing of cooperative annual contracts
required under the rural outreach and skills training components.
D.   Evaluation of Project Objectives
2.4   The pilot project was risky given its novelty, the short institutional history and the
very limited administrative experience of the MFPF which initially was created in 1975
before the United Nations decade conference on women in 1976; this Ministry of the Status
of Women was dissolved in 1986 and then replaced in 1987 by MPF, and in 1994 by MFPF,
with a broader mandate, at a time of financial and economic crisis, and budgetary constraints.
Project implementation could be expected to be complex addressing the multiple,
simultaneous and cross-sectoral roles of rural women, given the gender bias in the traditional
agriculture sector, with the non-gender responsive nature of existing technical services, and
in which most of the extension workers are men.
2.5   Given these constraints, the project very appropriately sought, in the first component,
to address the underlying rationale for the project, through support for improving the
institutional capacity of the MFPF.  Similarly, the first, second and third objectives,
addressing the quality of outreach services to rural women in three subregions, and the
particular welfare and skill needs of marginalized women in urban communities are suitably
focused for a pilot project, and recognize the cross-sectoral range of women's activities.
However, a feasible timeframe for the necessarily sequential implementation linkage between
the underlying rationale for the project and these three objectives, is not articulated, nor is
there a recognition of the complex implementation issues arising from such cross-sectoral
objectives. The third objective overlaps with the first two objectives, and objectives one to
three are formulated as input objectives and the fourth objective as an output objective--a
distinction which is not explicitly formulated and requires a different category of qualitative
monitorable indicators.
III. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
A.   Assessment of Project's Success and Sustainability
3.1   First component/Project's Rationale: MFPF capacity building. The project was
clearly only partially successful (and as such unsustainable) in strengthening the capacity of
the MFPF in policy and program formulation. The Women in Development (WID) Pilot
Support Project documentation was developed by MFPF staff, as was the documentation for



two other Development Projects, currently under implementation, with support from the
African Development Bank and the Government of Belgium. However, Under the WID Pilot
Support Project, a series of studies were to focus on critical constraints to the advancement of
women in RCI and the identification of solutions; the information obtained was to be
incorporated into the formulation of MFPF operational programs. These nine studies, of
which only four were documented as completed (Table 7), were also to serve as a basis for
the formulation of future courses at the IDEF satellite centers and for the technical messages
to be disseminated by Animatrices Rurales (ARs). Of the four studies completed by 1993,
two were selected from the themes specified in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) and two on
newly introduced themes. To complete four out of nine studies in the first two years of
project implementation, and for the selection of the study themes to be so clearly responsive
to the needs of the beneficiaries in the IDEF satellite outreach programs are both positive
considerations; the negative reality is that no copies of the four completed studies are
available, it has not been possible to identify any documentation of intended impact or
follow-up and from  1993 onwards, no further studies were undertaken.  In terms of
strengthening MFPF's co-ordination activities, the project was equally only partially
successful. The Interministerial Committee, established in 1990, and training provided for
Ministry and Project Team Staff in 1992, 1993 and 1994 (para. 3.14) could not compensate
for understaffing and staff changes in the MFPF, and in the PIU.
(para 4.2).
3.2   Second Component/Objectives One and Three:Outreach to rural women in
three sub-regions. Improving the economic and social quality of life for rural households
through small-scale cooperative agriculture, hygiene, health, and nutrition programs was the
second of the core project objectives. As documented in Table 5, the project sought to
achieve this by: (a) using the IDEF satellite centers as leaming and information centers; (b)
providing training in cooperative management, agriculture, and fish breeding; (c) supporting
in-house training of ARs and coordinators, and; (d) receiving assistance from existing
technical agencies in the development of technical messages, and the provision of support
services which provided training for Ministry of Information and Cultural Affairs staff. Slow
and very partial progress was made in the first two years of project implementation, and in
addition to there having been no effort to establish a baseline against which to measure
progress -- continued expansion of the rural-outreach activities was not sustained.
3.3   The FONDEV, financed by the Norwegian Grant, supported income-generating
activities of women in rural areas. The FONDEV financed 223 projects from a total of 350
proposals received for evaluation (82 projects in the North, 117 in the Center-East, and 24 in
the South). The majority of projects financed were agricultural activities in rural areas and
small-scale commercial activities in the urban center. The majority of the credits were small,
usually around CFA franc 25,000 (access to credit to increase women's productivity in
agriculture, micro-enterprise, and trade). The latest information available (March 31, 1995),
put the balance on the statements of the Directeur Regional des Finances (DRFs) at a
cumulative amount of CFA franc 36,035,625 in financing for income-generating activities.
Through such activities, the intent was for beneficiaries to be able to make the critically
important step of "graduating" to deposit the proceeds into commercial bank accounts and
into savings in village cooperatives. Ninety-seven saving accounts in commercial banks



- 6 -
(thirty in the South, forty-two in the Center-East and twenty-five in the North) were opened.
Again, very partial and unsustainable progress was made towards establishing a viable
FONDEV; The original institutional arrangements resulted in a heavily bureaucratic
administration and management of the FONDEV. Although the establishment of the
FONDEV was clearly an appropriate vehicle for servicing rural women's financing
requirements, neither the institutionalized management nor the staff skills, in terms of
approval and evaluation rules and procedures, follow-up and repayment recovery activities,
could adequately keep pace with the increasing number of financing requests and small loans.
Despite project extensions totalling two and one-half years and an additional one-half year
for the Norwegian Grant, although US$0.23 million of the US$0.27 million was disbursed in
small loans, the subregional distribution of project loans remained very uneven, and the
maintenance of records inadequate.
3.4   Third Component/Objectives Two and Three: Welfare and skill training of
marginalized urban women. The majority of all project funds disbursed (66 percent) were
spent on construction and rehabilitation of IDEF satellite centers, and the provision of
equipment and vehicles. For six facilities, additional construction rehabilitation and
reequipment were completed, and while construction on one (Arrah) was still in progress,
when the project was closed, this was completed by February 1996. However, at the final
supervision, ensuring funds for recurrent costs of the maintenance of buildings and
equipment and their security was already a challenge. The equipment purchased for the IDEF
satellite centers only became available at a very late stage of the project, causing an important
delay to the information and documentation sub-components which had originally been
intended to assist the MFPF in strengthening and reorienting its Department of Information
and Documentation (DID).
3.5  Information provided by the Annual Project Report for 1993 confirmed that the ARs
lead two visits per month to targeted villages, and were assisted by a hygiene committee
created in each village, and the support of technical ministries which implemented two
programs per week in information dissemination (Table 5). These programs reached an
average of 20 persons per day among IDEF satellite center beneficiaries, students in
settlement areas, and other readers (men or women); there was 100 percent attendance in day
sessions; but only 25 percent in night sessions; 10 percent of the participants were women
from the neighboring areas not registered with the IDEFs, and women students from schools.
These activities were associated with enthusiastic responses in targeted and non-targeted
villages, (Table 6): and a range of IDEF courses and targeted field visits were successfully
initiated in 1992/93. Although equipment delays and lack of counterpart funds restricted
activities thereafter, essentially sustainability was not achieved because the IDEF's were not
able to adjust the originally delivered training to their clients needs. This raised the
fundamental issue of the need to redefine the mission of the IDEF's, their institutional status
and management.
B.    Summary of Costs and Financing Arrangements
3.6   At appraisal the total cost of the pilot project was estimated at US$3.91 million of
which US$2.19 million was to be an IBRD loan, US$1.39 million of Government counterpart



- 7 -
funds and US$0.06 million from the beneficiaries. The proposed Bank loan was to finance 77
percent of project costs, net of taxes and duties, and the Government funds were to finance
incremental staff, a portion of the incremental operating costs, and all taxes. The Norwegian
Grant of NOK 3 million (US$0.27 million) was to finance small-scale initial working and
investment capital for women--two thirds for processing equipment and storage construction,
the remaining third to finance technical equipment and furniture for the training centers.
C.   Implementation Schedule
3.7   The project Identification Mission was conducted in August 1988. The project was
appraised in April 1989 and post-appraised in March 1990, negotiations took place in June
1990. The project was approved by the Executive Board on August 2, 1990 and signing took
place on October 1, 1990. The loan effectiveness date was originally set for November 1990
and it became effective on February 22, 1991 as soon as the counterpart funds required by
Covenant, were deposited (Tables 3 and 11). The Norwegian Grant was signed on November
19, 1991. The loan's original closing date was June 30, 1993, but there was a first extension
to June 30, 1994, and a second extension to June 30, 1995, with a further extension of the
Norwegian Grant until December 31, 1995. The pilot project was executed over a period of
four years and eight months (against the projected two years) and 61.7 percent of the loan
was disbursed.
3.8  In the context of a Government reshuffling associated with political events (1989-90)
a rapid and brief post appraisal was conducted in March 1990; with Board approval in
August 1990. Disbursements were consistently slow with an average disbursement of 12
percent per year; as compared to the SAR estimate of 100 percent disbursement over a two
year period and initial disbursements from the Norwegian Grant did not begin until early
1993. Few of the activities anticipated under the project's two extensions (1993-95) were
carried out. For a period of 18 months (October 30, 1992 to March 31, 1994) only 23 percent
of the loan was disbursed, and from January 1, 1994 to the final loan closing date, only 11
percent of loan was disbursed. As a result (Table 4), at the loan closing date, a total of 60
million CFA franc (out of 115 million CFA franc committed) was the total Government
contribution, or 57 percent of the counterpart fund commitment (while 61.7 percent of the
total Bank loan was disbursed and US$890,698.73 was cancelled June 21, 1996). US$0.23
million of the Norwegian Grant had been disbursed and US$956,976.96 was cancelled June
30, 1996. The contribution of the beneficiaries is undocumented and unknown.
D.   Analysis of Key Factors Affecting Major Objectives
3.9   During the first two years of the project life, field implementation activities in the
three sub-regions were successfully initiated (Table 5). The outreach workers established an
effective rapport with farm women and extension messages were well assimilated: the area
farmed by women increased by 400 hectares and training programs in the areas of hygiene,
health, nutrition, and marketing were generally successfully organized though insufficient in
number. However, project management problems were an issue from the outset, by mid-term
review (September 16, 1993) there were problems in all areas of implementation, and
thereafter, together with weak availability of counterpart funds, these difficulties were



- 8 -
significantly exacerbated by a series of administrative changes within the ministry; poor
preparation of bidding documents, poor implementation of bidding procedures, and
continued delays in financial reporting resulted in failure to sustain, let alone expand field
activities, and failure to organize maintenance and security of project buildings.
3.10  Project implementation in the final 18 months was particularly affected by the
decision in January 1994 to devaluate the CFA franc and the consequent price increases
(cumulative increase in the composite price index for 1994 was 31 percent), which were
major challenges to the already weak capacity of MFPF for financial management. The
bureaucratic management of the FONDEV could not keep pace with the increasing demand
for small project financing, nor with the progressive requirement for appropriate staff skills,
criteria and procedures for the developing FONDEV portfolios.
E.   Assessment of the Bank's and Borrower's Performance
3.11  The proposed project was originally envisaged as one of several pilot projects to be
presented under an umbrella Rural Support Services Project (para 4.7). As preparation for
this umbrella project was delayed, owing to the country's economic and financial crisis, the
Government which had already developed a National Strategy on women's issues, decided to
seek financing from the Bank for the Women in Development Pilot Project as a self-standing
operation. This anticipated the Bank's Policy Paper "Enhancing Women's Participation in
Economic Development", issued in July 1994, which provides a substantive framework for
supporting the cross-sectoral activities of women, and differs markedly from the Bank's early
experience with women in development programs which were in general, those targeted to
groups of beneficiaries as sub-components of projects and programs. Given that this was only
the second free-standing World Bank loan for women in Sub-Saharan Africa, along with a
project in the Gambia which became effective in December 1990, there were considerable
risks related to Borrower capacity for implementation and coordination, and a situation-
specific need for particularly responsive supervision by the Bank.
3.12  Bank Performance. The Bank's performance was unsatisfactory; in particular there
were two negative features of the Bank's performance, which resulted in an inadequate and
inconsistent quality of supervision (Table 1). Initially under the supervision responsibility of
the Resident Mission's Agricultural Section, from Board approval (August 2, 1990) to mid-
term project review (October 16, 1993) seven supervision missions were conducted with the
main focus being on project management and procurement.  At mid-term  review,
restructuring within the Bank shifted supervision responsibility to the AF4PH division
located at headquarters, and four missions were undertaken in the remaining 21 months.
However, nine of the 12 supervision missions did not include a Gender Specialist, which
clearly systematically weakened the capacity of the one or two person supervision exercise to
recognize and address the importance of the cross-sectoral institutional issues at the heart of
the project implementation. The interdisciplinary teams of the last five supervision missions
together with a Gender Specialist as new Task Manager provided for this cross-sectoral
focus, and the unsatisfactory lack of cross-sectoral implementation was immediately noted.



3.13  The second negative feature of the Bank's performance was that the supervision
recommendations and decisions were strikingly inconsistent. Although the mid-term review
mission recognized that the Borrower's new PIU was challenged by the complex
implementation of the Pilot Project, the discussions even then, focussed on a possible follow-
up project--an initiative which has not since been pursued. To resolve issues relating to the
management of earlier construction of IDEF satellite centers, and relating to non-transparent
financial and administrative practices in the project implementation process, the mid-term
review team recommended that further new construction not be undertaken. However six
months before closure of the project, without any resolution of these issues, the Task
Manager then agreed to financing the construction of the Arrah IDEF.
3.14 Borrower Performance. The main risk involved was that the MFPF would not have
the capacity to undertake the dynamic coordinating and operational role required for the
project. To address this risk, the Borrower provided training, seminars, and workshops for
Ministry staff and the project team. Training took place in areas such as procedures for the
preparation of bidding documents and literacy study tours in Burkina Faso (1993). Training
for MFPF staff was provided by Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) in
September 1993, and more adapted management tools which were prepared by the project's
Service of Administration and Finance (SAF) were introduced and in March 1994 at least
two agents in each IDEF (including the Director) and some of the regional coordinators were
trained in the use of these new tools to improve soundness of IDEF's accounting and
management systems. An Interministeriel Committee had already been created (1990) in
order to enlist and facilitate collaboration with other technical ministries. Examples of its
early effectiveness in successful coordination were the establishment of accounts at the
regional level for field expenditures, approved by the MFPF and in collaboration with the
Direction et Controle des Grands Travaux (DCGTx); and the studies on social, economic,
legal, and environmental matters which were carried out in collaboration with the
Department of Information and Documentation (DID). However, clearly both the Borrower
and the Bank underestimated the range and intensity of skills training required, for despite
the above training and interministerial collaboration, the Borrower's performance was
unsatisfactory. Fundamental steps of implementation such as work programs, which were to
be prepared for each division of the MFPF outlining targets and an implementation calendar
for each fiscal year, were not formulated. There was a lack of compliance in the provision of
counterpart funding, and with the covenant on financial reporting. For instance, a three-
month delay was encountered in submitting the audits report for 1992 and a 12-month delay
for the 1993 audit report (due June 1994 and submitted in June 1995). The audit report for
1994, due in June 1995, has not yet been submitted, and the 1993 audit for the Norwegian
grant was submitted only December 1995.
3.15  Following the mid-term  review, the weak and recently established Borrower
performance capacity deteriorated to a critical level (Table 1). The Borrower made
significant staff changes in the National Project Team twice within a twelve month period in
1994 and the consequent lack of familiarity with procurement and bidding procedures led to
notable delays. This lack of capacity was amplified by the poor performance of the
Borrower's Ministry of Construction, characterized by that Ministry's consistent failure to
consult with the MFPF regarding the management of construction contracts. Of the 17 Legal



- 10-
Covenants (Tables 9 and 10) the Borrower did not comply with two--those relating to
provision of counterpart funds and timely substantiated audits; and only fully complied with
one--regarding the establishment of the FONDEV in a commercial Bank. For all other
convenants, the Borrower only achieved partial (4) or delayed (10) compliance.
F.    Assessment of Project's Outcome
3.16  Despite very weak implementation, the project initially supported the development of
MFPF's institutional capacity with the provision of staff training and by establishing the
institutional means of collaboration with other line ministries. Over a four-year and eight-
month time frame (twice the required time originally estimated by both Borrower and Bank),
seven of the eight IDEF satellite centers were constructed or refitted and the initial income-
generating activities (agriculture, trading and food processing) and social and environmental
activities (sensibilization in health family planning, nutrition programs) had positive
outcomes for beneficiaries (Table 6). However, the project outcome was unsatisfactory;
neither the continually required skills training for the frequently changed project management
team, nor the initial outreach activities were sustained, and it has not been possible to
ascertain what, if any, levels of employment placement were achieved with IDEF graduates
(Table 6). In addition, although the FONDEV achieved 85 percent disbursement, in light of
the average repayment rates of 50 percent, and lack of information on the structure of the
portfolio, it is unsustainable.
IV. SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS
AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
A.   Important Findings of Project Implementation Experience
4.1  Institutional Environment.   The possibility  for effective  overall project
implementation was severely constrained, for the duration of the project, by the
comprehensively bureaucratic institutional environment of the PIU. Within the MFPF, key
structural constraints were the concentration of authority for decisions in the Minister,
lengthly approval procedures, and associated lack of transparency, effectively blocking
implementation.  The essential interministerial cross-sectoral nature of the project was
defeated by the heavy and complex administrative procedures, such as those between MFPF,
the Debt and Amortization Agency (DAA), the Directorate of Public Investments, the
National Directorate of Public Bids and the National Directorate of Parastatals, which
delayed the preparation of the 1992 Budget and Work Plan. This bureaucratic environment
had a particularly disempowering impact on the PIU, whose limited capacity was already
challenged by taking on the first project of this kind, without a Project Implementation
Manual, within a ministry that had only been established for four years. (The detailed
description of Project activities proposed during appraisal by MFPF provided output
indicators (Table 6), but no performance indicators). This resulted in a chronic pattern of
delay in every field of activity; delay in the establishment of regional structures and in
management of requests for supplies or replenishment of funds from the field; and the



- 11 -
associated delay in project subcomponents such as literacy, which was only initiated in
November 1994--seven months before the extended closing date for the loan.
4.2   Administrative Management.  In terms of the first project component, the
possibility for sound project implementation on the basis of institutional strengthening and
skills training, was frustrated by the continual staff changes both in the project staff and the
ministry. Between loan effectiveness in early 1991 and 1993, the project experienced three
administrations in the MFPF--Minister, appointed July 9, 1986; Minister, appointed
November 14, 1991; Minister, appointed December 15, 1993. Associated changes in
personnel resulted in Project components being under staffed, and the July 1992 supervision
mission noted a delay in appointing two accountants to support the SAF which then led to
delays throughout project implementation particularly in the production of financial reports
and the meeting of audit deadlines. Most of the staff of the MFPF project management team
were removed just prior to the June 1994 supervision mission, with a consequent almost total
loss of project institutional memory. Given the timeframe of the one-year loan extension,
there was also a real possibility that knowledge of Bank procedures among the newly
assigned staff could not be adequately developed. However, even this project management
team put in place in April-May 1994 was then largely removed in October 1994; this change
in key personnel which occurred a week before the November 1994 supervision mission
removed some of the most experienced staff, including the manager of the loan component.
4.3   Contractual Management. Clearly, given the lack of requisite project management
experience and skills, the original estimate of two years for the achievement of the
development objectives of the pilot project--inclusive of the construction and rehabilitation of
eight IDEF centres, themselves a key requisite step in the achievement of the second and
third objectives--was unfeasible (Table 12). In the management of construction contracts, the
MFPF was initially excluded (as noted by the supervision mission on March-April 1993). For
example, for the construction of Korhogo IDEF, the MFPF was not consulted on decisions
regarding modification of the contract, which were taken by the coordinator from the
Ministry of Construction, with the contracted builder. In the case of Port-Boue, the bid
documents were incorrectly drafted (the means of access to the second floor was omitted
from the blue print leading to an underestimation of construction costs.) There was absence
of leadership from the MFPF in all of these matters, unsatisfactory performance of the
Ministry of Construction in the formulation and management of contracts, and insufficient
supervision by the Bank.
4.4   Financial Management. The sustained maintenance of delivery of extension and
specialized education services envisaged in the second and third project components was
thwarted by the depletion of the counterpart accounts of the IDEF satellite centers; and
periodic delays (on occasion up to five months) in receipt of financial advances from the
ministry jeopardized the implementation of a range of field activities. This was compounded
by an initial freeze on spending by the newly appointed minister (1993) to provide time for
her to become familiar with project operations. Thereafter, increasing centralization of
project administration with bureaucratic processes effectively limiting missions to the project
zones resulted in few planned activities taking place. However, despite the consistently
problematic implementation experience noted above, it is important to recognise the



- 12 -
enthusiastically positive response by women beneficiaries to the rural outreach services and
IDEF centre activities (Tables 5 and 6) when these programs were initiated, and to the
FONDEV when this was belatedly established. This response confirmed that the project
objectives were perceived by beneficiaries to be responsive to their needs.
4.5    Documentation of the measure of achievement of any of the objectives was frustrated
from the outset of the project, for major delays were encountered in the functioning of the
monitoring and evaluation unit. It was originally envisaged that the Unit would be made up
of four technicians and a coordinator established within the Cabinet of the Minister; however,
throughout it appears that the staffing never reached this level. As of 1993, only one
monitoring and evaluation activity had taken place; lack of systematic feedback about
progress pervaded the entire project. This is, for example, reflected in the difficulties
encountered by the June 1995 mission in finding systematic and up-to-date information about
the status of project funds and project implementation associated with the constant staff and
administration changes; training recommended by the November 1994 supervision mission to
closely monitor loans has never been implemented and any evaluation of project components
was still outstanding in June 1995.
B.    Future Operation and Sustainability
4.6   Future project sustainability will largely depend on the Government's capacity to
adequately establish and use its evaluation and monitoring unit, to provide continuous
training or retraining of project management and extension staff to decentralize the project's
financial and administrative management and to meet recurrent costs in maintaining,
servicing and securing project investments and activities. Project implementation has been
unsatisfactory, and in this context, possible future project options have not been discussed
with the Borrower.  Should the Government effectively address these fundamental
implementation issues, in order to continue to obtain value from investment to date, the
following programs of emphasis are recommended as feasible and derive directly from
analysis of implementation experience and beneficiary feedback.
*  To explicitly address the cross-sectoral nature of the project objectives and the related
institutional implementation of project activities, renewed efforts are required to
foster the catalytic role of the interministerial committee:
*  Organization of a regular maintenance and security program for the IDEF satellite
centers are prerequisite for adequate delivery of outreach services. Preparatory
organization of thematic training schemes in microenterprise management, literacy,
midwifery to ensure feasible and beneficiary responsive outreach services:
*  Develop flexible management of the established institutional function of the IDEF
satellite centers as centers of continuing education to provide up-to-date information
on family health, AIDS, family planning literacy or to assist trainees in establishment
or management of small businesses in relation to the FONDEV program:



- 13 -
* Establish autonomous quality management of FONDEV and structure loans to
respond to the requests of beneficiaries, to support an integrated approach from
production through process to marketing, in their establishment of small business
enterprises.
C.   Future Operations
4.7   Although the outcome of the WID Pilot Support Project is unsatisfactory, and the
sustainability of the Project is uncertain, measurable progress has indeed been made towards
the incorporation of women's issues into mainstream activities financed with Bank
assistance; an interim step towards achieving the incorporation of women's issues into the
mainstream of Government programs, as per the underlying rationale of the WID Pilot
Support Project and reflected in the fourth objective (paras 1.4-1.6) Of'those mainstream
activities originally identified, the HRDP (paras 1.4-1.6), proved not to be an appropriate
vehicle for such purposes--being only of two years duration and developing predominantly as
a vehicle for budgetary support to the Government reforms in its human resource
development program. However, results from the supervision of three recent lending
operations in the current portfolio provide good examples of mainstreaming attention to
women's issues--specifically addressing the range of those issues highlighted in the first three
objectives of the WID Pilot Support Project. The National Agricultural Services Support
Project (effective December 1994) designates women both as beneficiaries and active
participants in access to both improved financial and agricultural extension services. The
Savings and Loan Rehabilitation Project (effective December 1994), also designates women
both as beneficiaries and active participants in the project, and provides access to improved
financial services. The Agricultural Exports Promotion and Diversification Project (effective
April 1996) includes a specific focus on the identification of potential international and trade
fairs markets for women's export products of fruits, yam and vegetables.
4.8   The original collaborative discussions with the extension agents of the Department of
Water during the implementation of the Second Water Supply Project, while the WID Pilot
Support Project was being appraised, also produced measurable concrete support measures
for women. Final evaluation of the project identified an important local reality: women on
the community management groups were arguing actively for a transfer from manual to
electrically run boreholes. Although the upfront cost for a borehole ranges US$10,000-
US$15,000 with an extra US$2,000 for electrification, there is greatly increased population
coverage, and low maintenance costs, but a recurrent cost which clearly the women were
prepared to pay in lieu of their continued manual labor on non-electified boreholes. These
findings are under active consideration as a basis for future lending.
D.    Lessons Learned
4.9
(a) A feasible timeframe for the necessarily sequential implementation of the cross--
sectoral project objectives should form the outline of the lending program. Since



- 14 -
achievement of each of these objectives requires a Pilot implementation phase, each
successive phase should only be undertaken if achievement of the objective of the
preceding Pilot phase is evaluated, by the Borrower and the assisting Agency, as
satisfactory.
(b) the effectiveness of the interministerial committee during the initial stages of the
project: a particularly valid modality for an investment operation with women as
direct beneficiaries, for, by definition, the technical objectives are cross-sectoral and
all the contributions of participating institutional agencies are of equal importance;
(c) the energetic responsiveness of the beneficiaries to the intial rural outreach activities,
a clear confirmation that the second and third project components addressed their felt
needs;
(d) the overriding reality of the lack of institutional coherence and capacity in the
implementing MFPF which was grossly under-estimated, and therefore the required
intensity and duration of the capacity building activities could not be met by the
provisions for training under the project;
(e) the unsatisfactory performance of the Ministry of Construction, again compounding
the already limited project management capacity of the PIU;
(f) the heavily bureaucratic administration and management of the FONDEV, which
could not keep pace with the processing of financing requests nor maintain the
necessary quality of follow-up;
(g) the management and institutional status of the IDEF satellite centers, which prevented
the required iterative adjustment (of the initially delivered and well received outreach
training) to client needs;
(h) the evident unfeasibility of establishing a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit, which
requires a recognized degree of autonomy of function, and two-way information
sharing with all levels of the project, in the office of the Cabinet Minister.
Responsibility for Project monitoring would have strengthened the role and
credibility of the Interministerial Committee; evaluation activities would have been
more feasible if subcontracted to an NGO or a University Unit, for different technical
programs, or for the different outreach areas assisted by the lending operation. (para
4.9).



- 15 -
STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1     Summary of Assessments
Table 2     Related Bank Credits
Table 3     Project Timetable
Table 4     Credit Disbursements
Table 5     Key Input Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6     Key Out Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7     Studies Included in Project
Table 8A    Project Costs
Table 8B    Project Financing
Table 9     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 10    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 11    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 12    Bank Resources: Missions



- 16 -
Table 0.1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of obiectives  Substantial    Partial   Negligible    Not applicable
Macro policies                                                       0
Sector policies                                      E0
Financial objectives                                  El
Institutional development                             0
Physical objectives                    E0
Poverty reduction                       0l
Gender Issues                           0
Other social objectives                                              0
Environmental objectives                0
Public sector management                              El
Private sector development              E
B. Proiect sustainability         Likely        Unlikely         Uncertain
Highly
C. Bank Performance             Satisfactory    Satisfactorv     Deficient
Identification                                  0
Preparation assistance                                           0
Appraisal                                                        0
Supervision                                                      0
Highly
D. Borrower Performance          Satisfactory   Satisfactory     Deficient
Identification                                   0
Preparation assistance                                           0
Appraisal                                                        0
Supervision                                                     E0
Highly                                    Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome    Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory Unsatisfactory
El



- 17-
Table 2: RELATED BANK CREDITS
Loan title                                             Purpose                                              Yearof           Status
Approval
L 2130-ICV        Objectives were five-fold, three of which were oriented to increasing distribution of water to  1982      Projectclosed
Second Water      urban and rural residents, and two of which involved capacity building: (a) to optimize use of            March31, 1992
Supply Project    existing water production facilities by providing marginal additions for Abidjan and 52 other
urban systems; (b) to promote greater use of existing urban systems by providing additional
consumer connections, including standpipes in poorer areas (social connections); (c) to assist the
rational development of the village subsector; (d) to assist water sector institutions responsible
for operation and finance in upgrading their technical and financial management with the help of
technical assistance; and to improve sector institutions and their management and explore
approaches to long-term streamlining of sector organization.
L2711-IVC         The principal objectives of this program  of basic policy changes are to improve resource      1986       Projectclosed
SAL III           allocation and to reorient productive activities in the direction of comparative advantage in order       December31,
to generate self-sustaining export-led growth, to reduce the disparities in incomes between rural         1987
and urban areas, and to re-establish internal and extemal financial equilibria.
L2619-IVC         The objectives of the project were: (a) to strengthen health manpower development through      1986       Projectclosed
Health &          expansion of nurse training capacity to address current shortages, through implementation of a            June 30,1994
Demographic       revised curriculum, including family planning and field training, that is more responsive to the          (R)
Project           health needs of the country, and through development of health manpower planning capacity; (b)
to improve MOPHP management capacity and efficiency of heath service delivery by
strengthening: (i) the Central Directorates through development of a management information
system and improvement in planning, development of cost containment programs, and
strengthening of key services; and (ii) basic health services through staff in-service training and
strengthening of management, supervision and evaluation; and (iii) to improve the availability of
demographic information through carrying out a census of localities, a national population
census, and a subsequent survey of migration, as well as dissemination of census results and
seminars to assist integration of demographic data into macroeconomic and sectoral planning.
L2765-IVC         The project was designed as the first phase of a multi-phased development effort to introduce the  1987   Projectclosed
Agriculture       main principles of the Training and Visit (T&V) system in C6te d'lvoire's three major extension           June 30,1992
Extension         agencies (CIDT, SATMACI, and CIDV formerly SODEPALM), and then improve the efficiency
Project           of the system over time: (a) increasing the proportion of farmers receiving assistance from
extension services from about 25% to about 50% by 1990; (b) extending simple crop husbandry
practices and better ways of using modem inputs when available; and (c) increasing linkages
between extension and research to develop technical innovations well adapted to farmers's
needs.
L3127-lVC         Achieve a sustained rate of sectoral growth of about 4% per annum in the mid-term while        1988       Projectclosed
Agriculture       reducing urban/rural and regional income disparities: (a) improve the domestic terms of trade in          June 30,1991
Sector            favor of agriculture; (b) shift incentives in favor of crops with high comparative advantage
Adjustment        (coffee and export diversification crops), away from crops that have declining economic benefits
Project.          to Cote d'lvoire such as cocoa; (c) decrease costs in the agro-industrial sector to restore its
competitiveness on domestic and external markets; (d) reduce public sector involvement in
directly productive activities and increase the efficiency of parastatals providing basic support
services to farmers; (e) reorient public expenditures toward high priority activities in rural areas;
(f) improve rural financial intermediation and farmers' access to saving and credit facilities; and
improve the management of the country's natural resources, in particular by promoting the
protection and sustainable exploitation of natural forests.
L3128-IVC         The objectives were to (a) develop managerial capacity at central and local levels in accordance  1990    Projectclosed
Municipal         with the new  roles of central and local governments within the ongoing municipal                         December31,
Development       decentralization process; (b) improve local resource mobilization to allow improvements in basic          1994
Project           services in the secondary centers and the surrounding rural areas, within the framework of an
improved investment planning and allocation process shared between central govemment and
the municipalities; (c) overcoming the lack of basic infrastructure and social services in a first
group of selected secondary cities, while also redressing inequality of access by the poorest
residents; and (d) initiating in these cities local development actions to increase private and the
form]a sector's participation in both productive and social spheres.
L3428-4VC         The proposed loan and credit, tailored to the needs for adjusting human resources development  1992       Projectclosed
Human             mechanisms and/or complementing other donor's interventions, provided the budgetary support               September30,
Resources         required to enable the Government to implement its human resources development program,                   1994
Development       with primary focus on improving its capacity to manage human resources development and
Program Project   remove key obstacles to better performance.
Source: BankSAR, AOP
() indicates formally revised closing date



- 18 -
Table 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle    Date Planned     Revised Date          Date Actual
Identification                    N/A                                 August28, 1988
(Executive Project Summary)
Preparation (Revised FEPS)        N/A                                   October, 1989
Appraisal                         N/A                                   October, 1989
Post-Appraisal                    N/A                                    March, 1990
Negotiations                      N/A                              May 29 to 31, 1990
Board Presentation             July 3, 1990                            August 2, 1990
Signing                           N/A                                 October 1, 1990
Effectiveness                     N/A         November, 1990        February 22, 1991
Mid-term Review                   N/A                              September 16, 1993
(if applicable)
Norwegian Grant
Signing                       Nov. 19, 1991
Closing                       June 30, 1993    June 30, 1994       December31, 1995
Loan Closing                  June30, 1993 l  June30, 1994              June30, 1995
N/A: Data not available



- 19 -
Table 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS
CUMULATIVEESTIMATED AND ACTUAL IN MILLION US DOLLARS
IBRD Fiscal Year                              91               92                93               94              95
Appraisal Estimates                              .40               .92              1.36            1.72            2.20
Actual                                           .27               .61              1.11            1.26            1.309
Actual as % of estimate                         67.50%           66.30%            81.62%          73.26%          61.70%
Date of last disbursement:March 31, 1995
(data as ofMay31, 1996)
2 -
1.5-
Estimate
0.5
0
91                   92                    93                    94                    95



- 20 -
Table 5: KEY INPUT INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Key ImplementationIndicators in SAR                      Estimated                    Actual
I. Institutional Capacity Building
A. Training
Training of staff                                   80 project staff, 20 MFPF staff and  Completed 1992 (310
591 group leaders                group leaders
Training of pilot region instructors in sewing      60 in Abidjan (I.N.J.S.) July-   51 trained in 1992
August 1989
Training of instructors and ARs in functional Literacy  90 in Abidjan (I.N.J.S.) July-      N/A*
August 1989
Retraining of MEP and AR on health education       90 in Abidjan October 1990       Completed 1992
B. Construction, Rehabilitation and Equipment
Construction of IDEFs                               7                                6 (1 in progress)
Rehabilitation of IDEFs                             6                                6
Provision of adequate lab equipment                 Equiped Lab for training, Retraining  Partially equiped
and upgrading of MEP
Equipment of IDEFs renovated and/or constructed     Equipment for 7 IDEFs            Equipment for 7
IDEFs
Creation of Production and Markting GVCs            50 (19 in the North, 24 in the   59 in the North, 122
Center-East and 7 in the South)  in the Center-East, 15
in the South
II. Rural Outreach Program
A. Training
Training of trainers                                31 ARs and 3 coordinators         31 ARs
Training of auditors in cooperative management,     220 women (10 per village)        220
agriculture and fish breeding
Training for women (for action and program          20 days in each village or 20 half
implementation                                      days on agriculture/management          N/A*
and 20 half days on health
Training for staff of Ministry of Information and Cultural  6 senior staff, 18 coordinators and   Completed 1992
Affairs                                            their assistants by October 1990
B. Information and dissemination Programs
Documentation and advice                            2 days a week (Monday and                N/A*
Thursday)
Dissemination                                       2 programs per week or 8 a month
or 104 a year (Tuesday and Friday)      N/A*
HI. Monitoring and Evaluation
A. Central level
Create a permanent mission                          Team of 3 persons for
administration, 3 for technical and   Partially completed
financial supervision
Visits in the field                                 4 days in the North, 6 in the    Completed
Center-East and 2 in the South
B. Regional level
Supervision mission                                 Coordinator to lead a supervision    ARs visit villages
mission every two weeks          twice a month
*Data not available



- 21 -
Table 6: KEY OUTPUT INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
Key Operation Indicators in SAR                       Estimated                    Actual
I. Rural Outreach Program
A. Information and Dissemination Programs
IDEFs auditors, student in settlement areas and other  Reach 15 to 20 persons per day     N/A*
readers (men and women)
IDEFs participants and women in the neighborhood  100% in day sessions                    N/A*
25% for night sessions                  N/A*
10% women from neighborhoodnot         N/A*
registered with IDEF and women
students from schools
25% of men (mainly husband              N/A*
attending night sessions)
B. Information and Training Actions
Improve health and nutrition status of students and their    All participants              N/A*
families
Functional literacy                                All graduates                           N/A*
II. Training
A.  IDEF South
Enrollment                                        500 participants during 1991/92  502 during 92-93
Teach reading, writing and math in each of 5 satellite    At least 80 women               N/A*
villages
Create in cooperation with the Operations Directorates   2 sewing cooperatives            N/A *
Retraining in sewing                              At least 200 MEP and 50 established  50 MEP IN 1992
graduates
B. IDEFs Center-East
Enrollment                                         At least 60 participants in Daoukro    Daoukro 443, Arrah
and Mbatto, and 50 in Arrah      220 and Mbatto 284
Teach to read, write and calculate                 At least 25 women per village by the  550 women reached
end of the operation (or 600
women in 12 targeted villages)
C. IDEFs Nord
Enrollment                                         120 participants                 582 (1992-93)
Train in literacy, hygiene and home economics     5 women groups per village for
Korhogo and 3 groups per village        N/A*
for Ferke (30 per group or village, or
240 women in total)
D. Placementof IDEFs graduates
From Apprenticeshipprograms                       At least 20% graduates by 1994    15 from Mbatto
From Commercial activities in formal sector       At least 20% graduates by 1995    Few established
From Government sponsored specialized training    At lest 5% of graduates                 N/A*
* Data not available



- 22 -
Table 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study                       Purpose as defined at                     Status
appraisal/redefined
Analysis of Agricultural  Develop ways of improving women's access to   Not completed
Production and Marketing    extension services, inputs, informationand
Arrangements              markets
Identify urban women skills  Promote integration of women into the   Completed February 1993.
and employment in         industrial and service sectors in urban areas,
industrial sectors        and to identifyjob opportunitiesand skills
needed
Identificationof small-scale   Establish agroprocessing              Not completed
business particularly in
agroprocessing
Basic Survey on rural     Compile basic statistical information on   Not completed
women                     women's socio-eonomic, demographic,
historic, cultural values and legal rights
Impedimentsof women's    Identify impedimentsto increasewomen's      Not completed
access to credit          access to credit, both formal and informal, and
measures that would modify actual systems or
introduce new ones
Women's legal status in   Design measures /programs to inform        Completed 1993
modem and traditional     population particularly in rural areas of
systems                   women's legal rights and to sensitize people to
respect these rights (which include age of
marriage, divorce, land rights, access to credit
and arbitration)
** Women's access to land                                            Completed 1993
in rural areas
** Training and Literacy                                             Completed 1993
Cultural and economic     Identify cultural and economic reasons for  Not completed
reasons for female        female enrollment rates in the pilot regions and
schooling                 remedies
* * Study not mentioned in the SAR



- 23 -
Table 8A: PROJECT COSTS
Category                            Planned                   Actual
Allocated             Disbursement
I. Civil Works                                          0.40                    0.37
2. Equipment and Vehicles                               0.40                    0.53'
3. Consultants' Services                                0.42                     0.10
4. Training and fellowships                             0.25                     0.06
5. Civil Works, goods and services financed by the      0.15                    0.002
Development Fund
6. ServiceunderPart C.6 of the project                  0.05                     0.00
7. Incremental operating costs                          0.33                     0.07
8. Unallocated                                          0.20                     0.00
FONDEV Special Account                                  0.27                     0.23
Total                                                   2.20                     1.36
1. Equipmentand vehicles were exceededdue to the devaluationof the CFA franc
Table 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)      Actual Latest
Estimate
(US$M)
Source                              Local      Foreign      Total        Total
Costs       Costs
IBRD                                   .92       1.27        2.19       1.13
Norwegian Grant                                  .27          .27       .23
Subtotal                            2.46       1.36
GovemmentContribution                 1.27       .12         1.39       .41
Community Contribution (in kind)       .06                    .06
Total     2.25       1.66         3.91       1.77



- 24 -
Table 9: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
DCA                DESCRIPTION OF COVENANT                COVENANT    PRESENT             ORIGINAL           REVISED                 COMMENTS
REFERENCE                                                        TYPE         STATUS        FULFILLMENT    FULFILLMENT
DATE              DATE
Government and Bank to review implementation                                  12/31/90          12/31/90
3.02 (a)           before start of new programs.                    10             CD
3.02 (b)           Governmentto prepare and submit to the Bank                                                                    The date was delayed by a month
before October31 the detailed program and         9             CD                                             because of the slippage in
budget of the followingyear.                                                                                   competitivebidding, especially
vehicles.
3.02 (b)          (i) Open and thereaftermaintain, in CFAF and in                                                                 The special account has been open
the name of MFPF - Women in Development                                                                        under (Compte Special Projet Pilot
Project, an account in CAA on terms and           3             CD                                             IntegrationDes Femmes)-IBRD
conditionssatisfactoryto the Bank.                                                                             (N 467.037.001.062.05)
3.03 (a)          (ii) Deposit into such project account an initial
amount of CFAF 75,000,000 representing its
contributionto the first four months of project   4             CD             12/31/90         02/28/91      Initial deposit 02/28/91
expenditures.
3.03 (a)          (iii) Thereafterreplenish such account no later                                                                 Because of slippage in competitive
than March 31, June 30, September-30 and                                                                       bidding, all the activities in the
December31 of each year during project           3,4            CP                                             project have been delayed. The low
execution.                                                                                                     expendituresdid not justify the
replenishment.
3.04 (a)          (i) Establish a DevelopmentFund Account in a                                                                    Compliedwith.
commercial bank.                                  5              C
3.04 (a)          (ii) Make grants to women for investments in                                                                    The DevelopmentFund was
productive assets in accordancewith the          2,3            CD                                             seriously delayed. It was effective a
provisions of schedule 5.                                                                                      year before the initial loan closing.
3.04 (b)           (i) Deposit into the DevelopmentFund Account                                                                   The counterpartdeposit was made
an initial amount equivalentto US$50,000.         4             CD                                             in June 1992.



- 25 -
Table 9: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
DCA             DESCRIPTION OF COVENANT               COVENANT    PRESENT            ORIGINAL           REVISED                   COMMENTS
REFERENCE                                                   TYPE          STATUS    FULFILLMENT    FULFILLMENT
DATE              DATE
3.04 (b)       (ii) Deposit semi-annually during execution of                                                               Delay in all activities led to low
the project into said account such sums as shall  4          NC                                             expenditures to justify replenishment
be necessary to replenish up to the initial                                                                 by the Bank.
amount equivalent to US$50,000.
4.01 (a)       The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and         I            CP                                12/94        Qualified unsatisfactory.
expenditures: (i) in respect of the project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the project or any
part thereof; and (ii) of the Development Fund.
4.01 (b)       The Borrowershall: (i) have the records and
accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this                                                               Not fully compliedwith (1993,1994
section including those for the Special Account                                                             and 1995 audit reports for loan and
and the Development Fund Account for each       I            CP                                06/95        Norwegian Grant are still due)
fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independentauditorsacceptableto
the Bank.
4.01 (b)       (ii) Furnishto the Bank as soon as available,                                                                Complied after major delays with
but in any case not later than four months after                                                            inadequate records for 1993 reports.
the end of each year, the report of such audit by  1,9        CD                               06/95        Subsequentyears audit reports are still
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail                                                             owed.
as the Bank shall have reasonably request.
4.01 (b)       (iii) Furnishto the Bank such other
information concerning said records and
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall  1,9        CD                                             Major delays with unsupported
from time to time reasonabty request.                                                                       documents.
4.01 (c)       For all expenditureswith respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were
made on the basis of statementsof expenditure,
the Borrower shall:



- 26 -
Table 9: STATUS OF LEGALCOVENANTS
DCA                DESCRIPTION OF COVENANT                    COVENANT   PRESENT    ORIGINAL                              REVISED                         COMMENTS
REFERENCE                                                             TYPE             STATUS   FULFILLMENT  FULFILLMENT
DATE                 DATE
4.01 (c)          (i) Maintain or cause to be maintained, in
accordancewith paragraph (a) of this
Section, records and accounts reflecting such          1                CP                                                    Partially complied with.
expenditures.
4.01 (c)          (ii) Retain, until least one year after the
Bank has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from         1,9              CD                 11/94                                                  N/A
the Loan Account was made, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills receipts and
other documents) evidencing such
expenditures.
4.01 (c)          (iii) Enable the Bank's representativesto               I               CD                 11/94                               Reports submitted with major delay.
examine such records.
4.01 (c)          (iv) Ensure that records and accounts are
included in the annual audit refereed to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate              1,9               NC                06/95                                Not comply with requirements (with
opinion by said auditors as to whether the                                                                                     unsupported audit reports).
statements of expenditure submitted during
such fiscal year, together with the procedures
and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
CovenantClass:                                                                                     Status:
I             Accountlaudit                                                                       C               Compliedwith
2              Finanalperformance/genecrataevenue from beneficiaTies                              CD              Complianceafter Delay
3              Flow and utilizationofProject funds                                                NC              Not CompliedWith
4              Counterpartfunding                                                                  SOON           ComplianceExpectedin ReasonablyShort Time
5              Managementaspectsofthe Projector of its executingagency                            CP              Complied with Partially
6              Envirownentalcovenants                                                             NYD             Not Yet Due
7              Involuntawyresettlement                                                            NA              Not applicable
8              Indigenouspeople
9              Monitoring,review and reporting
10            Implementation
I I           Sectoral or cross-sectoralbudgetary or other resource allocation
12            Sectoral or cross-sectoralregulatory/institutionakction
13            Procurement
14            Other



- 27 -
Table 10: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
Statement number and title                                 Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1. OD 10.60 Accounting, financialreportingand auditing     Serious delays in submission of audit reports for 1993
and 1994 for Credit and Grant.
2. OD 13.05 Project Supervision (Annexe D 2 para. 29)      Lack of full compliance with legal covenants.
3. OD 13.05 ProjectManagementPerformance(AnnexeD 2         Deficiencies in Arrahconstructionmanagement
Para. 30)
Table 11: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of project cycle         Actual
Weeks       US$*
Identificationto appraisal   20.5        61,500
Appraisal                    25.6        78,800
Negotiation                  39.4       118,200
Supervision                  94.7       284,100
Completion                    5.2        15,600
Grand Total                 185.4       558,200
Source: Cost AccountingSystem Report: COSR20 (July 9, 1995)
n/a: Not available
*Based on US$3, 000 per staff week.



- 28 -
Table 12: BANK RESOURCES MISSIONS
Supervision  Month/year  Number    S/W         Specialized                   Performance Rating by Type of Problem
of       in       Staff Skills
persons    field    Represented       I    D    L    M       F    P    T    TA    S    E    FP
Supervision    08/90         1        n/a    SE
Supervision    03/91         1         1     SE                    1    1    1    1    1
Supervision    08/91         1        n/a    SE                   2    I    2    2    1    1    1    1    1    1
Supervision     12/91        2        4.0    SE,FA                2    2    1    2    1    2    2               2     1
Supervision    03/92         2        n/a    SE,FA                2    2    1    2    1    2    2               2     1
Supervision    07/92         1        4.0    SE                    1    I    1    2       1    2     1          2     1
Supervision    03/93         1        3.7    SE                   2    1    1    2    1    2         1          2     1
Supervision    09/93         5        n/a    RR,SC,SE,FA          2    2    2    2    3    2    2               2      1
Supervision    03/94         3        1.4    A, E, SE             2    2      1    1    1    2    2              1    1      2
Supervision    08/94         3         .4    GS, EOS, A           S    S    1    2    2    2    2                            2
Supervision     12/94        3        1.8    GS, EOS, HRS         U     S    2    3    3    3    2                           2
Supervision    06/95         3        3.4    GS, EOS, E           U    S    3    4    3    3    2
Specialization: A=Agriculturalist, E=Economist, EOS=Economist Oper. Spec., FA=Financial Analyst, GS=Gender Specialist, HRS=Human Res. Spec.
RR=Resident Rep., SC=Section Chief, SE=Socio-Economist
Performance Ratings: S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, I=Problem free or minor problems, 2=Moderate problems, 3=Major problems with solution
underway, 4=Major problems without solution underway
Type of Problem for Performance: I=Implementation Progress, D=Project Development Objectives, L=Compliance with Legal Covenants, M=Project Management
Performance, F=Availability of Funds, P=Procurement Progress, T=Training, TA=Technical Assitance Progress, S=Studies Progress, E=Environment Aspects,
FP--F;----c;-! Perf v-.c



MALI                                                                                        BURKINA
RTENGrEA                                FASO
.v',7    ~                  ZUBN UN                                                                                                     C;HA      A
GUINEA                                                       SR                                        J
1 . A ..e ---Y' \ s    l
f  I   f  f 5 I" 2 \' . t~~~~~~~~~~Prjet Pilt A,esu IZoe do OPrE e ;\
5.~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~                         ~ ~~~                                                                                                         ~     ~~~~~~ -eprtrers C-itl ICh ,sLiu d;  Oeorsn
r <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-z
* i  t^    X   t  f Notonl Cptol OC dEAN5,5GHANA
-    Sub-Prefecture Boundaries _Lirnites dos Sous-Pre lectures
kf  < J C    s    g                                                        P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Itrnote ilon rol B Zoundres /nitodu tojls
~8  2       <    /                                                          SubPrefetureapitls/Chfs-teu/r  SousPrefdurL
>   r    1~~   / f   ~~  /+                                        S    Deportment Copitols /Chefs-tieux d  D-porSmenis~~~~~~~
<  rB ^ 1                                                                    fb     otiool Coitol/CopFfe W10A
w o \ v- W  L S  s                                    _    Sub-Profedure boundories /bmites des Sous-PreXclures                                              ovASENGCX
c   e  2  J  \  = \                                           Dcportment Boundories /f imites des Deportomenis                                                 Ci~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G
Z GlilFO6GUhf.l - - Internotiono}Boundor~~~~ies/LAmts'EosZ









IMAGING
Report No:       16116
Type: ICR



