COMFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1339 - T-MAS
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Port Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
MAURITIUS MARINE AUTHORITY
Dated December 9, 1976


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 9, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called
the Bank) and MAURITIUS MARINE AUTHORITY (hereinafter called MMA).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith be-
tween Mauritius (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Bank,
the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount
in various currencies equivalent to three million and six hundred
thousand dollars ($3,600,000), on the terms and conditions set forth
in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that MMA agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower and
MMA, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agree-
ment will be made available to MMA on the terms and conditions
therein set forth; and
WHEREAS MMA, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.


﻿-3 -
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. MMA shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
engineering practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist MMA in carrying out Part G
of the Project, MMA shall use the services of one or more port
advisors, upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, con-
tracts for goods and civil works to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) MMA undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by MMA
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, MMA shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿-4-
Section 2.05. (a) MMA shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, con-
tract documents and work and Drocurement schedules for the Project,
and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) MMA: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
relent to it by the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in
the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the Bank's representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan so relent to it and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.
(c) MMA shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all plant, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of MMA and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.06. MMA shall duly perform all its obligations under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, MMA shall not take or concur in any action which would have
the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿-5-
Section 2.07. (a) MMA shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the administration,
operations and financial condition of MMA and other matters rel' -
ing to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) MMA shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by MMA of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of MMA
Section 3.01. MMA shall, no later than the start of operations
of the bulk sugar terminal in Port Louis harbour, introduce, or
cause to be introduced, multi-shift working in the operation of the
berths included in Part A of the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, MWA
shall not make, nor permit to be made, any offshore physical
changes such as would adversely affect the effectiveness of the
port at Port Louis.
Section 3.03. MMA shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be con-
sistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. MMA shall:
(a) maintain its right to carry on its operations;
(b) acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privi-
leges and franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct
of its business;
(c) operate and maintain, at all times, its facilities and
property, and from time to time make all necessary renewals and
repairs thereof, all in accordance with appropriate engineering
and business practices;


﻿T
(d) at all times, manage its affairs, plan its future invest-
ment and maintain its financial position, all in accordance with
appropriate business and financial practices and under qualified,
experienced and competent management.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. NA shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. MMA shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each financial year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) fur-
nish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of MMA and the audit thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. MMA shall, not later than July 1, 1977, intro-
duce and thereafter maintain appropriate commercial accounting,
costing and budgetary control systems.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, MMA
shall limit until the Closing Date its capital expenditures to
those included in the Project, except for such expenditures for
small items not exceeding in the aggregate Rs2,000,000 per annum.


﻿-9 -
Section 4.05. MMA shall undertake at the end of the first
year of its operations a comprehensive tariff revision and imple-
ment, not later than January 1, 1978, or such other date as may
be agreed upon between the Bank and MMA, a tariff based on cost
and market considerations.
Section 4.06. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
MMA shall take, from time to time, all necessary measures (includ-
ing but not limited to adjustments of the tariff structure and
rates of MMA) as shall be necessary to enable MMA to generate
revenues sufficient to yield an annual rate of' return of not less
than three per cent (3%) through its financial year 1979, five
per cent (5%) in its financial years 1980, 1981 and 1982, and
seven per cent (7%) in each succeeding financial year on the value
of its net fixed assets in operation.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the annual rate of return shall be calculated by
relating the net operating income for the year in
question to the average of the value of the net
fixed assets of MMA in operation at the beginning
and at the end of each year;
(ii) the term "value of net fixed assets in operation"
shall mean the gross book value of such assets,
less the amount of accumulated depreciation, as
valued from time to time in accordance with appro-
priate consistently maintained methods of valuation
acceptable to the Bank; and


﻿-10-
(iii) the term "net operating income" shall mean the
difference between:
(A) gross operating revenue accruing from the
services of MMA; and
(B) the operating and administrative expenses,
taxes (if any), adequate maintenance and
depreciation but excluding interest and other
charges on debt.
Section 4.07. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
MMA shall not incur any debt if its net revenues for the financial
year next preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later
twelve-month period ended prior to the date of such incurrence,
whichever amount is the greater, shall be less than 1.5 times the
maximum debt service requirements for any succeeding financial
year on all MMA's debt, including the debt to be incurred.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) "debt" means all debt of MMA, including debt
guaranteed by MMA, maturing by its terms more
than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of
execution and delivery of the contract or other
document providing for such debt or modifying its
terms of payment;


﻿S                            -11 -
(iii) the term "net revenues" means gross operating
revenue from all sources, adjusted to take account
of MMA's tariffs in effect at the time of the
incurrence of debt even though they were not in
effect during the entire financial year or twelve-
month period to which such revenues relate, less
all operating expenses, including adequate
maintenance, taxes, if any, and administrative
expenses, but before provision for depreciation
and debt service requirements;
(iv) the term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of amortization (including
sinking fund payments, if any), interest and other
charges on debt; and
(v) whenever in connection with this Section it
shall be necessary to value in the currency of the
Borrower debt payable in another currency, such
valuation shall be made on the basis of the
rate of exchange at which such other currency is
obtainable by MMA, at the time such valuation is
made, for the purposes of servicing such debt or,
if such other currency is not so obtainable, at
the rate of exchange that will be reasonably deter-
mined by the Bank.


﻿-12                                      0
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of MMA thereunder shall terminate on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the Loan Agreement.


﻿-13 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such re-
quest. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
6145   (wUI)
For MMA:
Mauritius Marine Authority
Port Louis Harbour
Port Louis, Mauritius
Cable address:
MAURIPORT
Port Louis


﻿- 14-                                      S
Section 6.02. MMA shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the
person or persons who will, on behalf of MMA, take any action or
execute any documents required or permitted to be taken or executed
by MMA pursuant to any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿0                                     -15 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ W. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
MAURITIUS MARINE AUTHORITY
By /s/ Pierre Guy Gerald Balancy
Authorized Representative
01


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Contracts for civil works shall be procured in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the "Guide-
lines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guide-
lines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for fire fighting equipment shall be procured
through negotiated purchase after solicitation of quotations
from suppliers.
C.   Review of Procurement Decision by the Bank
1.   With respect to any contract for civil works:
(a) If bidders are required to prequalify, MMA shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the pro-
cedure to be followed and shall introduce such modifications in
said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of
prequalified bidders, togetherr with a statement of their qualifi-
cations and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification, shall be furnished by MMA to the Bank for its
comments before the applicants are notified and MMA shall make


﻿0                           -17-
such additions to or deletions from the said list as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(b) Before bids are invited, MMA shall furnish to the Bank,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a descrip-
tion of the advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding,
and shall make such modifications in the said documents or procedure
as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further modification to
the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before
it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c) After bids have been received and evaluated, MMA shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of
the name of the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report, by the consultants referred to in Section 3.02
of the Loan Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, together with the recommendations for award of the said
consultants, and the reasons for the intended award. The Bank shall,
if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the procedures set forth or referred to in this Schedule,
promptly inform MMA and state the reasons for such determination.
(d) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked.


﻿- 18 -                                  0
2.   With respect to any contract for equipment MMA shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, furnish to the Bank, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the comparison
of the quotations received, together with the recommendations for
award and the reasons for the intended award. The Bank shall, if
it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with
the procedures set forth in this Schedule, promptly inform MKA
and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Two conformed copies of any contract for civil works or
equipment shall be furnished to the Bank promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Accounts in
respect of any such contract.
0


