Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-7082-GA
TECHNICAL ANNEX
TO THE
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO FF 56.7 MILLION
TO THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
FOR A
PRIVATIZATION AND REGULATORY CAPACITY BUILDING
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
April 28, 1997



EXCHANGE RATE
Currency Unit = CFAF
Current value: US$1             566.7 CFA francs
Average for 1995: US$1    =     499.1 CFA francs
Average for 1994: US$1          555.2 CFA francs
Average for 1993: US$I          283.2 CFA francs
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AGROGABON          Gabonese Agricultural Development Company
AfDB               African Development Bank
BEAC               Bank of Central African States
CCP                Postal Checks Center
CFA                African Finanicial Community
CFD                French Development Fund
CFG                Gabonese Forestry Company
CNE                National Savings Bank
COBAC              Central African Banking Commission
CP                 Privatization Committee
EIB                European Investment Bank
ESAF               Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
HEVEGAB            Gabonese Rubber Development Company
IBRD               International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IFC                International Finance Corporation
OPT                Office of Posts and Telecommunications
OCTRA              Trans-Gabon Railway Office
PE                 Public Enterprise
SCP                Secretariat of the Privatization Committee
SEEG               Gabonese Water and Power Company
TR                 Terms of Reference
TIG                Gabonese International Telecommunications
UDEAC              Customs Union of Central African States
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
Vice  Pes: iden   ::;;:S:: ;i00 V  ::  gfgff fff;   : 0X0t: Xft;D;;; t:  Je n-ouisf  St rib, A  ER   ;0: $ t: ;00: ;S;     g    000;00
Country Director:         ~~DavidBerk (Acting), COT
Technialk Manager:                 Thmas W.e,AFTP
Task : Team  Leader:                Demba Ba, AFTPI:d-::0::     :X baBAxTP    :i;;;0i;:t  :    : g40: ; t:00  :::0:;:i::gS ;:



THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
PRIVATIZATION AND REGULATORY CAPACITY BUILDING
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Table of Contents
SECTION A. ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL FRAMEWORK AND SITUATION OF
THE PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR ..................................................................                                          1
SECTION B. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION ........................................................... 7
I. PROJECT OBJECTIVES ....................................................................................... 7
II. PROJECT COMPONENTS .................7........... 7
A. Communications .................                                                                                                   7
B. Regulatory Capacity Building ...............................................                                                      8
C. Public Enterprise Reform  and Privatization ...............................................                                       8
D. Participation  by Nationals in Privatization ...............................................                                     12
E. Modernizing the Legal Environment for Business                                         ............................................... 13
SECTION C. PROJECT COSTS AND ADMINISTRATION .............................................. 15
I. PROJECT  COSTS .............................................................................1...........       ......5.. ....... . 15
II. PROCUREMENT ..................................................................................................................... 16
A. Hiring of Consultants ..................                                                                                         16
B. Purchasing .................. 17
C. Bank Examination ..................                                                                                              17
III. DISBURSEMENT PROCEDURES .......................................................                                                   18
IV. ACCOUNTS MANAGEMENT AND AUDIT .......................................................                                              19
SECTION D. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION ............................ 21
I. PROJECT  MANAGEMENT .................................................................................................. 21
II. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN .............................                                                                          2 1
III. REPORTING AND MONITORING .............................                                                                            21
IV. SUPERVISION ..............................                                                                                          22
V. PROJECT  REVIEW  ................................................................................................. 23



ANNEXES
Annex I   : List of Public Enterprises ...........................           .....................................     24
Annex II  : Implementation Plan - Communication Component ...............                      .......................  25
Annex III   Implementation Plan - Regulatory Component .....................                 .........................  27
Annex IV: Implementation Plan - Reform  and Privatization of PEs ............                     ...................  29
Annex V   : Implementation Plan - Local Participation in the Privatization Process   ........                           38
Annex VI   Implementation Plan - Modernization of the Business Legal Environment..                                      44
Annex VII  Project Implementation Manual ................................................................              46
Annex VIII: Detail of Project Costs .......................              .........................................     64
Annex IX   : List of Project Activities and Procurement Procedures .............                 ....................  65
Annex X        Project Supervision Plan ...........................          .....................................     66
Annex XI: Project Implemention Framework - Organizational Chart ............                        .................  67
Annex XII: Logical Framework ...................                   ..............................................      68
This report was prepared by a World Bank project team composed of the following members: Demba Ba, Team Leader and
Privatization Specialist; Sherri Archondo, Financial Analyst; Ying Liang, Telecommunications Specialist; Cecile Neuvens,
Regulations and Posts Specialist; David Satola, Attorney, specializing in telecommunications; Armand Atomate, Institutional
Development Specialist; Jean-Charles de Daruvar, Counsel for Gabon; David Donaldson, IFC; C. Woodruff, PSD; Michel
Layec, Energy Specialist; lain Christie, Technical Specialist; and Muriel Prah, Senior Task Team Assistant.



THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
PRIVATIZATION AND REGULATORY CAPACITY BUILDING
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
SECTION A. ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL FRAMEWORK AND SITUATION
OF THE PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR
1.   Introduction.  A study of the parastatal sector conducted in June 1996 in
cooperation with the General Directorate of Economic Affairs and the Privatization
Authority (Commissariat general a la privatisation) identified the financial difficulties of
state-owned enterprises in Gabon and the burden they place on government finance. This
study confirmed the earlier results of a survey of the private sector and specific sectoral
studies. These studies have been particularly useful in devising strategies based on
opening the sectors concerned to competition and on developing plans to privatize public
enterprises.
2.    Following the financial crisis caused by the 1986 collapse of oil prices, Gabon
embarked on a policy to clean up its parastatal sector. Its objectives were to reduce the
sector's pressure--in the form of subsidies and the cost of government consumption--on
government finance, and to make the economy more competitive. A series of studies on
the enterprises was conducted as part of the Structural Adjustment Program concluded
with the World Bank, but the adjustment measures adopted were partially jeopardized by
the social unrest that occurred in the early 1990s.
3.    Starting in 1992, and even more so after the devaluation of the CFA franc, the
Government decided to recenter its role on its primary functions, a choice entailing a
move to divest itself of directly productive enterprises backed by a Development Strategy
Statement and an accompanying World Bank economic recovery loan. This new
approach was initiated under the adjustment program supported by the IMF's ESAF
(1995-98), which includes an ambitious program to restructure and privatize the
parastatal sector. The project presented in this document is in support of that program.
4.    Structure and Role of the Parastatal Sector in the Economy. The parastatal
sector comprises some forty enterprises doing business in all sectors of the economy.
These enterprises, listed in Annex I, are public establishments of an industrial and a
commercial nature, state-owned corporations, semi-public companies, or companies in
which the Government is a shareholder. Most of these enterprises have monopolies in the
sector in which they operate, whether it be telecommunications, water and electricity, or
the import and export of agricultural and forest products.
5.    The parastatal sector's contribution to national production accounts for 7.5% of
GDP. It employs 18,000 workers, or 20% of the formal sector work force, and its share



of the Public Investment Program, an average of CFAF 8.82 billion a year from 1988 to
1994, is significant. This gives an idea of the disproportionate weight of the parastatal
sector in the country's economy.
Table 1. Republic of Gabon: Role of the Parastatal Sector in the Economy
(% of GDP)
1989    1990    1991      1992    1993    1994
V.A. Public Sector     16.7    15.6    17.2    18.0    17.6    13.9
V.A. Parastatal Sector  8.6      8.4      8.9      8.8      8.9      7.5
V.A. Private Sector    74.7    76.0    74.0    73.1        73.5    78.6
6.    Performance and Burden on Government Finance.  From  a financial
standpoint, the net return on capital was -2.4% on average for the sector as a whole
during the period 1988-1995. Negative returns were seen primarily among enterprises in
the water and electricity, transportation and agribusiness sectors.  Positive results,
however, were on record in the telecommunications, oil, forestry, public works, and trade
sectors.
7.    The parastatal sector consists predominantly of companies in which the
Government is majority shareholder, as they account for over 80% of total capital and for
a majority of jobs. Because of their weight in the economy and the new opportunities
created by the change in the exchange rate and the introduction of the UDEAC's tax and
customs reforms, a number of these enterprises' has been identified by the Government as
priority candidates for reform of the sector. Moreover, an analysis has revealed that the
negative results declared by these enterprises are largely artificial, and are not related to
their cash flow. With the exception of HEVEGAB and CFG, the gross surplus of all
these enterprises is sharply reduced by depreciation and reserves often linked to sunk
costs, thereby generating losses purely on the books. This gives an indication of the gains
that could be anticipated once they are privatized. Table 2 below shows key performance
indicators by subsector.
Group 1: SEEG, OCTRA, OPT/TIG, AIR GABON, AGROGABON, HEVEGAB, and
CIMENTGAB.
2



Table 2. Republic of Gabon: Performance Indicators of the Parastatal Sector
Consolidated Annual Average
1988-1994
Economic     Net Return VA/Net         VA/labor.    Payroll/  Average   VA/
Sector        on Capital  Capital     (Millions     VA       Wage      Total
(Productivity   CFAF)               (Millions  Revenue
of capital)    (Productivity         CFAF)
of labor)
Total for       -2.4%     11.2%          6.9         69.5%     4.9      37.6%
parastatal
sector
Agribusiness    -0.6%      8.9%          3.0         74.5%     2.3       34.8%
Forestry        6.7%      51.1%          7.3         53.6%     4.1       17.2%
Transportation   -2.7%     4.3%          7.0         73.7%     5.2       47.3%
Oil and mines    3.7%     48.9%         18.4         59.3%    10.9       24.9%
Electricity and   -9.5%   27.6%         13.9         51..8%    7.2       57.9%
water
Post & Tele-    0.8%      22.2%         10.8         48.8%     5.4       68.6%
com.
Trade           8.0%      64.6%          6.5         70.1%     4.7       11.9%
Public works    0.4%      15.1%         10.0         50.7%     5.1       43.3%
Others          1.3%      18.6%         11.5         51.8%     6.9       45.7%
TOTAL         100.0      100.0         100.0         100.0    100.0     100.0
8.    Constraints on the Parastatal Sector and the Projected Policy. The problems
encountered by the parastatal sector present a serious obstacle to the sustainable
development of the Gabonese economy.  Public enterprises greatly underuse their
production capacity, which generally ranges from 40 to 65%. This underuse is mainly
attributed to the following factors: (a) organizational constraints, such as quality of
management, technological choices, the organization of production, and the shortage of
capital for investment; and (b) a lack of competitiveness, along with rigid markets and an
inflexible business environment.
9.    To cope with this situation, the Gabonese authorities have decided to lighten the
heavy financial, economic, and social burden placed on the country by the public
enterprise sector, and to promote the development of a local private sector and private
foreign investment. To do this, the Government has adopted the program described
below, which focuses on setting up a legal and regulatory system that favors private
investment. This program is based on the following: (a) opening up the economy; and
(b) privatizing the major sectoral government enterprises and selling the Government
minority shareholdings.
3



10.   Implementation of the privatization program  is based on a well-established
strategic choice. In the initial stage, the authorities intend to sell only their minority
shareholdings in a certain number of private companies and their majority shares in seven
major enterprises, each in a different sector. These include SEEG (electricity and water),
OPT/TIG (telecommunications, and the postal and financial services), OCTRA
(railways), AIRGABON (air transport), AGROGABON (palm oil), HEVEGAB (rubber),
and CIMENTGAB (cement production). This decision is based on lessons learned from
privatization programs conducted in Africa and other parts of the world, including the
following considerations: (a) the limits imposed by the administrative, technical, social,
and political capacity, but also the limited capacity of the market for privatization; and (b)
the need to have a successful, positive experience, and to ensure social and political
support for the process.
11.   Moreover, under a law passed in 1983, all companies setting up business in
Gabon must pay the Government 10 percent of their capital. This law, which was
suspended in 1989, also applied to the capital increases of these firms. A total of around
200 companies were affected by this law. About 150 of these firms are still operating,
but it is estimated that only 50 of them are of any significance in terms of the volume of
their business and the size of their profits. The Gabonese Government is also proposing
to sell the shares it acquired under a 1992 law beneficial to Gabonese investors, and
especially to small holders and institutional investors.
12.   Constraints to Developing the Private Sector and the Anticipated Policies.
The private sector is expected to play a decisive role in Gabon's prosperity and increased
standard of living. It is clear that the program to open up the economy and privatize will
spark new opportunities for the growth and development of the private sector. Many
reforms are still needed, however, to improve the business environment and to build the
country's institutional capacity.  Creation of an environment favorable to private
enterprise will in fact facilitate the privatization program and encourage private
investment. To accomplish this, the Government has undertaken a broad program of
institutional, legal, regulatory, fiscal, and financial reforms designed to overhaul the
environment in which the private sector operates. The main thrust of this program, whose
components are part of the adjustment program with the IMF, is based on the concepts of
facilitation, transparency, and equity. An Investment Charter, in the process of being
finalized, embodies the commitments and reforms being put in place. This Charter was
the subject of intensive consultations with local operators and the Bretton Woods
institutions.
13.   Gabonese businessmen view the high level of taxes and the tax administration as
the most serious threats to business and growth. Problems related to the exchange rate
are ranked in third place. This, however, may reflect the instability following the 1994
CFA franc devaluation. The fourth- and fifth-ranking problems are considered to be the
high cost of financing and the difficulty in gaining access to this financing, in that order.
4



14.   To eliminate these problems, the Government will pursue efforts to revise and
harmonize the system of incentives, while stepping up the pace of fiscal and customs
reforms agreed in the context of the UDEAC.
15.   Benefits of the Project. The reforms advocated under this project are vital to
economic stabilization and renewed growth in several ways. From an economic
standpoint, they should produce the following results: (a) considerable reduction in real
terms of the average cost of production factors such as water and electricity ( 18%) and
telecommunications (35%); (b) improvement in the quality of services provided and
greater access to those services by the people; (c) improvement in the productivity of
labor, while maintaining employment levels, by developing the private sector; and (d)
substantial decrease in--or even the elimination of--subsidies to enterprises.
16.   The communications component, restructuring of social security, and the
possibility for small Gabonese investors to participate in the privatization process should
enhance the people's understanding and awareness of the country's need for these
reforms, and should therefore trigger their active participation in implementation of the
program, which is essential if the program of economic reforms is to succeed.
17.   Quantification of Project Costs and Benefits. The total financial costs of the
project are estimated at CFAF 9 billion, or US$16 million. They can be broken down as
follows:
* Building popular support for privatization: CFAF 567 million, or US$1 million;
* Establishing a regulatory system to govern competition and building the
Government's regulatory capacity: CFAF 1.7 billion, or US$3 million;
* Restructuring and privatizing the major public enterprises: CFAF 3.7 billion, or
US$6.5 million;
* Increasing the participation of nationals in privatization of the parastatal sector: CFAF
567 million, or US$1 million;
* Modernizing the legal and regulatory environment in which business operates: CFAF
850 million, or US$1.5 million;
* Ensuring adequate management of the program and project: CFAF 1.7 billion, or
US$3 million.
18.   A dynamic cost-benefit analysis of the project shows the following financing
needs during the first four years, from 1997 to 2000: the total cumulative amount of net
costs should not surpass CFAF 11.3 billion (US$20 million). These costs, however,
should gradually diminish, and the project should begin turning a profit around the year
2000. Over the entire period, from 1997 to 2010, the project's net cumulative profits are
estimated at over CFAF 96 billion, or US$172 million.
19.   There will also be economic and social benefits in the form of job opportunities,
estimated at CFAF 21 billion, or US$38 million, productivity gains, which are expected
5



to amount to CFAF 32.3 billion, or US$57 million, and economies on the cost of capital
investment, of the order of CFAF 10.8 billion, or US$19 million.
20.   Finally, the project will also make it possible to realize unmeasurable indirect
economic benefits in terms of productivity gains and an improvement in the allocation of
public moneys. These benefits will come from the following factors: (a) increased
competition in the industrial and service sectors; (b) an improvement in the regulatory
structure and the elimination of price controls; (c) a reduction in poverty; and (d) a wider
distribution of the shares in corporate equity.
21.   Risks associated with the project. There are domestic and foreign political
risks, and institutional risks linked to the program.  The political risk stems from
pressures exerted on the Government by people who have not been properly informed of
the benefits to be derived from the program of reforms. The upcoming electoral period
also presents a risk of slowing down the pace of reforms. As for institutional risks, they
primarily have to do with the limits on the local institutional capacity to implement and
manage reforms in an effective way.
22.   Institutional aspects. During the past fifteen years, the Government's efforts to
pull out of the parastatal sector have gone through seven different institutional changes.
This is evidence that the implementing agencies are somewhat vulnerable to institutional
and organizational crises. The tangible effect has been confusion as to roles or a failure
to clearly define the powers and responsibilities of the various implementing agencies,
the relevant technical ministries, and the management of the enterprises. This state of
affairs has been aggravated by the absence of a regulatory and legal structure to govern
the Government's divestiture policy. This was the situation in February 1996 when the
Government promulgated a law on privatization and the organizational and functional
restructuring of the executive agency in charge of the privatization program.
23.   The new  institutional structure for implementing the privatization program
consists of two agencies: the Privatization Commission, the decision-making and
monitoring agency, headed by the Minister of Finance and Economy, with the ministers
of the relevant technical ministries related to the enterprises as members; and, the
Privatization Committee, the secretariat and implementing body for the Commission. At
the head of the Privatization Committee is a secretary, who is in charge of managing the
program and providing technical guidance for the privatization operations, while
maintaining a strategic view of the whole process. The Privatization Committee executes
the decisions made by the Commission on privatization strategy and procedures and plays
the role of permanent intermediary between the various actors and agents involved in the
privatization process. It is also in charge of preparing, monitoring, implementing, and
evaluating the operations carried out under the privatization program.
6



SECTION B. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
I. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
24.   The Government's strategic objective, to which the project is expected to
contribute, is growth of private investment and an increased participation of the non-oil
private sector in the country's economic development. This project is designed to
achieve this object in the following ways: (a) by creating an environment favorable to
private investment; (b) by modernizing the legal and regulatory environment of the
business sector; and (c) by competent and adequate project management. To this end, the
project will comprise the following components:
II. PROJECT COMPONENTS
A.   Communications
25.   For years, the lack of a communications plan and strategy has stood in the way of
popular support for the economic reforms. For instance, the reform of government
enterprises has become synonymous with an imminent increase in unemployment, a
further decline in living conditions, the sell-out of the nation's assets, and re-colonization.
26.   The purpose of the communications component is to gain the people's support
and political backing for privatization. To accomplish this, it will develop a local
institutional capacity, which will design and implement an information program aimed at
improving people's understanding of the issues involved in the economic reforms and at
initiating a dialogue to promote greater participation by the people in implementing the
economic program.  This information program  will at the same time allow the
Government to gain a better understanding of the need for greater public support for its
program of economic reforms and for using communications technology to this end. The
project will provide the means to do the following:
(a)   Set up a privatization information center and communications unit, as part
of the Privatization Committee;
(b)   Design and implement a training program to strengthen the Government's
capacity to make effective use of the media and to establish
communication and information links with labor unions, consumers, and
political institutions;
(c)   Conduct opinion polls and other targeted research to assess public opinion
on the projected reforms. The results of these studies will make it easier to
define a communications strategy and to monitor the social and political
environment of the reforms;
7



(d)   Instruct journalists as to the objectives of the economic reforms; and
(e)    Make sure that information on privatization and the economic reforms is
distributed widely.
27.   A memorandum describing the program and the responsibilities of the
communications unit and its director was drawn up. This document, together with the
detailed plan of action and the performance indicators (Annex II), was finalized during
the appraisal mission.
B.    Regulatory Capacity Building
28.   In order to transfer the operations of public enterprises to the private sector, the
regulatory system must be revised. It is particularly essential to develop the capacity of
government officials to regulate operators, and especially in sectors such as
telecommunications, water and electricity, and transportation, where competition will be
introduced and where there will be dominant operators. In view of this, the purpose of
the regulatory capacity building component will be to establish the regulations governing
competition and to put in place the required regulatory capacity.
29.   To fulfill this mission, the project will provide the necessary support for the
following:
(a)    Setting up a financially and legally independent, multisectoral regulatory
structure for the water, electricity, telecommunications, postal, and
transportation sectors;
(b)    Revising the sectoral codes and their implementing regulations to
liberalize economic activities; and
(c)    Providing outside experts in regulation during the stage devoted to local
capacity-building.
30.   A technical report analyzing the advantages and disadvantages of the types of
regulatory structure, such as sectoral vs. multisectoral, or ministerial vs. autonomous, was
prepared. It enabled the Government to decide on an autonomous, multisectoral
regulatory agency. The plan of action and the critical stages of this component have been
finalized (Annex III).
C.    Public Enterprise Reform and Privatization
31.   This component is designed to help in restructuring/reorganizing and privatizing
the major government enterprises targeted. In fact, a law establishing the privatization
rules for public sector enterprises was promulgated in February 1996 (Law 0 1/96 dated
8



February 13, 1996), and a privatization program was attached to the supplementary
budget of June 1996. Eight major economic sectors have been targeted for reorganization
and privatization. They include the following sectors: agrofood, timber, industry and
trade, posts and telecommunications, water and power, transportation, real property
services, financial institutions, and computer services. Some of the enterprises were
identified as priorities on the basis of criteria such as unrealized potential, or an urgent
need to cut losses, and the like. Consequently, under this component: (a) five major
sectors2 will be liberalized and the Government enterprises will be restructured and
privatized; (b) evaluations and studies will be performed to prepare for implementation of
the second phase of the program; and (c) the Privatization Committee, which is in charge
of implementing the project, will be set up so that it can operate effectively.
Office of Posts and Telecommunications (OPT)
32.   In the summer of 1996, the Government adopted a sectoral policy statement that
sets the main guidelines for reform of the postal and telecommunications sector. Among
other things, this strategic document identifies the need to make the following changes, to
be supported by the project:
(a)   Total separation of the postal service and telecommunications;
(b)   Reorganization of the telecommunications sector to create one primary
telecommunications operator, grouping together TIG, OPT, and part of
GABTEL's operations;
(c)   Immediate liberalization of all services offered by the sector, other than
the basic service;
(d)   Immediate authorization of an expanded mobile telephone license;
(e)   Introduction of private capital by privatizing the principal operator;
(f)    Separation between operations and regulatory functions and introduction
of the new regulatory functions needed for the sector to operate on the free
market; and
(g)   Asystematic reorganization of the postal sector.
33.   Restructuring Strategy. Separation between the postal service and
telecommunications requires the two sectors to be reshaped and a specific strategy for
restructuring each of them to be drawn up. The existing institutions in the
telecommunications and postal sectors, including the TIG, OPT, GABTEL, and EMS
2   Telecommunications, water and electricity, comestible oils, rubber, and cement.
9



Delta Plus, will have to be reorganized and the status of the new companies to be created
will have to be defined. Thus, the separation and the restructuring plans will entail the
following:
For the OPT:
(a)   Establishing a strategy for each branch of activity beforehand;
(b)   Establishing an opening balance for each entity;
(c)   Designing new organization charts; and
(d)   Arranging for interim management of the residual OPT and the new
enterprises, until the telecommunications operator is privatized and the
heads of the postal company are appointed.
For the telecommunications sector:
(a)   Adopting a new telecommunications code;
(b)   Establishing a new set of regulations, including licenses, specifications,
and the like;
(c)   Establishing a new rate system and a specific timetable for adjusting the
rates;
(d)   Establishing a new system of link-ups among operators; evaluating and
revising allocation of the spectrum of frequencies; and
(e)   Privatizing the principal operator.
For the postal sector:
(a)    Creating a commercial-type public corporation, by grouping the
operations of the postal branch together with those of its subsidiary, EMS
Delta Plus, and with financial services, subject to BEAC regulations;
(b)    Preparing and implementing a cost reduction program and a social plan,
and
(c)   Implementing an active commercial development strategy and plan
throughout the various branches of activity.
10



34.   The assistance strategy determined under the project is presented in the following
action plan. Three teams of consultants will be hired, each of which will perform one of
the following tasks:
(a)    Establish the new legal and regulatory system, building the regulatory
institutional capacity, and awarding the mobile telephone license;
(b)    Develop a strategy for and implement the restructuring of the three
branches--posts, telecommunications, and financial services--and
supervise management during the interim period; and
(c)    Privatize the operator.
The first two teams will work at the same time, and the third team will begin its task once
the work of the first two has progressed sufficiently.
35.   During negotiations: (a) the implementation schedule was finalized (Annex IV),
and (b) the terms of reference of the consultants were finalized. Finally, an agreement
was obtained on appointing a qualified person on a full-time basis, to work on the
Privatization Committee to monitor and coordinate the work of the various advisors and
consultants assigned to this program.
National Water and Electricity Company (SEEG)
36.   The Government adopted a strategy to restructure the water and electricity sector
that would enable it to attract private investment, reduce the cost of supplying services,
increase the service area throughout the country, and limit the role of government to
defining the sectoral policy and regulation. To implement this strategy, the following
steps will be supervised and/or carried out with the support of this component:
(a)    Letting of concession contracts for water and electricity services;3
(b)    Preparation of the laws and the implementing texts for the new regulatory
system; and
(c)    Undertake a prospective study and determine a strategy for developing
production and bringing electricity to rural areas.
The Government has given IFC a mandate to carry out the concessioning of SEEG, using national
budget funds. The bidding for privatization took place in October 1996.
11



AGROGABON, HEVEGAB, and CIMENTGAB, and Others
37.   As part of the preparations for this project a study was conducted to determine
possible alternatives available to the Government to allow it to divest itself of the
subsidiary, while ensuring its sustainable development. A strategy and an action plan
(Annex IV) for privatization of AGROGABON were defined on the basis of the
conclusions of this study. The project will finance the studies on valuation, restructuring,
and technical assistance for privatization.
38.   Technical and financial studies will also be carried out to develop strategies and
action plans for privatization of HEVEGAB and Gabon Cement on the basis of the terms
of reference already agreed with the Government. As in the case of HEVEGAB, these
action plans include financial reorganization prior to privatization.
39.   This component will also provide support for preparation and implementation of
the second stage of the privatization program, which covers ten enterprises and should be
ready for implementation by 1998 (Annex I).
D.   Participation by Nationals in Privatization
40.   The Government is contemplating two procedures, which are not mutually
exclusive, for selling off the Government's minority shareholdings to the public:
(a)   Direct sale of securities to Gabonese investors. This option will apply
specifically to larger enterprises whose stocks can be sold--SEEG, and the
future telecommunications and agribusiness companies. To conduct the
sale of stocks on the market, a private commercial bank or a firm will be
selected by competitive bidding; and
(b)   The creation of private mutual investment trusts. This option consists in
transferring government shareholdings to various trusts. The stocks issued
by these trusts, managed by private financial institutions (commercial
banks), would be sold on the market. Shareholdings which are not
considered to have a high enough value and do not have a profit potential
would not be transferred to these funds.
41.   A system of intermediation would be put in place according to the market
structure set up with the support of the IFC, as part of efforts to organize a secondary
market for SEEG stock. This system could make it possible to purchase and sell stocks
under satisfactory conditions of transparency and security.
42.   To facilitate these arrangements, the project will finance the following:
12



(a)   Preparation of laws and regulations authorizing the sale of the
Government's minority shareholdings, establishment of private mutual
investment trusts, a public offering, transactions on the secondary market,
and establishment of a dealer function, in cooperation with the BEAC, to
meet regional integration concerns;
(b)   Evaluation/valuation of shares held by the Government and determination
of procedures for selling them;
(c)   Selection by competitive bid of a local financial institution responsible for
managing the mutual investment trust and investing the stocks in that
trust;
(d)   Selection of one or several commercial bank(s) to handle the direct sale of
shares; and
(e)   Technical support for dealers in determining the compensation
arrangements with regard to the stocks.
The terms of reference and the plan of action with performance indicators have
been finalized and agreed with the Government.
E.    Modernizing the Legal Environment for Business
43.   This component will provide assistance in putting in place an institutional and a
legal environment conducive to development of the private sector, based on the
guidelines contained in the Investment Charter being prepared by the Government. The
project will finance the following activities in this area:
Business Law
44.   Gabon has initiated proceedings to ratify the treaty creating the Organization for
Harmonization of Business Law in Africa (OHADA). The project will support efforts to
incorporate the uniform acts in Gabonese legislation. It will provide the following
services to this end:
(a)   Legal technical assistance to legislative agencies, with a view to the future
entry into force of the uniform acts of OHADA, including (i) compiling a
list and computerizing all the applicable laws in Gabon, and (ii) analyzing
the laws affected by the OHADA project to identify existing laws that will
have to be abrogated, amended, or updated, and to identify and draft
supplementary laws that will prove necessary;
13



(b)   Support for efforts to disseminate the new business laws and the new
Investment Charter by printing, publishing, and distributing the texts, and
organization of both general and specific seminars for the various
economic operators and legal practitioners; and
(c)   Assistance in defining and implementing procedures for settling disputes
in business law by (i) a study concerning the type of structures to put in
place (for instance, establishing chambers specializing in business law in
the existing courts, or creating specialized courts, or introducing a national
commercial arbitration procedure, and (ii) support for setting up structures
to be used at the end of the study, including specialized training required
by judges and court employees, and seminars for other legal practitioners
and persons working in the business world.
Labor Code
45.   Preparation of the decrees required to implement the Labor Code following the
revision currently in progress. Once the standard OHADA act related to labor law comes
into effect, adaptation of national legislation and, if necessary, assistance in setting up
specialized courts.
Social Security
46.   Performance of an accounting and organizational analysis/audit of the National
Social Security Fund. Following that audit, social security laws will have to be amended
to make sure that the Fund's recovery is lasting. The project will provide the technical
support needed to relieve this.
47.    The action plans and implementation schedule for this project component were
finalized and agreed with the Government.
14



SECTION C. PROJECT COSTS AND ADMINISTRATION
I. PROJECT COSTS
48.   The total cost of the project, including contingencies, is estimated at FF 90
millions, net of taxes. The Government's contribution to the project will be FF 34
million, or 37% of the total project cost. This contribution will take the form of provision
of personnel, premises, and the support for establishing and operating the structures
required by the project. This project will not finance termination grants and/or arrears in
wages or pensions. The Government, with the support of donors, as part of the flow of
funds, will therefore make sure that its annual budget includes the amounts needed to
implement the social plans linked to liquidation of the remaining enterprises and the
rights of workers. CFAF 10 billion has already been included in the Government's 1997
budget. The detailed project costs are presented in Annex V, and are summed up below
(net of taxes).
Table 3. Summary of Project Costs
Component                            Millions
of FF
1. Public support for privatization program                   10.8
2. Putting the regulatory system in place                     17.6
3. Privatization of government enterprises                    45.4
4. Local participation in the capital of privatized companies  5.1
5. Improvement of the legal environment to promote the private  10.8
sector
TOTAL                                                    89.7
Exchange rate of FF 5.67 - US$1
Table 4. Financing Table
(millions of FF)
IBRD             Government
Equipment                                2.8                 16.0
Consultant Services, Training            53.9                5.7
Operating Costs                           --                 11.3
TOTAL                                 56.7                33.0
Exchange rate of FF 5.67 = US$1
15



II.   PROCUREMENT
49.   The project will include a planning and monitoring system for all procurement
procedures required for the project. Table 5 shows project components, their cost, and
the procurement methods.
Table 5. Summary of Procurement Methods
(Millions of FF)**
Procurement Methods
Competitive       Others*     N.F.B.        Total
International Bidding
Consultants and training                      72,652.96                72,652.96
(53,900.0)               (53,900.0)
Equipment                         2,536.76        567.0    4,502.0       7,605.76
(2,536. 76)   (263.24)                 (2,800.0)
Operating Costs                                           9,442.25      9,442.25
TOTAL                           2,536.76    73,219.96                89,700.97
(2,536.76)  (54,163.24)  13,944.25    (56,700. 78)
(0)
Note: The figures in parentheses will be the amounts financed by the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development.
* Includes requests for quotes on supplies and consultant selection methods.
* * Exchange rate = FF 5. 671US$1
A.   Hiring of Consultants
50.   Agreement was reached on government requirements regarding consultants'
qualifications and experience, and on employment modalities and conditions for these
consultants. They will be selected in accordance with the IBRD's principles and
procedures, and on the basis of the Guidelines for the Selection and Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers, published by the Bank in January 1997. As a rule,
consultants will be selected by competitive bidding from a restricted list of consulting
firms, which will be chosen on the basis of the quality of their offers and the cost of their
services. As for contracts with a value of less than the equivalent of US$200,000, the
restricted lists may consist entirely of local consulting firms, if there is a sufficient
number--at least three--available at competitive prices. However, if foreign firms have
made it known that they are interested, they will not be excluded. The Bank's standard
Letter of Invitation and the model Contracts drawn up by the Bank will be used for hiring
consultants. For audit services not exceeding the equivalent of US$50,000 each, and not
exceeding a total amount equivalent to US$200,000, the selection will be made on the
basis of the lowest cost.  For consultant services not exceeding the equivalent of
16



US$50,000 each, and a total amount equivalent to US$300,000, the selection will be
made on the basis of the qualifications of the consultants. Consultant services for
conferences and seminars or for small studies, which are no more than US$50,000 each,
or a total amount of US$300,000, and which may be provided by individual consultants,
will be contracted by comparing the qualifications of the candidates who expressed an
interest in the job or who have been identifiea. Simplified contracts will be used for
short-term jobs, that is, jobs not exceeding six months performed by individual
consultants. During negotiations, the new procedures were described to the Government,
and especially procedures applicable to publication of the invitation to bid and the public
opening of the bids.
B.   Purchasing
51.   Goods and equipment will be grouped together in lots in excess of US$100,000
per contract, and they will be purchased according to international competitive bidding
procedures, in conformity with the IBRD's procurement guidelines (January 1995,
updated in January and August 1996). The IBRD's model bidding documents will be
used for all international bidding. Goods with an estimated value equal to or less than the
equivalent of US$25,000 per contract, and up to a cumulative amount equivalent to
US$100,000 may be purchased following consultation with national suppliers.
C.   Bank Examination
52.   Contracts for supplies in excess of the equivalent of US$100,000 must be
submitted to the Bank for prior examination. The Bank's prior examination will cover
50% of the total amount of the transactions. A selective a posteriori examination will be
performed on every one out of three, for transactions that do not surpass the threshold
amounts. The Bank will examine the procedure for selecting consultants proposed by the
borrower. The borrower was reminded that for consultant contracts at a cost equivalent to
US$200,000 or more, financing offers will not be opened before receipt of the Bank's
"non-objection" notice regarding the evaluation of the technical offer.  The prior
examination by the Bank will not be required for contracts with consulting firms when
they are for less than the equivalent of US$100,000, or for contracts with individual
consultants, which are for less than US$50,000. However, the exception to prior
examination by the Bank will not be applied to the terms of reference of said contracts,
whatever their value may be. Nor will it be applicable in the case of critical work, as
defined by the Bank, or to codicils of contracts, when they cause the value of the contract
to increase above the threshold, thus requiring the prior examination of the Bank. In the
course of negotiations, a general procurement notice was agreed, and it will be published
in the "Business Development" magazine.
17



III. DISBURSEMENT PROCEDURES
53.   Table 6 itemizes the amounts for each loan category.  The percentage of
expenditures to be financed, net of taxes or duties, is 100% for consultant services,
training, and equipment. The costs of operations and organization of local seminars will
be paid out of the counterpart funds.
Table 6. Allocation and Categories of Expenditures
(thousands of FF)*
Category               Loan Allocation        Percentage of Financing|
Consultanlts and Training           53.9                      100%
Equipment                            2.8                       80%
TOTAL                           56.7
* Exchange rate = FF 5. 67/US$1
* 100% of international expenditures; 95% of local expenditures
54.   The project completion date is fixed at June 30, 2001, and the loan closing date is
scheduled for December 31, 2001. The biannual disbursement estimates are shown in
Table 7 below.
Table 7. Schedule of IBRD Loan Disbursements
(millions of FF)*
Fiscal year        97        98             99             00          01
Six-month          S2    SI      S2  SI          S2  SI         S2     SI
periods
Disbursements     6.8   9.1    12.5  11.3       6.2  5.1       3.4     2.3
Cumulative        6.8   15.9   28.4  39.7      45.9  51.0    54.5    56.7
disbursements
Cumulative %      12%   28%   48%   70%        81%   90%   96%       100.0%
Exchange rate = FF 5. 67/US$J
55.   To facilitate disbursements and make sure funds are available, the Government
will set up and keep a special foreign currency account with a commercial bank, in
accordance with procedures and conditions acceptable to the IBRD. This special account
will be managed by the Secretary of the Privatization Committee (Project Coordinator).
The amount authorized for this special account is FF 3 million.  Requests for
replenishment will be submitted to the IBRD every month, or at the intervals requested
by the IBRD. The Government must also open a project account separate from the
18



special account, to hold the contribution to be used to finance the project's operating
costs.
56.   Disbursements will be made using the IBRD's standard documents, except for
contracts of consultant firms in amounts less than the equivalent of US$100,000, and for
contracts with individual consultants in amounts less than the equivalent of US$50,000,
for which expense statements will be used. The vouchers for these statements will be
kept at the project office and will be checked by supervision missions and during periodic
financial audits. The minimum amount for a direct payment request on the loan account
will be the equivalent of US$100,000.
IV. ACCOUNTS MANAGEMENT AND AUDIT
57.   Responsibility for accounts management for the project will be assigned to a local
accountant acceptable to the IBRD. This full-time accountant will keep the books and
accounts and, in accordance with international accounting standards and practices, will
duly reflect the project activities, resources, expenditures, and net worth position. A
procedures manual, and a computerized accounting and assets management system will
be prepared, maintained, and used.
58.   The project executing agency (Privatization Committee) will furnish interim and
annual financial reports reflecting the project's position and progress. These reports
should include the annual and total cost of the project, as well as the sources of financing.
59.   Signature of a three-year audit contract with a qualified audit firm acceptable to
the IBRD will be a condition for making the credit effective. During the appraisal
mission, agreement was reached on the following points:
(a)   To have the project's accounting documents and accounts audited by an
independent auditor accepted by the IBRD, pursuant to international audit
principles;
(b)   To provide the IBRD with an audit report for the fiscal year in question,
certified by the auditor, no later than six months after the end of each
fiscal year;
(c)   To provide the IBRD with any other information regarding project
accounting documents, accounts, and audit it may request from time to
time; and
(d)   Without detriment to paragraphs (a) to (c) above, have the accounting
records of the special account, the project account, and the expenditure
statements audited in accordance with the procedures defined in the
19



preceding paragraphs (a) to (c): (i) every four months during the first
twelve months counting from the effective date and (ii) every six months
during the second twelve-month period, counting from the effective date,
and send these audits to the IBRD no later than two months following the
end of the audited period.
60.   For all expenditures for which withdrawals from the loan account were based on
expenditure statements, the borrower will do as follows:
(a)   Keep accounting documents and the related accounts;
(b)   For at least one year after the IBRD receives the audit report for the fiscal
period in which the last withdrawal from the loan account or the last
payment from the special account was made, keep all accounting
documents, including contracts, purchase orders, invoices, receipts, or
others relating to such expenditures;
(c)   Allow any IBRD representative to examine these documents; and
(d)  Have the account records and expenditure statements audited in accordance
with the procedures defined in the preceding paragraphs and ensure that the
report of these audits contains the auditor's specific opinion as to the
reliability of the expenditure statements submitted during the period under
review, as well as the internal control procedures used in preparing them to
support the withdrawals made.
20



SECTION D. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
I.    PROJECT MANAGEMENT
61.   The Minister of Finance, Economy, Budget, and Shareholdings is the official
responsible for implementing the project.  Management of the loan and technical
guidance of privatization operations are the purview of the Privatization Committee
headed by a secretary, whose responsibility extends to all the components and all stages
of the project. To fulfill its mission effectively, the Privatization Committee will hire a
team of qualified nationals consisting of professionals in charge of operations--financial
analysts, economists, sectoral engineers or technicians and attorneys--and an accounts
manager, an administrative assistant, and a support person. The Privatization Committee
will also rely on the enterprises and sectoral ministries, and on one consulting firm for
advice on privatization and on another specializing in communications. The two resident
experts provided by these firms will work in close cooperation. Their primary function
will be to train and develop the capacity of the staff of the Privatization Committee. The
institutional plan for implementing this project, discussed and agreed with the
Government, is presented in Annex IX.
II.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
62.   A project implementation plan was drawn up with the assistance of a project
computer specialist (Annex VII). This plan will be used by the Project Coordinator and
by the heads of the various components as a tool for monitoring the project, and by the
Government and donors for monitoring the reforms. The plan observes all the IBRD
procedures, and time and resource constraints, and it makes it possible to draw up
periodic progress reports. It also reflects the action already taken by the Government.
The project will be implemented over a 48-month period, starting on the date it takes
effect, scheduled for June 30, 1997. The project will be completed by June 30, 2001.
III. REPORTING AND MONITORING
63.   Every six months, starting on the date the loan takes effect, the Project
Coordinator will send the IBRD a detailed project implementation report. This report
will show the status of each privatization and liquidation process, and the status of each
of the other project components. It will highlight current or potential difficulties and
constraints that could hamper the progress of activities under the project and achievement
of the project objectives. It will indicate the corrective actions or measures envisaged by
the Government.  To indicate that a process has been effectively completed, the
consultant's report, the results of the account audit, and the auditor's certificate must be
provided. Finally, the report will include a financial statement of project expenditures by
component, a list and the subject of the contracts concluded during the period, and an
21



indication as to the extent to which the financial and legal obligations of the loan
agreement have been met.
64.   At the end of each quarter of the calendar year, beginning on the date the loan
takes effect, the Project Coordinator will submit to the IBRD a summary progress report,
with the computer support. This report will give information on implementation and the
progress made in realizing the structural reforms during the past quarter. The borrower
will submit a project completion report to the IBRD no later than six months following
the closing date of the loan.
IV. SUPERVISION
65.   In view of the diversity of the sectors and fields covered by the project, the IBRD
will make contributions to the following specialized areas:  regulatory system,
privatization, telecommunications, finance, agro-economics, power, communications,
procurement, and legal affairs. Project supervision will take the following form:
For the IBRD
(a)   Evaluation at headquarters based on procurement documents, terms of
reference, study report, financial audits and analysis, prequalification
documents, privatization documents, and laws; and
(b)   On-site missions to evaluate progress and results of technical assistance,
studies, the privatization process, and implementing of other project
components, and especially the status of structural reforms (Annex X).
For the Government
(a)   Sectoral units consisting of representatives designated by technical
ministries, members of the Privatization Committee, and a task manager
for each area will ensure regular monitoring of each component and will
provide periodic progress reports; and
(b)   The project coordinator and the component leaders will use the Project
management software to ensure planned management of project activities
and results.
66.   Annex XII presents the performance indicators that will be used for monitoring
the progress of each component.
22



V.   PROJECT REVIEW
67.   The first project review will be carried out by the Government and the IBRD
during the second quarter of 1998. The purpose of this review will be to determine the
following: (a) achievement of the objectives and the results of the project, in comparison
with the initial objectives and the agreed performance indicators; (b) the implementation
of privatization plans; (c) the implementation of reforms to liberalize the economy; and
(d) consultants' performance. The review will give the IBRD an opportunity to assess the
Government's commitment to pursuing the project objectives and the economic structural
reforms.
23






Annexe I
Page 1 de 1
REPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
PROJET DE PRIVATIZATION ET DE RENFORCEMENT DU CADRE REGLEMENTAIRE DES ENTREPRISES
Annexe 1: List. des Enterprises Publiques
NAME                                ACTMTY                      Total Equity  % Public  Enmployment   s5l.,        Total Assets
Ba.         1%)    4 Ot people fI. .        CFAI  (In bill. CfAf
(In
AGRICULTURE
i AGRIPOG    Sociblt Agricole do Port-Gentl        Agro-nrdustry                       120         55          220         1727            '.0
2 AGROGAB   Ste do Dev. CAgrn. t crEhv. au Gabon   Agro-industry                      2788         g          1128        11408          29.5
3 EAULECO   Ste. des Eaux Minvers de Lekoni        Minmral Water                       557         54           42          851t           0e
4 HEVEGAB   Ste. do Dev do rH.veaculture au Gabon  Rubber Industry                     5.5         95          783         55t8           73.4
SSIAEB        Ste. Ind. rAgn. t cdEhv. d Boumango  Agro-Industry & Livstock            2.1         33          257         3734           8.9
aSMAG         Ste. Meu,vere atAgneole du Gabon     MiNing                              910         39          406        13835            8.5
7 SOCAGAB   Ste. Cafe et Cacao Gaboneis            Agriculture Cofftt o  Cocoa        1250         N            37          399           54
8SOGADEL   St Gabo. de Dev. dcElvagy               Liestock                          2287          94          614         4280          39.7
9SOSUHO    Ste. Sucritre du HautlOgooue            Sugar Plant                         500         41          648         8103           7.7
SUB-TOTAL AGRICULTURE                                                               t420         78         4135        49512           173
WOOD
i0 CFG         Cie. Foresbtre du Gabon              Timber Industry                   8785          52          744         8719           8.5
i SNBG         Ste Nabonal. des Bois du Gabon       Timber Industy                       4          51          262       147832         139.6
SUB-TOTAL WOOD                                                                      S789         52         1006       15551            148
TRANSPORTATION
12 AOL         Airoport de Lbrnile                  Airpon Servirces                   340          28          102         2783          30.1
3 AIRtGABON  Compagnis NabonateAirGabon             ArCarrier                          5500         80         1309        Silos          51.5
14 CNI         Ce. Nat. Pourta Nav. Intieure        Donsoti cRiverTransporn            500         ID0           55          S37            1.3
is OCTRA       Office du Chemin de For Trnsgab.     Radwas                          348855         100         1903        17096         572.t
to OPRAG       Otfice des Ports & Rados du Gabon    Port Foldioes                    40831         100          430         6932          50.7
iT SNAT        Sbt NaL dAcconage aIde Transit       Transit                            800          51          434         6014           5.4
is SONATRAM  S1t. Not. de Tronsports Manarres       Shipping                           1500         51           94         1737           0.8
SUB-TOTAL TRANSPORTATION                                                          37126          to         4327        86184           712
OIL REFINERIES & MINES
io PIZOLUB    Socidle PAzo de Formnutat do Lubn6ants  Hydrocarbon Manufactunng         500         49            33         5241           3.3
20 SGEPP       SociI6 GCb. cEntrpor1. dos Produis Pe Hydoarbon Disbnbuwon               900         25           74         2009           3.8
21 SOGARA    Sociti, Gab, do Raffinag.              Ol Rollinng                        1200         25          418        49435          23.8
22 SOGAFUTS  Sociti*Gab do Frts                     MetalWorks                         400          59           21         1975           2.7
SUB-TOTAL OIL REFINERIES & MINES                                                    3000         34          544        5188t0           34
ELECTRICITY & WATER
23 SEEG        Socite dEnergi et cdEau du Gabon     Water A EIodtnarty                 1950        84          1679        52238           274
SUB-TOTAL ELECTRICITY & WATER                                                       1950 S4                 1478        52238           274
TELECOMMUNICATIONS & POST
24 OPT         Offic des PosIes el Telecommunicabons Post & Tconmunicabons             601         100         2185        44900         104.2
25 TIG         Sociii,tTit6com. Intemat. Gabonaises   Teloconmunca bons               3000          61          273         U401          282
SUB-TOTAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS t POST                                                 3601         U          2458        53301           132
COMMERCIAL SECTOR
23 CECAGADIS Ste dcrExplodaon comm. Atn. Slt Gab.   Retal                              437          29          566        41745           14.9
27 PROMOGAB Agenca Nat. de o  Pnomobon PME          SME Promotion                       n/.        n/s          0/a          nrt           IVt
SUB-TOTAL COMMERCIAL SECTOR                                                          437         29         S          41745            15
CONSTRUCTION SECTOR
28 CIMENTS    Ste. des Cimfnts du Gabon             Cement Industry                   12505         91          301         8135          27.2
29 LBTPG       Laborlomrr du Bdarment dt des TP     Public Works                       320         100           32          394           0.3
SUB-TOTAL CONSTRUCTION SECTOR                                                      12825         *1          333         8529            28
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
30 BGO         Bamque Gabonsise d oveloppent   Banking                               10500          89          228         5144           2.8
3t BNCR        Banque Netionao do Credit Rurole     Bantuog                            1017         N           nrv          rig           d/a
32 CREFOGA   Credit Foncer du Gabon                 Financial Institution             2000          U8          nht          we            niV
33 SONADIG    SocitM Nat. drinvOstsemenl dio Gabon  Financial lnsbtubon                 100        100          nha           nb           nb/
SUB-TOTAL FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS                                                   13817         71          225         8144             3
SOCIAL SERVICES
34 CNGS        Caesse National de Garanbe Socials   Social Guarante Fund              1250         100          nle          nsv           nba
35 CNSS        Cause Nationale do Scurli Socise     Socal Secunty                    37254         100         2620        37710           n/a
SUB-TOTAL SOCIAL SERVICES                                                          38504        100         2420        37710             0
OTHER
34 AFRICAI    Afncs n                               Broadassing                         100         35          98          8265          12.6
37 GABONINFO Ste Gabon Inlormal.que                 Computer                           364          30           40         1828           0.9
38 SNI         Ste Nationals Invmotxltre            Rel Estate                         750          77           75         2941          27.8
39 SONAPRES  Ste. Nat. de Presse et dEd,t[on        Prinbng                             100         73           26          9U4            09
SUB-TOTALOTHER                                                                       S50        9S           101         3925            25
GRANk .TOTA  ..C.....                                                           4. 7..S                                              . ..
24



REPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
PROJET DE PRIVATISATION ET DE RENFORCEMENT DU CADRE REGLEMENTAIRE DES ENTREPRISES
Annexe II: Actions et R6sultats Attendus de la Composante Communication
1997                     1 1998          1         1999
ID   Description des Taches                                              DEBUT       FIN             2    03   Q4  Q1    Q2    Q3    Q4    Q            Q2    Q3
I   PROJET PRIVATISATION ET RENFORCEMENT DU CADRE REGLEMENTAIRE DES ENTREPRISES   6/17/96  12131/99
2       COMMUNICATION                                                     1/31/97   5/13199
3           Pr6paration du Plan de Communication                          1/31/97   5113/99
4               S6lection du Cabinet Conseil en Communication             1/31/97    9/5197
5                   Preparation de dossier d'appel d'offres               1/31/97   2/27/97
6                   Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                 3/24/97   3/28/97
7                   Avis de la Banque mondiale                            3/31/97    4/4/97
8                   Lancement d'appel d'offres                            4/14/97   4/14/97        Apr14
9                   Delais de preparation des offres                      4/14/97   6/13/97
10                   Reception et evaluation des offres                   6/16/97   6/27/97      N
11                   Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                6/30/97    7/4/97
t'-.)    12                  Avis de la Banque mondiale                             7/7/97   7/11/97
13                   Negociation du contrat                               7/14/97   7/25/97       .
14                   Envoi pour avis de ia Banque mondiale                7/28/97    8/1/97
15                   Avis de la Banque mondiale                            8/4/97    8/8/97
16                   Signature du contrat                                 8/11197   8/22/97        .        p
17                   Mobilisation du consultant                           8/25/97    9/5/97
18               Prise de fonction du conseiller en communication          9/5/97    9/5/97                    Sep 5
19               Cr6ation rapide d'une cellule communication              4/25197   6/12/97
20                   Nommer responsable de la communication                4/25/97   4/25/97       . Apr 25
21                   Nommer cadres                                        4/25/97    5/8/97
22                   Installer et equiper la cellule                       5/9/97   6/12/97
23               Cellule communication est operationelle                  6/12/97   6/12/97        .    Jun 1       .o 
24               Elaborer et organiser la campagne de communication         9/8/97  12/26/97       .Q



REPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
PROJET DE PRIVATISATION ET DE RENFORCEMENT DU CADRE REGLEMENTAIRE DES ENTREPRISES
Annexe II: Actions et R6sultats Attendus de la Composante Communication
1997                     1998                     1999
ID   Description des Taches                                             DEBUT       FIN     Q1    Q2   Q3    Q4   Ql   Q2   Q3   Q4   Q1    02    03
25                   Plan de travail et calendrier de mise en oeuvre       9/8/97   10/3/97
26                   Plan d'actions detaillees d'une campagne nationale d'infor    10/6/97  10/31/97
27                   Production des supports                              11/3/97  11/28/97
28                   Programme de formation cadres cellule               12/1/97  12/26/97
29               Lancement de la campagne                               12/26/97  12/26/97       .Dec 26
30               Mise en oeuvre                                         12/29/97  12/25/98       .
31               Plan de sensibilisation d' urgence                      2/27/97   2/25/98                        _
32                   S6minaires  1' intention des journalistes et des Agents    4/2/97   6/11197
33                       Selection de consultants                         4/2/97   4/30/97
34                       Tenue des seminaires joumalistes                5/15/97   5/21/97       :May 15
35                       Tenue des seminaires agents                     5/22/97   6/11/97
C'    36                    Execution du plan de communication                  2/27/97   2/25/98                       _
37               Mise on place Commission Communication                   9/8/97  11/14/97
38                  Idenfier, nommer et organiser les membres             9/8/97  11/14/97
39               Programme de recherche                                  2/27/97   5/13/99
40                   Realisation Sondage Point Zero                       8/8/97   10/2/97
41                   Etudes Quantitatives: Deux fois par an               8/8/97   9/11/97
42                   Etudes Qualitatives                                  8/8/97   9/11/97
o -4
H1



REPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
PROJET DE PRIVATISATION ET DE RENFORCEMENT DU CADRE REGLEMENTAIRE DES ENTREPRISES
Annexe IIl: Actions et R6sultats Attendus de la Composante R6glementation
1997               1998                1999                2000
ID   Description des Taches                                            DEBUT      FIN    01  02  Q3  04  Q1  02  Q3  0 04  Q1  Q2 | Q3  Q4  Q1 I Q2  03
43                  RENFORCEMENT DES CAPACITES REGLEMENTAIRE    2127197   4128/00    _
44                      Etablir une Agence Autonome de R6gulation Multi   2/27/97   5/13/99  yfl
45                          Pr6parer legislation 6tablissant I'agence   2/27/97  11/27/97
46                              S6lection du Cabinet Conseil Regulation    2/27/97   9118/97
47                                  Preparation dossier d'appel d'offres  2/27/97   3/26/97
48                                  Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale   3/27/97    4/2/97
49                                  Avis de la Banque mondiale           4/3/97    4/9/97
50                                  Lancement d'appel d'offres          4/25/97   4/25/97       Apr25
51                                  Delais de preparation des offres    4/25/97   6/26/97
52                                  Reception et evaluation des offres  6/27/97   7/10/97
53                                  Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale   7/11/97   7/17/97
-.j    54                                  Avis de la Banque mondiale           7/18/97   7/24/97
55                                  Negociation du contrat              7/25/97    8/7/97
56                                  Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale    8/8/97   8/14/97 . 
57                                  Avis de la Banque mondiale          8/15/97   8/21/97
58                                  Signature du contrat                8/22/97    9/4/97
59                                  Mobilisation du consultant           9/5/97   9/18/97
60                                  Prise de fonction du regulateur     9/18/97   9/18/97     *      aSep18
61                              Preparation des textes legislatifs et statutaire   9/19/97  11/27/97
62                          Discussion et approbation des textes       11/28/97    2/5/98
63                          Dep6t des textes de creation a l'Assemblee Natio    2/5/98    2/5/98  .o  28
64                          Developper les capacites de I'agence         216/98   5/13/99                                     .                                     .D. X
65                              Mise en place personnel et des equipements   2/6/98    3/5/98                                                                      o H
66                              Mise en place procedure de gestions admini    3/6/98   4/16/98  .                                                                     H



REPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
PROJET DE PRIVATISATION ET DE RENFORCEMENT DU CADRE REGLEMENTAIRE DES ENTREPRISES
Annexe III: Actions et Resultats Attendus de la Composante R6glementation
1997             1998              1999              2000
ID  Description des Taches                                     DEBUT    FIN   Q1  Q2  Q3  Q4  Ql  02   Q3  04  Q1  Q2  Q3  Q4  Q1  Q2  03
67                           Formation du personnel             4/17/98  5/13/99    .
68                           Agence operationnel                 5/1/98   5/1/98                        May 1
69                   Appui technique en r6gulation phase interimaire    9/19/97  10/1/98
70                       Prise de service du regulateur         9/19/97  10/1/98          *  Sep 19
71                   S6rie etudes sectorielles necessaires pour la regul  4/17/98  4/28/00
72                       Energie, Eau                           4/20/98  4/28/00
73                       Telecommunication, Poste               4/20/98  4/28/00
74                       Transport                              4/17/98  4/29/99
75                       Autres secteurs                        4/20/98  4/28/00                     _
76                Etudes d'Impact                               11/9/98  2/18/991
tF)
oo
;                                               :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
1-4| 
ohh



REPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
PROJET DE PRIVATISATION ET DE RENFORCEMENT DU CADRE REGLEMENTAIRE DES ENTREPRISES
Annexe IV: Actions et R6sultats Attendus de la Composante Privatisation des Grandes Entreprises- OPT
1997                 1998                  1999                  2
ID   Description des Taches                                               DEBUT      FIN     Qi1 Q2   03 | C4   Q1   02   03   04 | 01   02   03   04   Q1   Q2
327      RESTRUCTURATION/PRIVATISATION DES GRANDES ENTREPRISE    6/17/96    7/5/99                   _
328          SECTEUR DES TELECOMMUNICATIONS                                2/19/97   5/14/99
329              Restructuration de l'OPT                                  2/19/97   5/14/99
330                  Nomination du Directeur Gen6ral avec Lettre de missio   2/19197    6/3/97
331                      Lettre de mission                                 2/19/97    4/8/97      .              :
332                      Notification par d6cret                            4/9/97    6/3/97
Notification par                          ____      *  ~~~~~~~~Apr9
333                  Pr6paration plan et calendrier de s6paration           3/3/97   1/30/98                     _ p
334                      S1elction Consultant Restructuration               3/3/97  10/10/97
335                           Preparation dossier d'appel d'offres          3/3/97   3/14/97
336                           Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale        3/17/97   3/21/97
337                          Avis de la Banque mondiale                     4/2/97    4/8/97
'0     338                           Lancement d'appel d'offres                    5/5/97    5/5/97          May 5
339                           Deiais de preparation des offres              5/5/97    7/4/97
340                           Reception et evaluation des offres            7/7/97   7/25/97
341                           Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale        7128197    8/1/97
342                          Avis de la Banque mondiale                     8/4/97   8/15/97
343                           Negociation du contrat                       8/18/97   9/12/97
344                           Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale        9/15/97   9/19/97
345                          Avis de ia Banque mondiale                    9/22/97   9/26697    /.
346                           Signature du contrat                         9/29/97  10/10/97                    op 29
347                       Mobilisation du consultant                      10/13/97   11/7/97      .P
348                       Plan et calendrier de travail                   11/10/97   12/5/97                                                                                 X
349                       Discussions et adoption                          12/8/97   1/30/98
350                  S6paration t6l6com, poste, services fin. et reglem.  10/13/97    7/3/98             L



REPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
PROJET DE PRIVATISATION ET DE RENFORCEMENT DU CADRE REGLEMENTAIRE DES ENTREPRISES
Annexe IV: Actions et Resultats Attendus de la Composante Privatisation des Grandes Entreprises- OPT
1997                 1998                  1999                 2
ID   Description des Tiches                                             DEBUT       FIN    Q1   Q2  Q3   l4 01   Q2   Q3   Q4   Q1   Q2   Q3   Q4   Q1   Q2
351                      Audit et separation des comptes                 10/13/97  11/14/97
352                      Plan d'entreprises poste                        11/17/97    4/3/98
353                      Strategie de traitement des services financiers  11/17/97    4/3/98
354                      Fusion des Telecom. Nat. et Internat.; transfert de la r  11/17/97    4/3/98
355                      Bilans d'ouverture Poste, Telecom et CNE        11/17/97    4/3/98
356                      Plan repartition des effectifs et social        11/17/97    4/3/98
357                      Organigrammes et textes de creations            11/17/97    4/3/98
358                      Avis de la Banque mondiale                        4/6/98   4/24/98
359                      Discussion et approbation par le Gouvernment     4/27/98    7/3/98
360                  Creation de la So,iete des telecom.A privatiser       7/3/98    7/3/98                                  Jul 3
361                  Creation de la Societe des Poste et de l'Epargne      7/3/98    7/3/98                                  Jul 3
O      362                  Appui au d6veloppement de la Poste & Epargne        11/17/97   5114/99      .
363                      Elaboration de la reglementation postale        11/17/97   1/23/98
364                      Adoption du plan d'entreprise                     7/3/98    7/3/98                                  Jul 3
365                      Mobilisation des financements                     7/6/98  10/16/98
366                      Mise en oeuvre du plan                          10/19/98   5/14/99
367                  Liquidation de l'OPT Residuel                         7/6/98   1/29/99
368              Cadre Legal et R6glementaire Liberalisant le Secteur T61ic  3/3/97    8/6/98       _
369                  Nouveaux Codes Postes et T6l6communications           3/5/97   7/15/97
370                      Selection des consultants                         3/5/97    4/1/97
371                      Discussion TDR et avis de la Banque               4/4/97    l7197 
372                      Signature contrat et demarrage des travaux       4/21/97   4/21/97       Apr 21                                                               .) X
373                      Redaction des projets de codes                   4/22/97   5/19/97       (                                                                     h C
374                      Discussions                                      5/20/97   6/23/97



REPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
PROJET DE PRIVATISATION ET DE RENFORCEMENT DU CADRE REGLEMENTAIRE DES ENTREPRISES
Annexe IV: Actions et Resultats Attendus de (a Composante Privatisation des Grandes Entreprises- OPT
1997        f         1998         [        19992
ID   Description des Taches                                                DEBUT      FIN     Q1   Q2                            3    4   Q1   Q2   03   Q4|1   02
375                       Avis de la Banque mondiale                        6/23/97   6/23/97       . Jun  3
376                       Presentation au Gouvernement                      6/24/97   6/24/97        K       n4
Jun 2
377                       Depot a I'Assemblee Nationale                     7/15/97   7/15/97
378                   Reglementation en telecommunication                    3/3/97    8/6/98
379                       Selection de Cabinet Conseil                       3/3/97  10/23/97
380                           Finalisation dossier d'appel d'offres          3/3/97   3/28/97
381                           Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale         3/31/97    4/7/97
382                           Avis de la Banque mondiale                     4/7/97    4/7/97  
~4Apr 7
383                           Lancement d'appel d'offres                    4/25/97   4/25/97        Apr25
384                           Delais de preparation des offres              4/25/97   6/26/97
385                           Reception et evaluation des offres            6/27/97   7/17/97
386                           Envoi pour avis de ia Banque mondiale         7/18/97   7/24/97
387                           Avis de la Banque mondiale                    7/25/97    8/7/97
388                           Negociation du contrat                         8/8/97   8/28/97
389                           Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale         8/29/97    9/4/97       .
390                           Avis de la Banque mondiale                     9/5/97   9/11/97
391                           Signature du contrat                          9/12/97   9/25/97
p2
392                           Mobilisation du consultant                    9/26/97  10/23/97
393                       Regime Tarifaire                                 10/24/97    1/1/98
394                       Regime d'Interconnexion                          10/24/97    1/1/98
395                       Acces au service Universel/ Performance des reseaux   10/24/97    1/1/98                                                                             >
396                       R6daction des Licences et cahiers des charges    10/24/97    2/5/98
397                       Analyse du spectre des Frequences et Allocation     10/24/97    2/5/98    .             -                                                        |o 
AvisdelaBanquemn__ d_i_a_le                        2 8__  I  2/59/98
398                       Avis de la Banque mondiale                         2/6/98   2/19/98       .                                                                        k



REPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
PROJET DE PRIVATISATION ET DE RENFORCEMENT DU CADRE REGLEMENTAIRE DES ENTREPRISES
Annexe IV: Actions et Resultats Attendus de la Composante Privatisation des Grandes Entreprises- OPT
1997                 1998                  1999                 2
ID   Description des Taches                                             DEBUT       FIN    Q1 TQ2  03   l4    1   Q2   Q3  0 Q4  Q1   Q2   Q3   Q4  0Q1 | Q2
399                      Finalisation des textes                          2/20/98    719198
400                      Presentation et adoption du dossier par la OP    7/10/98    8/6/98                                  Jul 10
401              Attribution d'une licence de services mobiles             411/97   9/18/97
402                  Prdparabion dossier d' appel d' offres                4/1/97    7/8/97      .                                                         ;          |
403                      Selection du consultant                           4/1/97    5/5/97
404                      Signature du contrat                              5/6/97    5/6/97        May 6
405                      Mobilisation et redaction du dossier              5/7/97    7/1/97
406                      Avis de la Banque mondiale                        7/1/97    7/1/97
Jul1I
407                      Adoption par la CP                                7/2/97    7/8/97
408                  Condulte de 1' appel d offres                         411/97   9/18/97
S     409                      Selection du conseiller pour la mise sur march6   4/1/97    7/2/97
410                          Preparation dossier de selection              4/1/97   5/26/97
411                          Avis de la Banque mondiale                   5/27/97    6/2/97
412                          Signature du contrat                          7/2/97    7/2/97            Jul 2
413                      Mobilisation                                      7/9/97   7/22/97
414                      Lancement d'appel d' offres                      7/23/97   7/23/97
416                      Delais de preparation des offres                 7/24/97   9/17/97
416                      Selection & adjudication                         9/18/97   9/18/97                 Sep 18
417              Prlvatisatlon de l'operateur principal                  12/29/97   3/19/99
418                  Selection Banque dAffaire                           12/29/97    3/6/98
419                  Strategie de Privatisation et Criteres de Selection   3/9/98   4/10/98
420                  Elaboration du dossier d'appel d'offres              4/13/98   7/24/98
421                  Appel d'offres                                       7/24/98   7/24/98
422                  Delais de soumission                                 7/27/98   11/6/98



REPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
PROJET DE PRIVATISATION ET DE RENFORCEMENT DU CADRE REGLEMENTAIRE DES ENTREPRISES
Annexe IV: Actions et R6sultats Attendus de la Composante Privatisation des Grandes Entreprises- OPT
1997                  1998                   1999                  2
ID   Description des Taches                                                 DEBUT       FIN    01 |            2|Q3|4|Q1   Q2   Q3   Q4  01   Q2   Q3   Q4   Q1   Q2
423                   S6lection du Repreneur                                  11/6/98   11/6/98                                            v
424                   Negociations                                            11/9/98   2/19/99       .              .                     _ v
425                   Accord de vente                                         2/19/99   2/19/99      .-1Feb 19
426                   Rapport de clotOre                                      2/22/99   3/19/99
427               Adoption d'une Strat6gie National de L'lnformation          4118/97   5121/98           _
428                   Selection du consultant                                 4/18/97   6/26/97
429                   Realisation de l'etude                                 10/10/97    1/1/98
430                   Discussions et adoption des recommandations              1/2/98   5/21/98
w _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Q
x
Ln m
O H



REPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
PROJET DE PRIVATISATION ET DE RENFORCEMENT DU CADRE REGLEMENTAIRE DES ENTREPRISES
Annexe IV: Actions et Resultats Attendus de la Composante Privatisation des Grandes Entreprises- SEEG
1996                   1997                    1998                   1
ID   Description des Taches                                               DEBUT      FIN     Q2 I Q3   Q4   Q1   Q2   03   Q4   01   02   03   04   Q1   Q2
431          SECTEUR ELECTIQUE ET EAU                                      6/17/96  11/25/98
432              Mise en concession priv6e                                 6/17/96   5/30/97    _
433                  Selection du cabinet conseil                          6/17/96   7/12/96
434                   Pr6paration du Cadre reglem. et mise en concession   9/13/96   4/30/97
435                       Preparation et mise en place nouveau cadre rbglernen   9/13/96   1/13/97
436                      Analyse et restructuration financibre             9/13/96   4/30/97
437                       Prequalification des candidats                  11/11/96  11/11/96                 Nov11
438                       Finalisation dossier d'appel d'offre             1/27/97   1/27/97                     J  27
439                  Appel d'offres                                        3/17/97   3/17/97
440                   Reception, evaluation et selection                   3/17/97   4/18/97
441                  Avis de la Banque mondiale                            4/21/97    5/2/97
442                  Negociations                                           5/5/97   5/30/97
443                  Signature des conventions                             5/30/97   5/30/97
444              Vente des actions aux petits porteurs                      1/8/98   5/13/98                        . 
445                  Vente aux employ6s                                     1/8/98    4/8/98
446                       Preparation par la SEEG                           1/8/98    4/8/98
447                      Vente                                              1/8/98    1/8/98                                            Jan8
448                  Offre publique de vente                                1/8/98   5/13/98                                            _
449                       Sblection du chef de file                         1/8/98    3/4/98
450                       Organisation de l'offre                           3/5/98   5/13/98
452                       Mise en vente                                    5/13/98   5/13/98                                                    May13
452              Etudes seMorielles (ligne 68-composante reglementation)  115/13/97  1153/989                       .
CD



REPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
PROJET DE PRIVATISATION ET DE RENFORCEMENT DU CADRE REGLEMENTAIRE DES ENTREPRISES
Annexe IV: Actions et R6sultats Attendus de la Composante Privatisation des Grandes Entreprises- AGRO-INDUSTRIES
1996     |    1997     |    1998           1999          2000
ID   Description des Tiches                                             DEBUT       FIN   041Q10Q2 | Q31Q41Q11|Q2 IQ3 IQ4 !Q1Q210Q31 Q4 !Q1 |Q2 IQ31Q41Q11|Q2 IQ3 IQ4
453          SECTEUR AGRO-INDUSTRIEL                                     10/10/96    6/7/00       . _
454              SECTEUR DES OLEAGINEUX-AGROGABON                        10/10/96   12/4/98             _        *                     _
455                  Preparation et accompagnement de la privatisation   10/10/96   1/23/98
456                      Realisation du diagnostic et de la strategie de privatis  10/10/96  12/23/96
457                      Nomination du Directeur General                   3/3197    313/97
.3
458                      Arreter le programme d'investissements prioritaires  6/30/97   6/30/97                       Jun 30
459                      Inventaire physique des immobilisations          6/30/97    8/1/97
460                      Clarification des status juridique des immo.      8/4/97  10/10/97
461                      Leve cadastral des terrains d'agrogabons         6/30/97  10/10/97
462                      Valorisation des actifs                          6/30/97    8/1/97
LW)    463                      Assainissement des comptes et restructuration financi   6/30/97  11/14/97
464                      Mise en oeuvre du plan du personnel              6/30/97  11/14/97
465                      Identification et leve topographique des potentielles zo   6/30/97  10/10/97
466                      Etude potentiel de develop. des plantat. villag. et petit   6/30/97  10/10/97
467                      Etude faisabilite projet de devel. de l'indust. palmier a   10/13/97   1/23/98
468                  Elaboration de ia strategie finale de privatization  1/26/98   2/20/98
26
469                  Avis de la Banque mondiale                           2/23/98    3/6/98
470                  Presentation et discussions a la CP                   3/9/98   4/10198
471                  Adoption par la CP                                   4/10/98   4/10/98                                      Apr10
472                  Privatisation                                        4/13/98   12/4/98
473                      Redaction du dossier d'appel d'offres            4/13/98   6/19/98
474                      Lancement d'appel d'offres                       6/22/98   10/2/98                      .n22oD
475                      Evaluation et adjudication                       10/5/98  10/30/98                     .H
476                      Avis de la Banque mondiale                       11/2/98  11/13/98    .                . _                       _ 1                    _



REPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
PROJET DE PRIVATISATION ET DE RENFORCEMENT DU CADRE REGLEMENTAIRE DES ENTREPRISES
Annexe IV: Actions et Resultats Attendus de la Composante Privatisation des Grandes Entreprises- AGRO-INDUSTRIES
_    1996      |    1997     |    1998            1999           2000
ID   Description des Taches                                                 DEBUT       FIN    Q4lQ1|Q2lQ3|Q4lQ1|Q2lQ3lQ421|Q2|Q3|Q4|Q1|Q2Q3lQ4Q1Q2Q3Q4
477                        Negociations et signature du contrat de vente     11/16/98   12/4/98
478                       Transfert des titres                                12/4/98   12/4/98                                                  Dec 4
479                   Mesures d'accompagnement                               10113/97   9/25/98
480                       Appui au developpement des petites et moyennes pla  10/13/97   9/25/98
481               HEVEGAB                                                     7/30/98    6/7/00
482                   Preparation de la privatisation                         7/30/98    6/7/00
483                        Diagnostic technico-financier et strategie de privat   7/30/98   3/31/99                                     _
484                            Selection du consultant                        7/30/98    9/2/98
485                            Realisation de l'etude                          9/3/98  12/16/98
486                            Discussions et adoption                       12/17/98   3/31/99
487                        Restructuration/Privatization                       4/1/99    6/7/00
488                            Selection du cabinet conseil                    4/1/99   8/18/99
489                            Preparation du dossier d'appel d'offre         8/19/99  i12/1 /99 
490                            Avis de la Banque mondiale                     12/2/99  12/15/99
491                            Lancement de t'appel d'offre                  12116/99   3/29/00
492                           Adjudication et negociation                     3/30/00    6/7/00
493                            Signature du contrat de vente                   6/7/00    6/7/00                                                                         Jun7
H Q
o- <C



REPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
PROJET DE PRIVATISATION ET DE RENFORCEMENT DU CADRE REGLEMENTAIRE DES ENTREPRISES
Annexe IV: Actions et R6sultats Attendus de la Composante Privatisation des Grandes Entreprises- CIMENTS du GABON
1997          [         1998            1        1999
ID   Description des Taches                                            DEBUT      FIN     01    02   0 3      4   01   02   03                    Q2   Q3
494          CIMENT DU GABON                                             9/15/97    4/9/99
495              Preparation de la privatisation                         9115197   7124198
496                  Diagnostic technico-financier et strategie de privatiatio   9/15/97   4/10198
497                      Finalisation du dossier de consultation         9/15/97   9/26/97      .
498                      Avis de la Banque                               9/30/97   9/30/97                *Sep30
499          .           Selection du consultant                         9/15/97  11/21/97
500                      Realisation de 1'etude                         11/24/97   1/30/98
501                      Discussions et adoption                          2/2/98   4/10/98
502                  Mise en oeuvre des recommandations                  4/13/98   7/24/98
503              Privatisation                                           4/13/98    3/5/99
504                  S_lection du cabinet conseil                        4/13/98   6/19/98
505                  Preparation du dossier d'appel d'offre              6/22/98   8/28/98
506                  Avis de la Banque mondiale                          8/31/98   9/11/98
507                  Lancement d'appel d'offres                          9/14/98  12/25/98
508                  Adjudication et negociation                        12/28/98    3/5/99
509                  Signature du contrat de vente                        3/5/99    3/5/99
510              Rapport de cl6ture                                       3/8/99    4/9/99
rJq 
OQX
Mo rD
o H



REPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
PROJET DE PRIVATISATION ET DE RENFORCEMENT DU CADRE REGLEMENTAIRE DES ENTREPRISES
Annexe V: Actions et Resultats Attendus de la Composante Privatisation des Parts Minoritaires
1997               1998                1999                2000
ID   Description des Taches                                                 DEBUT       FIN    Q1|02|Q3|Q4|Q1|Q2|Q3|Q4|Q1|02|Q3|04|Q1|Q2|03
77       PARTICIPATION DES NATIONAUX DANS LA PRIVATISATION                   2/27197    114/00                I
78           Privatisation par Vente Directe des Actions dans 10 Entreprises    2127197    114100   y.
79               AGRIPOG                         --                          2/27/97   1017197
80                   Valorisation et strategie de cession des parts          2/27197   7/29/97
81                        Selection de cabinet conseil local                 2/27/97   7/29/97
82                            Preparation dossier d'appel d'offres           2/27/97   3/12/97      .
83                            Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale           4/8/97   4/14/97
84                            Avis de la Banque mondiale                     4/15/97   4/21/97
85                            Lancement d'appel d'offres                     4/21/97   4/21/97       Apr 21
86                            Delais de preparation des offres               4/22/97   5/12/97
ui     87                             Reception et evaluation des offres            5/13/97   5/19/97
88                            Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale          5/20/97   5/20/97
89                            Avis de la Banque mondiale                     5/20/97   5/20/97
90                            Negociation du contrat                         5/20/97   5/27/97
91                            Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale          5/27/97   5/27/97
92                            Avis de la Banque mondiale                     5/27/97    6/3/97
93                            Signature du contrat                            6/3/97    6/3/97
94                            Mobilisation du consultant                      6/3/97    6/3/97            ui 3
95                            Valorisation et schema de privatisation         6/3/97   7/29/97
96                    Adoption du schema de privatisation                    7/29/97   8/19/97
97                    Offre publique de vente                                8/19/97   8/19/97
_ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _   _ _ _ _   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ y ug1U 9                                                 rU w
98                    Conclusion de la transaction                           8/19/97   9/16/97                                         .D
99                    Rapport de fin de mission                              9/16/97   1017/97             *  Sep16
Sep 16~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



REPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
PROJET DE PRIVATISATION ET DE RENFORCEMENT DU CADRE REGLEMENTAIRE DES ENTREPRISES
Annexe V: Actions et R6sultats Aftendus de la Composante Privatisation des Parts Minoritaires
1997               1998               1999        [      2000
ID   Description des Tiches                                              DEBUT       FIN    Q1  02  0 Q3  Q4  01  Q2  Q3  04 ] 01  Q2 | 03.1 Q4 I Q1  Q2  0 Q3
100              GABON INFORMATIQUE                                        2127197  10115197
101                  Valorisation et strat6gie de cession des parts        2127197    816197
102                      S6lection de cabinet conseHl local                2/27/97    8/6/97
103                           Preparation dossier d'appel d'offres         2/27/97   3/12/97 
104                            _  pour avis de la Banque mondiale          3/13/97   3/19/97
105                          Avis de la Banque mondiale                    - 3/20/97   3/26/97
106                           Lancement di'appel d'offres                  3/26/97   3/26/97    jMar 26
107                           Delais de preparation des offres             3/27/97   4/23/97
108                           Reception et evaluation des offres           4124/97   4130/97
109                           Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale         5/1/97    5/7/97
110                          Avis de la Banque mondiale                     5/8/97   5/14/97
''111                         Negociation du contrat                       5/15/97   5/21/97
112                           Envoi pour avis de ia Banque mondiale        5/22/97   5/28/97
113                          Avis de la Banque mondiale                    5/29/97    6/4/97
114                           Signature du contrat                          6/5/97   6/11/97
115                           Mobilisation du consultant                   6/11/97   6/11/97          Ju  11
116                          Valorisation et schema de privatisation       6(12/97    8/6/97
117                  Adoption du schema de privatisation                    8/7/97   8/27/97
118                  Offre publique de vente                               8/27/97   8/27/97             -Aug27
119                  Conclusion de la transaction                          8/28/97   9/24/97
120                  Rapport de fin de mission                             9/25/97  10/15/97     -          Sep25
k.) (D
0 <
-hh
CT



REPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
PROJET DE PRIVATISATION ET DE RENFORCEMENT DU CADRE REGLEMENTAIRE DES ENTREPRISES
Annexe V: Actions et R6sultats Attendus de la Composante Privatisation des Parts Minoritaires
1997              1998               1999               2000
ID   Description des Taches                                             DEBUT       FIN    Q1  02  03  Q4  Q1 |Q2   3  Q4  01 Q2  Q3  Q4  Q1  Q2  03
121              CECAGADIS                                                1/30198   9/17/98
122                  Valorisation et strategie de cession des parts       1/30/98    7/9/98
123                      Selection de cabinet conseil local               1/30/98    7/9/98
138                  Adoption du schema de privatisation                  7/10/98   7/30/98
139                  Offre publique de vente                              7/30/98   7/30/98                             JuI 30
140                  Conclusion de la transaction                         7/31/98   8/27/98
141                  Rapport de fin de mission                            8/28/98   9/17/98                             *  Aug 28
142              EAULECO                                                  1/30/98  10/29/98                  _
143                  Valorisation et strat6gie de cession des parts       1/30/98    7/9/98
144                      S6eection de cabinet conseil local               1/30/98    7/9/98
159                  Adoption du schema de privatisation                  7/10/98   8/13/98
160                  Offre publique de vente                              8/13/98   8/13/98                            iAug 13
161                  Conclusion de la transaction                         8/14/98   10/8/98
162                  Rapport de fin de mission                            10/9/98  10/29/98                                   Oct 9
163              SGEPP (Entrepot Produit Petroliers)                      10/2/98   7/15/99
164                  Valorisation et strat6gie de cession des parts       10/2/98   3/25/99
165                      S6iection de cabinet conseii iocai               10/2/98   3/25/99
180                  Adoption du schema de privatisation                  3/26/99   4/29/99
181                  Offre publique de vente                              4/29/99   4/29/99                                            Apr29
182                  Conclusion de la transaction                         4/30/99   6/24/99
183        1          lRapport de fin de mission                          6/5/99   7/15/99                       |2
________                                                                               *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J u n 2 5~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>



REPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
PROJET DE PRIVATISATION ET DE RENFORCEMENT DU CADRE REGLEMENTAIRE DES ENTREPRISES
Annexe V: Actions et R6sultats Attendus de la Composante Privatisation des Parts Minoritaires
1997       [      1998               1999                2000
ID   Description des Taches                                             DEBUT       FIN    Q1  02  Q3  Q4  Q1  Q2  Q3  Q4  Q1  Q2  Q3  Q4 Q1  Q2  Q3
184              PIZOLUB                                                  6/30/98   4112/99                                  _
185                  Valorisation et strat6gie de cession des parts       6/30/98  12/21/98
186                      Selection de cabinet conseil local               6130198  12/21198
201                  Adoption du schema de privatisation                 12/22/98   1/25/99
202                  Offre publique de vente                              1/25199   1/25/99
203                  Conclusion de la transaction                         1/26/99   322/99      .
204                  Rapport de fin de mission                            3/23199   4/12199                                            Mar23
205              SOGAFUTS                                                12/16/98   8/16/99                                   _       _
206                  Valorisation et strat6gie de cession des parts      12/15198    6*7199
207                      Selection de cabinet conseil local              12/15/98    617/99
222                  Adoption du schema de privatisation                   6/8/99   6/28/99
223                  Offre publique de vente                              6/28/99   6/28/99     .Jun 28
224                  Conclusion de la transaction                         6/29/99   7/26/99
225                  Rapport de fin de mission                            7/27/99   8/16/99
*Jul 27.
226              SIAEB                                                     1/4/99   9/24/99
227                  Valorisation et strat6gie de cession des parts        1/4/99   6/25199
228                      Seiection de cabinet conseil local                1/4/99   6/25/99
243                  Adoption du schema de privatisation                  6/28/99   7/23/99     .
244                  Offre publique de vente                              7/23/99   7/23/99     .                                        eJul23
245                  Conclusion de la transaction                         7/26/99    9/3/99
246                  Rapport de fin de mission                             9/6/99   9/24/99     *
*Sep 6                      t
0 <



REPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
PROJET DE PRIVATISATION ET DE RENFORCEMENT DU CADRE REGLEMENTAIRE DES ENTREPRISES
Annexe V: Actions et Resultats Attendus de la Composante Privatisation des Parts Minoritaires
1997               1998        |       1999                2000
ID   Description des Tiches                                                 DEBUT       FIN    Q1  Q2  Q3  Q4  Q1  Q2  03  Q4  0 1  02  Q3  Q4  Q1  Q2  Q3
247               SMAG                                                         417/99  12/28/99      .
248                   Valorisation et strat6gie de cession des parts           417/99   9/28/99
249                       S6lectlon de cabinet conseil local                   417/99   9/28199
264                   Adoption du schema de privatisation                     9/29/99  10/26/99
265                   Offre publique de vente                                10/26/99  10/26/99
_____________________________________________________________  _______  .  Oct 26
266                   Conclusion de la transaction                           10/27/99   12/7/99
267                   Rapport de fin de mission                               12/8/99  12/28/99      .D
Doc 8
268               SOGADEL                                                      4/7/99    1/4100
269                   Valorisation et strat6gie de cession des parts           417/99   9/28199
270                       Selection de cabinet conseil local                   4/7/99   9/28/99
285                   Adoption du schema de privatisation                    9/29(99   1112199
286                   Offre publique de vente                                 11/2/99   11/2/99
Nov 2
287                   Conclusion de la transaction                            11/3/99  12/14/99
288                   Rapport de fin de mission                              12/15/99    1/4/00                                                             Dc
l                               f                   1!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e e15 
OQ 0
0< 
0_n r
i                                                                                                                         <'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



REPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
PROJET DE PRIVATISATION ET DE RENFORCEMENT DU CADRE REGLEMENTAIRE DES ENTREPRISES
Annexe V: Actions et R6sultats Attendus de la Composante Privatisation des Parts Minoritaires
1997        |        1998         |        1999        [        2
ID   Description des Tiches                                             DEBUT       FIN     13  Q4 |                    I Q2  3 |Q4 0  Q    Q2   Q3 Q4Q  |1 022 00
289          Privat-sation par Fonds Mutuel de Placement                  3/27197   5/29/98
290              Pr6parer l6gislation regissant les fonds mutuel de placeme    3/27/97    1/7/98
291                  Selection conseil et preparation                     3/27/97  10/29/97
305                  Preparation des textes                              10/30/97    1/7/98
306              Discussion et avis de la banque                           1/8/98    3/4/98
307              Approbation des textes par le Gouvernement                3/5/98    3/5/98
308              Depot des textes b IAssembl6e Nationale                   3/5/98    3/5/98                           Mar5
309              Valorisation et cession des parts minoritaires (les 10%)  4/28/97   12/5/97
310                  S6eection de cabinet conseil local                   4/28/97    8/8/97
324                  Evaluation, valorisation et determination methode de cessi   8/11/97   12/5/97
325              S6lectionner gestionnaires des fonds                     12/8/97   5/29/98
326              Etablissement du premier fond                            5/29/98   5/29/98                            *  My 298
rD
(DX
0o



REPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
PROJET DE PRIVATISATION ET DE RENFORCEMENT DU CADRE REGLEMENTAIRE DES ENTREPRISES
Annexe VI: Actions et R6sultats Attendus de la Composante Modernisation de l'Environnement Juridique des Affaires
1                           1997        |       1998                 1999                2000
ID   Description des Tiches                                               DEBUT      FIN    01  02  03  Q4  Ql  Q2  Q3  04  01   Q2  03  04  01   Q2  03
511      MODERNISER L'ENVIRONNEMENT JURIDIQUE DES AFFAIRES                  2/3/97    9/5/00
512          Preparation de i entr6e en vigueur des actes uniformes de I' OH    4/29/97  11/17/98
513              Inventaire et informatisation de 1' ensemble des textes appii  4/29/97  12/16/97
514                  Selection de consultants                              4/29/97    9/1/97
528           R_ alisatjon des travaux                                      9/2/97  12/15/97
529                  Remise de la base de donnee                          12/16/97  12/16/97                      Dec 16
530              Analyse des textes concernes                               9/1/97   1/30/98
531                  Selection de consultants                               9/1/97   1/30/98
545              Preparation des nouveaux textes necessaires                2/2/98   6/30/98
546              Discussions et avis de la Banque                           7/1/98   7/21/98
547              Adoption par le Gouvernement                              7/22/98   11/3/98
1     548               Dep6t des Projets de lois a l'Assemblee Nationale         11/4/98  11/17/98                                        Nov 4
549          Mise en place de mode de r6glement des litiges en matiere de d    6/20/97   12/3/98
550              Etude des choix des modes de regiement                    6/20/97   11/6/97
551              Discussion et avis de la Banque                           11/7/97   1/15/98
552              Discussion par le Gouvernement                            1/16/98    6/4/98
553              Adoption par le Gouvernement des textes de creation        6/5/98   6/11/98
554              Dep6t des Projets de lois a l'Assemblee Nationale         6/12/98   7/16/98
~~~~_                                                   _                   .                            U|
555              Mise en oeuvre & appui technique                          7/17/98   12/3/98
556          R6vision Code travail                                          2/3/97   4/30/98                _
557               Redaction Loi modifiant code 94                           2/3/97    4/1/97
558              Avis de la Banque                                          4/2/97   4/15/97
I                                                                ~~~~~~~~~0<
559              Revisions et discussions avec les partenaires sociaux     4/16/97   6/24/97                                                                              I-h H
560              Adoption par le Gouvernement                              6/25/97   6/25/97           Jun 25
=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Jn2



REPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
PROJET DE PRIVATISATION ET DE RENFORCEMENT DU CADRE REGLEMENTAIRE DES ENTREPRISES
Annexe VI: Actions et R6sultats Attendus de la Composante Modernisation de I'Environnement Juridique des Affaires
1998                1999         J       2000
ID   Description des Tiches                                                DEBUT      FIN    Q1   02  Q3  Q4  Q1   Q2  Q3  Q4 |Ql    2  03  04  01  02  03
561               Dep6t a I'Assemblee Nationale                             6/26/97   6126/97
562               Preparation et adoption des textes d' application         6/27/97   4/30/98
563           Restructuration de la CNSS                                    6/30/97   7117198      .
564               Diagnostic financier, operationnel et informatique        6/30/97   3/13198
565                   SeIection du consultant                               6/30/97  10/10/97
566                   Realisation de I'etude                               10/13/97  12/19/97
567                   Discussions du plan de restructuration               12/22/97   2/27/98
568                   Avis de la Banque mondiale                             3/2/98   3/13/98
569                   Adoption par le Gouvernement                          3/13/98   3/13/98                           Mar13
570               Etude statistique et actuarielle                          6/30197   1/23/98
@      571                   Selection du consultant                                6/30/97    9/5/97
572                   Realisation de l'etude                                 9/8/97  11/14/97
573                   Adoption des recommandations                         11/17/97   1/23/98
574               Mise en oeuvre du plan de restructuration                 1/26198   7/17/98
575                   Plan d' urgence                                       1/26/98   6/12/98
576                   Modification du code de S6curite sociale et des textes y aff   1/26/98   6/12/98
577                   Seminaires de Concertation Operateurs/Syndicats       6(15/98   7117/98
578                   Presentation au Parlement                             7/17/98   7/17/98      .                           Jul17
579           Diffusion du nouveau droit des affaires                       8/18/97    9/5/00
580               Vulgarisation (edition. seminaires) des actes uniformes de l' OH    8/18/97  10/30/98
581               Vulgarisation (edition,s6minaires) du nouveaux droit des affaire   11/18/98  11/30/99                                                                         >
582               Autres mesure de consolidation                            12/1/99    9/5/00      .
583      Gestion comptable et financiere du projet                           2/3/97  12/31/99     0.
584                                                                        11/18/96  11/18/96      .)



Annexe VII
Page 1 of 18
REPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
PROJET DE PRIVATISATION ET DE RENFORCEMENT DU CADRE REGLEMENTAIRE DES ENTREPRISES
Annexe VIl: MANUEL D'EXECUTION DU PROJET
ID   Description des Taches                                                                     DUREE   DEBUT        FIN
I   PROJET PRIVATISATION ET RENFORCEMENT DU CADRE REGLEMENTAIRE DES ENTREPRISES   220.4w    6/17196    9iS/00
2       COMMUNICATION                                                                            169.2w    1/31197   4/28/00
3           Preparation du Plan de Communication                                                 169.2w   1131/97   4/28/00
4               S6lection du Cabinet Conseil en Communication                                     31.2w    1131197    9/5/97
5                   Preparation de dossier d'appel d'offres                                         4w    1/31/97   2/27/97
6                   Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                                     1     1w   3/24/97   3/28/97
7                   Avis de la Banque mondiale                                                      1w   3/31/97    4/4/97
8                   Lancement d'appel d'offres                                                      Ow   4/14/97   4/14/97
9                   Delais de preparation des offres                                                9w   4/14/97   6/13/97
10                   Reception et evaluation des offres                                              2w   6/16197   6/27/97
11                   Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                                           1w  6/30/97    7/4/97
12                   Avis de ia Banque mondiale                                                      1w    7/7/97   7/11/97
13                   Negociation du contrat                                                          2w   7/14/97   7/25/97
14                   Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                                           1w   7/28/97    8/1/97
____ I__                                                                                              I   .__ _ _ __ _ _ _
15                   Avis de la Banque mondiale                                                      1w   814/97    8/8/97
16                   Signature du contrat                                                            2w   8/111971  8/22/97
17                   Mobilisation du consultant                                                      2w   8/25/97    9/5/97
18               Prise de fonction du conseiller en communication                                     d1 9/5/97    95/97
19               Creation rapide d'une cellule communication                                         7w   4/25/97   6/12/97
20                   Nommer responsable de la communication                                          Ow   4/25/97]  425/97
21                   Nommer cadres                                                                   2w   4125/97    5/8/97
22                   Installer et equiper la celiule                                                 5wj   5/9/97   6/12/97
23               Cellule communication est operationelle                                             Ow  6/12/97; 6/12/97
24               Elaborer et organiser la campagne de communication                                 16w    9/8/97  12/26/97
25                   Plan de travail et calendrier de mise en oeuvre                                 4w    9/8/971  10/3/97
26                   Plan d'actions detaillees d'une campagne nationale d'information                4wj  10/6/97  10/31/97
27                   Production des supports                                                         4wl  11/3/97  11/28/97
28                   Programme de formation cadres cellule                                           4wj  12/1/97  12/26/97
29               Lancement de la campagne                                                            0w  12/26/97  12/26/97
30               Mise en oeuvre                                                                !   52w   12/29/97  12/25/98
31               Plan de sensibilisation d' urgence                                                 52w ! 2/27197   2/25/98
32                   Seminaires a 1 intention des journalistes et des Agents de L'OPT, OCTRA et AG   10.2wf  412/97   6111/97
33                       Selection de consultants                                                  4.2w    4/2/97   4/30/97
34                       Tenue des seminaires journalistes                                           1w   5/15197j  5/21/97
46



Annexe VII
Page 2 of 18
REPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
PROJET DE PRIVATISATION ET DE RENFORCEMENT DU CADRE REGLEMENTAIRE DES ENTREPRISES
Annexe VII: MANUEL D'EXECUTION DU PROJET
ID   Description des Tiches                                                                       DUREE   DEBUT        FIN
35                       Tenue des seminaires agents                                                  3w    5/22/97   6111/97
36                   Execution du plan de communication                                              52w| 2127/97   2125/98
37               Mise en place Commission Communication                                               ow      918197  11/14197
38                   Idenfier, nommer et organiser les membres                                        low|   9/8/97  11/14/97
39               Programme de recherche                                                            16.w    227/97   4128/00
40                   Realisation Sondage Point Zero                                                   8w      8     i8/97   10/2/97
41                   Etudes Quantitatives: Deux fois par an                                            5w     8/8/97   9/11/97
42                   Etudes Qualitatives                                                               5w     8/8/97   9/111/97
43                   RENFORCEMENT DES CAPACITES REGLEMENTAIRES                                     165.4w    2/27/97   4/28/00
44                       Etablir une Agence Autonome de Regulation Multisectorielle                115.2w    2127/97   5/13/99
45                            Preparer l6gislation etablissant l'agence                             39.2w    2/27197  11127197
46                                Selection du Cabinet Conseil RAgulation                       1   2w    2127/97   9/18197
47                                    Preparation dossier d'appel d'offres                             4w    2/27(97   3/26/97
48                                    Envoi pour avis de Ia Banque mondiale                            1w   3/27/97    4/2/97
49                                    Avis de la Banque mondiale                                       1w    4/3/97    4/9/97
50                                    Lancement d'appel d'offres                                      Ow   4/25/97   4/25/97
51                                    D&lais de preparation des offres                                9w   4/25/97   6/26/97
52                                    Reception et evaluation des offres                              2w   6/27/97   7/10/97
53                                    Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                            1w  7/11/971  7/17/97
54                                   Avis de la Banque mondiale                                       1w   7/18197   7124/97
55                                    Negociation du contrat                                          2w    7/25/971   8/7/97
56                                    Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                            1      8/8/97   8/14/97
57                                   Avis de la Banque mondiale                                        1w | 8/15/97   8/21/97
58                                    Signature du contrat                                            2w   8/22/97    9/4/97
59                                    Mobilisation du consultant                                      2w      9       9/18/97
60                                    Prise de fonction du regulateur                                  Od  9118197      9/18/97
61                                Preparation des textes legislatifs et statutaires                   low    9119197  11/27197
62                           Discussion et approbation des textes                                     1ow   11/28/97    215/98
63                           Depot des textes de creation a lAssemblee Nationale                 j    0w!   2/5/981   2/5/98
64                           Developper les capacites de I'agence                             -      66w      216/981  5/13/99
65                               Mise en place personnel et des equipements                           4w;   2/6198   3/5/98
66                                Mise en place procedure de gestions administrative et budgetaire     6w     3/6/98   4/16/98
67                                Formation du personnel                                              56w [ 4/17198   51/131/99
68                                Agence operationnel                                                  Ow     5/1198    5/1/98
47



Annexe VII
Page 3 of 18
REPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
PROJET DE PRIVATISATION ET DE RENFORCEMENT DU CADRE REGLEMENTAIRE DES ENTREPRISES
Annexe VII: MANUEL D'EXECUTION DU PROJET
ID   Description des Taches                                                                    DUREE   DEBUT       FIN
69                       Appui technique en r6gulation phase Int6rimalre                          54w   9119/97 | 10/1/98
70                           Prise de service du regulateur                                       54w   9/19/97   10/1/98
71                       Serie etudes sectorielles necessaires pour la regulation               106.2w   4117/98   4128/00
72                           Energie, Eau                                                        106w   4/20/98   4/28/00
73                          Telecommunication, Poste                                             106w   4/20/98   4/28/00
74                           Transport                                                             54w   4/17198   4/29/99
75                          Autres secteurs                                                      106w   4/20/98   4/28/00
76                   Etudes d'Impact                                                             14.8w    11/9/98   2/18/99
77       PARTICIPATION DES NATIONAUX DANS LA PRIVATISATION                                      148.8w   2/27/97    1/4100
78           Privatisation par Vente Directe des Actions dans 10 Entreprises                    148.8w   2/27/97    1/4100
79              AGRIPOG                                                                         31.69w    2/27/97   10/7/97
80                   Valorisation et strategie de cession des parts                             21.69w   2/27/97   7/29/97
81                       Selection de cabinet consell local                                     21.69w   2/27/97   7/29/97
82                          Preparation dossier d'appel d'offres                                   2w   2/27/97   3/12/97
83                          Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                                  1w    4/8/97   4/14/97
84                          Avis de la Banque mondiale                                              1w   4/15/97   4121/97
85                           Lancement d'appel d'offres                                            Ow   4/21/97   4/21/97
86                          Dilais de preparation des offres                                       3w   4/22/97   5/12/97
87                           Reception et ivaluation des offres                                     1w   5/13/97   5/11997
88                          Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                                0.02w   5/20/97   5/20/97
89                          Avis de la Banque mondiale                                           0.02w   5/20/97   5/20/97
90                           Negociation du contrat                                                 1w   5/20/97   5/27/97
91                           Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                               0.02w   5/27/97   5/27/97
92                          Avis de la Banque mondiale                                              1w   5/27/97    6/3/97
93                          Signature du contrat                                                 0.03w    6/3/97    6/3/97
94                           Mobilisation du consultant                                            ow    6/3/97    6/3/97
95                          Valorisation et schima de privatisation                                8w    6/3/97   7/29/97
96                  Adoption du schema de privatisation                                            3w j  7/29/97   8/19/97
97                   Offre publique de vente                                                       Owj  8/19/97   8/19/97
98                   Conclusion de la transaction                                                  4w   8/19/97   9/16/97
99                   Rapport de fin de mission                                                     3w   9/16/97   10/7/97
100              GABON INFORMATIQUE                                                                33w   2/27/97  10115197
101                  Valorisation et strategie de cession des parts                                23w   2/27/97    8/6/97
102                      Silection de cabinet conseil local                                        23w   2/27/97    8/6197
48



Annexe VII
Page 4 of 18
REPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
PROJET DE PRIVATISATION ET DE RENFORCEMENT DU CADRE REGLEMENTAIRE DES ENTREPRISES
Annexe VII: MANUEL D'EXECUTION DU PROJET
ID   Description des Taches                                                                     DUREE   DEBUT        FIN
103                          Pr6paration dossier d'appel d'offres                                    2w   2/27/97   3/12/97
104                          Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                                   1w   3/13/97   3/19/97
105                          Avis de la Banque mondiale                                              1w   3/20/971  3/26/97
106                          Lancement dl'appel d'offres                                             Ow   3/26/971  3/26/97
107                          Delais de preparation des offres                                        4w    3127197   4/23/97
108                          Reception et evaluation des offres                                      1w   4/24/97   4/30/97
109                          Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                                   1w    5/1/97    5/7/97
110                          Avis de ia Banque mondiale                                              1w    5/8/97   5/14/97
111                          Negociation du contrat                                                   1w   5/15/97   5/21/97
112                          Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                                    1w   5/22/97   5/28/97
113                          Avis de la Banque mondiale                                               1w   5/29/97    6/4/97
114                           Signature du contrat                                                    1w    6(5/97   6/11/97
115                          Mobilisation du consultant                                              Ow   6/11/97   6/11/97
1116                         Valorisation et schema de privatisation                                 8w   6/12/97    8(6/97
117                  Adoption du schema de privatisation                                             3w    8/7/97   8/27/97
118                  Offre publique de vente                                                         Ow   8/27/97   8/27/97
119                  Conclusion de la transaction                                                    4w   8/28/97   9/24/97
120                  Rapport de fin de mission                                                       3w   9/25/97  10/15/97
121              CECAGADIS                                                                          33w   1/30/98   9/17198
122                  Valorisation et strat6gee de cession des parts                                 23w    1/30/98    7/9/98
123                      S6lection de cabinet conseil local                                         23w    1130198    719/98
124                          Preparation dossier d'appel d'offres                                    2w   1/30/981  2/12/98
125                          Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                                    1w   2/13/98   2/19/98
126                          Avis de la Banque mondiale                                               1w   2/20/98   2/26/98
127                          Lancement d'appel d'offres                                         [    Ow   2/26/98   2i26/98
128                         D0lais de peparation des offres                                          4w   2/27/98   3/26/98
129                          Reception et evaluation des offres                                      1w   3/27/98    4/2/98
130                          Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                                   1w    4/3/98    4/9198
131                          Avis de la Banque mondiale                                              1w   4/10/98   4/16/98
132                          Negociation du contrat                                                  1w  4/17/98   4/23/98
133                          Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                                   1w   4/24/98   4/30/98
134                          Avis de la Banque mondiale                                              lw    5/1/98    5/7/98
135                          Signature du contrat                                                    1w    5/8/98   5/14/98
136                          Mobilisation du consuttant                                              Ow   5/14/98   5/14/98
49



Annexe VII
Page 5 of 18
REPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
PROJET DE PRIVATISATION ET DE RENFORCEMENT DU CADRE REGLEMENTA IRE DES ENTREPRISES
Annexe VII: MANUEL D'EXECUTION DU PROJET
ID   Description des Tiches                                                                       DUREE   DEBUT        FIN
137                           Valorisation et schema de privatisation                                  Bw   5/15/98    7/9/98
138                   Adoption du schema de privatisation                                              3w    7/10/98   7/30/98
139                   Offre publique de vente                                                          Ow    7/30/98   7/30/98
140                   Conclusion de la transaction                                                     4w    7/31/98   8/27/98
141                   Rapport de fin de mission                                                        3w    8/28/98   9/17/98
142               EAULECO                                                                             39w    1/30/98  10/29/98
143                   Valorisation et strat6gie de cession des parts                                  23w    1/30/98    7/9/98
144                       S6lection de cabinet conseil local                                          23w    1/30/98    7/9/98
145                           Preparation dossier d'appel d'offres                                     2w    1/30/98   2/12/98
146                           Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                                    1w   2/13/98   2/19/98
147                           Avis de la Banque mondiale                                               1w   2/20198   2t26/98
148                           Lancement d'appel d'offres                                               Ow   2/26/98   2/26/98
149                           Delais de preparation des offres                                         4w   2127/98   3/26/98
150                           Reception et evaluation des offres                                       1w   3127/98    4/2/98
151                           Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                                    1w    4/3/98    4/9198
152                           Avis de la Banque mondiale                                               1w   4/10/98   4/16/98
153                           N6gociation du contrat                                                   1w   4/17198   4/23/98
154                           Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                                    1w   4/24/98   4/30/98
155                           Avis de la Banque mondiale                                               1w'   5/1198    5/7/98
156                           Signature du contrat                                                     1w    518/98   5/14198
157                           Mobilisation du consultant                                               Owl  5/14/98   5/14/98
158                           Valorisation et schema de privatisation                                  8w    5/15/98    7/9/98
159                   Adoption du schema de privatisation                                              5w   7/10/98   8/13/98
160                   Offre publique de vente                                                          Ow   8/13/98   8/13/98
161                   Conclusion de la transaction                                                     8w   8/14/98   10/8/98
162                   Rapport de fin de mission                                                        3w    10/9/98  10/29/98
163              SGEPP 'Entrepot Produit Petroliers)                                                  41w    10/2/98| 7/15/99
164                   Valorisation et strat6gie de cession des parts                                  25w    10/2/981  3/25/99
165                       Selection de cabinet conseil local                                          25w    10/2/98   3/25/99
166                           Preparation dossier d'appel d'offres                                     4w    10/2/98  10/29/98
167                           Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                                    1w  10/30/98   11/5/98
168                           Avis de la Banque mondiale                                               1w   11/6/98  11/12/98
169                           Lancement dl'appel d'offres                                              Ow   11/12/98  11/12/98
170                           Delais de preparation des offres                                         4w   11/13/98  12/10/98
50



Annexe VII
Page 6 of 18
REPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
PROJET DE PRIVATISATION ET DE RENFORCEMENT DU CADRE REGLEMENTAIRE DES ENTREPRISES
Annexe VIl: MANUEL D'EXECUTION DU PROJET
ID   Description des Tiches                                                                    DUREE  DEBUT f  FIN
171                          R6ception et evaluation des offres                                     1w  12/11/98  12/17/98
172                          Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                                  lw  12118/98  12124/98
173                          Avis de la Banque mondiale                                             1w I 12/25/98  12/31/98
174                          Negociation du contrat                                                 1wl   1/1/99    1/7/99
175                          Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                                  1w    118/99   1/14/99
176                          Avis de la Banque mondiale                                             lwj  1/15/99   1/21/99
177                          Signature du contrat                                                   1w  1/22/99   1/28/99
178                          Mobilisation du consultant                                             Owl  1/28/99   1/28/99
179                          Valorisation et schma de privatisation                                8w   1/29/99   3/25/99
180                  Adoption du schema de privatisation                                            5w   3/26/99   4/29/99
181                  OHfre publique de vente                                                        Ow   4/29/99   4/29/99
182                  Conclusion de la transaction                                                   8w   4/30/99 f 6/24/99
183                  Rapport de fin de mission                                                      3w   6/25/99   7/15/99
184              PIZOLUB                                                                           41w   6130198, 4112199
185                  Valorisation et strat6gie de cession des parts                                25w   6/30/98  12121/98
186                      S6lection de cabinet conseil local                                        25w   6/30/98  12121/98
187                          Preparation dossier d'appel d'offres                                   4w   6/30/98   7/27/98
188                          Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                                  1 w   7/28/98    8/3/98
189                          Avis de la Banque mondiale                                             1wT   8/4/98   8/10/98
190                          Lancement d'appel d'offres                                             Owl  8/10/98|  8/10/98
191                          Delais de preparation des offres                                       4w   8/11/981   9/7/98
192                          Reception et 6valuation des offres                               j     lw    9/8/981  9/14/98
193                          Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                                  1w   9/15/98   9/21/98
194                          Avis de la Banque mondiale                                             1w   9/22/98   9/28198
195                          Negociation du contrat                                                 lw   9/29/98   10/5/98
196                          Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                                  1w   10/6/98  10/12/98
197                          Avis de la Banque mondiale                                             1w  10/13/98  10/19/98
198                          Signature du contrat                                                   1w  10/20/98  10/26/98
199                          Mobilisation du consultant                                             Ow  10/26/98  10/26/98
200                          Valorisation et strategie privatisation                                8w  10/27/98  12/21/98
201                  Adoption du schema de privatisation                                            5w L12/22/98 1 1/25/99
202                  Off re publique de vente                                                       Ow   1/25199   1125199
203                  Conclusion de la transaction                                                   8w   1/26/99   3/22/99
204                  Rapport de fin de mission                                                      3w   3/23/99   4/12/99
51



Annexe VII
Page 7 of 18
REPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
PROJET DE PRIVATISATION ET DE RENFORCEMENT DU CADRE REGLEMENTAIRE DES ENTREPRISES
Annexe VIl: MANUEL D'EXECUTION DU PROJET
ID   Description des Taches                                                                       DUREE   DEBUT        FIN
205               SOGAFUTS                                                                            35w   12115/98   8/16/99
206                   Valorisation et strategie de cession des parts                                  25w   12115/98   6/7/99
207                       S6lection de cabinet conseil local                                          25w   12115198    617/99
208                           Preparation dossier d'appel d'offres                                     4w   12/15/98   1/11/99
209                           Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                                    1w   1/12/99   1/18/99
210                           Avis de la Banque mondiale                                               tw   1/19/99   1/25/99
211                           Lancement d'appel d'offres                                               Ow   1/25/99   1/25/99
212                           Delais de preparation des offres                                         4w    1/26/99   2/22/99
213                           Reception et evaluation des offres                                       1w   2/23/99    3/1/99
214                           Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                                    1w    3/2/99    3/8/99
215                           Avis de la Banque mondiale                                               1w    3/9/99   3/15/99
216                           Negociation du contrat                                                   1w   3/16/99   3/22/99
217                           Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                                    1w   3/23/99   3/29/99
218                           Avis de la Banque mondiale                                               1w   3/30/99    4/5/99
219                           Signature du contrat                                                     1w    4/6199L  4/12/99
220                           Mobilisation du consultant                                               Ow   4/12/99   4/12/99
221                           Valorisation et strategie de privatisation                               8w   4/13/99    6/7/99
222                   Adoption du schema de privatisation                                              3w    6/8/99   6/28/99
223                   Offre publique de vente                                                          Ow   6/28/99   6/28/99
224                   Conclusion de la transaction                                                     4w    6/29/99   7/26/99
225                   Rapport de fin de mission                                                        3w    7/27/99   8/16/99
226               SIAEB                                                                               38w     114/99   9/24/99
227                   Valorisation et strategie de cession des parts                                  25w     114/99   6/25/99
228                       S6lection de cabinet conseil local                                          25w     114/99   6/25199
229                           Preparation dossier d'appel d'offres                                     4w     1/4/99   1/29/99
230                           Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                                    1w    2/1/99    2/5/99
231                           Avis de la Banque Mondiale                                               1w    218/99   2/12199
232                           Lancement d'appel d'offres                                               Ow   2/12/99   2/12/99
233                           Delais de preparation des offres                                         4w    2/15/991  3/12/99
234                           Reception et evaluation des offres                                       1w   3/15/99   3/19/99
235                           Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                                    1w   3/22/99   3/26/99
236                           Avis de la Banque mondiale                                               1w   3/29/99    4/2/99
237                           Negociation du contrat                                                   1w    4/5/99    4/9/99
238                           Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                                    l 1w   4/12/99   4/16/99
52



Annexe VII
Page 8 of 18
REPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
PROJET DE PRIVATISATION ET DE RENFORCEMENT DU CADRE REGLEMENTAIRE DES ENTREPRISES
Annexe VIl: MANUEL D'EXECUTION DU PROJET
ID   Description des Tiches                                                                  DUREE  DEBUT         FIN
239                         Avis de la Banque mondiale                                            1w   4/19/99   4/23199
240                          Signature du contrat                                                 1w   4/26/99   4/30/99
241                         Mobilisation du consultant                                            Ow   4/30/99   4/30/99
242                         Valorisation et strat6gie de cession des parts                        8w    5/3/99   6/25/99
243                 Adoption du sch6ma de privatisation                                           4w   6/28/99   7/23/99
244                  Offre publique de vente                                                      Ow   7/23/99   7/23/99
245                  Conclusion de la transaction                                                 6w   7/26/99    9/3/99
246                  Rapport de fin de mission                                                    3w    9/6/99   9/24/99
247              SMAG                                                                            38w    4/7/99  12/28/99
248                  Valorisation et strat6gie de cession des parts                              25w    47/99   9128/99
249                      Selection de cabinet consell local                                      25w    417/99   9/28/99
250                          Pr6paration dossier d'appel d'offres                                 4w    4/7/99    5/4/99
251                          Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                                1w    5/5/99   5/11/99
252                         Avis de la Banque mondiale                                            1w   5/12/99   5/18/99
253 |                        Lancement d'appel d'offres                                           Ow   5/18/99   5/18/99
254                          Delais de pr6paration des offres                                     4w   5/19/99   6/15/99
255                          R6ception et #valuation des offres                                   1w   6/16/99   6/22/99
256                          Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiake                                1w   6/23/99   6/29/99
257                         Avis de la Banque mondiale                                            1w   6/30/99    7/6/99
258                          N6gociation du contrat                                               1w    7/7/99   7/13/99
259                          Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                                1w   7/14/99   7/20/99
260                         Avis de la Banque mondiale                                            1w   7/21/99   7/27/99
261                          Signature du contrat                                                 1w   7/28/99    8/3/99
262                          Mobilisation du consultant                                           Ow    8/3/99    8/3/99
263                         Valorisation et strat6gie de cession des parts                        8w    8/4/99   9/28/99
264                 Adoption du sch6ma de privatisation                                           4w   9/29/99  10/26/99
265                  Offre publique de vente                                                      Ow  10/26/99  10/26/99
266                  Conclusion de la transaction                                                 6w  10/27/99   12/7/99
267                  Rapport de fin de mission                                                    3w   12/8/99  12/28/99
268              SOGADEL                                                                         39w    4/7/99    1/4/00
269                  Valorisation et strat6gle de cession des parts                              25wv   4/7/99   9128/99
270                      S6lection de cabinet conseDl local                                      25w'   4/7199   9/28/99
271                          Preparation dossier d'appel d'offres                                 4w    4/7/99    5/4/99
272                          Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                                1w    5/5/99   5/11/99
53



Annexe VII
Page 9 of 18
REPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
PROJET DE PRIVATISATION ET DE RENFORCEMENT DU CADRE REGLEMENTAIRE DES ENTREPRISES
Annexe VIl: MANUEL D'EXECUTION DU PROJET
ID   Description des Tiches                                                                    ] DUREE   DEBUT       FIN
273                          Avis de la Banque Mondiale                                              1w   5/12/99   5/18/99
274                           Lancement d'appel d'offres                                              Ow   5/18/99   5/18/99
275                           Delais de pr6paration des offres                                 1     4w    5/19/99   6/15/99
276                          Reception et evaluation des offres                                       1w   6/16/99   6/22/99
277                          Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiabo                                   1w   6/23/99   6/29/99
278                          Avis de la Banque mondiale                                               1w   6/30/99    7/6/99
279                           Negociation du contrat                                                  1w    7/7/99   7/13/99
280                           Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                                   1w   7/14/99   7/20/99
281                          Avis de ia Banque mondiale                                               1w   7/21/99   7/27/99
282                           Signature du contrat                                                    1w   7/28/99    8/3/99
283                          Mobilisation du consultant                                               Ow    8/3/99    8/3/99
284                          Valorisation et strategie de cession des parts                          8w     8/4/99   9/28/99
285                  Adoption du sch6ma de privatisation                                              5w   9/29/99   11 /2/99
286                  Offre publique de vente                                                          Owi  11/2/99   11/2/99
287                  Conclusion de la transaction                                                    6w    11/3/991 12/14/99
288                  Rapport de fin de mission                                                       3w  12/15/99    1/4/00
289          Privatisatlon par Fonds Mutuel de Placement                                           61.4w    3/27/97   5/29/98
290              Pr6parer l6gislation r6gissant les fonds mutuel do placement et l'appel pub.A '6parg  41w   3/27/97    117/98
291                  S6lection consell et pr6paration                                               31w   3/27/97  10/29/97
292                      Preparation dossier d'appel d'offres                                        5w   3/27/97   4/30/97
293                      Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                                        1w    5/1197    5/7/97
294                      Avis de la Banque mondiale                                                  2w     5/8/97   5/21/97
295                      Lancement d'appel d'offres                                                  Dw   5/21/97   5/21/97
296                      Delais de preparation des offres                                            4w   5/22/97   6/18/97
297                      Reception et evaluation des offres                                          4w   6/19/97   7/16/97
298                      Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                                        1 w   7/17/97   7/23/97
299                      Avis de la Banque mondiale                                                  2w   7/24/97    8/6/97
300                      N6gociation du contrat                                                      4w    8/7/97    9/3/97
301                      Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondials                                       1w    9/4/97   9/10/97
302                      Avis de la Banque mondiale                                                  1w   9/11/97   9/17/97
303                      Signature du contrat                                                        3w   9/18/97   10/8/97
304                      Mobilisation du consultant                                                   3w   10/9/97  10/29/97
305                  Preparation des textes                                                         lOw   10130/97    1/7/98
306              Discussion et avis de la banque                                                      8w              3/4/98
54



Annexe VII
Page 10 of 18
REPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
PROJET DE PRIVATISATION ET DE RENFORCEMENT DU CADRE REGLEMENTAIRE DES ENTREPRISES
Annexe Vil: MANUEL D'EXECUTION DU PROJET
ID   Description des Taches                                                                     DUREE  DEBUT         FIN
307              Approbation des textes par le Gouvernement                                         0.2w    3/5/98    3/5/98
308       De p6t des textes a l'Assemblee Nationale                                                  Ow    3/5/98    3/5/98
309              Valorisation et cession des parts minoritaires (les 1 0%)                          32w    4/28197   12/5197
310                  Selection de cabinet consell local                                         |   15w   4/28/97    8/8/97
311                      Preparation dossier d'appel d'offres                                        2w   4/28197    5/9/97
312                      Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                                        1w   5/12/97   5/16/97
313                      Avis de la Banque Mondiale                                                  1w   5/19/97   5/23197
314                      Lancement d'appel d'offres                                                   Ow   5/23/97   5/23/97
315                      Delais de preparation des offres                                            4w   5/26/97   6120/97
316                      R_ception et evaluation des offres                                        1w   6/23/97   6/27/97
317                      Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                                       1w   6/30/97    7/4/97
318                      Avis de la Banque mondiale                                                  iwi   7/7/97   7/11/97
319                      Negociation du contrat                                                       1wt  7/14/97   7/18/97
320                      Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                                       1w   7/21/97   7/25/97
321                      Avis de la Banque mondiale                                                  1w| 7/28/97    81/97
322                      Signature du contrat                                                        lw;   8/4/97    8/8/97
323                      Mobilisation du consultant                                                  Ow    8/8/97    8/8/97
324                  Evaluation, valorisation et determination methode de cession                   17w   8/11/97   12/5197
325              Selectionner gestionnaires des fonds                                               25w    12/8/97   5/29/98
326              Etablissement du premier fond                                                       Ow   5/29/98   5/29/98
327      RESTRUCTURATION/PRIVATISATION DES GRANDES ENTREP RISES                                   207.6w    6117/96    6/7/00
328          SECTEUR DES TELECOMMUNICATIONS                                                    1 116.6w    2/19/97   5/14/99
329              Restructuration de l'OPT                                                         116.6w F 2/19/97   6/14/99
330                  Nomination du Directeur Gen6ral avec Lettre de mission                         15w 1  2/19/97    6/3/97
331                      Lettre de mission                                                           7w   2/19/971   4/8/97
332                      Notification par d6cret                                                     8w|  4/9/97    6/3/97
333                  Preparation plan et calendrier de separation                                   48w     3/3/97   1/30/98
334                      Selection Consultant Restructuration                                       32w     3/3/97  10/10/97
335                          Preparation dossier d'appel d'offres                                    2w    3/3/97   3114/97
336                          Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                                   lw   3/17/97   3/21/97
337                          Avis de la Banque mondiale                                              1wI   4/2/97    4/8/97
338                          Lancement dappel dofres                                                 0w    5597    5597
339                          Delais de preparation des offres                                        9w    5/5/97 |  7/4/97
340                          Reception et evaluation des offres                                      3w      7/7197j  7/25/97
55



Annexe VII
Page 11 of 18
REPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
PROJET DE PRIVATISATION ET DE RENFORCEMENT DU CADRE REGLEMENTAIRE DES ENTREPRISES
Annexe VII: MANUEL D'EXECUTION DU PROJET
ID   Description des Taches                                                                  DUREE  DEBUT         FIN
341                          Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                                1w   7128/97    8/1/97
342                          Avis de la Banque mondiale                                           2w    8/4/97   8/15/97
343                          Negociation du contrat                                               4w   8/18/97   9/12/97
344                          Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                                1w| 9/15/97   9/19/97
345                         Avis de la Banque mondiale                                            1w   9/22/97   9/26/97
346                          Signature du contrat                                                 2w   9/29/97  10/10/97
347                      Mobilisation du consultant                                               4w| 10113197   11)7/97
348                      Plan et calendrier de travail                                            4w; 11/10t97   12/5/97
349                      Discussions et adoption                                                  8wt  1218/97   1/30/98
350                  S6paration tel6com, poste, services fin. et r6glem.                         38w  10/13/97    7/3/98
351                      Audit et separation des comptes                                          5w  10/13/97  11/14/97
352                      Plan d'entreprises poste                                                20w  11/17/97    4/3/98
353                      Strategie de traitement des services financiers                         20w  11/17/97    4/3/98
354                      Fusion des Telecom. Nat. et Intemat.; transfert de la regl. au regulateur  20w  11/17/97    4/3/98
355                      Bilans d'ouverture Poste, Telecom et CNE                                20w  11/17/97    4/3/98
356                      Plan repartition des 6ffectifs et social                                20w  11/17/97    4/3/98
357                      Organigrammes et textes de creations                                    20w  11/17/97    4/3/98
358                     Avis de la Banque mondiale                                                3w    4/6/98   4/24/98
359                      Discussion t approbation par e Gouvernment                              10w   4/27/98    7/3/98
360                  Creation de la Societe des telecom.b privatiser                              Ow    7/3/98    7/3/98
361                  Creation de la Soci6t6 des Poste et de I'Epargne                             0w    7/3/98    7/3t98
362                  Appui au d6veloppement de la Poste & Epargne                                78w  11/17/97   5/14/99
363                      Elaboration de la reglementation postale                                10w  11/17/97   1/23/98
364                      Adoption du plan d'entreprise                                            Ow    7/3/98    7/3/98
365                      Mobilisation des financements                                           15w    7/6/98  10/16/98
366                      Mise en oeuvre du plan                                                  30w  10/19(98   5/14/99
367                  Liquidation de l'OPT Residuel                                               30w    7/6/98   1/29/99
368              Cadre Legal et R6glementaire Lib4ralisant le Secteur T616com.                  74.8w    3/3/97    8/6/98
369                  Nouveaux Codes Postes et Telecommunications                                18.8w    3/6/97   7/15/97
370                      Selection des consultants                                                4w    3/5/97    4/1/97
371                      Discussion TDR et avis de la Banque                                     0.4w    4/4/97    417/97
372                      Signature contrat et d6marrage des travaux                              0.2w   4/21/97   4/21/97
373                      Redaction des projets de codes                                           4w   4/22/97   5/19/97
374                      Discussions                                                               5w   5/20/97   8/23/97
56



Annexe VII
Page 12 of 18
REPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
PROJET DE PRIVATISATION ET DE RENFORCEMENT DU CADRE REGLEMENTAIRE DES ENTREPRISES
Annexe VII: MANUEL D'EXECUTION DU PROJET
ID   Description des Ta_ches                                                                   DUREE   DEBUT       FIN
375                      Avis de la Banque mondiale                                                 Ow   6/23197   6/23/97
376                      Presentation au Gouvernement                                               Ow   6/24/97   6/24/97
377                      Depot a I 'Assemblee NationaleOw   7/15/97   7/15/97
378                  R6glementation en telecommunication                                         74.8w    3/3197    816/98
379                      S6lection de Cabinet Conseil                                            33.8w    3/3/97  10123/97
380                          Finalisation dossier d'appel d'offres                                  4w    3/3/97   3/28/97
381                          Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                                1.2w   3/31/97    4/7/97
382                          Avis de la Banque mondiale                                             Ow    4/7/97    4/7/97
383                          Lancement d'appel d'offres                                             Ow   4/25/97   4/25/97
384                          Delais de preparation des offres                                       9w   4/25/97   6/26197
385                          Reception et evaluation des offres                                     3w   6/27197   7/17/97
386                          Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                                  lw   7/18/97   7/24/97
387                          Avis de la Banque mondiale                                             2w   7/25/97'   8/7/97
388                          Negociation du contrat                                                 3w    8/8/97   8/28/97
389                          Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                                  1w   8/29/97    9/4/97
390                          Avis de la Banque mondiale                                             l 1w    9/5/97   9/11/97
391                          Signature du contrat                                                   2w   9/12/97   9/25/97
392                          Mobilisation du consultant                                             4w   9/26/97  10/23/97
393                      Regime Tarifaire                                                          lOw  10/24/97    1/1/98
394                      Regime d'Interconnexion                                                   l      Vw 10/24/97    1/1/98
395                      Acces au service Universel/ Performance des reseaux                       10w, 10/24/97    1/1/98
396                      Redaction des Licences et cahiers des charges                             15w  10/24/97    2/5/98
397                      Analyse du spectre des Frequences et Allocation                           15w  10/24/97    2/5/98
398                      Avis de la Banque mondiale                                                 2w    2/6/98   2/19/98
399                      Finalisation des textes                                                   20w   2/20/98|   7/9/98
400                      Presentation et adoption du dossier par la CP                              4w   7/10/98    8/6/98
401              Attribution d'une licence de services mobiles                                   24.6w     4/1/97   9/18/97
402                  Pr6paration dossier d' appel d' offres                                      14.2w    4/1/97    7/8/97
403                      Selection du consultant                                                    5w    4/1/97    5/5/97
404                      Signature du contrat                                                     0.2w    5/6/97    5/6/97
405                      Mobilisation et redaction du dossier                                       8w    5/7/97    7/1/97
406                      Avis de la Banque mondiale                                                 Ow_      7/1/97    7/1/97
407                      Adoption par la CP                                                         1w    7/2/97    7/8/97
408                  Conduite de I' appel d offres                                               24.6w    4/1/97   9/18/97
57



Annexe VII
Page 13 of 18
REPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
PROJET DE PRIVATISATION ET DE RENFORCEMENT DU CADRE REGLEMENTAIRE DES ENTREPRISES
Annexe VIl: MANUEL D'EXECUTION DU PROJET
ID   Description des Tiches                                                                  DUREE  DEBUT        FIN
409                      Selection du conseiiler pour la mise sur marche                        13.2w    41/197    712/97
410                          Preparation dossier de selection                                     8w    4/11/97   5/26/97
411                          Avis de la Banque mondiale                                           1w   5/27/97    6/2/97
412                          Signature du contrat                                                 Ow    7/2/97    7/2/97
413                      Mobilisation                                                             2w    7/9/97   7/22/97
414                      Lancement d'appel d' offres                                             0.2w   7/23/97   7/23/97
415                      Delais de preparation des offres                                         8w   7/24/97   9/17/97
416                      Selection & adjudication                                                0.2w   9/18/97   9/18/97
417              Privatisation de l'op6rateur principal                                          64w  12/29/97   3/19199
418                  Selection Banque d'Affaire                                                  10w  12/29/97    3/6/98
419                  Strategie de Privatisation et Criteres de Selection                          5w    3/9/98   4/10/98
420                  Elaboration du dossier d'appel d'offres                                     15w   4/13/98   7/24/98
421                  Appel d'offres                                                               Ow   7/24/98   7/24/98
422                  Delais de soumission                                                        15w   7/27/98   11/6/98
423                  Selection du Repreneur                                                       Dw   11/6/98   11/6/98
424                  Negociations                                                                15w   11/9/98   2/19/99
425                  Accord de vente                                                              Ow   2/19/99   2/19/99
426                  Rapport de clotOre                                                           4w   2/22/99   3/19/99
427              Adoption d'une Strategie National de L'Information                              57w   4/18/97   5/21/98
428                  Selection du consultant                                                     1Ow   4/18/97   6/26/97
429                  Realisation de 1etude                                                       12w  10/10/97    1/1/98
430                  Discussions et adoption des recommandations                                 20w    1/2/98   5/21/98
431          SECTEUR ELECTIQUE ET EAU                                                          127.6w   6/17/96  11/25/98
432              Mise en concession priv6e                                                       50w   6/17/96   5/30/97
433                  Selection du cabinet conseil                                                 4w   6/17/96   7/12/96
434                  Pr6paration du Cadre reglem. et mise en concession                         32.8w   9113/96   4/30/97
435                      Preparation et mise en place nouveau cadre reglementaire               17.4w   9/13/96   1/13/97
436                     Analyse et restructuration financiere                                   32.8w   9/13/96   4/30/97
437                      Prequalification des candidats                                           0w  11/11/96  11/11/96
438                      Finalisation dossier d'appel d'offre                                     0w   1/27/97   1/27/97
439                  Appel d'offres                                                               0w   3/17/97   3/17/97
440                  Reception, evaluation et selection                                           5w   3/17/97   4/18/97
441                  Avis de la Banque mondiale                                                   2w   4/21/97    5/2/97
442                  Negociations                                                                 4w    5/5/97   5/30/97
58



Annexe VII
Page 14 of 18
REPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
PROJET DE PRIVATISATION ET DE RENFORCEMENT DU CADRE REGLEMENTAIRE DES ENTREPRISES
Annexe VII: MANUEL D'EXECUTION DU PROJET
^iD   Description des Tiches                                                                   DUREE  DEBUT         FIN
443                  Signature des conventions                                                      Ow   5/30/97   5/30/97
444              Vente des actions aux petits porteurs                                             18w    118198   5113198
445                  Vents aux employes                                                            13w     1/8/98    4/8198
446                      Pr6paration par la SEEG                                                   13w    1/8/98    4/8/98
447                      Vente                                                                      Ow    118198    1/8/98
448                  Offre publique de vente                                                       18w     1/8/98 | 5113198
449                      Selection du chef de file                                                  8w    1/8/98    3/4/98
450                      Organisation de l'offre                                                   low    3/5/98   5113/98
451                      Mise en vente                                                              Dw   5/13/98   5/13/98
452              Etudes sectorielles (ligne 68-composante reglementation)                          54w  11/13/97  11/25/98
453          SECTEUR AGRO-INDUSTRIEL                                                              191w  10110196    6/7100
454              SECTEUR DES OLEAGINEUX-AGROGABON                                               112.4w  10110/96   12/4198
455                  Preparation et accompagnement de la privatisation                           67.4w  10/10/96   1/23/98
456                      Realisation du diagnostic et de la strategie de privatisation           10.6w  10/10/96  12/23/96
457                      Nomination du Directeur General                                            Ow    3/3/97    3/3/97
458                      Arrnter le programme d'investissements prioritaires                       0w   6/30/97   6130/97
459                      Inventaire physique des immobilisations                                    5w| 6/30/971   8/1/97
460                      Clarification des status juridique des immo.                              lOw    8/4/97  10/10/97
461                      Leve cadastral des terrains d'agrogabons                                  15w   6/30/971 10/10/97
462                      Valorisation des actifs                                                    5w   6/30/971  8/1/97
463                      Assainissement des comptes et restructuration financiere                  20w   6/30/97  11/14/97
464                      Mise en oeuvre du plan du personnel                                       20w   6/30/97  11/14/97
465                      Identification et leve topographique des potentielles zone                15w   6/30/97  10/10/97
466                      Etude potentiel de develop. des plantat. villag. et petits producteurs    15w   6/30/97  10/10/97
467                      Etude faisabilite projet de d6vel. de l'indust. palmier a huile           15w  10/13/97   1/23/98
468                  Elaboration de la strategie finals de privatization                            4w   1/26/98   2/20/98
_~~~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
469                  Avis de la Banque mondiale                                                     2w   2/23/98    3/6/98
470                  Presentation et discussions a la CP                                            5w    3/9/98   4/10/98
471                  Adoption par la CP                                                             Ow   4/10/98   4/10/98
472                  Privatisation                                                            1   34w   4/13/98   12/4198
473                      Redaction du dossier d'appel d'offres                                     lOw   4/13/98   6119/98
474                      Lancement d'appel d'offres                                                15w   6/22/98| 10/2/98
475                      Evaluation et adjudication                                                 4w   10/5/98  10/30/98
476                      Avis de la Banque mondiale                                                 2w   11/2/98  11/13/98
59



Annexe VII
Page 15 of 18
REPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
PROJET DE PRIVATISATION ET DE RENFORCEMENT DU CADRE REGLEMENTAIRE DES ENTREPRISES
Annexe Vil: MANUEL D'EXECUTION DU PROJET
ID   Description des Tiches                                                                          DUREE   DEBUT         FIN
477                        Negociations et signature du contrat de vente                                   3w   11/16/98   12/4/98
478                        Transfert des titres                                                            Ow    12/4/98   12/4/98
479                    Mesures d'accompagnement                                                          50w   10/13/97   9/25/98
480                        Appui au developpement des petites et moyennes plantations                    50w   10/13/97   9/25/98
481               HEVEGAB                                                                                97w    7/30/98    6/7/00
482                    Preparation de la privatisation                                                   97w    7/30/98    617/00
483                        Diagnostic technico-financier et strategie de privatiation                    35w    7/30/98   3/31/99
484                            Selection du consultant                                                     5w    7/30/98    9/2/98
485                            Realisation de l'etude                                                     15w     9/3/98  12/16/98
486                            Discussions et adoption                                                    15w   12/17/98   3/31/99
487                        Restructuration/Privatization                                                 62w      4/1/99    6/7/00
488                            Seledion du cabinet conseil                                               20w      4/1/99   8/18/99
489                            Pr_paration du dossier dappel doffre                                       15w    8/19/99   1211/99
490                            Avis de la Banque mondiale                                                  2w  112/2/99  12/15/99
491                            Lancement de l'appel d'offre                                               15w   12/16/99   3/29/00
492                            Adjudication et negociation                                                1 owl  3/30/00    6/7/00
493                            Signature du contrat de vente                                              0w      6/7/00    6/7/00
494           CIMENT DU GABON                                                                            82w    9/15/97    4/9/99
495               Preparation de la privatisation                                                        45w    9115/97   7124/98
496                   Diagnostic technico-financier et strategie de privatiation                         30w    9/15/97   4/10/98
497                        Finalisation du dossier de consultation                                         2w    9/15/97   9/26/97
498                        Avis de la Banque                                                             0.2w    9/30/97   9/30/97
499                        Selection du consultant                                                       10w    9/15/97  11/21/97
500                        Rbalisation de l'tude                                                        10wF 11/24/97   1/30/98
501                        Discussions et adoption                                                       10w      2/2/98   4/10/98
502                   Mise en oeuvre des recommandations                                                 15w    4/13/98   7/24/98
503               Privatisation                                                                          47w    4/13198    3/5/99
504                   Selection du cabinet conseil                                                       10w    4/13/98   6/19/98
505                   Preparation du dossier d'appel d'offre                                             10w    6/22/98   8/28/98
506                   Avis de la Banque mondiale                                                          2w    8/31/98   9/11/98
507                    Lancement d'appel d'offres                                                         15w    9/14/98  12/25/98
508                   Adjudication et negociation                                                         low   12/28/98    3/5/99
509                   Signature du contrat de vente                                                        0w     3/5/99    3/5/99
510               Rapport de cloture                                                                       Sw     3/8/99    4/9/99
60



Annexe VII
Page 16 of 18
REPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
PROJET DE PRIVATISATION ET DE RENFORCEMENT DU CADRE REGLEMENTAIRE DES ENTREPRISES
Annexe VIl: MANUEL D'EXECUTION DU PROJET
ID   Description des Taches                                                                    I DUREE   DEBUT       FIN
511      MODERNISER L'ENVIRONNEMENT JURIDIQUE DES AFFAIRES                                        187.4w    2/3/97    91/600
512          Pr6paration de 1' entr6e en vigueur des actes uniformes de 1 OHADA                    81.2w   4/29/97  11117/98
513              Inventaire et informatisation de 1' ensemble des textes applicables               33.2w   4/29/97  12/16/97
514                  S6lection de consultants                                                       18w    4/29/97    9/1/97
515                      Preparation dossier d'appel d'offres                                        2w   4/29/97   5/12/97
516                      Envoi pour avis de la Banque montiale                                       1w   5113/97   5/19/97
517                      Avis de la Banque mondiale                                                  1w   5/20/97   5/26/97
518                      Lancement d'appel d'offres                                                  Ow   5/26/97   5/26/97
519                      Delais de preparation des offres                                            4w   5/27/97   6/23/97
520                      Reception et evaluation des offres                                           1w   6/24/97   6/30/97
521                       Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                                      1w    7/1/97    7/7/97
522                      Avis de la Banque mondiale                                                  1w    7/8/97   7/14/97
523                      Negociation du contrat                                                       1w   7/15/97   7/21/97
524                      Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                                       1w   7/22/97   7/28/97
525                      Avis de la Banque mondiale                                             |    1w   7/29/97    8/4/97
526                      Signature du contrat                                                        1w    8/5/97   8/11/97
527                      Mobilisation du consultant                                                  3w   8/12/97    9/1/97
528                  Realisation des travaux                                                        15w    9/2/97  12/15/97
529                  Remise de la base de donnee                                                    0.2w  12/16/97  12/16/97
530              Analyse des textes concernes                                                       22w     9/1/97   1/30/98
531                  Selection de consultants                                                       22w     9/1/97   1130/98
532                      Preparation dossier d'appel d'offres                                        2w    9/1/97   9/12/97
533                      Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                                       1w   9/15/97   9/19/97
534                      Avis de la Banque mondiale                                                 1w   9/22/97   9(26/97
535                      Lancement d'appel d'offres                                                  Ow   9/26/97   9/26/97
536                      Deiais de preparation des off res                                           4w   9/29/97  10124197
537                      Reception et evaluation des offres                                          1w  10/27/97  10/31/97
538                      Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                                       1w   11/3/97   11/7/97
539                      Avis de la Banque mondiale                                                  lw  11/10/97  11/14/97
540                      Negociation du contrat                                                      1wj 11/17/97  11/21/97
541                       Envoi pour avis de la Banque mondiale                                      1w  11/24/97  11/28/97
542                      Avis de la Banque mondiale                                                  1w   12/1/97   12/5/97
543                      Signature du contrat                                                        1w   12/8/97  12/12/97
544                      Mobilisation du consultant                                                   3w   1/12/98   1/30/98
61



Annexe VII
Page 17 of 18
REPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
PROJET DE PRIVATISATION ET DE RENFORCEMENT DU CADRE REGLEMENTAIRE DES ENTREPRISES
Annexe VIl: MANUEL D'EXECUTION DU PROJET
ID   Description des Tiches                                                                    DUREE  DEBUT        FIN
545              Preparation des nouveaux textes n6cessaires                                     21.4w 2|2/98   6/30/98
546              Discussions et avis de ta Banque                                                   3w    7/1/98   7/21/98
547              Adoption par le Gouvemement                                                       15w   7/22/98   11/3/98
548              Dep6t des Projets de lois a I'Assembl6e Nationale                                  2w   11/4/98  11/17/98
549         MEse en place de mode de r6glement des litiges en matiere de droit des affaires        76w   6120/97   12/3/98
550              Etude des choix des modes de reglement                                            20w   6/20/97   11 /697
551              Discussion et avis de la Banque                                                   10w   11/7/97   1/15/98
552              Discussion par le Gouvemement                                                     20w   1/16/98    6/4/98
563              Adoption par le Gouvemement des textes de cr6ation                                 1w    6/5/98   6/11/98
554              D6p6t des Projets de lois a IAssembl6e Nationale                                   5w   6/12198   7/16/98
565              Miss en oeuvre & appui technique                                                  20w   7/17/98   12/3/98
556          R6vision Code travail                               =4.8w                                     2/3197   4/30/98
557              R6daction Loi modifiant code 94                                                  8.4w    2/3/97    4/1/97
558              Avis de ia Banque                                                                  2w    4/2/97   4/15/97
559              R6visions et discussions avec les partenaires sociaux                             1Ow   4/16/97   6/24/97
560              Adoption par le Gouvemement                                                      0.2w   6/25/97   6/25/97
561              D6pot a rAssembl6e Nationale                                                     0.2w   6/26197   6/26/97
562              Pr6paration et adoption des textes d' application                                 44w   6/27/97   4/30/98
563          Restructuratlon de la CNSS                                                            55w   6/30/97   7/17198
564              Diagnostic financier, operatUonnel *t informatique                                37w   6/30/97   3/13/98
565                  Selection du consultant                                                       15w   6/30/97  10/10/97
566                  R6alisation de l'6tude                                                        10w  10/13/97  12/19/97
567                  Discussions du plan de restructuration                                        10w  12/22/97   2/27/98
568                  Avis de la Banque mondiale                                                     2w    3/2198   3/13/98
569                  Adoption par le Gouvemernent                                                   0w   3/13/98   3/13/98
570              Etude stat stique et actuarlelle                                                  30w   6/30/97   1/23/98
571                  Selection du consultant                                                       10w   6/30/97    9/5197
572                  R6alisation de l'tude                                                        10w    9/8197  11/14197
573                  Adoption des recommandations                                                  10w  11/17/97   1/23/98
574              Mise en oeuvre du plan de restructuratUon                                         25w   1/26/98   7/17/98
575                  Plan d' urgence                                                               20w   1/26/98   6/12/98
576                  Modification du code de S6curite sociale et des textes y afferents            20w   1126/98   6/12/98
577                  Seminaires de Concertation Operateurs/Syndicats                                5w   6/15/98   7/17/98
578                  Pr6sentation au Parlement                                                      0w   7/17/98   7/17/98
62



Annexe VII
Page 18 of 18
REPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
PROJET DE PRIVATISATION ET DE RENFORCEMENT DU CADRE REGLEMENTAIRE DES ENTREPRISES
Annexe VIl: MANUEL D'EXECUTION DU PROJET
ID   Description des Taches                                                                       DUREE| DEBUT         FIN
679           Diffusion du nouveau droit des affaires                                              159.4w    8/18197    9/5/00
580               Vulgarisation (edition. seminaires) des actes uniformes de i' OHADA                 63w    8/18/971 10130/98
581               Vulgarisation (edition,seminaires) du nouveaux droit des affaires              1    54w, 11/18/98  11130199
582               Autres mesure de consolidation                                                      40w    12/11/99    9/5100
583      Gestion comptable et financiere du projet                                                   152w    213197  12/31199
584                                                                                                  0.2w   11/18/96  11/18/96
63



Annexe VIII
Page 1 of I
REPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
PROJET DE PRIVATIZATION ET DE RENFORCEMENT DU CADRE REGLEMENTAIRE DES
ENTREPRISES
Co&ts Detailles du Projet
(FF '000)*
BIRD          Gouvernement          Total
Montant    %      Montant   %    Montant    %         Devise      Locale   I  Taxe
I (hors taux) I
A. Cadre reglementaire        9.803,2   55,7   7.798,8  44,3   17.600,0  19,62      10.765        6.918      -
B. Participation local dans le    5.100,0  100,0    0,0     -   5.100,0   5,69    3.839,8         1.323      -
capital des societe privatisees  i           I                I                 I          I
C. Adhesion publique du       5.562,0   51,5    5.238,0  48,5   10.800,0  12,04      6.684        3.912
programme de privatisation
D. Promotion de secteur prive   32.915,0   72,5   12.485,0  27,5  45.400,0  50,61   44.686          462
E. Privatisation des Grandes  3.326,4   30,8   7.473,6  69,2   10.800,0  12,04    3.358.3       7.553,7
Entreprises
I            ~       ~        ~        ~        ~ ~~I  I  I  I               -
Total                        56.706,6   63,2  32.993,4  36,8  89.700,0  100,0  69.330,9        20.169,7
Taux d'change = FF 5.67/ $EU I
64



Annexe IX
Page 1 de 1
REPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
PROJET DE PRIVATIZATION ET DE RENFORCEMENT DU CADRE REGLEMENTAIRE DES ENTREPRISES
Resume des Methodes de Passation des Marchis
(millions FF)**
Methodes de Passation de Marche
Appel d'offres g  Autres*     N.F.B   :        Total
internationaux            I            I
Consultants et formation  i              72.652,96              I     72.652,96
(53.900,0) :                 (53.900,0)
Equipement             1  2.536,76   i       567,0      4.502,0        7.605,76
(2.536,76)    (263,24,0)                    (2.800,0)
Couits Operationnels   I                          ,    9.442,25        9.442,25
I             I            I            I
_  _           ~~~I  _                     I             I
Total                  1  2.536,76       73.219,96 1   13.994.25 ,    89.700.97
___________________  (2.536,76)_@  (54.163,24) 1(OJ L                (56.700,78)
Note: Les chiffres entre parentheses seront les montantsfinanc&es par la Banque internationale
de Reconstruction et de Developpement
* Comprenant la demande de cotations pour lesfournitures et les methodes de seIection de
consultants
** Taux d'echange = FF S.67/$EU 1
65



Annexe X
Page 1 de I
REPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
PROJET DE PRIVATIZATION ET DE RENFORCEMENT DU CADRE REGLEMENTAIRE DES
ENTREPRISES
Plan de Supervision du Projet
Activites                          Profits              Personnes Semaines
Siee        Terrain
1997             Passation de Marches               P. de Marches              2.0
Semestre 2       Mise en place des composantes      Privatisation              7.0      3.0
Mise en concession SEEG            Reglementation            2.0      1.0
Marche financier                   Energie                    1.0     1.0
Gestion projet            5.0      1.0
Communication             1.0
Te1lcommunication         3.0      2.0
21.0      8.0
1998             Appel d'offres de privatisation    P. de Marches              1.0
Semestre I       Mise en oeuvre cadres reglem.      Privatisation              3.0      1.0
Evaluation des progres.            Reglementation            2.0
Agro-economiste           1.0
secteur financier         2.0      2.0
Gestion projet            5.0      3.0
T'lecommunication         3.0      2.0
Poste                     1.0      1.0
18.0     9.0
1998             Passation de Marches               P. de Marches              1.0
Semestre 2       Evaluation des progres             Privatisation              2.0      2.0
Reglementation            2.0      1.0
T'l'communication         2.0      2.0
Energie                   1.0
Gestion projet            5.0      2.0
Agriculture               1.0      2.0
.14.0       9.0
1999-2001        Passation de Marches               P. de Marches              1.0
Semestre I       Evaluation des progres             Privatisation              1.0      2.0
RKglementation            3.0      2.0
Telecommunications        2.0      1.0
Secteur financier         1.0      1.0
Gestion projet            5.0      2.0
Communication             1.0      1.0
14.0     9.0_
1999-2001        Passation de Marches               P. de Marches              1.0
Semestre 2       Evaluation des progres             Privatisation              1.0      2.0
Reglementation/telecom.    4.0     2.0
Agriculture               2.0      2.0
Gestion projet            5.0      2.0
Communication             1.0      1.0
14.0      9.0
TOTAL                                                                       151.0     71.0
66



Annexe XI
Page I de I
REPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
PROJET DE PRIVATIZATION ET DE RENFORCEMENT DU CADRE REGLEMENTAIRE DES
ENTREPRISES
Structure et Organisation du Projet
Commission de
Privatisation
Ministre des FEBP
Administrateur                                    Conseiller Technique
comptable                                          "Privatisation"
Comite de Privatisation
Assistant          ^t     Secretaire            Conseiller Technique
Administratif                                         "Regulation"
| Agent de soutien |    l                     |    Conseiller Technique
Cellule "Communication"]     "Communication"
I
Autres cellules sectorielles
_                  T s                 A  o-industri      Tech. Sociale |
1 cadre du SP      1 cadre du SP       I cadre du SP      I cadre CNSS
I cadre de l'EP    1 cadre de 1'EP     1 cadre de I'EP    1 cadre du MT
1 Cadre du MPT     1 cadre du MT       1 cadre du MS      1 cadre MAS
1 cadre ONE
Participations     Environnement
minoritaires       des affaires
67



Annexe XII
Page I of 7
GABONESE REPUBLIC
PRIVATIZATION AND REGULATORY CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Logical Framework
Narrative Summary                       Verifiable Indicators          Means of Verification       Critical
________________________________________   __________________________________                               A ssum ptions
1. CAS Objectives:
Private sector share of growth
Create a favorable environment for private
sector development
11. Project Development Objectives:
1. Increase public understanding of and    1. Domestic private investment has    Figures on level of       Political
participation in the privatization process;    increased.                     domestic investment       stability
and reduce opposition to privatization
among labor groups.                     2. Foreign private investments in non-   Annual enterprise reports
oil sectors have increased.
2. Establish a regulatory framework which    3. Factor costs have decreased.     Published rates for       Govermment
will enable a 'free market' business                                          utilities                 remains
environment (entry, exit, competition and  4. Access to public services have                            committed to
transparency).                            increased (electricity, water,      Industry indicators       free market
telephone and post).                                         economy.
5. Laws and regulations
3. Transfer productive assets and                                                                          The private
commercial activities to the private                                                                    sector is fully
sector for telecommunications and postal                                                                committed and
services, water, electricity, palm oil,                                                                 plays by the
rubber and State minority shares in                                                                     rules.
selected enterprises.
68



Annexe XII
Page 2 of 7
GABONESE REPUBLIC
PRIVATIZATION AND REGULATORY CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Logical Framework
Narrative Summary                      Verifiable Indicators         Means of Verification      Critical
__________ __________ __________ _______             __ __________ _________   A ssum ptions
111. Project Outputs:
A. Communication
1. Government is provided with an improved  1. A fully operational communication   Progress reports.    Turnover rate
framework and instruments to better      and infornation unit staffed with                           for trained
communicate its development objectives    well trained and qualified personnel  Number of complaints  staff and
and policies.                                                               related to the lack of   journalists is
2. Number of trainees               information.              kept to a
2. Government staff and journalists are                                                                 minimum.
trained to analyze and manage          3. Effective communication links     Supervision missions.
information on the reform program.       between government leaders, civil                            Skills learned
society, political corps and private    Qualitative: Four focus  are effectively
3. Improved flow of information to and from  sector opinion leaders.           groups per year.          used for
the public and the stakeholders, including                                                            raising public
labor unions and consumer groups.      4. Level of understanding for        Quantitative: Polling at  awareness.
privatization, how it works, and how  the beginning, with 6
4. A benchmark and a means of verification  it stands to benefit the people of  month frequency.
of the impact of communication           Gabon.
campaign                                                                    Statistical reports.
B. Regulatory framework and capacity to
regulate
1. An effective regulatory body with      1. I Legislation establishing the   Regulatory Agency is      Agency is able
adequate capacity and instruments to      regulating agency is adopted by   adequately staffed and   to work
regulate private sector provision of      government                        funded; and fully        effectively
infrastructure services is established.  1.2. Staff training program is fully  operational.          without
implemented.                                              interference
1.3. A qualified regulator is appointed.   Annual Business    from technical
1.4. Analytical base for regulating  environment assessment   ministries and
private provision of infrastructure   by independent agency.    without
services is established.                                  consultants
1.5. Regulatory function is adequately
provided during the interim phase.
69



Annexe XII
Page 3 of 7
GABONESE REPUBLIC
PRIVATIZATION AND REGULATORY CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Logical Framework
Narrative Summary                      Verifiable Indicators          Means of Verification       Critical
Assumptions
Project Outputs (cont):                   Inputs                                                         Component to
Output
B. Regulatory framework and capacity toI
regulatel
2. Regulatory and business environment is    2.1 Legal and regulatory changes for a   Publication in official  Agency is able
improved for telecommunication, postal,    progressive removal of monopolies  journal                 to work
water and electricity sectors.             in the telecommunication, post                             effectively
electricity, water sectors has been                        without
enacted.                                                   interference
2.2 Labor laws and social security                             from technical
regime which facilitate labor                              ministries and
relations and eliminates arbitrary                         without
interventions are approved and                             consultants
published
2.3 Corporate and business laws are
made consistent with the guidelines
of OfIADA for regional
harmonization; and are widely
published.
3. A framework for capital market         3.1 Legislation to create and regulate
development is established.                mutual funds is enacted and
published.
3.2 A clearing house mechanism for
trading securities is established
3.3 Legislation to regulate securities
and trading activities is enacted
and published
3.4 Amendment of the Privatization
Law to include Government
minority shares is enacted.
70



Annexe XII
Page 4 of 7
GABONESE REPUBLIC
PRIVATIZATION AND REGULATORY CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Logical Framework
Narrative Summary                      Verifiable Indicators         Means of Verification      Critical
I______________________________________                                       ________________________  Assumptions
Project Outputs (cont):                   Inputs                                                        Component to
Output
C. Privatization
1. Enterprise privatization and restructuring    I. Privatization Committee is  Progress reports and    Government
capacity and system is developed.          adequately staffed and is fully  supervision reports       remains
operational                                                committed to
2. ONPT                                                                        Contractual agreements    privatization
2.1 Two licenses are awarded to                               process.
competing mobile service provider   PC reports
with possibility of by-pass for
international.
2.2. The telecommunications basic
services provider is privatized with
monopoly but with limited
exclusivity.
2.3. New value added service providers
are established.
3. AGROGABON, CIMENTGAB, SEEG,    3. Privatization contracts signed for
OCTRA and AIR GABON and                   SEEG, CIMENTGAB, HEVAGAB,
HEVEGAB are restructured and              AGROGABON, OCTRA and AIR
privatized.                               GABON.
4. Minority shares in enterprises in      4.1 Value of assets transferred to the
agroindustry, petroleum and services      private sector.
sectors are divested
4.2 No. of employees transferred from
the public to the private sector .
71



Annexe XII
Page 5 of 7
GABONESE REPUBLIC
PRIVATIZATION AND REGULATORY CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Logical Framework
GABON: Privatization and Regulatory Capacity Building Project
Logical Framework
Narrative Summary               Verifiable Indicators   Means of Verification     Critical Assumptions
IV. Project Components                  Inputs                                            Component to Output
1. Design and implement a program for    Establish public                                 The Government will
public understanding and support for  understanding and                               remain committed to its
the reform program:                 support to the reform                              economic reform
1.1 Advisory services to prepare and    program. ($ 1.0 million)   1.1 .1 Communication Plan   program, including
implement a communication program.                           1.1.2 Progress reports   privatization, institutional
1.2 Develop and implement training plan for                     1.2.1 Training evaluations    and regulatory reforms;
journalists and government staff,                                                      and to a transparent
1.3 Design, produce and distribute                              1.3.1 Media campaign spots  privatization process.
informative material on the privatization                    1.3.2 Seminars evaluation
process,                                                         reports               Institutional capacity and
1.4 Carry-out public opinion polling and                        1.4.1 Surveys;            authority of the
research, including early bench-marking,                         questionnaires       privatization committee is
1.5 Staff and equip communication's unit                        1.5.1 Unit reports,       sufficient to maintain
and information center.                                          consultants report   implementation schedule.
1.5.2 Staffing records
2. Build Regulatory capacity for        Regulatory framework                              Counterpart funds are
Infrastructure sector                   and capacity building.                            available
2.1 Advisory services to design and prepare   ($3.0 million)    2.1.1 Draft legislation
legislation establishing an autonomous                      adopted by Government      Government does not
multi-sectoral regulatory agency;                                                     yield to social and
2.2 Develop capacity for a fully operational                    2.2.1 Training evaluations    political pressure from
regulation agency                                           2.2.2 Employee records    labor unions
2.2.3 Procurement and
budget records
2.3 Provide technical assistance to regulate
during first interim year                                   2.3.1 Consultants appointed
2.4. Sector studies necessary to regulate
(tariff, demand, etc.) completed by
regulatory agency
72



Annexe XII
Page 6 of 7
GABONESE REPUBLIC
PRIVATIZATION AND REGULATORY CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Logical Framework
Narrative Summary                Verifiable Indicators    Means of Verification     Critical Assumptions
IV. Project Components                   Inputs                                              Component to Output
3. Privatization of large PEs.           Sector refonns and       3.1.1 Quarterly progress   Consulting firms have the
3.1 Establish fully operational privatization    privatization of selected  reports         technical expertise
committee.                            large PEs. ($9.5 million)   3.1.2 Training evaluations    required to carry out the
3.2 Advisory services to increase institutional                   3.1.3 Interim managers     transactions.
capacity to prepare and implement                                   appointed for targeted
privatization program                                               PEs                   Interim managers are able
3.3 Advisory services to revise legal and                         3.2.1 Resident Advisors   to preserve assets and to
regulatory frameworks for post, water,                              (priv.;com.) appointed   adequately manage labor
telecommunications, and electricity                            3.3.1 Draft sector codes and  relations
sectors                                                            legislation
3.4 Advisory services to prepare enterprises                      3.4.1 No. of privatization  Technical inistries do not
for privatization (ONPT, AGROGABON,                                 plans prepared        block or stall the process
CIMENTGAB, SEEG and HEVEGAB)                                   3.4.2 Corporatization of
3.5 Consultancy services to privatize ONPT,                           ONPT
AGROGABON, CIMENTGAB, SEEG                                     3.4.4 No. of bidding
and HEVEGAB                                                         processes initiated
3.5 1 Deals concluded.
4. Privatization of Minority shares
4.1 Advisory services to prepare regulations   Increase local                                Investors response
pertaining to the functioning of a   participation in         4.1.1 Drafts regulations.  Process remains
financial market, trading activities and    privatization process.                      transparent
financial intermediation.            ($1.0 million)
4.2 Review and update current legislation on
securities issuance.                                          4.2.1 Draft regulations.
4.3 Advisory services to prepare legislation
to establish and regulate mutual funds.                       4.3.1 Draft legislation.
4.4 Select mutual fund manager or syndicate
leader for the direct sale of shares.                         4.4.1 Appointment of fund
4.5 Advisory services to value, classify and                           manager.
prepare legislation for sale of minority                      4.5.1 List of enterprises with
shares in 50 enterprises.                                          sale strategies.
4.5.2 Draft legislation.
4.5.3 Appointment of
4.6 Advisory services to privatize minority                           syndicate leader.
shares in 10 enterprises in agroindustry,                     4.6.1 Number of shares
petroleum and services sectors                                     sold.
73



Annexe XII
Page 7 of 7
GABONESE REPUBLIC
PRIVATIZATION AND REGULATORY CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Logical Framework
Narrative Summary                Verifiable Indicators     Means of Verification     Critical Assumptions
IV. Project Components                    Inputs                                              Component to Output
5. Business Environment and social safety   Improvement of Business                           Gabon has ratified the
net.                                      Environment and          5. 1.1 Draft labor code    OHADA treaty
5.1. Advisory services to revise labor code .   promotion of investment   5.2.1 Implementation
5.2. Support to implement and disseminate    ($ 1.5 million)            decrees
new investment charter.                                        5.2.2 Number of workshops
with the private sector
5.2.3 Publication of the
charter in papers
5.3.1 consultants appointed
5.3. Advisory services to prepare and                              5.3.2 Restructuring plan
implement a restructuring plan for the                              adopted
social security Agency ( CNSS ).                               5. 4.1 Draft social security
5.4. Revise social security code and carry out                          code
actuarial studies.                                             5.4.2 Consultants reports
5.5.1 Inventory of business
5.5. Support to the initiatives under OHADA                             law completed
to introduce uniform business laws                             5.5.2 Wide publication of &
easy access to laws
5.5.3 No. of Workshops
with private sector
74















IMAGING
Report No.: T       7082   GA
Type:     TAN



