                             Document of
                           The World Bank




                                                         Report No: 30976

                IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                        (SCL-41860 PPFB-P3150)

                                ON A

                                LOAN

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$10 MILLION

                               TO THE

                         GABONESE REPUBLIC

                               FOR A
PRIVATIZATION AND REGULATORY CAPACITY BUILDING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
                              PROJECT




                             June 28, 2005

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective March 20, 2005)

                            Currency Unit = CFAF
                              FCFA 1,000 = US$ 1.97
                                    US$ 1 = FCFA 507.88

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1    December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AGROGABON     Gabonese Agricultural Development Company
AfDB           African Development Bank
BEAC          Bank of Central African States
CCP           Postal Checks Center
CFA           African Financial Community
CFD            Caisse Francaise de Développement, French Development Agency
CFG           Gabonese Forestry Company
CNE           National Savings Bank
COBAC         Central African Banking Commission
CP             Privatization Committee
EIB            European Investment Bank
ESAF           Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
HEVEGAB        Gabonese Rubber Development Company
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IFC            International Finance Corporation
OPT           Office of Posts and Telecommunications
OCTRA          Trans-Gabon Railway Office
PE             Public Enterprise
SCP            Secretariat of the Privatization Committee
SEEG           Gabonese Water and Power Company
TR             Terms of Reference
TIG            Gabonese International Telecommunications
UDEAC          Customs Union of Central African States


                           Vice President:    Gobind T. Nankani
                         Country Director     Ali M. Khadr
                          Sector Manager      Demba Ba
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Claude Sorel

                                      GABONESE REPUBLIC

PRIVATIZATION AND REGULATORY CAPACITY BUILDING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
                                              PROJECT


                                              CONTENTS




                                                                                 Page No.
   1. Project Data                                                                    1
   2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
   3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
   4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
   5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
   6. Sustainability                                                                12
   7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
   8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
   9. Partner Comments                                                              16
   10. Additional Information                                                       18
   Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             19
   Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             23
   Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             25
   Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             26
   Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
   Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
   Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30
   Annex 8 General Project Background                                               31
   Annex 9 Details On The Divestiture Of Public Enterprises                         32
   Annex 10 Contribution of the Privatization Committee                             38
   Annex 11 Contribution of the African Development Bank                            42

Project ID: P041548                                                  Project Name: GA-CB Privatization & Reg TAL (FY97)
Team Leader: Amadou Dem                                              TL Unit: YPP
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 30, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: GA-CB Privatization & Reg TAL (FY97)                     L/C/TF Number: SCL-41860; PPFB-P3150
   Country/Department: GABON                                                              Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (38%); Law and justice (33%);
                            Compulsory pension and unemployment insurance (29%)
                  Theme: State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Other
                            financial and private sector development (P); Regulation and
                            competition policy (P); Legal institutions for a market economy (P);
                            Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/08/1996                                     Effective: 09/04/1997                02/02/1998
     Appraisal: 04/07/1997                                         MTR: 06/30/1998                  11/02/1998
      Approval: 06/10/1997                                      Closing: 12/31/2001                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          The Gabonese Republic/The Ministry of Finance / Privatization Secretariat
                      Other Partners:      The African Development Bank

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Ali Khadr                                      David Berk
Sector Manager:                 Demba Ba                                       Thomas Allen
Team Leader at ICR:             Claude Sorel                                   Demba Ba
ICR Primary Author:             Amadou Dem


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       N
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

The project outcome is marginally unsatisfactory. Bank performance is marginally unsatisfactory.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

As stated on page 4 of the Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development to the Executive Directors on a
proposed loan to the Gabonese Republic (MOP, April 1997), and in the loan agreement
(September 1997), the objective of the project was to promote private sector development
through: (i) the establishment of a competitive regulatory and business environment conducive to
private sector investment; (ii) the transfer of productive assets and commercial activities to the
private sector; (iii) the establishment of an efficient institutional framework to accelerate the
implementation of the privatization program; and (iv) the improvement of public understanding
and support to the overall reform program. Annex 8 presents the general background underlying
the need for the project.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The objective remained unchanged.

3.3 Original Components:

The project had five main components as presented in the MOP.

(i) Public Understanding and Support of the Reform Program (US$1.9 million, of which an
estimated US$0.9 million from the Bank). The purpose of the component was to gain the people's
support and political backing for privatization by: (a) setting up a privatization information center
and communication unit; (b) designing and implementing a training program to strengthen the
Government's capacity to make effective use of the media; (c) conducting opinion polls on the
reforms; (d) instructing journalists on the reforms; (e) and distributing widely information on
reforms.

(ii) Regulatory Framework and Capacity Building (US$3.1 million, including an estimated US$1.7
million from the Bank). The purpose of this component was to establish the regulations governing
competition and to put in place the required regulatory capacity by: (a) setting up a financially and
legally   independent,    multisectoral   regulatory    structure    for   the   water,   electricity,
telecommunications, postal, and transportation sectors; (b) revising the sectoral codes and their
implementing regulations to liberalize economic activities; and (c) providing outside experts in
regulation during the stage devoted to local capacity-building.

(iii) Privatization of Selected Large Public Enterprises (US$ 8.0 million, of which an estimated
US$4.8 million from the Bank). This component was designed to help in restructuring and
privatizing major government enterprises targeted in key sectors: Office of Posts and
Telecommunications (OPT), National Water and Electricity Company (SEEG), AGROGABON,
HEVEGAB, and CIMGABON. The support mainly consisted in consultant and advisory services.
It was also aimed at strengthening the Privatization Committee in charge of                  project
implementation. As stated on page 12 of the Technical Annex of the MOP, this component was
also to provide support for preparation and implementation of the second stage of the


                                                - 2 -

privatization program, which covered ten smaller enterprises (SOGADEL, SIAB, SMAG, Gabon
Informatique, EAULECO, Ceca-Gadis, Pizolub, SOGAFUTS, AGRIPOG, SGEPP).

(iv) Increase Local Participation in the Privatization Process (US$0.9 million from the Bank).
Under this component, the project was designed to support direct sale of shares to Gabonese
investors and the creation of private mutual investment trusts where securities which could not be
sold directly would be lodged. This support consisted in: (a) preparing relevant laws and
regulations, and (b) selecting a syndicate leader in charge of the direct sale of shares and a mutual
fund manager.

(v) Improvement of the Business Environment and Promotion of investment (US$1.9 million,
including US$1.7 million from the Bank). Under this component, the project was expected to put
in place an institutional and a legal environment conducive to private sector development by
financing activities to improve the business law (implementation of OHADA Organization for
Harmonization of Business Law in Africa), the labor code, and the social security (restructuring
of the National Social Security Fund).

3.4 Revised Components:

The components were not revised.


3.5 Quality at Entry:


Quality at Entry (QAE) is rated marginally satisfactory. There was no QAE assessment carried
out by the Bank Quality Assurance Group. The project was consistent with the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) presented to the Board in May 1994 in conjunction with the Economic
Recovery Loan. The project was built on an extensive dialogue with Gabonese stakeholders
(labor unions, private sector, political parties), and was also consistent with the Government's
priorities spelled out after the devaluation in its Development Policy program dated April 1994,
and its Economic Program covering the period July 1995 - June 1998.                 The project was
technically well designed with the collaboration of relevant Bank's specialists. Collaboration with
the International Monetary Fund was adequate. Coordination with the African Development Bank
(AfDB), which was also preparing a privatization project, was close. The AfDB project, for an
amount of approximately US$15 million, was actually designed to provide complementary
support to the same components covered by the Bank project. The two projects had the same
components, but the AfDB project also included a large component to provide support to the
retrenched workers and facilitate their reinsertion.

Lessons learned from previous structural adjustment operations in Gabon, as reflected in the June
1993 Operations Evaluation Department (OED) Performance Audit Report, as well as those
drawn from Bank's experience in public enterprise reforms in other African countries, were taken
into account during project design. Potential risks (including risk of deficient Government's
commitment to privatization) were also identified and appropriate mitigations measures prepared.
These measures included a communication campaign and the set up of a privatization committee.
However, during implementation, these measures did not contribute to addressing the weak



                                                 - 3 -

political support to the implementation units and the lack of commitment of technical ministries
that affected the project's outcome.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:


The project outcome is rated marginally unsatisfactory. It was not fully successful in achieving
the objectives as laid-out during appraisal. The project has contributed to increasing private
investments and improving access to infrastructure services through liberalization and
privatization. Regulation arrangements were put in place in key sectors: regulation by contract in
the energy and water sectors, and regulatory agencies created in the telecommunications and
postal services sectors. However, the project was not successful in building capacities of the
telecommunication and postal services regulatory bodies as the government delayed the adoption
of the implementation decrees. Factor costs were decreased in the telecommunication sectors as a
result of market liberalization that allowed cellular phone companies to operate. In the electricity
and water sectors however, such a decrease could not materialize as inflationary pressures and
global energy prices increased significantly during the same period.

The contribution of the private sector in the economy has increased as illustrated by the average
share of private investment to GDP which increased from 17.9 percent to 19.9 percent between
the periods 1994-1998 and 1999-2003. During the same period, public/private investment ratio
declined from 0.4 to about 0.2 reflecting an increased relative importance of the private sector.
More specifically, private sector investment in non-oil sector increased from 11.9 percent to 17.6
percent during the same period, which is in line with the increase of the share of the non-oil
sector in the overall GDP from 65 percent to 71 percent.

Private investment is likely to increase over time, following the liberalization of key sectors and
the transfer of productive and commercial activities to the private sector through the privatization
of PEs. Privatized companies such as SEEG and CimGabon, and the new mobile telephone
companies, Celtel and Telecel have already invested, although not yet at the agreed investment
levels in accordance with the sale/concession agreements: amounts invested so far are FCFA 115
billion for SEEG, FCFA 59 billion for Celtel, FCFA 20 billion respectively for Telecel, and and
FCFA 10.7 billion for CimGabon. Their contribution to private investment will increase as they
continue to carry out their investment plans.

                         Table 1: Selected Macroeconomic Indicators (Current Prices)




 (*) Constant 1991 Prices




                                                   - 4 -

 Source: Gabonese Authorities and IMF Staff estimates, 2004


In the area of regulation, (i) the electricity and water sectors, managed by Société d'Energie et
d'Eau du Gabon (SEEG), are regulated by contract since 1997, and (ii) two regulatory agencies
for the telecommunications sector and the postal services were created in 2001 (prior to that, a
private regulator for the telecom sector operated from 2000 to 2001). Although the prevailing
conceptual model at the time of the project design was a multi-sector regulatory agency, the
option, which was expected to be put in place in Gabon in the medium term, had not materialized
yet by the closing of the project. However, existing continent-wide experience is that
sector-specific regulation arrangements are more effective. Nevertheless, as presented in section
4.2, regulation of infrastructure services still need to be strengthened.

The project was also aimed at improving access to infrastructure services and reducing their cost.
Following sector liberalization and privatization transactions, access to water, electricity and
telephone has improved. Electricity connections increased by 30 percent, from 111,973 to
145,361 between 1998 and 2003. Water connections increased by 33 percent, from 64,870 to
86,430 during the same period while considerable efforts are being made to improve quality of
service according to SEEG (Source: SEEG, Rapport Annuel, 2003). The number of cellular
phone subscribers rose sharply from 8,900 to 420,000 between 1999 and November 2004. Mobile
phone subscribers are expected to further increase as the operators are required to expand the
infrastructure in all the regions. There are 209 cyberspaces in the country with 5 percent of the
population having access to the internet. In 1997, electricity and water tariffs were reduced by
17.5 percent. However, due to more recent inflationary pressures and increased global energy
prices, the price of electricity (low voltage) and water in Libreville has increased by 16 and 12
percent respectively.

The project deployed sizeable efforts to carry out a communication campaign so as to enhance
public understanding and support for the overall reform program in spite of entrenched resistance
of managers of public enterprises and line ministries. This resistance jeopardized the effective
implementation of the communication campaign.

Finally, it should be noted that the achievement of the project objective has been affected by the
suspension of disbursement from the AfDB credit, early during project implementation, after the
country failed to service its debt arrears. The result of the suspension, hence the lack of
complementary funds, was, among others, that activities envisaged under the program could not
be fully carried out and that Bank financing had to be concentrated on a few priority activities
towards the end of the World Bank's intervention.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Public Understanding and Support of the Reform Program

This component is rated unsatisfactory. A communication unit and an information center were
established in March 1999, a year after loan effectiveness. It was strengthened with the technical
assistance of a communication consultant. Two public opinion polls were carried out in 1998 and
2001 to respectively help define the communication strategy and measure the impact of the



                                                              - 5 -

communication actions. A third poll was planned for 2003 to reorient the communication strategy
and get a sense of what the people of Gabon thought about the privatization program. It was not
completed due to lack of financing after the project was extended and as the AfDB project
suspended its disbursement (for this component, annex 2 shows that the Bank actually disbursed
about 22 percent more than initially planned).

The implementation of the communication strategy started in early 1999. The communication unit
was able to organize seminars for parliamentarians and journalists. Several pamphlets on the
status of the privatization program were published, although not regularly. Two information
campaigns were conducted in schools and universities. During the project extension period, the
Bank Credit proceeds were more focused on communication about ongoing transactions, and the
AfDB-financed project was expected to cover the remainder of the communication campaign. The
latter became unfunded when the AfDB suspended its disbursements to Gabon as a result of
failure to meet debt service obligations.

The effectiveness of this component was also constrained by the fact that the recommendations of
the communication unit were not adequately taken into account by the relevant Ministries which,
often, did not adhere to the proposed communication strategy. The Communication unit was not
given the full responsibility of implementing the strategy and sometimes faced conflicting
communication from line ministers opposed to the privatization. In some instances, line ministers
did even take contradicting positions in the press. In order for the component to be fully
satisfactory, such internal resistance should have been overcome by clear signals from the highest
leadership level.

Regulatory Framework and Capacity Building

This component is rated marginally unsatisfactory. For cost-effectiveness, it was initially planned
that a legally and financially autonomous multisectoral regulatory agency covering electricity,
water, transport, post and telecommunications would be created in the medium-term.

The electricity and water sectors are regulated by contract since a private concessionnaire was
brought on board through a competitive bidding in 1997. The design of the concession contract
provided for a transfer of efficiency gains to the consumer and this materialized in a 17.5 percent
tariff reduction in July 1997. The Power and Hydraulic Resources Department of the Ministry of
Energy ensures the monitoring of the contract implementation.

In the post and telecom sector, there was an understanding that the multi-sector regulator was a
medium-term objective, and that in the meantime, each sector would have its own regulator. As
indicated in the project appraisal document, technical assistance to ensure the needed oversight of
the telecommunications sector was provided in 2000-2001, pending the creation of a regulatory
body. In 2001, the laws creating two regulatory agencies for telecommunications (Agence de
Regulation des Telecommunications, ARTEL) and postal services, were adopted. ARTEL's
effectiveness is however still constrained by the fact that implementation decrees of the 2001 laws
have not been adopted yet. The delay in adopting the regulations and the implementation decrees
is mainly due to the opposition and frequent changes of the line ministers (since 2002, the



                                                - 6 -

Minister of Telecommunications has changed three times). Resistance from Gabon Telecom
management also played a role.

As to transport sector regulation, the strengthening of the regulatory capacity was expected to be
carried out under the Project for Adjustment and Planning of the Urban and Transport Sectors
(PAPSUT, 1995-2000) and not under this project (the ICR for the PAPSUT indicates that the
regulatory capacity has not been strengthened).

Due to the lack of resources and the fact that AfDB co-financing was not forthcoming as the
Credit was suspended, capacity building efforts for regulatory bodies remained limited, and the
preparation of sector studies to provide analytical base of regulating private provision of
infrastructure services did not materialize. Indeed, support to this component, under the second
extension of project closing date, was limited to technical advice. The initially planned
multisectoral regulatory agency was not established. But, as mentioned earlier, continent-wide
experience show that sector-specific regulation arrangements are more effective.

With respect to the revision of sectoral codes and regulations to liberalize economic activities, the
core issues were addressed through the shift of the national business law to the OHADA
framework.

Privatization of Selected Large Public Enterprises

This component, which represented about 50 percent of the Credit proceeds, is rated satisfactory.
Privatization was completed in four out of the five major sectors on which this project focused:
water and electricity (SEEG, concessionned to Véolia -then Vivendi- in 1997), cement
(Cimentgab, sold to Scancem International in 2000), comestible oils (Agrogab, sold to SIAT in
April 2004), and rubber (Hévégab, sold to SIAT in 2004). With respect to the fifth sector,
telecommunications, the privatization of Gabon Telecoms was well advanced by the project
closing date in June 2004, although the low commitment to bringing the transaction to closure
had resulted in several delays. The institutional framework for the implementation of the
privatization program was put in place by (i) enacting a privatization law, and (ii) setting up,
staffing, organizing, and training the Privatization Committee to implement the overall divestiture
program and the project. The preparation and implementation of the second phase of
privatizations included in the program were largely carried out: the State was divested from five
out of ten PEs in the program, four were still in the process of privatization and one was
withdrawn from the program.

While most of the program envisioned under the project was carried out, the implementation
pace was slower than anticipated due mainly to vested interests in companies and in line
ministries, most of whom can be qualified as losers in the process. The Government was
concerned about: (i) selling public companies which are considered national jewels, (ii) the
difficulty attracting private investors other than those well established in the country, and (iii)
possible lack of transparency in the privatization process. Another reason for the slow
implementation was the electoral context of 1998.        Implementation improved with the new
Minister of Finance and Privatization appointed in 1999. Commitment to the privatization



                                                 - 7 -

program also strengthened as the Government's public finance weakened and increased financial
support was sought from development partners.

In sum, in the context of the overall reform of public enterprise, the project may not have reached
it numerical initial targets, but has certainly been successful in pushing this agenda forward and in
obtaining tangible results. A detailed discussion of the privatization transactions supported by the
project is provided in the annex 9.

Increase Local Participation in the Privatization Process

This component is rated unsatisfactory.

Out of 120 companies where GOG has minority shares (a maximum of 10 percent shareholding),
20 fulfilled the conditions to be transferred to a mutual fund; and 37 were considered sound
enough to be sold through direct sale to the shareholders with preemptive rights, or indirectly
through financial intermediation.

The component was designed to prepare the relevant laws and regulations, and support the hiring
of a mutual fund manager. The mutual fund was not created during the project timeframe.
However, there was considerable progress in its establishment. The legislation on securities
issuance was reviewed and updated in November 1998. The final valuation of the minority shares
to be transfered to the fund was completed in April 2004. The legislation to establish and regulate
private mutual funds was prepared (this legislation will also allow the privatization of GOG's
minority shares), but it remains to be adopted by the Parliament; and only then the bidding
package to select the private manager for the mutual fund would be prepared and launched.

Overall, delay in implementing this component was mainly due to: (i) delay in collecting the
information required for the valuation of the shares; (ii) departure of several key consultants from
the consortium of consultants, Banque Nationale de Paris (BNP) Emerging Market - Banque
Internationale pour l'Industrie et le Commerce au Gabon (BICIG) - Price Waterhouse Juridique &
Fiscal (the head of the BNP team retired, his assistant resigned; the head of the BICIG team
entered the Government; the head of the Price Waterhouse team was promoted and reassigned to
another country); and (iii) delay in the provision of training to the Parliament members who were
expected to comment on the draft legislation. The training, planned for 2003, was provided only
in May 2004.

Improvement of the Business Environment and Promotion of Investment

Overall this component is rated marginally satisfactory.

Uniformisation of business laws under OHADA. The project financed the provision of legal
advisory services for: (i) the compilation of all applicable legislation; (ii) the review of applicable
business laws to identify laws to be repealed, amended, or updated; and (iii) the preparation of
necessary new business legislation. The Commission Nationale de l'OHADA (CNO) was created
in October 2002 to, among others, ensure conformity of the laws, their adoption and their



                                                  - 8 -

dissemination. The laws under OHADA are more business friendly. All the proposed laws were
submitted to the CNO in May 2003 but have been adopted only in December 2004. CNO's ability
to fulfill its mission has been limited by its insufficient budget to, among other things, organize
meetings and mobilize members of the commission.

Dissemination of new laws. The project supported the organization of three workshops to
enhance legal practitioners' knowledge on OHADA legislation. Several publications of the
proposed legislation were also prepared. The investment charter was adopted in July 1998 to
promote private investment.

Labor code. The labor code was revised by the Ministry of Labor, and adopted in October 2000.
The new labor code seaks to reduce labor market rigidities.

Caisse Nationale de Securité Sociale (CNSS).This project was designed to provide technical
support to improve the performance and sustainability of the CNSS. A technical assistance
contract to set up an accounting and organizational analysis/audit of CNSS was signed between
the Government and the International Labor Organization (ILO) in March 2000 and it was closed
in June 2003. As a result of this intervention, several improvements were achieved: in May 2004,
the three CNSS hospitals were placed under private management to improve the quality of health
care and ensure their autonomy; the CNSS information system strengthening was initiated, and
the audit of files containing data on employers, employees and beneficiaries is still under way.
This has translated in savings estimated at FCFA 900 million of pension benefits payments as of
November 2004 (Source: CNSS). The actuarial studies on future revenues and expenses of CNSS
were not completed under the project. The completion of the studies will give a better sense of
the long term financial sustainability of the institution; and a revision of the social security code is
expected to subsequently be carried out.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

During appraisal, the economic rate of return (ERR) was estimated at 29 percent in the base case
scenario for the period 1997- 2005. The calculated rate of return mainly attempted to capture the
benefits of privatization (productivity gains, incremental wages, additional investments, consumer
surplus, factor cost savings, and corporate taxes). An ex-post cost benefit analysis has not been
carried out due to unavailability of data required to reasonably build and calibrate a sound model;
but it is likely that the ex-post ERR would have been lower since the project was not fully
successful in achieving the objectives as laid-out during appraisal. Other factors that could have
affected the ex-post ERR are: (i) an implementation timeframe longer than initially assumed; and
(ii) an actual average real GDP growth rate lower than expected, 0.9 percent compared to 3.4
percent.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

        N.A.

4.5 Institutional development impact:




                                                  - 9 -

The institutional development impact is rated negligible. Most of the various project components
were aimed at having a lasting institutional impact. The impact varies from an implementing unit
to the other as discussed below.

Privatization Secretariat. The staff of the Secretariat have acquired the experience needed to
advance not only the privatization agenda but also other reform areas supported under the project.


Regulatory agencies. Capacity of the telecom and postal services regulatory bodies, created under
the project, is weak and needs strengthening. The regulatory framework for the water, electricity
and transport sectors also need to be further strengthened.

The communication agency. The Government has not been provided with an improved
framework and instruments to better communicate its development objectives and policies. A
communication and information unit was established but lacks the institutional and financial
support required to effectively carry out its mission.

The Commission Nationale de l'OHADA (National OHADA Commission). The Commission has
been established but needs adequate funding to accelerate the adoption of the proposed legislation
and its dissemination.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The lack of interest of private investors delayed the implementation of the project. For example,
two attempts to privatize Hevegab and Agrogabon failed. The investors considered the company
too risky, with high levels of debt, weak production capacity, low labor productivity, and high
average salary levels.

Another factor is the decline in the oil sector at the beginning of the project. This decline
weakened economic performance and affected the government's ability to service its debt partly
explaining the default vis-à-vis the African Development Bank, which suspended disbursements
on its credit.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Overall project implementation was considerably delayed at the beginning of project
implementation due to: (i) the electoral context of 1998 which rendered difficult the adoption of
politically and socially sensitive decisions; (ii) the lack of political support to the implementation
units; and (iii) little cooperation on the part of technical ministries. Delays in adopting key
regulations for the telecommunications sector illustrate the lack of commitment from line
ministries.

Strong vested interests from the companies to be divested slowed down the implementation of the
privatization program usually by delaying their comments or expressing disagreement on



                                                     - 10 -

privatization strategies or other documents submitted by the Privatization Secretariat. At the same
time, line ministries did not have sufficient influence to put pressure on the companies'
management.

Finally, cumbersome administrative procedures sometimes delayed the program implementation.
To illustrate, the government agreed in April 2004 to assume the debt of the privatized
Agrogabon and Hevegab, but the agreement was signed only in November 2004. The agreed
fiscal and custom incentives for the private operator have not yet been adopted.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

At the beginning of project implementation, the Privatization Committee did not fully implement
the organizational structure and procedures initially set up. For example, two companies,
Cecagadis, and Sosuho, have been divested on a sole source basis without consultation with the
Bank. The agency mainly suffered from lack of institutional support and, sometimes, difficulties in
establishing sustained dialogue and bridging the gap with the relevant ministries. This inhibited its
ability to accelerate the implementation of the project.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The original project cost was estimated at US$16 million, financed by a US$10 million IBRD loan
and US$6 million Government contribution. By project closing, 95 percent of the total IBRD
credit was disbursed and the Government had disbursed 110 percent of its initial contribution.
Disbursements by components are presented in Annex 2. The disbursement under the
"privatization of selected large PEs" component exceeded by 15 percent the original amount
because the suspension of the AfDB loan led to adjustments in activities financed to complete
some transactions. For example, the AfDB project was expected to cover the full cost of the
privatization strategy for Hevegab and provide advice to the Privatization Committee, but this
was actually covered by the Bank project. The Bank also disbursed about 22 percent more than
initially planned for the "public understanding and support of the reform program". Owing to a
reallocation of loan funds in 2000 which reduced the allocation to the category "consultants'
services and training", these higher expenditures could be covered. Finally, it should be
emphasized that the credit would likely have been fully disbursed if the divestiture of Gabon
Telecom (one of the main foci under the third extension) had been completed before the closing
date.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:


Sustainability is likely. Despite some limitations in the performance achieved under the project, its
implementation created a momentum for privatization, regulation and business climate
improvements. The reforms of selected sectors (water, electricity and telecom) have laid a
foundation for improved infrastructure. The development of infrastructure will probably
contribute to stimulating private investment. Several liberalization measures supported by the
project continue to be implemented after project closing.



                                                    - 11 -

GOG, in its Letter of Intent to the International Monetary Fund (May 2004), has expressed its
commitment to foster non-oil growth, public enterprise restructuring and privatization, legal and
regulatory framework and improvement of the investment climate. GOG is committed (i) to
implement the CNSS's restructuring plan, (ii) to complete the divestiture of Gabon Telecom, and
(iii) to improve the financial management and performance of Air Gabon as a prerequisite for
future privatization. GOG is also seeking to improve the operation of the one-stop shop (Agence
pour la Promotion des Investissements Privés, APIP) created during the project lifetime. GOG
also intends to continue to improve the judicial system and legal environment by intensifying
judicial training and establishing adequate arbitration mechanisms for business disputes.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The transition arrangements are not entirely clear. The capacities of the implementing units were
strengthened but still need support to move to regular operations. The capacities of the
Privatization Secretariat and the implementation of the privatization program will continue to be
supported through the AfDB privatization project. The Communication Unit is well staffed but
lacks financial resources required to carry out its mission especially in terms of sensitizing the
public about the reform program. Resources from the AfDB are expected to contribute to
supporting the communication campaign. The monitoring and evaluation system is also to be
strengthened in order to better collect and use the performance indicators.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:


The Bank's lending performance is rated marginally satisfactory. At the time of identification,
preparation and appraisal, particular emphasis was put on the country's need for structural and
sectoral reforms to accompany the Economic Recovery Program. The project was consistent with
the Bank's country assistance strategy. It was kept simple and focused on key sectors. It was
designed to be complementary with the AfDB financed project. A comprehensive public
enterprise sector review was prepared as a background analytical work. The project social costs
and benefits were also estimated during preparation to gauge the project robustness.

The project's institutional arrangements for implementation were well designed. It should however
be noted that the project implementation plan was too optimistic, and, key performance indicators
were revised and new milestones were set during the Midterm review.

7.2 Supervision:


The Bank performance in supervision is rated marginally unsatisfactory. While the supervision
effort was adequate during the early years of project implementation, it became less sustained
later on, thus resulting in an average of 1.3 supervision missions per year. Moreover, due to the
lack of field presence of a technical staff focussing on the project, the follow up between
supervision mission was not always adequate.

The Midterm review, carried out in November 1998, was instrumental in highlighting key



                                                  - 12 -

impediments to project implementation, and in redirecting the focus of both the project and the
dialogue with the government. During the review, the Bank team strongly emphasized the need to
focus on the development impact rather than on the privatization per se. The team also ensured
that the top leadership of the country was informed and involved. This clearly contributed to
improving GOG commitment to the objectives and to the process. During the review, measures to
improve the effectiveness of the Privatization Secretariat were also designed. The Bank team
realized that the overall implementation of the project was delayed and proposed that the loan
agreement be amended, to revise the project implementation plan as well as the performance
indicators, after the appointment of the new government following the presidential election of
December 1998. The new Government was appointed in February 1999 but the amendment was
formalized and approved only in November 2000 due to delay in processing it by both the
Governement and the Bank team.

The team frequently communicated with the implementing unit and provided advice. Detailed
action plans were prepared and discussed during the supervision missions. Consultations between
the Bank, GOG, the implementation unit, and other partners such as the AfDB and the IMF were
sustained throughout project implementation. All parties agreed that there was no need to
restructure the project, and that the emphasis needed to be put on activities that were key to
progress on the structural reforms front, namely the privatization component.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:


Overall, Bank performance is rated marginally unsatisfactory. Identification, preparation, and
appraisal were generally adequate. The Bank also took into account the difficult political economy
aspect of the privatization program and demonstrated flexibility and agreed to extend the project
closing date three times to allow completion of key activities. However, insufficient supervision
and field presence, and inadequate follow-up on advice and management's recommendations have
contributed to reducing the Bank performance in spite of the progress towards the achievement
of the project objective.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:


Borrower performance in preparation is rated marginally satisfactory. GOG commitment to
implement structural reforms during preparation was clear. One illustration is the privatization of
SEEG mainly with Government financing in 1997. GOG also ensured a dynamic consultative
process involving labor unions, private sector and political parties. This process led to the
adoption of the privatization law in early 1996.

7.5 Government implementation performance:


Government implementation performance is rated marginally unsatisfactory. Overall, GOG
delivered on its commitment to divest from public enterprises in the program, and its financial
contribution was made available on a timely manner. However, delays were observed in areas
where vested interests were strong. This led to three extensions of the project closing date: the
initial closing date was December 2001, then it was first extended to December 2002, then to



                                               - 13 -

September 2003 and, finally, to June 2004. GOG and the Bank agreed that, under the last two
extensions, the project would focus on completion of the following key activities: (i) the
divestiture of Gabon Telecom and its subsidiary Libertis; (ii) the restructuring of the Caisse
Nationale de Securité Sociale; (iii) the privatization of Hevegab and Agrogabon; (iv) the creation
of a mutual fund to foster national participation in privatization transactions; and (v) the
continuation of a focused communication campaign. Of these activities, only the privatization of
Hevegab and Agrogabon was completed by project closing.

The changes in some key line ministers have mainly affected the pace of project implementation as
well as the privatization transactions (e.g. Gabon telecom, Hevegab and Agrogabon). A constant
has been that the ability of the implementation agencies to deliver their work program in
politically sensitive areas was very much determined by the adherence of high level political
authorities to the course of action, balancing the relative weight of winners and losers.

7.6 Implementing Agency:


Implementation Agency performance is rated marginally unsatisfactory. At the beginning of
project implementation, project management and monitoring by the Privatization Secretariat was
deficient. These weaknesses were identified during the Bank mid-term review and measures to
address them were proposed. Efficiency of the agency then improved over time.

Overall, the agency was well staffed and equipped. The staff, mainly civil servants from relevant
ministries, was in general competent and professional and benefited from training especially at the
beginning of project implementation. Implementation delays were very often due to lack of
institutional support, opposition from vested interests and lack of financing. The agency benefited
and worked well with technical assistance. No major procurement process issues impeded the
implementation of the project. However, the agency was very weak in the areas of financial
management and monitoring and evaluation.

Financial management. The change of staff during project implementation has affected the
quality of financial management. The new staff in charge of finance was not properly trained. As a
result, internal controls and accounting procedures were deficient with:        incomplete sets of
expenditure supporting documents on counterpart funds; weak implementation of audit
recommendations; ineligible expenditures on counterpart funds. Record keeping and procurement
procedures were characterized by an inadequate filing system. The budgeting and information
systems were weak with inadequate budgeting control system. Disbursements by components
were not systematically reported and classified. From a general management perspective, the
computerized financial management system did not include modules which should be integrated:
general accounting, cost accounting, assets management, preparation of withdrawal applications
and tracking of disbursements by sources of financing, and annual financial statements.

Project monitoring. Project implementation reports have not been produced regularly. There was
no monitoring and evaluation system. As a result, the logical framework monitoring the outcome
and output indicators have not been regularly completed and updated as most of the reports and
assessments initially planned for the collection and analysis of the performance indicators have not
been produced.


                                                - 14 -

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:


Borrower's performance is rated unsatisfactory. Major divestiture transactions were completed
and some sector liberalization took place. However, GOG's limited effort to adopt key
regulations in the telecom sector, to strengthen the utility regulatory framework, and to confront
powerful vested interests opposed to privatization of Gabon Telecom, has contributed to slowing
down the full realization of project objectives in a timely manner.

8. Lessons Learned

Five lessons can be drawn from this project.

Building effective regulation capacity is a long term endeavor.            Under this project, the
Government of Gabon had a good start in regulating the water and energy sectors by contract and
in setting up institutions to regulate telecommunications and postal services. A similar effort was
expected to be deployed in the transport sectors. The objective was to make all these regulation
arrangements converge, in the medium term, into an independent, fully operational and
multi-sectoral regulation agency. The progress made to date needs to be sustained and put in line
with global best practice; and this effort requires an engagement beyond the project life.

Focus on outcomes should be at the center of the dialogue with the client throughout project
implementation. Dialogue with Government, focusing on results, should be ensured throughout
project implementation to ensure not only its commitment but also that costly technical work is
used. For example, timely decisions on (i) regulations and implementation decrees to strengthen
the role of ARTEL; (ii) the privatization of Gabon Telecoms; and (iii) enactment and
implementation of the OHADA business law, would have helped increase the project impact.

Bank supervision effort should be consistent throughout the project life . To ensure continued
dialogue and avoid delays in project implementation, the Bank should have increased the number
of supervision missions and, preferably,       strengthened presence for continued follow up on
mission conclusions.

Effective communication with stakeholders is key to successful implementation of a
privatization program. In order to maximize the effectiveness of any communication campaign, it
should start early on, if possible at the preparation stage. The idea would be to try to build
consensus for privatization at the time of the design of the program (thus also being able to
provide feedback on needs and concerns of key stakeholders, and factor these ones into the
design). This effort should be sustained and even amplified throughout the project implementation
so as to overcome the resistance of vested interests.

Cofinancing is a risk factor requiring mitigation throughout implementation. Even if a
cofinancier is identified during project preparation, the Bank team should attempt to define
realistic performance indicators taking into account only the potential direct impact of the project
in relation with the Bank funds. Under the second and third extension of the project closing date,
the decision of the Bank team to narrow its focus on specific activities was partly driven by the



                                                 - 15 -

limited resources. This probably would not have been the case if the AfDB project had disbursed
under normal conditions.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The paragraphs below summarizes the contribution from the Privatization Committee on the
Government's behalf presented in Annex 10.


Project preparation. At the beginning of project preparation, the weaknesses of the institutional
capacities have been recognized as being a major problem to implementation. Project
implementation had to face many difficulties because of lack of preparation on the part of the
staff, as well as the lack of ability in completing such ambitious projects. Later, the project
implementation team demonstrated that it had the capacity and the experience to execute the
project. Difficulties were further accentuated with the lack of communication that has contributed
to limiting understanding and acceptance of the privatization principle and process by the public
opinion and some operators.

Achievement of development objectives. Because of the ambitious aspect of the project, the
results obtained by the different sectors were not satisfactory in many respects. Reforms were
very ambitious. The project implementation was affected by the lack of follow up of the
operations. Also, the lack of a coherent institutional framework allowing the Privatization
Committee to monitor and ensure the good operational management of the program has
contributed to limiting its effectiveness.

The difficult social and economic environment in which the privatization program was
implemented, characterized by a deriorating economic and financial situation, was the major
problem preventing the successful execution of the privatization program. In order to accelerate
the divestiture program under this difficult situation, some transactions took place outside of the
established institutional framework (CECA GADIS, SOSUHO, CFG, EAULECO, AGRIPOG).

World Bank procedures. What is unfortunate is the lack of flexibility of some of the Bank's
procedures related to the selection of consultants and procurement of goods. Some Bank's
requirements did not reflect the reality in the field, which explained some exceptions to the rules
and procedures defined by the privatization framework.




(b) Cofinanciers:

Comments were also received from the African Development Bank. They are presented in Annex 11 and
summarized below.

The project (public enterprises restructuring and privatization Project) financed by the African
Bank of Development (AfDB), was prepared to support the Gabonese Government to implement


                                                - 16 -

the economic reforms adopted after 1994 with the collaboration of donors, and more specially
with the IMF, and the World Bank. Collaboration with the World Bank was sustained during
project preparation. A joint mission was conducted in December 1997. Exchange of views were
also maintained throughout the World Bank project implementation.

Disbursements under the AfDB's project were suspended from 1998 to 2001 after the country
failed to honor its debt. Since the lifting of the sanctions, the weaknesses in the administrative and
technical capacities of the implementing agency have contributed to delaying project
implementation.




(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

N.A.

10. Additional Information

N.A.




                                                  - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                             1
                Indicator/Matrix                       Projected in last PSR                     Actual/Latest Estimate


1. Domestic private investment has          The PSR did not indicate the performance 1. Between the periods 1994-1998 and
increased. Investments in non oil sectors   indicators.                              1999-2003, average share of private
have increased.                                                                      investments to GDP has increased from 17.9
                                                                                     to 19.9 percent; public/private investment
                                                                                     ratio declined from 0.4 to 0.2. In the non-oil
                                                                                     sector, private investments have progressed
                                                                                     from 11.9 percent to 17.6.



2. Access to public services have increased                                          2. Between 1998 and 2003, electricity
(electricity, water, telephone and post)                                             connections increased by 30 percent. Water
                                                                                     connections increased by 33 percent. The
                                                                                     number of cellular phone subscribers soared
                                                                                     from 8,900 to 420,000 between 1999 and
                                                                                     November 2004. Support to the postal sector
                                                                                     was interrupted; GOG is preparing the
                                                                                     restructuring of the ailing Gabon post.




3. Factor costs have decreased                                                       3. Since the privatization, price of electricity
                                                                                     increased by 22 percent for medium voltage,
                                                                                     and 16 percent for low voltage. Price of water
                                                                                     increased by 12 percent. Costs of
                                                                                     telecommunication remain high (on average,
                                                                                     the cost of call from mobile to mobile of the
                                                                                     same operator is FCFA 185 per minute
                                                                                     during peak hour).



4. Laws and regulation                                                               4. Draft legislation prepared to improve the
                                                                                     legal environment for business were adopted
                                                                                     in December 2004. Two regulatory bodies for
                                                                                     telecom and post have been created but their
                                                                                     capacity needs to be strengthened.


Output Indicators:
                                                                             1
                Indicator/Matrix                       Projected in last PSR                     Actual/Latest Estimate
PUBLIC UNDERSTANDING AND
SUPPORT OF THE REFORM PROGRAM               The PSR did not indicate the performance
(COMMUNICATION)                             indicators.

1. Advisory service to prepare and implement                                         1. Partially completed due to lack of financial
a communication program                                                              resources to implement the program



2. A Fully operational communication and                                             2. Staffed and equipped but lack of financial
information unit staffed with well trained                                           resources and institutional support to
qualified personnel                                                                  implement the program.



3. Number of trainees                                                                3. One seminar for parliamentarians; two
                                                                                     seminars for the journalists; no training for
                                                                                     government staff. Two information campaign
                                                                                     for schools and universities.


4. Effective communication



                                                             - 18 -

                                                             4. Not done
 links between government leaders, civil
society, political corps and private sector
opinion leaders.


5. level of understanding for privatization,                 5. Third opinion poll not completed to give a
how it works and how it stands to benefit the                sense of what people of Gabon think about
people of Gabon                                              the privatization


6. Design, produce and distribute informative                6. Done. But material not produced regularly.
material on privatization process.



REGULATORY FRAMEWORK AND
CAPACITY BUILDING



1.Advisory services to design and prepare                    1. Laws adopted in June 2001 have created
legislation establishing an autonomous                       two separate regulatory agencies for Telecom
multi-sector regulatory agency.                              and Postes. They are not autonomous. The
                                                             regulation and decrees prepared since 2002,
                                                             to give them autonomy, regulatory power and
                                                             credibility, are still not adopted.


                                                             2. The two regulatory bodies did not benefit
2. Staff training program is fully implemented.              from training program due to lack of
Develop capacity for a fully operational                     resources. Capacities are very weak.
regulation agency

                                                             3. No sector studies completed.
3. Analytical base of regulating private
provision of infrastructure services is
established. Sector studies (tariff, demand,
etc) completed.

                                                             4. A private regulator for the telecom sector
4.Regulatory function is adequately provided                 operated from 2000 to 2001.
during the interim phase.

                                                             5. Laws adopted in June 2001 for telecom
5.Legal and regulatory changes for a                         and post. Regulation of water and electricity
progressive removal of monopolies in the                     are embodied in the concession agreement;
telecommunication, post electricity, water                   the project did not prepare the laws and
sectors has been enacted.                                    implementing texts for a independent
                                                             regulatory system.




PRIVATIZATION OF SELECTED LARGE
PUBLIC ENTERPRISES


1. Privatization committee is adequately                     1. Completed.
staffed and is fully operational. Advisory
services to increase institutional capacity to
prepare and implement privatization program.

2. Two licenses are awarded to competing
mobile service provider with possibility of                  2. Completed.
by-pass for international.

3. The telecommunication basic services
basic services provider (Gabon TELECOM)
is privatized with monopoly but with limited                 3. Not completed.




                                                   - 19 -

exclusivity.


4. Privatization contracts signed for SEEG,
CIMGABON, HEVAGAB, AGROGABON,                                4. SEEG, CIMGABON, HEVEGAB,
OCTRA, and AIR GAGON.                                        AGROGABON privatized.
                                                             Concession for OCTRA signed in 1999 but
                                                             cancelled in May 2003 (supported by
                                                             PAPSUT); preparation for new concession
                                                             ongoing. Air Gabon restructuring ongoing
                                                             (not supported under the project but by
                                                             GOG)




INCREASE LOCAL PARTICIPATION IN
THE PRIVATIZATION PROCESS

1. Advisory services to prepare regulations                  1. The Central Bank was actually in charge of
pertaining to the functioning of a financial                 this activity. The legislation has already been
market trading activities, and financial                     approved.
intermediation.

2. Review and update current legislation on                  2. Completed
securities issuance.

3. Advisory services to regulate mutual                      3. Legislation prepared but not yet adopted.
funds.                                                       Adoption is expected for March 2005 during
                                                             the parliamentary session (the legislation will
                                                             also allow the privatization of GOG's minority
                                                             shares).


4. . Select mutual fund manager                              4. Not completed; bidding documents not yet
                                                             prepared. Selection expected for July 2005.


                                                             5. Valuation completed. The minority shares
5. Advisory services to value, classify and                  identified are not yet sold (the sale processes
prepare legislation for sale of minority shares              is expected to start after adoption of the
in 50 enterprises. Advisory services to                      legislation). Minority shares in 20 companies
privatize minority shares.                                   are expected to be transfered in the mutual
                                                             fund. The minority shares in 37 companies
                                                             will be sold directly to shareholders with
                                                             preemptive rights, or indirectly through
                                                             financial intermediation.




IMPROVEMENT OF THE BUSINESS
ENVIRONMENT AND PROMOTION OF
INVESTMENT

1. Advisory services to revise labor code                    1. Completed. The labor code was revised
                                                             and approved.


2. Support to disseminate new investment                     2. Not completed.
charter.




                                                   - 20 -

3. Advisory services to prepare and                                      3. Partially completed. Data management
implement a restructuring plan for the social                            system improved. CNSS's hospitals are
security agency (CNSS)                                                   under private management since May 2004.




4. Revise social security code and carry out                             4. Social security code not revised. Actuarial
actuarial studies.                                                       studies not completed (expected for June
                                                                         2005).


5. Support to the initiatives under OHADA to                             5. The revised texts submitted to the Conseil
introduce uniform business laws. Corporate                               National de l'OHADA in May 2003 were
and business laws are made consistent with                               adopted only in December 2004.
the guidelines of OHADA for regional
harmonization and widely published.


1End of project

The outcome and output indicators are from the logframe presented in the Technical Annex of the
Memorandum of the President of the IBRD to the Executive Directors, April 1997, page 68. Only the
outcome and output indicators are reported in the table (the narrative summaries as presented in the first
column of the logframe of the Technical Annex are not reported since the format of the table above does
not provide a column for that purpose). The logframe presented above is slightly different from the
logframe presented in the Technical Annex, but all the indicators are reported.




                                                   - 21 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                       Appraisal         Actual/Latest     Percentage of
                                                                        Estimate          Estimate            Appraisal
                           Component                                   US$ million       US$ million
Public Understanding and Support of the Reform Program                      0.90               1.10                120

Improvement of the Business Environment and Promotion                       1.70               1.20                 70
of investment

Regulatory Framework and Capacity Building                                  1.70               0.00                  0

Privatization of Selected Large Public Enterprises                          4.80               5.50                114

Increase Local Participation in the Privatization Process                   0.90               0.80                 88

Support to the Privatization Committee                                      0.00               0.90



Total Baseline Cost                                                        10.00               9.50
                             Total Project Costs                           10.00               9.50
                      Total Financing Required                             10.00               9.50
Data above are estimates from the Privatization Committee (PC). Data from the PC are used since the loan
agreement did not indicate the allocated amounts by project components but rather by category: (i)
consultants'services and training; (ii) goods and equipment; and (iii) refunding of project preparation advance.
Initially, in the Loan agreement, the allocated amounts were US$7.9 million, US$0.6 million, and US$1.5 million
respectively for the three categories. In 2000, the consultant's services and training component was almost fully
disbursed or committed. The Bank and the Government agreed to reallocate the amounts in November 2000. In
sum, about US$9.8 million were allocated to the consultants'services, and US$0.2 million to goods and services.
The Bank data indicate a disbursement rate of about 91 percent. The discrepancies may be due to the use of
different exchange rates (to convert into dollars the data estimates from the Privatization Committee) at different
points in time .




                                                        - 22 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                             Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                  Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate
                             Bank        Govt.      CoF.      Bank       Govt.       CoF.      Bank    Govt. CoF.
Public Understanding and     0.90        0.90       0.90      1.10       0.00         0.00     122.2   0.0    0.0
Support of the Reform
Program



Improvement of the           1.70        0.40       0.60      1.20       0.00         0.00     70.6    0.0    0.0
Business Environment and
Promotion of investment

Regulatory Framework         1.70        4.00       2.00      0.00       0.00         0.00     0.0     0.0    0.0
and Capacity Building


Privatization of Selected    4.80        0.20       6.50      5.50       2.00         0.00     114.6  1000.0  0.0
Large Public Enterprises


Increase Local               0.90        0.00       0.50      0.80       0.00         0.00     88.9    0.0    0.0
Participation in the
Privatization Process


Support to the               0.00        0.90       1.20      0.90       6.00         0.00     0.0    666.7   0.0
Privatization Committee

Support to retrenched        0.00        0.90       3.60      0.00       0.00         0.00     0.0     0.0    0.0
workers

   Data are estimates from the Privatization Committee (PC). The Cofinancier supporting the Government is
   the African Development Bank, which has actually disbursed 2.4 percent (as of November 2004). Data on
   disbursement specifically for the regulatory framework component are not available from the PC and the
   Bank.




                                                     - 23 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

See section 4.3.




                                      - 24 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              November 1996             3    TASK LEADER (1),
                                             FINANCIAL SPEC. (1), PSD
                                             SPECIALIST (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              December 1996             6    TASK LEADER (1)
                                             TELECOM SPECIALIST
                                             (1) FINANCIAL SECTOR
                                             SPECIALIST (1) LAWYER
                                             (1) INSTITUTIONAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1) POSTAL
                                             REGULATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1),


 Supervision
              12/02/1998                7    TASK LEADER (1), PSD             U               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1),
                                             COMMUNICATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1), AGRIC.
                                             ECONOMIST (1),
                                             TELECOM SPECIALIST
                                             (1), FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALSIT (1), PROJECT
                                             MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)

              10/12/1999                2    TELECOM SPECIALIST (1);          U               S
                                             SR. OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1)
              12/16/1999                4    TASK LEADER (1); AGRIC.          U               S
                                             ECONOMIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1); SR. OPER.
                                             OFFICER (1)

              07/13/2000                2    TTL (1); FINANCIAL SPEC. (1)     S               S

              07/26/2001                1    PSD SPECIALIST (1)               S               S

              09/19/2002                3    TTL (1); TELECOM                 S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST(1)
              04/19/2003                2    SR. TELECOM ENGINEER (1);        U               U



                                              - 25 -

                                            FINANCIAL SPECIALIST. (1)

               09/23/2003              2    TTL (1); FINANCIAL                S    S
                                            MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1)

               03/12/2004              3    TTL (1); FINANCIAL                S    S
                                            MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1); SR. TELECOM ENGINEER
                                            (1)


 ICR
               10/18/2004             1     ECONOMIST



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               20                          64.0
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    12                          36.0
  Supervision                              40                        128.0
  ICR                                       6                          19.0
  Total                                    78                        247.0




                                            - 26 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


- Bank performance in Lending is marginally satisfactory. Supervision and overall performance are both
marginally unsatisfactory.
- Borrower performance in preparation is marginally satisfactory. Government implementation
performance is marginally unsatisfactory. Implementation agency performance is marginally
unsatisfactory. Overall borrower performance is unsatisfactory.




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

- Project Documents (Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development to the Executive Directors; Technical Annexes)
 - Bank's aide memoires and project status reports
 - African Development Bank's contribution to the ICR
 - Privatization Secretariat' s Contribution to the ICR




                                                     - 29 -

Additional Annex 8. General Project Background

Following the economic and financial crisis caused by the 1986 collapse of oil prices, Gabonese
authorities embarked on a program aimed at restructuring and diversifying the economy. The
rationale, spelled out in a Declaration of Development Strategy in March 1988, was to refocus the
State's role on primary functions. This involved tackling the challenge posed by the negative oil
revenue shock on government finance, as well as improving key productive activities through
private sector participation. The strategy was supported by a US$50 million World Bank financed
Structural Adjustment Program (SAP) which was approved in April 1988. The full
implementation of the SAP was, however, jeopardized by episodes of social unrest in the early
1990s.

In January 1994, the CFA franc was devalued for the first time since independence vis-à-vis the
French Franc. Along with the devaluation, the Government outlined a Development Policy
program in a statement dated April 1994. The program was supported by the World Bank which
approved a US$30 million Economic Recovery Loan in June 1994. The program was also
supported by an IMF stand-by arrangement.

Later, to advance the adjustment agenda, the Government prepared an Economic Program for the
period July 1995 - June 1998. The program, supported by a US$165 million IMF three-year credit
under the Extended Fund Facility (EFF), was designed to restore competitiveness, diversify the
economy and implement structural reform policies including restructuring and divestiture of public
enterprises. The World Bank Privatization and Regulatory Capacity Building Technical Assistance
Project (PRCBP) was prepared to support the program.

At the time of the devaluation, the public sector comprised 39 enterprises (PEs), of which 13
exceeded 90 percent state-ownership. Overall, the PE sector was inefficient with operating losses
averaging FCFA 30.8 billion per annum during the period 1988-94. As highlighted in a PE sector
review completed in 1996, inefficiency was mainly explained by: (a) frequent interference by
oversight ministries; (b) price controls with prices set below real costs; (c) lack of commercial
orientation and financial discipline; (d) an inadequate organizational and regulatory framework;
and (e) inadequate investment, business and labor codes. The PEs were heavily subsidized by the
Government. Over the 1982-94 period, subsidies to and investment in PEs averaged as much as
20 percent of the overall annual national budget.

The private sector was also facing several constraints. The results of a survey of 130 private
enterprises, conducted in Gabon in early 1996, emphasized the burden of the regulatory
constraints (particularly high taxes as well as tax and customs administration) as the main
impediment to private sector development.




                                                - 30 -

Additional Annex 9. Details on the divestiture of priority Public Enterprises

The project sought to support the State divestiture from five key sectors: water and electricity,
cement, comestible oils, rubber, and telecommunications. The table and discussion below provide
the detail of what was achieved under the project:

                             Summary status of divestiture of priority PEs

            Company                   Sector                              Status
Société d'Energie et d'Eau du    Water and          20-year Concession signed in June 1997. Price of
Gabon (SEEG)                    Electricity         the transfer is FCFA 1.95 billion. The investment
                                                    plan amount to FCFA 300 billion for 20 years.
                                                    FCFA billion 115 invested so far. No
                                                    retrenchment.
Gabon Telecom (GT) / Libertis    Telecom            Laws separating the Office des Postes et
                                                    Telecommunications ( OPT) to create Gabon
                                                    Postes and Gabon Telecom signed in June 2001.
                                                    Technical work for the divestiture of Gabon
                                                    Telecom done; HSBC served as privatization
                                                    advisor; transaction well advanced by the closing
                                                    date, but completion delayed.
HEVEGAB                          Agro-ind. (rubber) Divested in April 2004. Sale price is FCFA 1,9
                                                    billion. 461 employees have been retrenched. The
                                                    investment plan amount to FCFA 13 billion for 5
                                                    years and for both HEVEGAB and AGROGAB.
AGROGAB                          Agro-ind. (palm    Divested in April 2004. Sale price is FCFA 894
                                 oil)               million. 661 employees have been retrenched.
Ciments du Gabon (CIMENTGAB)     Cement            Privatized in July 2000. The Sale price is FCFA 8
                                                   billion. No retrenchment. The Investment plan
                                                   amount to FCFA 12 billion. FCFA 10 billion have
                                                   been invested so far.


        Société d'Energie et d'Eau du Gabon (SEEG)

The project was to provide support for: (i) the concessioning of SEEG, (ii) the preparation of the
laws and the implementation decrees for the new regulatory system, and (iii) a study to determine
a strategy for developing production and bringing electricity to rural areas.

Because of its urgency, and immediately before project approval, the Government gave the
International Finance Corporation (IFC) a mandate to carry out the concessioning, using national
budget funds (GOG started preparing the company for privatization in the context of the World
Bank and IMF structural reform program). The bidding for privatization took place in October
1996. A 20-year concession agreement was signed between GOG and a private operator in June
1997, before project effectiveness. The private operator holds 51 percent interest in SEEG,
against 49 percent for Gabonese nationals including 5 percent for employees. IFC ensured the
transparency of the privatization process which was complex. The agreement included, among
other provisions, a commitment from the operator to implement a FCFA 300 billion investment
plan over a period of 20 years to improve connections and quality of services. To date, the



                                                - 31 -

company has invested about FCFA 115 billion. Profitability has improved and the number of
workers remains stable around 1,500 employees.

A partial audit of the concession focusing on access was completed in 2003 by the Ministry of
Energy. The audit concluded that access had increased albeit delays in some areas. In light of
annual surveys conducted by SEEG between 1999 and 2003, it appears that that the percentage of
satisfied customers has declined from 75 to 64 percent during the same period (SEEG, Rapport
Annuel, 2003), and this is in line with growing concerns from civil society about the quality of
service as well as the execution of the original invesment plan. This raises the issue of the
effectiveness of the regulation arrangements in place as well as the effort of communication with
relevant stakeholders.


Office des Postes et Télécommunications (OPT)

The project was to support: (i) the separation of the postal service and the telecommunications
agency, (ii) the separation between operations and regulatory functions and introduction of new
regulatory functions, (iii) the liberalization of all services offered by the sector, other than the
basic service, (iv) the privatization of the principal operator, Gabon Telecom, (v) the
authorization of a mobile telephone license, and (vi) the reorganization of the postal sector.

The separation of the telecommunications and postal services (Gabon Telecom and Gabon Poste)
was delayed as a result of opposition from OPT management, which contributed to the slow
progress in the completion and validation of preparatory technical work (communication plan for
the employees, social plan, human resources reorganization, establishment of a separated and
operational accounting system, restructuring of ailing postal services). The draft regulations and
laws liberalizing the telecommunication sector were adopted in June 2001. The laws also
separated OPT in two distinct entities: Gabon Telecom and Gabon Postes.

Gabon Telecom.

An investment bank started work at the end of 2001 to prepare the divestiture of Gabon Telecom.
The divestiture was initially expected to be completed during the first quarter of 2003. The
bidding package was still not finalized at project closing, in June 2004. Delay in finalizing the
bidding package was due to several factors: (i) the opposition of powerful vested interests; (ii)
delay in the signing of the social plan; (iii) delay in finalization of the interconnection agreement
between Gabon Telecom and Libertis, its mobile phone subsidiary, signed only in March 2004;
(iv) delays in the ratification of decrees pertaining to land titles; and (v) telecom regulations and
decrees, required for the effectiveness of ARTEL, not adopted. The completion of the transaction
will require an update of the information memorandum as well as all legal documents involved
(modalities for sale of shares, bidding procedures, contractual obligations, shareholders
agreement) submitted by the consultant in August 2003.

Mobile telephony.




                                                 - 32 -

On a more positive front, the mobile phone sector was liberalized with the entry of two private
operators (Telecel and Celtel) in 2000 in competition with Libertis, Gabon Telecom's subsidiary
created in 1999 by OPT. The licenses were provided at no cost to the operators, but they were
required to expand the infrastructure needed for mobile phone services in all the regions.

The two private operators lagged behind the agreed investment plans but started catching up after
an audit of their license was completed in September 2003. Celtel and Telecel have respectively
invested FCFA 50 billion and FCFA 20 billion so far (Sources: Celtel and Telecel). The audit
revealed a lack of compliance with the agreement and resulted in a fine. The private operators,
however, noted that they are facing unfair competition from the public operator, Libertis, which
can rely on Gabon Telecom infrastructure to extend its network even in areas where cost recovery
cannot normally be ensured. The lack of an independent and effective regulatory body, as in the
case of the water and electricity sectors, seems to hinder the performance of the sector.

Gabon Postes

The project provided support for the restructuring of the company and an opening balance sheet
was established following the split from Gabon Telecom. The company has large financial losses
and support was eventually discontinued at the time of the second project extension because it
would not have been an efficient use of resources to support an action program which would have
no material impact on the situation of company. Subsidies from Government reached FCFA 12
billion in 2003 and FCFA 8.2 billion in 2004. Because of the burden on the budget, GOG
commissioned a consultant to carry out a sector strategy study which was completed in October
2004, and the recommendations included : (i) the expansion of financial services and products, (ii)
the development of standardized mail processing, and (ii) the improvement of performance
monitoring. Their implementation has not materialized yet.

Hevegab and Agrogabon

The project was designed to finance studies on valuation and restructuring of Hevegab and
Agrogabon and to provide technical assistance to prepare the privatization.

A first attempt to divest both companies was initiated in 2000 and Winnerpac of Malaysia won the
bids in September 2001. Due to subsequent disagreements with the Government, the sale was
cancelled in January 2003. However, the Government rapidly re-launched the bids for
privatization, and both companies were sold to a belgian group, SIAT, in April 2004. These two
transactions constitute a significant achievement under the project after many years of
unsuccessful search for credible strategic investors.

Created by the Government as part of a drive to develop the agribusiness sector, Hevegab and
Agrogabon have long suffered from poor management and from Government interference in the
companies which were considered as economically and socially strategic. Only SIAT was
interested in Agrogabon; and the same investor ended up winning the bid for Hevegab as well. Its
credentials were found satisfactory with significant experience in Africa, a competent
management, and a good track record. He proposed a deal combining the two companies. GOG



                                               - 33 -

 accepted after the investor agreed to also take on some of the activities (ranch and cattle) of the
 ailing Sogadel. Another reason for GOG's acceptance is that the three companies were heavily
 indebted, with activities either stopped (Hevegab) or rapidly declining; and had low productivity
 for a relatively costly labor force (the average salary in Gabon is relatively high). For two years,
 preceding the divestiture, the cost for GOG to pay Hevegab and Agrogab employees'salaries
 amounted to about FCFA 800 million a month.

 The role of the Government has been very positive in financing the measures necessary to bring
 the two companies to the point of sale, notably providing financing for essential rehabilitation
 work in the plantations and in the processing plants, and for the social plans. The sale contract
 included an investment plan of Euro 20 million, over a period of five years, that would contribute
 to rehabilitating and strengthening the sector while developing programs to include small farmers
 in the production activities. The implementation of the investment plan is now expected to start
 following the completion of the social plan for Agrogabon completed in September 2004. The
 social plans for Hevegab and Sogadel were completed before the divestiture of the companies.

 Ciments du Gabon (CIMGABON)

 The project was designed to finance technical and financial diagnostics, as well as technical
 assistance from a consulting company to prepare the privatization of CIMGABON.

 The privatization strategy prepared by the Privatization Committee was approved by the
 Interministerial Privatization Commission in January 1999. The company was divested in July
 2000 after a successful call for international tenders launched in November 1999. Contrarily to
 what was initially foreseen, GOG decided to use its own resources (without assistance from the
 World Bank) to accelerate the divestiture of the company which was facing increasing
 competition and difficulties following the liberalization of the cement market. The winning bidder
 acquired 75 percent shareholding. The remaining 25 percent was transferred to local investors and
 company employees. The company is profitable and has invested FCFA 10 billion so far (Source:
 Cimgabon). It has modernized its equipment, and has improved the distribution of its products in
 the country. The company has also diversified its products, and is targeting export markets. With
 respect to cost, price of a ton of cement produced by the company has increased from FCFA
 80,000 to FCFA 90,000 between 2000 and 2003. The company is justifying this increase by the
 rapidly rising cost of fuel, its main input.

Other divestitures

The project was initially planned to support the preparation and implementation of the second stage
of the privatization program, which included ten smaller enterprises (SOGADEL, SIAB, SMAG,
Gabon Informatique, Eauleco, Ceca-Gadis, Pizolub, SOGAFUTS, AGRIPOG, SGEPP). During
implementation, the project mainly focused on the large priority PEs presented earlier. Only
SOGADEL was really supported by the project in the context of the divestiture of Hevegab and
Agrogabon.

GOG, divested several of the companies with its own resources. The main reasons to use its own



                                                 - 34 -

resources were threefold: (i) the companies were unlikely to attract credible investors and might
need to be liquidated, (ii) the need to accelerate the divestiture process and limit the negative
consequence on Government budget and on the viability of the company; and (iii) World Bank
procedures which were perceived as cumbersome and, hence, could delay the divestiture. A partial
25-year concession agreement was signed in September 2003 for OPRAG (Office des Ports et
Rades du Gabon), the Port of Owendo and Port Gentil more specifically. The partial concession
covers activities such as services for ships related to access to the port, storage, etc. The private
operator has started implementing its investment plan to expand the quantity and quality of
services, renovate, and improve security and safety. Other companies privatized on GOG's own
resources, and on which the Bank was not involved, are: Ceca Gadis, Sosuho, Compagnie
Forestière du Gabon (CFG), and Eauleco. They were privatized on a sole-source basis. The
Privatization Committee was not involved in the divestiture of Eauleco and CFG. The transparency
of these divestitures cannot be reasonably ascertained.


 Company                              Sector           Status
 Société Gabonaise de                  Agro-industry   Nyanga Ranch and cattle sold in 2004. Privatized
 Développement de l'Elevage               (cattle)     with AGROGABON and HEVEGAB. The sale
 (SOGADEL)                                             price is FCFA 720 million. 349 employees have
                                                       been retrenched.
 Société Industrielle d'Agriculture et Agro-industry   Liquidated
 d'Elevage de Boumango (SIAEB)            (cattle)

 Société Meunière et Avicole du        Agro-industry   GOG shares to be transferred to a Mutual Fund
 Gabon (SMAG)

 Gabon Informatique                      Computer      Liquidated in 1999

 Société des Eaux Minérales de         Mineral water   Privatized in 2002. The sale price is FCFA 1,3
 Leconi (EAULECO)                                      billion. No retrenchment.

 Société d'Exploitation Commerciale    Goods trading   Privatized in 1998. The sale price is FCFA 350
 Africaine ­ Société de Distribution                   million. No retrenchment.
 (Ceca-Gadis)

 Société Pizo de Formulation de          Petroleum     Pending
 Lubrifiants (Pizolub)
 Société Gabonaise de Futs                Industry     Merged with Pizolub. Pending
 (SOGAFUTS)

 Société Agricole de Port Gentil        Agriculture    Pending
 (AGRIPOG)

 Société Gabonaise d'Entrepôts et       Petroleum      Withdrawn from the list of companies to be
 de Produits Pétroliers (SGEPP)                        privatized given its strategic importance

 It shoud also be noted that two privatization transactions in the transport sector, namely the
 railways company (OCTRA) and the national airline (Air Gabon) were cross-referenced in this
 project documents but were to be supported by a transport project. Octra was concessioned in



                                                    - 35 -

July 1999 but the contract was eventually cancelled in 2003. From the outset, the Government
indicated that Air Gabon would be handled directly by themselves. They went on to hire
Lufthansa Consulting as advisor for the company restructuring, but no decision to divest has
materialized yet.




                                            - 36 -

Additional Annex 10. Government Contribution to the Implementation Completion Report

                         Comité de Privatisation, République du Gabon
                            Contribution au Rapport de fin d'activité
                                          Libreville, novembre 2004


Contexte

Le programme de privatisation des entreprises publiques au Gabon, mis en oeuvre en 1997 et
soutenu par l'Accord de Prêt n°4186-GA signé entre la République Gabonaise et la Banque
Mondiale, s'inscrit dans le cadre des réformes structurelles que le Gouvernement a entrepris au
lendemain de la dévaluation du France CFA en 1994. Ces réformes visent à renforcer le
dynamisme de l'économie nationale et confirment l'attachement du gouvernement aux principes
de l'économie de marché.

A la base, le Projet de privatisation a eu pour objectif sectoriel de contribuer au développement du
secteur privé par l'instauration d'un environnement favorable aux affaires. Les objectifs
spécifiques étaient :
- la création d'un cadre réglementaire, juridique et institutionnel pour favoriser le développement
du secteur privé ;
- le transfert au secteur privé des entreprises publiques et parapubliques et la cession des
participations minoritaires de l'Etat , tout en minimisant l'impact social négatif des privatisations.

Préparation du Projet

La préparation du Projet s'est faite conjointement par les experts de la Banque et les autorités
gabonaises.
Au regard des objectifs et de la dimension du programme, la multiplicité des indicateurs et la
complexité des processus à mettre en oeuvre pour les atteindre attestent du caractère ambitieux du
projet à sa conception.
Lors de sa préparation la cellule d'exécution du Projet n'a pas eu d'informations sur
l'identification du Projet. L'essentiel de la préparation a été réalisée sans l'implication des organes
d'exécution, lesquels n'étaient pas suffisamment sollicités ni outillés pour s'impliquer de façon
conséquente dans cette phase importante.
Ainsi, lors de la mise en oeuvre, la faiblesse des capacités institutionnelles a constitué un handicap
important. De nombreux aspects de l'exécution du programme vont de ce fait rencontrer des
résistances au sein des entités et entreprises concernées par le Projet...

Par ailleurs, la préparation du Projet n'a pas intégré suffisamment en amont l'aspect
communication pour l'information du public et des opérateurs afin de les préparer à accueillir les
réformes initiées...
Toutefois, le Projet va tenter par la suite de pallier cet écueil en mettant en place en 1999 une
cellule communication au sein du Comité de Privatisation. Mais cette structure qui a pris le
processus en cours souffrira du manque d'expérience pour remplir efficacement sa mission dès le
départ.
La faible communication a ainsi limité la compréhension et l'acceptation par l'opinion et certains


                                                   - 37 -

opérateurs du principe et du processus de privatisation.
Des résistances ont été manifestes tout au long du processus et ont contribué à ralentir le rythme
d'exécution du projet. De nombreux objectifs fixés au moment du lancement du projet n'ont pas
été atteints dans le temps impartit.

Perception de l'organe d'exécution du Projet sur l'évolution du processus de privatisation

Les missions assignées au Comité de Privatisation en tant qu'organe d'exécution du Projet ont
constitué une tâche importante pour cette structure.
D'importantes difficultés ont été observées à la mise en oeuvre du Projet ; elles étaient liées au
défaut de préparation du personnel, au manque d'expérience dans la conduite de projets de cette
envergure. Mais par la suite l'équipe d'exécution a acquis une capacité suffisante et une
expérience importante dans la conduite du Projet.

Quant à l'appréciation sur l'exécution du programme, les résultats attendus et l'impact du projet
sur l'économie et les populations, conditionnés par la réalisation des objectifs fixés, devaient se
mesurer à travers des indicateurs bien spécifiés. Dans l'ensemble, le projet a été convenablement
exécuté et a produit d'importants résultats dans les principaux secteurs.

Toutefois, au regard des ambitions affichées par le Projet, les réalisations sectorielles obtenues
restent insuffisantes à de nombreux égards. Les réformes, souvent ambitieuses étant marquées par
la lenteur des résultats que l'ont est en droit d'attendre à l'issue de telles réformes.
En effet, les enjeux sociaux économiques et financiers du programme sont si importants pour
considérer les réalisations actuelles comme totalement satisfaisantes.

Performances des différents protagonistes

La nature et la qualité de la collaboration des différents protagonistes impliqués dans le Projet ont
été peu satisfaisants au départ, mais se sont améliorées par la suite.

Du côté de l'organe d'exécution du Projet, le manque d'expérience et de formation observé au
lancement du projet ont constitué un handicap à l'exécution correcte des activités clés du
programme.
L'organisation et les procédures prévues à l'origine pour l'exécution du Projet n'ont pas été
complètement adoptées, rendant ainsi peu efficace l'exécution attendue des activité.
Cette situation a favorisé des entorses aux règles et procédures définies, et affaibli le suivi
administratif des indicateurs de performance.

Toutefois, des efforts dans la maîtrise des procédures et de la gestion du Projet ont été réalisés
grâce au programme de formation et de renforcement de capacités dont les cadres de la cellule
d'exécution ont bénéficié. Ce qui leur a permis d'acquérir une expérience conséquente dans la
conduite du processus de privatisation.

La formation et le renforcement des capacités ont donc pallier les insuffisances de départ.




                                                  - 38 -

Du côté de la Banque, la collaboration avec la Banque Mondiale s'est caractérisée par un suivi
régulier de l'exécution des activités du Projet tout au long du processus. Le rôle d'assistance des
experts de la Banque a été satisfaisant et s'est traduit par une implication déterminante à plusieurs
niveaux et notamment dans les différents aspects de conseil, de suivi et de contrôle de l'exécution
des activités.
On déplore cependant la rigidité de certaines procédures de la Banque, au niveau de l'acquisition
des biens et des services de consultants. En effet, certaines exigences de la Banques ne cadrant
pas souvent avec les réalités locales, ont expliqué plusieurs dérogations aux règles et procédures
définies par la loi de privatisation.

Du côté du Gouvernement : le Gouvernement est l'initiateur des réformes mises en oeuvre pour
le redressement de l'économie. Sa détermination à appliquer les réformes initiées et son appui à
l'exécution de celles-ci sont de première importance dans le bon déroulement du processus.
Le contexte socioéconomique et financier particulièrement difficile dans lequel s'est inscrit
l'ensemble des réformes initiées par les autorités a souvent limité l'engagement du Gouvernement
à poursuivre de façon cohérente et régulière les réformes.
Ainsi, le Comité de Privatisation a souvent manqué du soutien nécessaire pour vaincre les
résistances, dépasser les intérêts de certains groupes et obtenir les décisions et arbitrages pour
faire avancer le processus.

Du côté des consultants : les services de consultants ont aidé à la bonne exécution des opérations
du programme. Leur assistance a été satisfaisante dans l'ensemble, malgré les retards accusés et
les échecs enregistrés dans certaines transactions.
Certaines prestation n'ont pas été satisfaisante en tout point. C'est le cas de la prestation du BIT
qui n'a pas conduit sa mission à terme dans le cadre de l'assistance technique à la restructuration
de la CNSS. D'autres abandons et des prestations peu satisfaisantes ont été enregistrés, des coûts
engagés souvent très élevés...

Principales difficultés, contraintes et insuffisances du Projet

Le contexte économique et social difficile dans lequel s'est déroulé le programme de privatisation,
caractérisé par une dégradation accentuée de la situation économique et financière du pays, a
constitué une contrainte importante à la bonne exécution du programme de privatisation.
L'état de dégradation souvent très avancé de nombreuses entreprises du programme a en effet
rendu difficile leur restructuration et leur session au secteur privé.

Pour s'adapter et répondre à ces contraintes, certaines situations locales ont obligé à procéder en
dehors des règles et procédures édictées par la loi... c'est ainsi que des transactions de
privatisation ont été réalisées par des procédures parallèles, en dehors du cadre institutionnel
établit (CECA GADIS, SOSUHO, CFG, EAULECO, AGRIPOG).

L'exécution du programme a également souffert du manque de dispositif de suivi des opérations.
En effet, le défaut d'un cadre institutionnel cohérent permettant au Comité de Privatisation de
suivre et d'assurer une bonne gestion opérationnelle du programme a réduit l'efficacité attendue.




                                                  - 39 -

Les autres manquements importants concernent:

La régulation : l'objectif initial dans ce domaine était de mettre sur pied une agence
multi-sectorielle de régulation qui aurait la charge de la supervision et de la régulation des
secteurs de services publics des Télécommunications, de l'Eau et l'Energie, et des transports.

Bien que le Projet ait contribué à mettre en place un début de régulation dans les secteurs de la
Poste et des Télécommunications, l'objectif d'une régulation efficace, nécessaire pour établir et
faire respecter les règles du jeux dans le nouvel environnement concurrentiel n'est pas atteint ; ce
qui constitue un handicap certain à la pérennité de cet environnement issu des réformes
introduites.

La dimension sociale de la privatisation: à travers la prise en charge de la dimension sociale de la
privatisation, le projet aurait dû contribuer à atténuer l'impact social des privatisations. Mais cette
dimension n'a pas été prise en compte par la Banque Mondiale. Et l'intention de la Banque
Africaine de Développement de couvrir cette activité n'est toujours pas effective.

Leçons et perspectives

Le programme de privatisation des entreprises publiques au Gabon tout comme l'ensemble des
réformes structurelles mises en oeuvre par le Gouvernement constituent un champ d'expérience
important pour les protagonistes impliqués dans la conduite de ces réformes. Le Comité de
Privatisation a pour sa part acquis une expérience qui peut être capitalisée et servir d'autres
initiatives de la Banque Mondiale dans la perspective du soutient aux processus de développement
du Gabon.




                                                 - 40 -

Additional Annex 11. Contribution of the African Development Bank (Novembre 2004)

Le projet (Projet d'appui à la restructuration/privatisation des entreprises publiques financé par la
BAD) constitue un volet important à l'appui aux reformes économiques engagées depuis 1994 par
le Gouvernement gabonais et les bailleurs de fonds, notamment le FMI, la Banque mondiale et la
BAD. Il fait suite à une requête que le Gouvernement a adressé à la Banque en juin 1997 dans le
but de renforcer les actions déjà entreprises dans le cadre de ces reformes. Auparavant, une
mission de la BAD s'était rendue à Libreville, en décembre 1996, pour examiner un appui à la
privatisation des entreprises publiques et avait identifié les actions préalables à l'instruction du
projet.

Parallèlement, une coordination a été maintenue entre la BAD et la Banque mondiale pour
examiner les possibilités d'un cofinancement du programme car l'appui envisagé nécessitait un
financement complémentaire relativement important. Cette coordination s'est poursuivie avec la
réalisation, en décembre 1997, d'une mission conjointe entre les deux institutions pour aboutir au
rapport d'évaluation du projet.

Le projet a démarré ses activités en 1998 grâce aux ressources du financement de la Banque
mondiale et du Gouvernement qui ont pris en charge un certain nombre d'activités prévues sur
financement de la BAD. Les composantes de la BAD n'ont pu démarrer à cette date en raison des
sanctions qui ont frappé le Gabon pour cause d'arriérés de la dette vis-à-vis de la BAD de 1998 à
2001. Néanmoins, la coordination entre la BAD et la Banque mondiale s'est poursuivi pendant et
après cette période à travers des échanges de vue et de rapports à l'occasion des missions de
supervision du projet organisées par chaque institution.

Cette coopération se renforce davantage avec l'implication de la Banque mondiale dans le
processus de mise en oeuvre du PAS III que la BAD a approuvé, en juin 2004, en faveur du
Gabon.

L'avancement des composantes sur le financement de la BAD a souffert des sanctions qui ont
frappé le pays. Depuis la levée de ces sanctions, la faiblesse des capacités administratives de
l'agence d'exécution et la complexité des composantes du projet ont contribué à retarder
davantage sa mise en oeuvre. Cette faiblesse est observée dans la qualité des documents soumis à
l'approbation de la BAD, notamment les multiples termes de référence qui ont tous dus être
rédigés par la BAD. Le personnel du Comité ne dispose pas d'une expérience avérée dans les
innovations introduites par le projet, notamment en matière de restructuration d'entreprises
publiques, de cession ou concession d'entreprises publiques, de régulation dans les secteurs des
infrastructures et mise en oeuvre d'un nouvel environnement favorable aux affaires.




                                                - 41 -

- 42 -

