Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4186 GA
Loan Agreement
(Privatization and Regulatory Capacity Building Project)
between
THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 4, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4186 GA 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 4, 1997, between THE GABONESE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Bank has received a letter from the Borrower, dated April 22, 1997, 
describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to increase 
competitiveness and promote private sector growth (the Program), and declaring the 
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modification of Section 6.03 set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
“Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank.  If: (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been 
suspended 
with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period 
of thirty days, or 
(b) at any time, the Bank determines, after 
consultation with the Borrower, 
that an amount of the Loan will not be 
required to finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank 
determines, with 
respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan,  that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives 
of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement 
or the execution of 
such contract, without the Borrower having taken 
timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for 
financing out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines 
that 
the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in 
the Loan 
Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect 
of such contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing 
out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an 
amount of the Loan shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or 
(f) the Bank shall have received notice from 
the Guarantor pursuant to  Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
may, by 
notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the 
giving of 
such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be canceled.”.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“CFAF” and “CFA Franc” each means the currency of the Borrower; 
(b)
“Communications Director” means the Communications Director in the PIC 
referred to in paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(c)
“French Franc” and “FRF” each means the lawful currency of the French 
Republic; 
(d)
“MFEBPP” means Ministère des Finances, de l’Economie, du Budget et des 
Participations chargé de la Privatisation, the Borrower’s Ministry in charge of 
finance and economy; 
(e)
“OHADA” means Organisation pour l’Harmonisation en Afrique du Droit des 
Affaires established under the Treaty dated October 17, 1993 and to which the Borrower 
is a member; 
(f)
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.02 of this 
Agreement; 
(g)
“PC” means Comité de Privatisation, the Committee in charge of carrying 
out the decisions made by the PIC, established and operating under the Borrower’s 
Decree No. 000287/PR dated March 19, 1997, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(h)
“Project Coordinator” means the Project Coordinator and chairman of the 
PC referred to in paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(i)
“PIC” means Commission Interministrielle de Privatisation, the Commission 
in charge of all decisions relating to privatization, established and operating under 
the Borrower’s Decree No. 000289/PR dated March 19, 1997, as amended to the date to 
this Agreement; 
(j)
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual referred to in paragraph 
2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement and adopted pursuant to Section 6.01 (b) of this 
Agreement as amended from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the 
Project Implementation Manual; 
(k)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated January 
Page  3
15, 1997 and January 28, 1997 between the Borrower and the Bank; 
(l)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
(m)
“UDEAC” means Union Douanière et Economique de l’Afrique Centrale, 
established under a Treaty dated December 8, 1964, as amended from time to time, and 
to which the Borrower is a member.
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to 
fifty-six million seven hundred thousand French Francs (FRF 56,700,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
French Francs a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against setoff, seizure and 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears on June 15 
and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project through the MFEBPP with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial and accounting practices, and with due 
regard to sound and appropriate environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
Page  4
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Without any limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall, for the purposes of making available its counterpart 
contribution to the financing of the Project: 
(a)
open and thereafter maintain an account in CFAF (the Project Account) in 
a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; 
(b)
deposit into the Project Account an initial contribution of four hundred 
and twenty-five million CFAF (CFAF 425,000,000); 
(c)
thereafter, replenish said account at least on a quarterly basis, or 
whenever its balance shall be less than the equivalent of two hundred and twenty-five 
million CFAF (CFAF 225,000,000); and 
(d)
ensure that amounts deposited into the Project Account shall be used 
exclusively to make payments to meet expenditures made or to be made in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services for the Project in addition to those financed 
from the proceeds of the Loan. 
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section, including those for the Special Account, 
for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable 
to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such 
year, 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank 
shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
Without any limitation to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall:
Page  5
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section audited in accordance with said paragraph 
(b), 
every four months during the first twelve months after 
the Effective 
Date and every six (6) months during the 
second twelve months after 
the Effective Date; and
(ii)
furnish to the Bank, not later than two (2) months after 
the end of each audit period referred to in (i) of this 
paragraph (c), a certified copy of the report of any such 
audit.
(d)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
audits referred to in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section and that the report of any such audit contains a 
separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year 
(or such other period 
referred to in paragraph (c) of this 
Section), together with the 
procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
the Project Account has been opened and the initial contribution referred 
to in Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement has been deposited therein; 
(b)
the Borrower has adopted the Project Implementation Manual, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank; 
(c)
the Borrower has established an internal financial system acceptable to 
the Bank for the implementation of the Project; 
(d)
the Borrower has employed the independent auditors referred to in Section 
4.01 (b) of this Agreement, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 
(e)
the Borrower has employed the accountant referred to in paragraph 1 (b) 
Page  6
of Schedule 5 of this Agreement, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and the accountant has taken up his post. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister responsible for finance and economy of the Borrower 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministère des Finances, de l’Economie,
  du Budget et des Participations
  chargé de la Privatisation
B.P.165
Libreville, Gabon
Cable address: 
Telex:
ECOFIN
5238 GO
Libreville
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Paul Boundoukou-Latha 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Serge Michailof 
Page  7
Acting Regional Vice President 
Africa 
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
    % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
French Francs)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants'
45,000,000
100%
services and
training
(2)
Goods and 
 3,200,000
100% of foreign
Equipment
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(3)
Refunding of
 8,500,000
Amounts due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (c) of 
Advance
this Agreement
_________
56,700,000
TOTAL
==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for services to be rendered by 
consultant firms under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent each, and for 
goods, equipment and services to be rendered by individual consultants under contracts 
not exceeding $50,000 equivalent each, under such terms and conditions as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to promote private sector development through: 
(a) the establishment of a competitive regulatory and business environment conducive 
to private sector investment; (b) the transfer of productive assets owned by the 
Borrower and commercial activities to the private sector; (c) the establishment of an 
appropriate institutional framework for the implementation of the Program; and (d) the 
Page  8
improvement of public understanding of, and support for, the Program. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to the modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives.
Part A:
Public Understanding of, and Support for, the Program 
1.
Establishment and operation of a communications and information unit on 
privatization within the PC. 
2.
Design and implementation of a training program to strengthen the Borrower’s 
capacity to use the media effectively and to communicate information about the Program 
to consumer groups, trade unions and persons interested in the Program. 
3.
Carrying out of a qualitative and quantitative survey of public opinion 
regarding the Program through the provision of technical advisory services. 
4.
Training of journalists to strengthen their capacity to report on economic 
issues relating to the Program. 
5.
Dissemination of information on the Program to the public, including the 
provision of technical advisory services.
Part B:
Regulatory Framework and Capacity Building 
1.
Establishment and operation of a legally and financially autonomous, 
multi-sectoral regulatory agency for, inter alia, the water, electricity, 
telecommunications, post and transport sectors, through the provision of technical 
advisory services. 
2.
Creation of an appropriate legal and regulatory framework aimed at encouraging 
competition and increasing private sector investment in the water, electricity, 
telecommunications and other sectors, including the provision of technical advisory 
services. 
3.
Implementation of training programs on key regulatory issues for the senior 
staff of the regulatory agency referred to in Part B.1 above, including twinning 
programs with regulatory bodies in other countries.
Part C:
Restructuring and Privatization of Selected Public Enterprises 
1.
Privatization of the enterprises operating in priority sectors, namely, 
telecommunications, water, power, palm oil, rubber and cement, including the provision 
of technical advisory services. 
2.
Preparation and support for the implementation of the second phase of 
privatization included in the Program. 
3.
Strengthening of the operation of the PC to implement the Program, through the 
provision of training and advisory services and the acquisition of equipment.
Part D:
Promotion of Local Participation in the Privatization Process
1.
Provision of legal advisory services for: (i) the preparation of draft 
regulations pertaining to the sale of the Borrower’s shares in selected enterprises to 
the public, financial markets, trading activities and financial intermediaries; (ii) 
preparation of draft legislation to establish and regulate private mutual funds and 
broker dealers; and (iii) review of the current legislation on securities issuance and 
preparation of draft legislation as necessary to amend, update, or consolidate current 
legislation.
2.
Provision of technical advisory services for: (i) the valuation and 
determination of sale methods of the Borrower’s shares in selected enterprises, and 
(ii) the competitive selection of a syndicate leader for the direct sale of Borrower’s 
shares in selected enterprises to the public and of a mutual fund manager. 
Page  9
3.
Provision of technical advisory services for the determination of a mechanism 
for clearing trading transactions.
Part E:
Improvement of the Business Environment and Promotion of 
Investment
1.
Within the framework of the OHADA uniform legislation, provision of legal 
advisory services for: (i) the compilation and computerization of all applicable legal 
texts; (ii) the review of applicable business law texts to identify texts to be 
repealed, amended, or updated, or the enactment of new legislation; and (iii) the 
preparation of necessary new business law texts. 
2.
Carrying out a review to determine the most appropriate methods for the 
settlement of business disputes, including alternative dispute resolution mechanisms, 
and provision of technical advisory services to assist in the implementation of the 
selected method(s).
3.
Provision of legal advisory services for: (i) the revision of the Borrower’s 
Labor Code to reduce labor market rigidity and the preparation of implementation 
decrees of such Labor Code; and (ii) the preparation and implementation of an audit 
and restructuring plan of the Borrower’s Caisse Nationale de Sécurité Sociale (CNSS), 
including the preparation of the necessary amendments to the existing social security 
regulations. 
4.
Organization of workshops and dissemination of information regarding new 
business law texts and the new Borrower’s policy on investment to inform the public 
and legal practitioners of said new texts and policy and of the modifications to said 
Labor Code and to support the initiatives under OHADA to introduce uniform business 
laws. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3 
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions 
A.
General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period. 
(b)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(c)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement. 
(d)
“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn. 
B.
Interest 
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts. 
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Page  10
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
PIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii)
PIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings: 
(a)
“PIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the Paris interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in French 
Francs for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date preceding 
the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
“PIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the Paris interbank 
offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in 
respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings 
or portions thereof 
allocated by the Bank to fund single 
currency loans or portions 
thereof made by it that include 
such Disbursed Amount for such Interest 
Period; as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(c)
“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
Paris interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in French Francs for value on the 
Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate 
based on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(d)
“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount: 
(i)
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); 
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the 
Paris interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, 
for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank's 
outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated to 
fund single currency loans or portions 
thereof made by it 
that include such Disbursed Amount; plus 
(iii)
the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date 
for such Disbursed Amount; as reasonably determined by the 
Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
4.
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of PIBOR Base Rate, PIBOR Total Spread, Fixed 
Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon 
the determination thereof. 
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
Page  11
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.
Repayment 
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each 
June 15 and December15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the 
last such installment to be payable on the eighteenth (18th Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall be 
one-twelfth (1/12 of such Disbursed Amount. 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after December, 15, 2012, the Borrower shall also pay on said 
date the aggregate amount of all such installments. 
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. \0c
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Page  12
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for consultants under Parts C, D and E of the Project estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for consultants under Parts A and B of the Project estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for consultants under Parts A through E of the Project shall be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
Parts A through E of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2 (a)) and (5) of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
Parts A through E of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 
Page  13
(other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished by the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply, provided that the exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to the terms 
of reference for each such contract, assignments of a critical nature as reasonably 
determined by the Bank, amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or amendments to contracts 
for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 
equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
1.
(a)
The Borrower shall maintain the PIC and the PC until the completion of 
the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall maintain until the completion of the Project, a 
Project Coordinator and a Communications Director, both with terms of reference, 
qualifications and experience, acceptable to the Bank, and an accountant who shall be 
employed in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. The Project Coordinator, who is the chairman (“Secrétaire”) of the PC, 
shall be responsible for the supervision and coordination of the day-to-day management 
of the Project. The Communications Director, appointed by and acting under the 
supervision of the President of the PIC, shall be responsible for heading the 
communications unit referred to in Part A.1 of the Project. The accountant shall carry 
out the functions referred in Section 4.01 (a) of this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall appoint within one hundred and twenty (120) days of 
the Effectiveness Date in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement, and maintain, a private firm which shall be responsible for 
carrying out the functions of the regulatory agency referred to in Part B.1 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, until such regulatory agency becomes operational. 
2.
The Borrower shall adopt a Project Implementation Manual, outlining the 
procurement and other arrangements for implementation of the Project. The Borrower 
shall ensure that all its departments or agencies responsible for carrying out the 
Project or any part thereof shall comply with the procedures included in the Project 
Implementation Manual, and shall not amend such Project Implementation Manual or waive 
any provision thereof, which, in the opinion of the Bank will materially and adversely 
affect the carrying out of the Project. 
3.
(a)
The Project Coordinator shall be responsible for the preparation and the 
transmittal to the Bank promptly after the end of each calendar quarter and in any 
case not later than January 30, April 30, July 30 and October 30 of each year, a 
summary report regarding the progress in the carrying out of the Project during the 
preceding calendar quarter.
(b)
The Project Coordinator shall be responsible for the preparation and the 
transmittal to the Bank promptly after the end of each calendar semester and in any 
case not later than January 31 and July 31 of each year, of a detailed report 
regarding the progress in the carrying out of the Project during the preceding 
calendar semester. 
4.
(a)
The Borrower shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it 
to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with performance indicators 
acceptable to the Bank set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of 
Page  14
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall carry out, jointly with the Bank, not later than 
June 30, 1998, a midterm review of the progress made in carrying out the Project 
(referred in this paragraph as the Midterm Review). The Midterm Review shall cover, 
among other things: (i) progress made in meeting the Project’s objectives, (ii) 
overall Project performance against Project performance indicators, (iii) 
implementation of the Program and, in particular, its privatization component, (iv) 
implementation of reforms in view of the economy liberalization, and (v) quality of 
the advisory services under the Project.
(c)
The Borrower shall, at least three (3) weeks prior to the Midterm Review, 
furnish to the Bank, a report describing the status of the items listed in paragraph 
(a) above and of Project implementation generally.
(d)
The Borrower shall, not later than four (4) weeks after the Midterm 
Review, prepare an action program, acceptable to the Bank, for the further 
implementation of the Project having regard to the findings of the Midterm Review and, 
thereafter, implement such action program.
SCHEDULE 6 
Performance Indicators
The indicators for monitoring and evaluating the carrying out of the Project, 
referred to paragraph 4 (a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement are the following:
1.
The first type of indicators will measure progress against physical and 
financial parameters. These will be traced by coding all Project expenditures by 
component, type of activity, sub-activity, and category of procurement, disbursement 
and source of funding. The resulting information will be collated under the Project 
financial management system through the use of an appropriate and fully-tested 
commercial software. This software will also record information on pending financial 
commitments. Data will then be available, inter alia, on expenditures, commitments and 
statistics of activities by component, source of funding, and period of execution. 
Achievements will be measured against disbursement rate and provisions of the Project 
Implementation Manual.
2.
The second type of indicators will consist of the following limited number of 
key actions aimed at providing a first indication of the performance of the Project in 
relation to its objectives:
(a)
Year 1997
-
the concession contract for the following Borrower’s 
company is signed:  Société d’Energie et d’Eau du Gabon 
(SEEG);
-
a telephone mobile service license is granted to a private 
operator other than the basic service provider;
-
the draft laws and regulations liberalizing the 
telecommunications sector are adopted by the Borrower; and
-
the Borrower has selected the private firm referred to in 
paragraph 1 (c) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(b)
Year 1998
-
the communications’ campaign is  effectively launched;
-
the computerized compilation of all applicable laws and 
regulations is completed and fully operational;
-
new laws and regulations liberalizing the 
telecommunications sector are effective;
Page  15
-
the revised Labor Code and its implementation decrees are 
effective;
-
the regulatory agency referred to in Part B.1 of Schedule 
II to this Agreement is fully operational;
-
draft laws and regulations establishing and regulating 
private mutual funds and broker dealers are adopted by the 
Borrower;
-
at least 51% of the voting stock of the following 
Borrower's companies are respectively sold to a private 
sector 
investor or a group of private sector investors: 
Gabon-Informatique 
and Agripog; and
-
the splitting of the Borrower’s Office des Postes et 
Telecommunications into two corporate entities in charge of 
the telecommunications and the postal activities, 
respectively, 
is completed.
(c)
Year 1999
-
drafts of the new business law texts necessary because of 
the OHADA uniform legislation are adopted by the Borrower;
-
at least 51% of the voting stock of the new corporate 
entity in charge of the telecommunications activities are 
sold 
to a private sector investor or a group of private 
sector investors;
-
at least 51% of the voting stock of the following 
Borrower's companies are respectively sold to a private 
sector 
investor or a group of private sector investors: 
Agrogabon, Hevegab 
and Ciments du Gabon;
-
the sale of at least 25% of the 1997 based value of the 
Borrower’s shares in selected enterprises has taken place; 
and
-
the restructuring of the Borrower’s Caisse Nationale de 
Sécurité Sociale (CNSS) is completed.
(d)
Year 2000
-
the level of foreign private investments in non-oil sector 
has increased by 10% at least since 1997;
-
the average utilities rates for electricity and water, and 
those for international telecommunications are reduced by 
at 
least 18% and 30% less, respectively, in comparison with 
rates 
applicable in 1997; and
-
the sale of at least 50% of the 1997 based value of the 
Borrower’s shares in selected enterprises has taken place.
(e)
Year 2001
-
the sale of at least 75% of the 1997 based value of the 
Borrower’s shares in selected enterprises has taken place.
SCHEDULE 7 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
Page  16
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to three 
million French Francs (FRF. 3,000,000) to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and 
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. 
All 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account 
under the eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified 
by said documents and other 
evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Page  17
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
