                                           CONFORMED COPY


                                      CREDIT NUMBER 4850-IN




  Project Agreement
(Additional Financing for Uttarakhand Decentralized
         Watershed Development Project)



                     between



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION



                       and



          STATE OF UTTARAKHAND




              Dated March 17, 2011
                               PROJECT AGREEMENT

         AGREEMENT        dated March 17, 2011, entered into between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association?) and the STATE
OF UTTARAKHAND (“Uttarakhand? or “Project Implementing Entity?) (“Project
Agreement?) in connection with the Financing Agreement (“Financing Agreement?) of
same date between INDIA (“Recipient?) and the Association. The Association and the
Project Implementing Entity hereby agree as follows:

             ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to the Financing
        Agreement) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Financing Agreement or
        the General Conditions.

                              ARTICLE II — PROJECT

2.01.   Uttarakhand declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
        end, Uttarakhand shall, through WMD, carry out the Project in accordance with
        the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions, and shall provide
        promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
        the Project.

2.02.   Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and
        except as the Association and Uttarakhand shall otherwise agree, Uttarakhand
        shall, through WMD, carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of
        the Schedules 1 and 2 to this Agreement.

                ARTICLE III — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

3.01.   Uttarakhand’s Representative is its Chief Secretary or such other person or
        persons as he or she shall authorize.

3.02.   The Association’s Address is:

                International Development Association
                1818 H Street, N.W.
                Washington, D.C. 20433
                United States of America
                                         -2-

               Facsimile:

               1-202-477-6391

3.03.   The Project Implementing Entity’s Address is:

             Chief Secretary
             Government of Uttarakhand
             Dehradun
             Uttarakhand, India

             Facsimile:

             91-135-2712500

        AGREED at New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written.


                             INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                             By /s/    N. Roberto Zagha
                                       Authorized Representative


                             STATE OF UTTARAKHAND




                             By /s/    M. H. Khan
                                       Authorized Representative
                                          -3-

                                     SCHEDULE 1

                               Execution of the Project

Section I.      Implementation, Institutional and Other Arrangements

A.      Institutional Arrangements

1.      Uttarakhand, through WMD, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
        Operations Manual, the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this
        Agreement, the ESMF, IPMP and TTS, and shall not amend or waive any
        provision of the Operations Manual, the ESMF, IPMP and TTS, except as the
        Association shall otherwise agree.

2.      Uttarakhand shall take necessary and appropriate actions to ensure that adequate
        allocations are included in the state budget to implement the Project.

3.      Uttarakhand shall make available to Beneficiaries in a timely manner and on a
        grant basis the proceeds of the Financing made available to Uttarakhand by the
        Recipient for the purposes of the Project, as well as additional funds as required
        from Uttarakhand's own resources to cover Uttarakhand’s share of the cost of the
        Project.

B.      Anti-Corruption

        Uttarakhand shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
        provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and the GAAP.

C.      Safeguards

        Uttarakhand, through WMD, shall:

1.      carry out the Project in accordance with the ESMF, IPMP and TTS in a manner
        satisfactory to the Association.

2.      ensure that the environmental and social performance indicators contained in the
        ESMF, IPMP and TTS are updated and monitored regularly, in agreement with
        the Association.

3.      submit to the Association quarterly progress reports on compliance with social
        and environmental safeguard measures under the Project, giving details of
        measures taken in furtherance of the ESMF, IPMP and TTS, conditions, if any,
        which interfere or threaten to interfere with the smooth implementation of the
        ESMF, IPMP and TTS, and remedial measures taken or required to be taken to
        address such conditions.
                                           -4-

4.      ensure that the Project shall be implemented, as far as reasonably practicable,
        using exclusively land free from encroachments or other encumbrances, and
        without recourse to compulsory acquisition of land, forcible eviction or
        involuntary resettlement of persons.

5.      ensure that, where unavoidable, land acquisition shall be kept to the strict
        minimum, and shall be undertaken in accordance with guidelines and procedures
        acceptable to the Association.

Section II.     Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation

A.      Project Reports

1.      Uttarakhand shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
        Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General
        Conditions and on the basis of the Key Performance Indicators. Each such
        Project Report shall cover the period of six (6) months, and shall be furnished by
        Uttarakhand to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of
        the period covered by such report.

2.      Uttarakhand shall provide to the Recipient and the Association all such
        information as the Recipient or the Association shall reasonably request for
        incorporation in the report referred to in Section in Section 4.08(c) of the General
        Conditions.

B.      Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

1.      Uttarakhand, through WMD, shall maintain a financial management system and
        prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting
        standards acceptable to the Association, both in a manner adequate to reflect the
        operations, financial condition, resources and expenditures related to the Project.

2.      Uttarakhand, through WMD, shall have the Project’s financial statements
        referred to above audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association,
        in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the
        Association. Each audit of these financial statements shall cover the period of
        one (1) financial year of Uttarakhand. Uttarakhand, throughWMD, shall ensure
        that the audited financial statements for each period shall be furnished to the
        Recipient and the Association not later than six (6) months after the end of the
        period.

3.      Uttarakhand, through WMD, shall prepare and furnish to the Association not
        later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each quarter, Interim Unaudited
        Financial Reports (IUFR) for the Project covering the quarter, in form and
        substance satisfactory to the Association.
                                          -5-



Section III.    Procurement

        All goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
        the proceeds of the Financing (including those for Subprojects) shall be procured
        in accordance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to the Financing
        Agreement.
                                         -6-

                                    SCHEDULE 2

                              Implementation Program

Institutional Provisions

1.     Uttarakhand shall:

       (a)     maintain, through the implementation period of the Project, a state-level
               steering committee to provide overall guidance and policy support in the
               implementation of the Project, and facilitate inter-agency coordination;
               and

       (b)     designate WMD to be responsible for overall implementation of the
               Project, and a Chief Project Director to be responsible for the day-to-day
               management of the Project, including management of procurement and
               disbursement activities, consolidation of annual work programs and
               budgets, preparation and production of annual progress reports and
               financial statements, and monitoring and evaluation of the Project.

2.     Uttarakhand shall ensure that:

       (a)     the Chief Project Director shall be assisted by a Deputy Chief Project
               Director, a Project Director for each of the two administrative regions of
               Uttarakhand, a Social Coordinator, an Environmental Coordinator and a
               Finance Officer, and other suitably qualified and experienced technical
               and administrative staff in adequate numbers;

       (b)     in each of the districts and blocks included in the Project Area, a Deputy
               Project Director and multi-disciplinary teams shall be appointed to be
               responsible, respectively, for appraisal of GPWDPs and facilitation of
               Project implementation in their respective districts and blocks; and

       (c)     the positions of Chief Project Director, Deputy Chief Project Director,
               Project Director, Deputy Project Director, Social and Environmental
               Coordinators, and Finance Officer shall as far as reasonably practicable
               be kept filled at all times by suitably qualified and experienced persons.

3.     Uttarakhand shall maintain, throughout the implementation period of the Project,
       internal auditors having qualifications and experience acceptable to the
       Association, to be responsible under terms and conditions acceptable to the
       Association for internal audits under the Project.
                                         -7-

4.     Uttarakhand shall maintain, throughout the implementation period of the Project,
       a computerized financial management system, acceptable to the Association, for
       the purposes of the Project.

Terms and Conditions governing Subprojects

5.     Uttarakhand shall apply the amount allocated to Category (1) of the table in
       Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreement to finance Subprojects
       on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association, including but not limited
       to the following:

       (a)     the amount so allocated shall be used exclusively to finance Subprojects
               in accordance with the criteria and procedures specified in the Operations
               Manual;

       (b)     the amount allocated for each Subproject shall be determined according
               to a pre-determined cost-sharing formula, which shall be acceptable to
               the Association, and specified in the Operations Manual;

       (c)     goods, works and services required for purposes of a Subproject shall be
               procured in accordance with procedures referred to in Section III of
               Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreement and set forth in the Operations
               Manual and in the Procurement Plan;

       (d)     for purposes of each Subproject, Uttarakhand shall sign an agreement
               (hereinafter referred to as Subproject Financing Agreement) with the
               Beneficiary on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association and in
               the form of the model set forth in the Operations Manual, setting forth
               the respective obligations of the parties there under, including:

               (i)     details of agreed disbursement schedules and procurement
                       procedures;

               (ii)    a list of goods, works and services to be financed;

               (iii)   the amount of the Beneficiary’s contribution, whether in cash or
                       in kind, to the cost of the Subproject; and

               (iv)    an undertaking on the part of the Beneficiary to execute the
                       Subproject with due diligence and, upon its completion, to
                       provide for its operation and maintenance.
