Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23823
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-34720; SCL-3472A; SCPD-3472S)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$55 MILLION
TO THE
GOVERNMENT of TURKEY
FOR THE
TURKEY AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Marci 13, 2002
This documnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their
L official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 13, 2002)
Currency Unit = Turkish Lira (TL)
1,358,364 TL = US$ 1.00
US$ 1.00 = 0.00000074 TL
FISCAL YEAR
Jan    Dec
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AEARP     Agricultural Extension and Applied         IT        Information Technology
Research Project                        LAN        Local Area Network
AERI       Agricultural Economics Research Institute  LIS       Library Information System
AM         Aide Memoire                              MAFRA      Ministry of Agriculture, Forests and
APK       Research Planning and Coordination Board               Rural Affairs
(of MoF)                                MARA       Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
ARIP      Agricultural Reform Implementation Project  MIS       Affairs
ASAL       Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan       MoF        Management Information System
CGIAR      Consultative Group on International       MTR        Ministry of Forestry
Agricultural Research                     NPV        Mid Term Review
CIMMYT     International Maize and Wheat Improvement  PIU       Net Percent Value
Center                                  PSR        Project Implementing Unit
RGP      Competitive Research Grant Program         RI        Project Status Report
CRI       Central Research Institute                 RM         Research Institute
ECA        Europe and Central Asia Region            RMIS       Resident Mission
ERR        Economic Rate of Retum                               Regional Management Information
FAO        Food and Agriculture Organization         RMP         System
AP       Southeast Anatolia Project                 SAR       Research Master Plan
GDAR       General Directorate for Agricultural Research  SPO   Staff Appraisal Report
GDRS       General Directorate of Rural Services     TA         State Planning Organization
GEF        Global Environmental Fund                 TARP       Technical Assistance
GOT        Government of Turkey                      TL         Turkish Agricultural Research PToject
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction and  TUBITAK   Turkish Lira
Development                                        Turkish Scientific and Technology
IFAD       International Fund for Agricultural Development VAT   Research Organization
ICARDA     International Center for Agricultural     WAN        Value Added Tax
Research in the Dry Areas                           Wider Area Network
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
IIMI       Intemational Irrigation Management Institute
IPM        Integrated Pest Management
IRR        Internal Rate of Return m
Vice President:   Johannes Linn
Country Manager/Director:     Ajay Chhibber
Sector Manager/Director:    Marjory-Anne Bromhead
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Cuneyt Okan



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TURKEY
TURKEY AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               8
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                18
6. Sustainability                                                                    21
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     24
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   26
9. Partner Comments                                                                  30
10. Additional Information                                                           33
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 34
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 35
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 37
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 38
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 40
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    41
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                42
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






ITXeam Leader: Cuneyt Okan                                ITIL Uanit: ECt3SS
|/CR Tvp~e.Core ICR                                       |Report Date: March 14, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: TURKEY AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH                   L/C/TF Number: CPL-34720;
PROJECT                                                       SCL-3472A;
SCPD-3472S
Couint,y:Departnient: TURKEY                                             Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: AR - Research
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   12/08/1987                              Effective: 09/16/1992        09/16/1992
Appraisal:  05/31/1991                                MTR: 04/30/1995            11/30/1995
Approval:  05/21/1992                              Closing: 12/31/1999          04/30/2001
Borrowt er/Imi?pleinentiig Agency: REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
Other Partners: Implementing agencies: MARA (GDAR, AER1), MOF, GDRS, TUBITAK
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes Linn                              W. A. Wapenhans
Ctountrv MlaInager:  Ajay Chhibber                              Michael Wiehen
Sector Manager:      Marjory-Anne Bromhead                      Ridwan Ali
Team Leader at ICR:  Cuneyt Okan                                Henry P. Gassner
ICR Primary Au4thor:  Cuneyt Okan; Keith Milligan
(Consultant)
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcomne: S
Sustainability. UN
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Perfbrmance: S
Borrower Perfbrmance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3. 1 Original Objective:
The purpose of the Turkey Agricultural Research Project (TARP) was to support the Government of
Turkey's (GOTs) efforts to strengthen the research capacity of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and
Rural Affairs (MAFRA) to provide technologies for solving Turkish farmers' problems and raising their
incomes.
Specific project objectives were:
I . Developing technologies suitable for the less well-developed regions of Eastern and Southeastern
Turkey.
2. Strengthening selected high-priority national research programs because of their relevance beyond the
less developed regions.
3. Contributing to institutional building of the agricultural and forestry research services.
4. Establishing an economics and policy research capability for agriculture.
5. Strengthening MAFRA's capacity for testing food products so as to enforce pesticide and hormone
residue regulations.
The largest component of TARP consisted of investments to strengthen research in the less developed
regions of east and southeast Turkey.
Pro,ect Designt Context
Agricultural growth rates in Turkey from 1962 - 1988 were around 6 percent, but these were largely
associated with increases in area of cultivation rather than increased yields. The lack of productivity
increases were, among others, thought to be related to inadequate research, weak extension services and
inappropriate farming systems.
During the 1 980s, Government of Turkey's (GOT's) wide ranging structural reforms were designed to
promote increased efficiency and growth through greater reliance on market forces and the private sector,
and promote a more outward orientation of the economy. GOT's main agricultural sector development
objectives were to: (i) modernize production techniques to raise productivity, yields and farmer income; (ii)
maintain food supplies to meet requirements of a growing population; and (iii) promote agricultural
exports. These were supported by strategies to improve agricultural productivity through strengthening
research and extension services, expanding the irrigated area, improving irrigation efficiency and
encouraging the use of improved seeds and crops.
The Bank's assistance strategy for Turkey was to support institutional and policy reform, improve
extension service delivery, establish a sectoral planning capacity and rationalize the public sector
investment program. This strategy was implemented through adjustment lending and a number of technical
projects designed to increase production (livestock, horticulture and rural development), strengthen access
to credit, improve irrigation and drainage infrastructure and strengthen agriculture extension and applied
research.
Turkey had a well established (State) agricultural research infrastructure that was centrally managed and
carried out a mix of public and private good activities. University based research was negligible but had
started to emerge. The output of the State system was minimal and it was foreseen to finance and in depth
study of agricultural research under the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (2585-TU. 1985). This
- 2 -



study only materialized, after considerable debate, into a much smaller effort completed in 1989. This
resulting report recommended further reorganization of the research system, including establishment of a
General Directorate for Agricultural Research (GDAR) within MAFRA. It proposed the reorganization
and consolidation of research through establishment of 11 regional research institutes and downgrading the
remaining institutes to substations. GDAR was to report directly to the Minister of Agriculture, but with
autonomy in staff recruitment/management and in research planning. The review suggested that
strengthening MAFRA's agricultural research system could be supported by the Bank through a separate
Agricultural Research Project. The project was to improve research planning, improve infrastructure and
demonstrate different methods of research funding.
The World Bank and International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) had already started to
support extension and applied research through the A ricultural Extension and Applied Research Project
(AEARP-2405-TU; 1984-1993) which, rather than a nationwide extension improvement effort,
implemented a phased approach based on agro-ecological zones. It was was subsequently followed by a
Second Agricultural Extension and Applied Research Project (AEARP 11-3177-TIJ; 1990-1998) that
continued this effort. Although AEARP I benefitted from multi-disciplinary research, AEARP II noted the
declining capacity in research, largely due to aging staff, and a need for better extension-research linkages.
Both projects were marginally satisfactory, largely related to limited implementation capacity, lack of
incentives for researchers and extension staff, and high costs of extension delivery that was insufficiently
demand-driven.
Project Preparationi was undertaken by the Food and Agriculture Organjization (FAO) in August 1990,
mairtly through consulting and collecting information from the Turkish researchers. The preparation team
reviewed the recommendations of the Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL) but considered the
proposed system reform not feasible as it would have required new legislation, for which political support
was lacking at that time.
The Bank team then developed the original design further with the Ministry and research institutes.
Although the project was to emphasize demand-driven and prioritized research, the process of developing
master plans was expected to take time, and in order to keep the research system going, the design team, in
collaboration with institute directors, also designed a research program for the early years of the project.
This design led to the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) of April 1992. The project became effective on
September 16, 1992.
3.2 Revised Obecrtive:
Re.strn cturing Desig,Yn Con text
The start up was slow. During a three-year period, significant changes in the Ministry of Agriculture,
Forests and Rural Affairs (MAFRA) occurred. MAFRA was split into the Ministry of Agriculture and
Rural Affairs (MARA) and Ministry of Forestry (MoF). The General Directorate of Agricultural Research
(GDAR) was established within MARA. An independent General Directorate for Rural Services (GDRS)
responsible for soil conservation, small-scale irrigation drainage was established. There were also
increasing macro-economic and budget problems leading to austerity measures that were applied in 1994.
These changes diverted attention from implementation and complicated procurement. Furthermore, initial
project resources were focused on physical investment rather than priority research outputs, leading to
input rather than output related research. Indeed, the lead-time required to improve institutional ownership
- 3 -



of the national programs selected under the project proved longer than expected. Little progress was made
with farm systems research and progress in establishment of an Agricultural Economics Research Institute
(AERI) was nil. Disbursement lagged, and progress and organization of the project were deemed
unsatisfactory.
A new task team had doubts about the design, and put greater emphasis on completion of Research Master
Plans before disbursing funds for research. A revision of project objectives was proposed during the
Mid-Term Review (MTR) in December 1995.
The MTR undertaken in 1996, noted various factors that contributed to slow implementation, including the
austerity measures of Government, the lack of coordination between the three implementing agencies, the
lack of comprehensive research plans at the onset of the project, and weak managerial capacity in the
agencies. The MTR recommended placing more emphasis on participatory research planning, on
development of a research environment encouraging private sector participation in research, on
collaboration between various agencies and institutions involved in agricultural research, and on using
competitive research grants to invest in high priority research.
Each agency was made fully responsible for the activities under its purview with no single project
coordination unit. Other revisions were an amendment of the Technical Assistance and Training contracts,
and redesigned monitoring and reporting assignments. Project restructuring was approved by Management
and Government as reflected in the amended loan agreement (approved in May 1997). In view of tight
budgetary conditions prevailing in the country, the civil works component was substantially reduced and
local budgetary allocation to project agencies was increased.
The revised project objectives were to:
1. Improve the capacity to deliver high quality, relevant research programs of Ministry of Agriculture and
Rural Affairs (MARA); General Directorate of Rural Services (GDRS); and Ministry of Forestry
(MoF).
2. Strengthen selected high-priority national programs focusing on less developed regions.
3. Institutionalize a competitive agricultural research program that invests in high priority relevant
research.
4. Increase the efficiency and effectiveness of resource use and develop a research environment that
encourages private sector support for research and collaboration between agricultural research
agencies.
5. Establish an economics and policy research capability for the agricultural sector.
The original components of farming systems, crops research, livestock research and integrated pest
management were amalgamated into institutional strengthening and a new componeuit for training and
applied research. The objective of strengthening MARA's capacity for testing food products, intended to
assist in the enforcement of pesticide and hormone residue regulation, was removed in August 1996; during
MTR it was concluded that these services would be more appropriately provided by the private sector.
3.3 Original Comnponents:
The original components were:
1. Institutional Strengthening (US$ 10.6 million)
(a) strengthening research planning, program management and research management information
systems; and
-4 -



(b) establishing an Agricultural Economics Research Institute (AERI). In addition, a research
grant facility was to be established to provide merit awards to high performing research
workers. A major contribution to institutional strengthening was to derive from a "training
abroad" program with an expected 30 PhD and 110 MS trainees, and over 1000 man-months
of short term training.
2. Farming Systems Research (US$ 1.5 million)
This new national program would support pilot research programs at three Research Institutes (Rls) in
the lesser developed regions i.e. in Eastem and Southeastem regions.
3. Crops (US$ 22.6 million) and Livestock (US$ 9.3 million)
The Ministry initially selected 197 priority areas in Crop Research with 154 research projects,
implemented at 13 RIs, including cereals, food legumes, cotton, second crops for irrigated areas, fruit,
pistachios, grapes, vegetables, and genetic resources; and in Livestock Research with 43 research
projects, implemented at 6 livestock and 6 animal health RIs, including large ruminants, small
ruminants, fodder and pasture, apiculture, sericulture, and inland fisheries. Many of the selected
research topics were a continuation of previous programs where the project was expected to finance a
time slice.
4. Soil and Water (US$ 12.1 million)
The national program in Erosion Control and Soil C'onservation Research was to be undertaken at 10
RIs including hydrological modeling for small agricultural watersheds; studying strip cropping and
stabilization methods in soil and water conservation; the effects of cultivation systems on yields;
erosion and moisture conservation. The programs in irrigation/drainage for less developed areas were
consolidated with 3 research projects implemented at 2 RIs in Eastem Anatolia, including water
requirements of crops, reclamation criteria for saline and boron-affected soils, and water saving
irrigation methods adapted to crops.
6. Forestry (US$ 5.6 million)
Four research programs in Forestry Research were to be implemented at 2 RIs, and included
silviculture, forest management and forest protection; major and minor forest products, community
forestry, erosion control, and soil conservation.
7. Integrated Pest Management (US$ 4.6 million)
This was a national program to be undertaken by the 8 Plant Protection Institutes. The proposed
research included bio-technical methods of pest control, biological control of citrus pests, mass
production of natural predators, and Integrated Pest Management (IPM) in crops with high usage of
pesticides.
8. Residte Control Research (US$ 2.3 million)
The residue control program was a national program to be implemented at 4 Plant Protection Institutes
to provide laboratory diagnostic services for monitoring residues in pesticides, fertilizers and growth
regulators in crops, heavy metals, animal remedy residues in livestock and residues in food.
To respond to the objective of priority for less-developed areas, the components in crops, livestock,
irrigation and forestry were to focus on research that was relevant to these areas.
3.4 Revised Comzponenits:
In line with the new objectives, the revised components were:
- 5 -



1. Agricultural Policy
Establishment of the AERI including office equipment, capacity building and delivery of economic and
policy research projects.
2. Applied Research
Institutionalization and funding of Competitive Research Grants Programs (CRGP) for the high
priority research programs of GDAR, GDRS, MoF and Turkish Scientific and Technology Research
Organization (TUBITAK).
3. Institutional Strengthening
Including improved research delivery capacity building through training and access to international and
other national research knowledge information systems, research management capacity building
through improved planning, prioritization, and support to research delivery systems and monitoring and
evaluation for GDAR, MoF and GDRS. The component also included development and management
of a Regional Management Information System (RMIS) incorporating a Library Information System
(LIS), and a research project database.
Each implementing agency would have a fund that would finance competitive research based on priorities
defined in research master plans. The agencies would give highest priority to research proposals with client
support, followed by collaborative research proposals, and proposals from individual institutions. The
proposed financing was to be 100% in 1996, 80% in 1997, 60% in 1998 and 30% in 1999.
The revision included canceling some civil works and vehicle purchases from the Project leading to US$6
million savings (cancelled on May 7, 1997). 'rhe remaining US$ 49 million of pooled currency loan was
fixed at US$ 46.85 million, during the July 1997 single-currency conversion process.
Closing Date Extension. A GOI' request to extend the closing date by one year to December 31, 2000 was
approved by the Bank in October 1999. At that time, budget allocations to the five implementing agencies
were revised in line with Supervision Mission recommendations. The AERI component was further
extended in December 2000 to April 30, 2001, primarily to assist GOT in the preparation the Agricultural
Reform Implementation Project (ARIP) through studies and small research projects.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Original Objectives and Components
Quality at entry for the original objectives and components is rated as unsatisfactory in terms of project
design and risk assessment for the following reasons:
Project Design
There were four difficulties with the original project design:
I . Short versus long term implementation. The original project design on the one hand promoted
development of research master plans and prioritization of research programs and management, on the
other it prescribed research programs and targeted certain institutions. This contributed to some
confusion on how to proceed with implementation.
2. Limited ownership. The short term research plan was developed by the design team and local institute
directors. This, and the fact that the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) was initially only available in
- 6 -



English, limited awareness and ownership by researchers. Ministry reorganization at the start of the
project further contributed to lack of ownership. Concepts, such as prioritization and a shift to
demand-driven research were only slowly understood and accepted. The establishment of an AERI,
independent of MARA, providing impartial policy advice with a portfolio of nongovernmental clients,
did not find full ownership within MARA.
3. Reforms. The design did not really address two related and fundamental problems.
(a) The system, with mainly commodity-based, research institutes and 1200 programs was unwieldy
and not efficient. Drastic consolidation proposed in the ASAL-funded review, however, was not
attempted. It would have required legislative action, and the political support for such action was
lacking.
(b) The institutional strengthening and applied research component (via the competitive grants) did not
provide solutions for sustainable funding. The Preparation Mission had already noted that
research operational funding was less than 14% of research budget allocations, but no attempt was
made to further analyze this problem and develop sustainable solutions. The investment in
research planning did not directly encompass funding reform.
4. Priority Research Programs for Lesser Developed Areas
The intent of the project objective of focusing on less developed areas was laudable, but implementation
proved difficult. There were two difficulties:
(a) An unclear definition of less developed areas. It was not clearly defined whether the definition was
based on geography; often it was understood that it was targeting Eastern Anatolia. However, less
developed areas are dispersed throughout Turkey, and are often more related to topography than
geography.
(b) The Second AERI included support for research in less developed regions. TARP did not
sufficiently incorporate lessons from the AERI projects, which faced many implementation
difficulties.
Risk Assessment
The risk analysis undertaken in the SAR was cursory. The risk of inadequate commitment was recognized
but its importance and possible mitigation were not well addressed. Other risks were not mentioned, for
example, the Govermment salary and promotion system that did not really provide incentives for good
research. It should be noted that in 1991 risk assessment was not commonly a major part of project
appraisal.
Revised Objectives and Components
The revised objectives and components were more realistic and are rated as satisfactory. These project
revisions increased the ownership and commitment and supported improved effectiveness of research
through new research funding mechanisms. They also helped capacity building.
1. The establishment of five separate implementation agencies and project components (GDAR, GDRS,
MoF, AERI and TUBITAK) did increase the complexity and reduced collaboration, but was the only
- 7-



practical solution. Separate budget allocations to each of the five implementing agencies, were agreed
upon.
2. The revised objectives increased emphasis on research management. However, the objective of focus
on less developed areas was diluted; the agenda was now more driven by the researchers and larger
political issues such as support for less developed areas were not high on their priority list.
3. The shift to competitive research improved links between research planning and field research.
However, the somewhat fragmented implementation complicated the broad overall measurement of the
broader project impact. This issue was neither addressed adequately in the original - nor in the restructured
- design.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall outcome of the project, as revised following the MTR, is rated satisfactory. Although the
monitoring and evaluation was inadequate, three of the four key indicators were largely achieved i.e.: (i) an
AERI was established; (ii) management information systems were installed and used to monitor/manage the
research system; (iii) the research master plans became indeed the basis of research programs and later of
budget requests by MARA (although not adequately funded by the State Planning Organization (SPO).
The fourth indicator, farmers adopting new technologies releases by the RIs, cannot yet be fully assessed.
The project:
I. Contributed to a substantial improvement in technical skills as well as management of research.
2. Contributed to the modemization of the agricultural research system in terms of equipment and
technologies used during project implementation.
3. Successfully shifted the emphasis from supply driven to demand driven research.
4. Increased the attention to skills in agricultural economic research, and helped Turkish policy
makers to rethink the State's role in supporting agriculture.
5. Helped to build valuable linkages to intemational research and established a basis for further
integration in the European agricultural research system and markets.
6. Was not fully successful in consolidating the Turkish agricultural research system into a more
efficient system based on multidisciplinary institutes.
7. Was considered positively by the agricultural research community in Turkey.
8. Did not adequately support improved research delivery in less developed regions.
4.1.1. Outconme by objective:
Objective 1: Improve the capacity to deliver high quality, relevant research programs of Ministry of
Agriculture and Rural Affairs (MARA), General Directorate of Rural Services (GDRS), and Ministrv of
Forestry (MoF).
The improvement of overall research capacity was satisfactory. Success was achieved in (i) short and
long-term training for individual staff; (ii) improvement in access to international research databases,
particularly in GDAR and to a lesser extent in GDRS and MoF; (iii) improved English language skills; (iv)
improved links with international agencies such as International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center
(CIMMYT) and International Center for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas (ICARDA), the
International Irrigation Management Institute (IIMI) Project as well as with research institution and
universities in various countries; (v) collaborative research projects with Turkish Universities; (vi)
- 8 -



opportunities to contribute to international scientific meetings; and (vii) AERI's collaboration with national
and international experts for economic and policy research project delivery.
The overall outcome of upgrading the equipment, and especially the technologies and skills to late 20th
century standard is difficult to quantify, but has and will have a great impact on agricultural development
in the country.
Information Management. The investment in information technology and libraries greatly increased the
access of researchers to relevant information, thereby lessening duplication of research and improving the
design of research proposals.
Research outcomes of GDAR include 133 newly registered varieties of high yielding and export oriented
field and horticultural crops as well as agronomic packages suitable for different ecological regions. The
project also released IPM packages, mainly for horticultural crops. An early warning system for plant
protection was further improved through research under the project and is now in use, there by reducing
farmers risk as well as the use of pesticides. Various crop rotation systems for rainfed and dryland
conditions were tested and recommended to farmers.
Improved diagnostic and vaccine-production technology assist producers in reducing the risk of animals
disease. new varieties and cultivation of fodder crops have increased use of preserved fodder. Cooperation
with the GDRS capacity in GIS is leading to better planning in the use of Eastern Anatolia rangelands. The
project also supported development of new methods of (biological) crop protection, use of water saving
irrigation technology, better diagnostics of animal diseases, and application of remote sensing in planning
and design of rural development projects.
Research outcomes of GDRS   Studies on soil fertility and micro-nutrient levels of Turkish soils were
completed and provide farmers the needed information to fine tune their fertilizer use. Research on the use
of water saving irrigation technology and erosion control has led to increased interest of farmers in such
technologies to be sold through private suppliers. The improved GIS capability developed under the project
has led to greater demand for the application of remote sensing in planning and design of rural development
projects. Moreover, the demand for GIS is broadening to applications of the urban sector (for town
planning).
Research outcomes of MoF    New genetics in forestry, especially the introduction of fast growing
plantation trees such as Pinus brutia, poplar and Eucalyptus, and new multiplication and planting
technologies have attracted the interest of the industry which started to use the research capacity for
contract research in plantation forestry. Poplar timber production has doubled since the late eighties to 5
million m. Significant knowledge and experience was developed regarding the determination of the
botanical composition, carrying capacity and suitable rehabilitation methods for Central and Eastern
Anatolia rangelands by using a GIS center developed under the project. GIS technology was also used to
assist in site characterization and landuse planning for forest growing species. The research in aromatic and
medicinal plants has led to application now used by producers and exporters. The research in participatory
forest management is being applied in various natural resources- and watershed management investments.
Objective 2: Strengthen selected high-priority national programs focusing on less developed regions.
Implementation progress is described as less than satisfactory in successive Project Status Reports (PSRs).
During the first phase there were social and security problems in the southeastern Turkey, which was
targeted as a less developed region Staff retention was a problem primarily due to low living standards in
these areas and the lack of incentives to attract quality staff. Nevertheless, TUBITAK targeted 25 percent
9..



of its Competitive Research Grant Program (CRGP) funds for research for the South East Region. MoF
revised its RMPs to emphasize sustainable forest management and income generation for forest-dependant
villagers from non-forest products, all of which are applicable in the less developed regions. Much of
GDRS's soil and water research including basin management, erosion modeling, soil and hydrology
mapping were also relevant to drier and less developed regions. In hindsight, research based on
geographical targeting with the aim of reducing poverty may have been more complex than envisaged.
Objective 3: Institutionalize a competitive agricultural research grant program that invests in high priority
relevant research.
The project was among the first to introduce a Competitive Research Grant Program in the Europe and
Central Asia (ECA) region. (The concept was not completely new in Turkey as it had been applied by
TUBITAK in its funding of research).
1. The Research Master Plan approach took some time to be understood, but was fully accepted by the
technical ministries toward the end of the project when funding of new as well as some on-going
projects was fully based on priorities of the RMPs.
2. The concept of competition was introduced. Turkey is a large country with 71 Universities having 21
Agricultural, Animal Health and 5 Forestry faculties. There are 56 GDARs, 11 MoFs and 10 GDRS
research institutes funded and managed by government. About 2,000 agricultural researchers
(excluding universities) provided a good base for competition. The 2,432 sub-projects that were
supported represent over 6,500 proposals submitted; the success rate for proposal submission was
about 40 percent.
3. The combination of RMPs and competitive research worked well. Annual meetings to review
candidate projects were held at GDAR, GDRS and MoF, primarily to assess project proposals' match
with the priorities set in the RMPs.
4. The competitive research system was not the only method in Government-coordinated financing of
research. Research financing continued from the central budget. The Government also continued to
pay the salaries of the researchers, and provided some basic overhead support to the institutes. The
Government did not, however, incrementally increase its funding share for the competitive research
during project implementation as planned in the MTR. Competitive grants were not included in the
national budget after project completion, leading to questions about sustainability. This may be in part
be related to the unusual constraints on SPO and Treasury in 2001, but may also be linked to a
mid-term design flaw that appeared to assume that by the end of TARP most research would be funded
competitively.
Objective 4: Increase the efficiency and effectiveness of resource use and develop a research environment
that encourages private sector investment in research and collaboration between agricultural research
agencies.
1. The project emphasized improved planning through Research Masters Plans (RMPs). After 1998, the
RMPs were modified by using a participatory process that included input from universities,
agribusiness, farmers, extension and research staff representatives.
2. Although less than expected at the onset of the project, research did shift towards addressing farming
systems and away from single commodities.
3. The proposed concentration of GDAR research in seven Central Research Institutes (CRIs) largely
failed, in part because it contradicted the competitive research concept where competition rather than
direction guides the flow of funds. The same applies to the concept of "Centers of Excellence" floated
during the 1998 supervision.
- 10 -



4. While there has been a significant change in the research portfolio, the future impact with respect to
efficiency in research is questionable. The number of institutes did barely decrease and most funding
went to individuals or individual institutes. Collaboration between institutes, or integrated approaches
to address research was limited.
5. The transfer of research outputs to farmers requires a well functioning extension system. In Turkey the
extension quality, however, has been variable largely due to budget constraints. In some cases the
institutes incorporated extension into the research program; the outcome of TlJBITAK funded
research on IPM, for example, included newsletters and leaflets for distribution to farmers.
6. GDAR, GDRS and MoF developed performance indicators relating to the goals defined in their
respective RMPs. Each of these agencies has, in their individual agencies Implementation Completion
Reports (ICRs), reported achievements against performnance indicators. Overall assessment of
achievement against performance indicators is generally satisfactory (Annex 1).
7. In GDAR, the perception of bias in project proposal evaluation and the non-operational status of the
Higher Council for Research slowed the rate of change. There was excessive focus on a large number
of small projects.
Objective 5: Establish an economics and policy research capability for agriculturejSee 4.2.(i)
Despite the long delay in its establishment, the AERI has rapidly found its niche in agricultural policy
development, a topic that was not well developed in Turkey before 1990. Its publications on crop outlook,
as well as broader policy recommendations, are nationally and internationally respected, albeit not always
accepted by Government. AERI's use of local consultants has also enhanced the national attention and
recognition of agricultural policy research, and impacted Government decisions on agricultural policy.
4.1.2  Implementation Process
1. Project management. The project was implementecd without a formal implementation unit. The project
steering committee met once or twice early on in the project but did not play a further role.
2. After restructuring, MoF established the Research and Survey (technical) Division within a new
Research and Development Department. GDRS established a Soil and Water Resources Research
Section. These small project management units consisting mainly of technical staff, with financial and
administrative support, operated their own planning, budgeting and procurement and reported to their
respective Planning Departments (APKs). The TUBITAK component was implemented by the
Executive Secretariat of that organization and reported to the Agriculture, Forestry and Food
Technologies Research Grant Committee of TUBITAK. These teams stayed in place for the last 4
years of the project.
3. While the system worked well, it missed central coordination between the agencies and overall
oversight and, to some extend, Ministry ownership. By default the coordination was mainly carried out
by the World Bank task manager, resident in Ankara.
4.2 Outputs by) components:
1. Agricultural Policy - Rating is satisfactory. The outputs of this component include:
The Agricultural Economic Research Institute (AERI) was established on May 17, 1996. Its value has
been recognized through demand for its publications, both from the public and private sector. AERI
outputs include 43 research projects contracted at a cost of US$ 1,776,270. The average cost of U$
41,000 per project included contracted specialist international and national expertise. These projects
resulted in research publications including:



*   (annual) Situation and Outlook Reports and updates: for wheat (4), cotton (4), feed grains (3), red
meat and meat production, dairy and milk products, cotton and oilseeds and vegetable oils;
* Contributions to, or publishing, 7 books;
* 10 working papers and monographs, 14 research papers presented at international and national
conferences; and 23 articles published in a range of national publications.
AERI has made contributions to the preparation, and future monitoring, of the US$ 600 million
Agricultural Reform Implementation Project (ARIP) approved by the GOT and IBRD in July 2001, a new
project that introduced major changes in Turkey's agricultural policy.
2. Applied Research - Rated as satisfactory. The outputs include:
(a)  A total of 2,432 research projects, proposed by researchers, have been funded and are to be
completed by the end of 2001. (See Table for detail)
Table 5.1     ber ofp     funded
Agency         # Projects  Cost US$     $/Project
GDAR              1,400'     4,802,085      3,430
GDRS               600       2,900,000      4,833
MoF1               67        1,224,847     18,281
TUBITAK            365       3,900,000     10,6853
AERI                42       1,025,750     24,500
Total            2,432      12,826,932      5,275
Estimated - 1900 projects approved but some are multi-year funded projects.
2 1996 - 2000 only. All projects are multi-year funded, recognizing the longer-term nature
of forestry research and several large national projects account for high cost per project.
3 High relative costs include financing 11 larger multi disciplinary, multi institute projects
during the last two selection rounds.
Close to 450 GDAR research projects were still on-going at the completion of TARP. Given their long
duration, 30 percent of MoF projects will continue beyond 2003 subject to availability of GOT funds.
Almost 50 percent of TUBITAK funded projects have been completed. All remaining co-funded
TUBITAK projects will be completed by the end of 2002.
- 12 -



Review of TUBITAK's Competitive Research Funded by TARP (1997-1999)
The material reviewed was a set of abstracts of the research proposals selected in the last
round (1999) of the TUBITAK sponsored research. The abstracts were pre-formatted and
well organized. In addition a number of institutes were visited, in particular the Ege
University that is a large beneficiary of the TLBITAK grants.
A total of 290 research grants were awarded to 41 institutions, out of a total of 679
applications. The major recipient institutions were (Cukurova University in Adana (48),
Ankara University (41), Ege University in Izmir (29), Uludag University in Bursa, Adeniz
University in Antalya and Harran University in Urfa and A. Menderes University in Aydin
each with 13. The total funding for these seven institutes was 62% of the total. This seems to
indicate that the majority of grants were awarded to older established institutions.
With respect to one of the TARP project objectives that was to direct some of the research to
underdeveloped regions of the country, the Black Sea and Eastern Anatolian institutions
received only 12.5 percent of total funds (although some of the research of other institutions
was carried out in, or was relevant to, Eastern Anatolian conditions). Overall, however, it
seems that the project objective of improving understanding about less developed areas, and
target research to these underdeveloped regions has not been achieved.
Rejected proposals were not reviewed. Interviews with a limited number of researchers, that
submitted proposals but did not obtain research funding from TUBITAK, indicated concems
about the even-handedness of the review committees and council.
(b)  Progress and final reports for all research carried out at all agencies were requirements for each
CRGP project. Progress reports have been completed for the majority of research projects funded
under TARP.
The Research Management Information System (RMIS) of GDAR now has the capacity to
electronically generate research abstracts as part of the research progress and final reporting process.
However, there has been no data entry since 1997 reports. The reasons for this are a combination of
disinterest at RI and researcher level to provide input, a lack of Directorate support for the RMIS,
and an RMIS that is probably overdesigned for the Information Technology (IT) skills base in
GDAR and the RIs. The reporting in GDRS is up-to-date.
(c)  Publications (1993 - 2000). The output of research publications in national and especially in
intemational journals is disappointing but may be partly due to a time lapse of at least one year
between completion and publishing. Still, it appears that the scientific discipline of publishing is not
a strong part of the Turkish research culture. This may be a consequence of conditions such as lack
of recognition of the importance or publications as a measure of research output, poor linkages
between publication record and salary or rank, or difficulties in meeting editorial standards of
international journals. TUBITAK's higher publication record is probably due to career incentives
offered in academia.
- 13 -



Table 5.2 Publications by Beneficiary Institutes 1993-2000
Research     Books     Journals   Conference       Technical  Symposia
Abstracts/             (Int'l.)   Papers           Bulletins  Organized
Completion                        (international)  and Hand
Reports                                            books
GDAR         6072/1400      19     623 (191)      266 (79)
GDRS'        276/600        -       62 (14)
MoF '         108/67        -                       7             54         2
AERI           59          7         24            15                        26
TUB1TAK         105/365      10        154      _      _12                      2
1 1996 -2000 only
2 Estimated. Abstracts of completed projects (450) published in Annual Reports generated through RMIS
for 1996 & 1997 only.
'GDRS output included topographical maps, and other digitized geographical images.
(d)  Interaction with extension. The frequency and quality in the interaction with extension was highly
variable, both on the output side, as well as when obtaining field information on research priorities.
Some research institutes, as well as TLBITAK, prepared extension bulletins that were distributed
either directly or through extension channels, as was information about new seeds etc. This was,
however, done on a rather ad-hoc basis and not really formalized.
3. Institutional Development--rated as satisfactory.
(a)  Research Management Capacity. The outputs include:
* re-establishment of the General Directorate of Agricultural Research (GDAR) in the Ministry
of Agriculture and Rural Affairs (MARA);
* establishment of a research department in the Ministry of Forestry (MoF);
* reports on the strategies for the reform of 6 major research institutes of GDAR (see Annex 4);
* research Master Plans; separate plans for MoF, GDRS and GDAR, prepared and implemented
in 1999.
* implementation of the competitive grants system.
(b)  Technical Capacity Rated as satisfactory. TARP outputs include:
*   improved technical skills (see under training);
* improved technical and analytical capability in selected institution (see under equipment)
* improved language skills and access to international research results and data.
(c)  Training. The output of this component includes:
0 93.3 person years of graduate training of young researchers;
* nearly 340 person years of English;
* 86 person years of short term training and study tours.
Table 5.3 Summary of training (person years) undertaken and supported by TARP.
|Agency     I   PhD    I   MSc     I Short-term I Technical I English  I  Total  I
- 14 -



& Study   Symposia or  Language
I  Tours     Meetings
GDAR           22.5        65.8       37.0        2.4       222.5      350.2
GDRS             0         4.0        41.5        3.0        92.5       141.0
AERI            0          0           0         1.7         4           5.7
MoF              0          0          7.7        0.6        23.3       31.6
Total          22.5        69.8       86.2        7.7       342.3       528.5
The training output included a total of 6 person years of support for participation of Turkish researchers in
national and international scientific meetings and seminar which apart from the training aspect, provided
access to international peers and research.
(d)  Equipment. The TARP financed major equipment purchases for the national research system such
as:
* complete mohair and wool testing laboratory (National Livestock Institute in Ankara) for
livestock breeding studies;
* equipment for a map digitizing center (GDRS Headquarters in Ankara) to develop the capacity
to support GDRS mainline of work to develop infrastructure and small irrigation schemes for
the rural areas;
* Atomic Absorption Spectrophotometers (for GDAR and GDRS RIs) to provide reliable testing
for chemicals and chemical residues as well as for soil mineral and contaminants;
* seeding drills and combine-harvesters for experimental plots (for 6 GDAR RIs) for crop
breeding and agronomy research;
* flour mill and malting (test) equipment (GDAR RIs) for crop breeding/ grain quality research
and testing;
* meteorology stations and soil humidity testing equipment (GDRS RIs) for soil and water
research;
* management - and Library Information Systems (GDAR, GDRS, and MoF Research
Headquarters in Ankara);
* complete sets of PCs, servers, printers, and software to support Local Area Network (LAN)
and Wider Area Network (WAN) requirements of all RIs ( GDAR, GDRS, MoF and AERI).
4. Access to International Research. TARP's physical outputs include:
*   an automated library service in GDAR and MoF, including an online and on-request access to an
Library Information System (LIS) and Management Information System (MIS) system (e.g.
several CD-ROMs) and over 1300 library acquisitions;
*   expansion of the libraries of GDRS and MoF with additional specialized CD-ROMS, available on
an institutional basis;
*   installation of WANs and LANs linking all GDAR, GDRS and MoF RIs to enable widespread
access to information; and
*   Internet connections to all institutes, which facilitate access to information/databases contained in
other national and international research organizations.
All implementing agencies acknowledge that improved access to international research databases is an
- 15 -



important project outcome. Researcher use of the information system is reported to be steadily increasing
and seen by many research workers as a cost effective capacity building tool.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The SAR did not calculate a project Net Percentage Value (NPV) or Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and
therefore no NPV or ERR is calculated for TARP. The only available estimates of internal rates of return
(IRR) to research in Turkey are those calculated in the AERI publication of Furtan et al. (1999). While
this does not provide an assessment for TARP, it does provide evidence for the IRR for agricultural
research in general. The long-term IRR estimates for two of the most important crops in Turkey was 67
percent for wheat research and 143 percent for cotton. Even after yield increases were decreased by 50
percent, taking into account of poor information flow to farmers, the IRRs only fell to 56 percent for wheat,
and 126 percent for cotton.
4.4 Financial rate of retun7:
The SAR did not calculate financial rates of return. None of the irnplementing agencies, apart from AERI,
as noted above, have conducted ex-post or ex-ante analyses of research impact. This would appear to be
an area where collaboration between AERI and other implementing agencies would pay dividends in
promoting the benefits of investment in research.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
See also under outcome.
1. The first important TARP achievement was the development of a new research "culture", focusing on
priority research programs and research outputs and outcomes.
2. The second achievement was the increased focus on (agricultural) economics whether by AERI, or
indirectly through AERI and its participation in various research planning activities. While this still
needs improvement, the project helped in the important first step.
3. Thirdly, the investment in equipment, in skills and in language training helped the institutions to move
out of its isolation, join the international research community, increasingly be able to participate in
European agricultural research, and bring back new technologies that were either tested under local
condition or could be applied immediately.
4. Finally, the improved research capacity, increased skills and changing mentality enabled selected
institutions to tap into other sources of funding, including private sector support.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The project was implemented in a problematic environment where substantial reforms were being
implemented by Govenmment. Among the broader factors which influenced performance are:
1. New universities were established during the period that the project was implemented. Employment
opportunities for researchers outside government agencies, that were limited at the time of the SAR
preparation, expanded significantly. This increased demand for staff outside the government caused
somewhat of a brain drain from the research institutes.
2. The presence (CIMMYT) and collaboration of (IRRI) international centers facilitated modernization of
- 16 -



research programs in respectively, wheat selection and irrigation.
3. The lack of social incentives (salary, housing, etc.) to work in some parts of Turkey, particularly in the
eastern regions impeded implementation that would target the lesser developed areas.
4. The devaluation of the Turkish Lira from 5,700 per US$ in 1992 to 526,460 per US$ in December
1999, to over 1,000,000 per US$ at project closing had considerable effect on the project, especially on
counterpart funding which, when expressed in US$, was far less than estimated at appraisal. Apart
from enforcement of austerity budgets, it often forced Government to make mid-year budget
adjustments which further increased budgetary instability at the implementing agencies.
5. The devastating earthquake in August 1999, had a major impact on the MoF RIs in the provinces of
Izmit and Bolu, subsequently a special case for the use of MoF TARP funds (US$ 1 .06m) for
rehabilitation.
6. The occasionally ambivalent actions of the Bank task teams that, while trying to improve
implementation, may have given different and somewhat confusing messages to the implementing
agencies and contributed to some of the delays.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Factors generally subject to government control include:
1. Implementation.
(a) Major structural changes within government and consequently MAFRA had profound effects
particularly during first three years and slowed implementation.
(b) Austerity measures adversely affected the flow of funds. Government financing was unable to
cover duties and taxes. Consequently, some equipment was not purchased and training was not
implemented as planned. There were no problems that related to government's ability to pay staff
salaries.
(c) Limited procurement experience in the early phases of the project delayed implementation as did
the RI managers' slow adjustment to the rules of the Bank's planning and competitive tendering
system Procurement training was provided to all implementing agencies, but staff changes
reduced effectiveness.
2. Research and Research Management Capacity was negatively affected by the difficulties to retain staff.
because of low salaries, and lack of a merit-based promotion system.
3. The TARP did not address the oversized research infrastructure and overcapitalization in research
facilities, evident at the time of the SAR. There appears to be little political will in government or the
implementing agencies to rationalize research facilities. A high proportion of available GOT funds
continue to be used for RI overheads costs.
4. Insufficient research funding and funding mechanisms by Government. The funding to research
institutes, provided through the central budget, was very low. During project implementation, this was
compensated by TARP funds where CRGPs filled the gap in operational funding. However, the SPO
has maintained a policy of allocating funds directly to RIs in line with the requests of the related
ministries and/or general directorates.
5. Weak link to farmers and extension. There are substantial variations in performance of research and
extension services among provinces. In Izmir for example, where research management was stable,
meager funds were used effectively and with the help of an enthusiastic staff the links are strong. In
- 17 -



other regions the link between the research and extension was weaker. An extension infrastructure has
been established during two Bank-funded extension projects. The effectiveness, however, was
negatively affected by some of the same issues that affected the Turkey Agriculture Research Project
(TARP) i.e.: (i) staff hiring moratorium starting in the early '90's; (ii) low salaries; (iii) low operational
budgets caused by the constraints in public finance; (iv) frequent staff turnover in the provinces; and
(v) variable competence of extension managers in the field.
5.3 Factors generally subject to irnpleinenting agencv control:
I . The lack of full beneficiary participation at project preparation delayed project implementation. Even a
year after the start of the project, there was insufficient awareness about the project and its objectives
among the various research institutes' directors and staff.
2. Although the TA for master plan development worked well, consultancies for the training component
were not well planned and training plans were beyond the absorptive capacity of implementing
agencies. Towards project completion, implementing agencies had improved and they were better able
to manage their training programs.
3. The lack of a central implementing agency (or project coordination unit) led to poor recognition of the
weak linkages between research and extension. These linkages (e.g. monthly and bimonthly
workshops, diagnostic surveys, etc.) had been developed by the first and second Agricultural Extension
and Applied Research Projects (AEARPs). Unfortunately, experience from these projects was not
linked to TARP. This linkage is now being revitalized.
5.4 Costs and financing:
The final project cost is estimated at US$ 59.5 million (about US$ 45.2 million from the Loan) compared
with the SAR estimate of US$ 77.6 million. Project revision in May 1997 resulted in a US$6 million Loan
cancellation. The remaining funds from the Loan were fixed following the July 1997 single currency,
conversion process. The unused portion of US$ 4.2 million remaining from the Loan is-cancelled.
Possible problems due to lack of counterpart funding related to austerity measures had been recognized
before the Loan was signed. In order to avoid major disbursement problems early in the project, Loan
funding levels of all Categories to 100 percent was accepted at Loan signing, with the exception of Civil
Works and Incremental Operating Costs. Throughout the project, regulations regarding the liability of the
agencies to pay Value Added Tax (VAT) and customs duty changed. While exempt until 1999, they
became liable both for 1999 and 2000. As this had not been calculated for, it resulted in counterpart funds
shortages slowing disbursement, as most of the laboratory equipment was imported.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated as questionable. The main reasons for this assessment are: (i) lower levels of
after-project GOT funding for research operations ; (ii) inability to retain income generated for
maintenance of staff and activities, particularly at AERI; and, (iii) continued erosion of staff numbers and
technical capacity.
The following is an assessment by objective:
6.1.1  Improve the capacith to deliver high qualitn, relevant research proerams of Ministry of Agriculture and
Rural Atfairs (MARA). General Dir-ectorate of Ryral Services (GDRS). and Ministry of Forestry (MoF).
The use of research equipment procured under TARP, and the manpower training provided, will assist
sustainability of research output, at least in the short to medium term, provided staffing capacity is
- 18-



retained. The improvement in language skills and computer literacy resulting in subsequent intemational
contact was paramount in modemizing research. Even, if staff can not be retained by Government
institutions, their work in academia or private sector will contribute to the delivery of relevant research.
6.1.2  Stiengthen selected hizh-prioritv nationtal prograrns focusing on less deieloped r egions.
Although for a variety of reasons ( see 5.1) the research capacity in the less developed region has not
significantly improved ( and may have even declined due to staff attrition) institutes outside of the less
developed regions did pay more attention to these regions and their problems. Given the skills developed
under TARP, research in fields that are relevant to the less developed regions will continue. These fields
include innovation in water-efficient agriculture, in new and improved crops, and in cultivation techniques
that are adopted to these areas.
6.1.3  Institutionalize a conipetitive agricultural r esearch proeram that invests in hijh piriority r elevanit
The competitive research component has led to a change in the research system where research is more
demand driven, with greater input of the individual researchers as well as the beneficiaries. In addition,
researchers obtained access to international standards and tools in research and to more peer reviews that
are part of the international research system. This change is likely to be sustainable. The sliding scale
whereby the project would finance 100% of competitive research in 1996 with an increasing contribution of
the national budget to the competitive research fund until 1999 did not materialize. For GDAR, the largest
of the implementing agencies, the 2001 budget request was 6.2 trillion TL (US$ 4.4 million). Even after
allowing for capital, repairs and maintenance, fuel and travel costs, about US$ 2 million remains for
research funding. However, SPO reduced this by more than 50 percent and then reallocated the budgets on
the basis of research programs that bear little relationship to RMP research priorities and more to research
programs prior to TARP. So, in spite of the positive experiences under the CRGPs, and full acceptance by
the line ministries, it has not been implemented by SPO (at least not for the very constrained 2001 budget).
6.1.4  C7owtributini' to institutional buileling of A RA 's anQd MoF's a!Zicultural and tbrestr1 research se-rvices.
About 30 percent of the TARP budget was spent on training which greatly improved the skills (both
language and technical) in research and allowed Turkish researchers' access to international research and
consequent connections. The outcome of this effort was somewhat tempered by: (i) continuing high staff
turnover rates, particularly in GDAR; (ii) the continued moratorium on staff hiring; (iii) the absence of
merit criteria in appointment decisions; and (iv) a relatively low number of years of service before
retirement (25 years of service for males, 20 for females) together with generally unfavorable conditions of
employment leading to an increased rate of early retirement. Still, although affected staff may have left the
particular MARA institutions, they often moved to universities or private sector where the acquired skills
contributed to research or to the Turkish economy in general.
6. 1. 5  Establishinz an economics and policy researc/h cavpability fir agricultuwe.
AERI was established as an institute with a relatively low in-house capacity to undertake agricultural
economics and policy research. TARP funds were used initially to contract a small number of institute
staff and some short-term research project staff. This contracting facilitated implementation and
guaranteed AERI's financial and scientific independence but may have been at some costs to local
(MARA's) ownership and integration of economic issues in the other (technical) institutes. Turkey's
economic research capacity was also enhanced by contracting, initially a mix of foreign and local and later
on mainly local skills and institutions, for example in the Middle East Technical University (METU). As
such, the project contributed significantly to establish and enhance agricultural policy research.
* 19-



Unfortunately, AERI as a possible sustainable institution came together only in the final two years of the
Project, when a local acting director was confirmed and when it had built a track record of reports that
attracted national attention, and generated some revenue. Efforts to obtain authorization to operate a
flexible revolving fund and retain some of its revenue have, so far, failed. Currently the AERI's status is
that of a department of MARA with staffing and central budget links to GDAR. Given its performance in
economic and policy research and the reputation it rapidly established, both in the public and private sector,
an AERI with a limited opportunity to contribute would be a disappointing outcome.
6.2 Transition arrantgement to regiular operations:
The RMPs developed in TARP have been updated and remain as the basis for research prioritization and
budget preparation. However, the "output" based approach to research funding supported under the project
has been revised.
Ongoing austerity measures in 2001 may temporarily delay full absorption/implementation of the concepts
and investments promoted by TARP. Following an almost 100 percent devaluation of the Turkish Lira
(TL) in February 2001, and a mandated maximum of 40% budget increase of the institutions most likely
means a 30% fall in real terms in research budgets.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
While design and quality at entry were deemed unsatisfactory, the Bank's overall performance was
satisfactory. Various changes in the structure of the loan as well as in the developmnent objectives and
technical implementation were discussed with Government and successfully applied. Increasing the
research grant component was instrumental in overcoming difficulties with counterpart funding and
facilitated disbursements following project restructuring.
7.2 Supervision:
Sixteen supervision missions involving 14 staff were completed with only one member common on more
than 10 missions. Changing staff, both within Bank supervision missions teams and within imnplementing
agencies appeared to result in inconsistent messages. For example after the MTR, the GDAR was
encouraged to rationalize its use of research resources through strengthening 7 Central Research Institutes
(CRIs). Plans were prepared and a "no objection" given for the development of 2 CRIs and approval in
principle for others subject to acceptable plans. A later Supervision mission rejected the concept of CRIs
and suggested instead up to 27 Centers of Excellence. In the meantime, GDAR on the basis of the "no
objection", went ahead with development at 7 CRIs.
During the first 4 years, the emphasis was on sound planning before authorizing disbursements. This on
occasion led to inconsistent performance ratings. For example over a five-month period from January 1997
the performance of MoF changed from "satisfactory, making good progress" to "well behind schedule"
with a prospect of cancellation. The initial assessment was based on reviewing total disbursement without
regard to quality.
The Bank supervision focused largely on implementation issues and did not pursue solutions to issues of
government ownership, monitoring and evaluation, and improvements in financial management. The final
outcome was increased disbursement for goods and competitive research, but little debate about or progress
on the more fundamental issues facing the agricultural research in Turkey.
-20-



The change from headquarter-based supervision to Resident Mission (RM) based supervision helped to
improve the performance and the relations between the implementing agencies. However, it greatly
increased the Bank's direct involvement in project operations leading to micro-management, with a risk of
too great dependency of the Borrower on Bank supervision as a monitoring and evaluation tool.
7.2.] Task managemeni. The TARP was supervised by four different Bank Task Managers. Overall
supervision was satisfactory. The Bank's recognition of the need for improved and more constant
relationships with the implementing agencies resulted in appointment of an Ankara based project
management. This decision, in mid-1998, which resulted in more consistent support from the Bank, was
welcomed by implementing agencies.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory, albeit not always consistent. While this led to a project
design that was over-ambitious, the Bank's response to the issues identified in the MTR was flexible and
sought to improve implementation of a complex project that involved five separate implementing agencies.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
GOT Commitment to TARP was marginally satisfactory. The preparation process was prolonged, in part
because of changes made in Government during the later stages of preparation. The SAR accepted these
changes without modifying the project organization, especially by leaving GDAR as the main coordinating
agency. This consequently led to noncooperative relationships between GDAR, GDRS and MoF during the
first 3 years of project implementation. Establishment of separate implementing agencies resolved that
issue to some extent, but raised other issues of research collaboration and duplication.
7.5 Government implementation peu]br,nance:
The main difficulty brought about through the relatively poor economic climate, was the lack of sufficient
counterpart fumds and changing requirements for financing of taxes and duties. This affected project
implementation and disbursement. TARP was exempted from these taxes from 1997 - 98 (when over 40
percent of total TARP funds were used). Re-application of taxes in 1998 again constrained disbursement,
particularly in GDRS and MoF. Turkish Treasury's auditors, as agreed with the Bank, carried out
financial auditing. These audits reports were, initially: (i) late and weak; (ii) did not report on total project
funds to be consolidated with IBRD records; and (iii) did not require a follow-up in case of discrepancies.
The delays in audits were reaching 2 years or more, which was pointed out during supervision in 1999, and
in a letter from the Country Director to Treasury in November 1999. The Treasury, assisted by the Bank,
took action through training of auditors, resulting in improvements in the delivery and quality of audits and
their follow-up, if necessary.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of GDAR as a single implementing agency of the project was deemed unsatisfactory, and
after 1994 each agency in the project became an independent implementing agency. These agencies
performed well as such, but fragmented the project management, as there was no single agency responsible
for the entire project.
7.7 Overall Borroiver per/ormance:
Overall Borrower performance was marginally satisfactory. Despite extemal uncertainties such as weak
public finance, unstable political environment, frequent changes at the ministerial level, and high turnover
of management and staff, nevertheless, great progress was made in changing the approach to research and
in achieving development objectives.
- 21 -



8. Lessons Learned
8.1.   The lessons from previous or ongoing projects at the time of preparation, in particular the first and
second agricultural extension and applied research projects, appear insufficiently incorporated into the
project design. Bank projects should incorporate more fully lessons, positive and negative from
ongoing operations in the country.
8.2.   Although the structural problems of an oversized, fragmented research structure and inflexible
personnel management policy in MARA was known, they were not addressed. Future operations should
acknowledge the risks of proceeding with investment lending in the absence of broader structural and civil
service reform.
8.3.   There was insufficient local ownership within the research community or MARA at the outset.
Preparation of future operations should devote more time to broad stakeholder involvement and
commitment to project design.
8.4.   The method of research funding through a competitive grant system worked reasonably well in
Turkey. The concept was not completely new in Turkey as it had been applied, in a less rigorous manner,
for some time by TJBITAK in its funding of university based research. (A number lessons emerge which
could be useful also for other ECA countries):
1. Research funding through competitive grants need to be complemented by funding for longer-term
research.
2. The "farmer-responsive" competitive grants process, needs to be carefully explained to the research
and extension community.
3. Financial, procurement and other fiduciary arrangements need to be carefully worked out.
4. Benefits and results need to be carefully monitored in terms of "outcomes" (fanner adoption rates,
higher productivity) as well as "outputs" (reports and extension messages).
8.5    The technical assistance worked quite well. The lesson is that long-term TA, with strong
commitments both from the client and the provider, can help to catalyze change.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borroiver/inplementing agency:
9.1    Letter from Treasury. The borrower's letter (11. 1.01 from the Director General, Foreign
Economic Relations of the Treasury) included the following evaluation:
1. Government recognized the changes in the project from being managed by a single government
agency to five implementing agencies.
2. It considers the disbursement patterns as a good example of a project affected by a number of
features that evolved continuously during the lifetime of the project and were actually based on
improvements made during implementation.
3. It also recognized that the currency conversion and cancellation lead to minor confusion with
respect to budgetary allocation among the implementing agencies. However implementing agencies
adapted well to the changing conditions and issues.
4. In general, the project is evaluated as "an extremely enriching experience" in agricultural and
forestry research.
5. In addition to encouragement and enhancement of research in public institutions, the project funds
- 22 -



were timely and valuable with respect to the creation of AERI and in supporting essential economic
policy research and development work to support sectoral reform. AERI was considered to have
filled a niche in research needed in agricultural policy making.
6. It is considered worth noting that visible improvements are noticeable in all agencies, and even
among their private partners, in project selection performance criteria, research training and
funding of agricultural research.
The Treasury considers borrower performance satisfactory as occasional difficulties were overcome
through consultations and were never permanently affecting the project.
9.2. Summarv of comments of implementing agency in Borrower Implementation Completion Report
Prepared by the Task Manager and is based on the comments of the Turkish Treasury and implementing
agencies of the TARP-November, 2001.
General comments
Treasury. With its highs and lows, the Project has been an extremely enriching experience in the
agricultural and forestry research area in Turkey, in the government bodies and also with the private
partners that joined in the implementation of some components of the research especially during the recent
years.
Project funds supported timely research and the AERI contributed to sectoral reforms.
TUBITAK. The project helped TUBITAK to gain very valuable experience in defining research areas,
evaluating/screening project proposals, implementing and monitoring and publishing the results. The
agency adopted the CRGP concept fully and developed it further and is committed to use it in their future
programs.
There has been significant ownership in TUBITAK for the project. The agency allocated considerable
amounts of funds from its budget to cover taxes and management expenditures for smooth implementation
of the component. The project provided an opportunity to better understand and further develop the CRGP.
The experience gained earlier in the project provided a valuable basis in the preparation and supervision of
the "Guided Projects" which was introduced in the last year of the project. Meetings organized with the
producers provided important inputs to develop demand driven projects. The program also helped
TUBITAK to seek and improve the collaboration among research institutions, industry and producers.
MoF. There is no doubt that the forestry research system highly benefitted from the project as a result of
support provided to the institutes and the researchers,
GDAR. The project introduced a system and discipline to the research environment. It also helped to direct
the resources towards the priority areas.
GDRS. The project provided important contributions to the rejuvenation and development of the research
system.
Project preparation
Treasurv. The Project was designed for a single government body, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry
and Rural Affairs (MAFRA) but was implemented by five agencies since MAFRA was split into two
- 23 -



twice, the first being in 1991 and the second in 1993. In addition, an institute (AERI) was established in
1996 and TUBITAK was included in mid-1997. The problems due to the over-ambitious project design in
relation to the economic, administrative and research management capacity in Turkey at the time of the
preparation of SAR have at times negatively affected the project implementation.
GDRS. Since GDRS was part of the MAFRA at the time of preparation, it was not directly involved in
preparation.
Bank and Borrower Performance
Comments of the agencies are summarized below:
Treasur,. During the implementation period, the establishment of AERI in 1996 and inclusion of
TUBITAK as an additional implementing agency had a positive effect on the overall performance of the
project. Since AERI has filled up an important niche in research needed in agricultural policy making of
the govenmment, it is important that it be supported financially to continue performing its activities.
Although the restructuring of budget allocation process for research activities was not envisaged during
design of the project and in the revised objectives, the implementing agencies have adapted their procedures
and fund flows quite successfully to overcome budgetary difficulties.
Overall borrower performance should be rated as "satisfactory" since occasional hardships in specific
implementation or disbursement related matters were overcome through consultations among the agency
Project Implementation Unit (PIU), Treasury and the World Bank project task teams. Instead, it is worth
praising the capability of the agencies in adapting their organizational and financial structures to the
activity plans and procedures regarding administrative, technical and technological issues over the project
life, and their adoption of the fundamental objectives of the project in conducting their research activities in
a way that seems to be sure to continue after the project is closed.
The main indicator of adoption of the objectives of the project is the importance all agencies attach to
implementation based on the Research Master Plans developed under the project and revised and improved
periodically. Visible improvements have occurred in the approaches of all agencies, and even their private
partners, to project selection, performance criteria, researcher training and funding in basic agricultural
research.
TUBITAK. TUBITAK treated the Research Master Plans prepared by MARA, GDRS and MoF as basics
documents for the project and used them as a basis in screening the project proposals submitted by
universities and other research institutions. The agency made special efforts to ensure effective and
efficient use of resources and in order to prevent duplications, a website was developed which listed
supported projects.
AERI. There was a general lack of will in the agencies to cooperate and proceed in a coordinated manner.
There was an effort to organize and re-formulate Turkish agricultural research organized by TUBITAK in
1998. However, no consensus was reached in the Working Group due to the agencies' being too
turf-conscious. The proposed Higher Council for Research and Development is strongly needed to
reconcile the collaboration and duplication issues. The CRGP and priority setting need to be mainstreamed
in research programs of all research agencies. However, this is not the case. The system's performance
was marginally satisfactory.
- 24 -



GDAR. In the earlier phase of the project, the project performance was affected by: (i) insufficient
counterparts; (ii) lack of coordination among agencies; (iii) heavy bureaucratic procedures; and (iv)
insufficient number of staff. This called for effective coordination among SPO, Treasury, Ministry of
Finance, and implementing agencies but the efforts were insufficient. However, it should be noted that the
Treasury and the World Bank's efforts are regarded as useful. After 1995, no problems were encountered
regarding the domestic budget allocations and overall coordination. Therefore, project implementation was
accelerated.
The Government's decision to exempt imported scientific goods from customs duties and taxes was very
helpful for the project. The Project highly benefitted from this for the library information system, field and
laboratory equipment. However, Government's austerity measures limited the project activities. If the
externally financed projects had been exempted from these measures, it would have enhanced the project
implementation.
MoF. Although the Loan funds were available, insufficiency of domestic budget allocations did not allow
their timely use. There was a need for a coordinated effort from Treasury, Ministry of Finance and the
Central Bank sides. The government's austerity measures did not allow the agency to proceed with the
graduate program for researchers. The project was not promoted within the Ministry during the initial
years of the project. Only after the first RMP, did any ownership materialize. Quality research staff could
not be maintained due to the government's personnel policies such as low salaries and low status.
GDRS. The agency did not experience any difficulty in provision of the counterpart funds. The agency
agrees with the evaluation and ratings in the ICR
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Summary of comrnents of randomly selected beneficiary institutes (2000)
Institution        Benefits                            Concerns
Livestock Institute  With TARP investments, the Institute is  Institute has not evaluated the negatives
(Konya)           now better equipped to do research; i.e.  (if any).
better skills, better equipment.
Overseas training and visit .opened our
eyes" and provided new views.
Winter Cereals    TARP increased flexibility, and secured  Lack of extension, lack of economics.
Institute (Konya)  longer term research funding.
Better collaboration with international
institutes.
GDRS (Konya)      Better equipment, office technology  TARP is ending, and not sure the
MARA will compensate for loss of
funding.
Overseas training was beneficial.
E-mail and new journals/books provide
access to worldwide research results.
- 25 -



"TARP opened eyes and views".
Forestry Dept.    TARP allowed contact with the outside  Retention of quality staff is still a
(Izmir)           world, resulting in introduction of new  problem.
species, and international collaboration.
Process of Masterplan brought discipline
and priority in selection of research topics.
TARP provided better motivation for staff.
Ability of draft proposals for international
support has improved.
GDRS Research     TARP brought new equipment, and enabled
(Izmir)           the institute to provide better research and
services.
Enabled to provide demonstration of
modem tools and methods (for farmers)
Ege University    Better streamlining of research awards is  Dissemination of results is still
(Bornova-lzmir)   suggested.                            inadequate, although University has its
own extension section.
[Note: university  TARP helped many young researchers, and Bias in TUBITAK's review and reward
research was only  contributed to MS and PhD training at the  system (in favor of crops, and-within
supported through  University..                         livestock- favoring animal health).
TJBITAK]          Researchers are now better able to approach TUBITAK will not support economic
other funding agencies and private sector.  research, as this is considered social
science.
Observation: TUBITAK gets all rights
to new inventions, even if it only paid
part of the research (and not for
salaries).
Still a lack of collaboration between
researchers (on same topic), and risk of
duplication.
Olive Research    Master plan is helping to prioritize research. Funding"after TARP" is insecure.
Institute (Izmir)  TARP helped to maintain research when  Limited application of research in the
Turkey withdrew from International Olive  field.
Council
10. Additional Information
- 26 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                     Projected in last PSR                 ActuallLatest Estimate
1. Farmers adopting new technologies    The time lag between the carrying out of  Although in most cases it is still too early to
released from GDAR, GDRS or MoF         research and the time it reaches the farmers measure this impact, some technologies (in
research.                               is too long to be evaluated in such    IPM for example) are being transferred and
projections.                           adopted.
2. Research Master Plans are basis for                                         Although RMP were used by the Ministry of
budget allocations based on program                                            Agriculture in its budgets planning, the
priorities.                                                                    concept was not (yet) accepted by the State
Planning
3. Management informaton systems                                               Information system is installed, functional
installed and used to monitor and manage                                       and respected.
research system.
4. AERI established and carrying out                                           AERI established and filling a role in
research and analysis of priority public policy                                agricultural policy (see Borrower comment)
issues in agriculture.
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                     Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Contestable Research Grant Programs                                         1.
a. RMPs defining research priorities                                           a. Satisfactory
b. RMPs revised                                                                b. Completed and Highly Satisfactory
c. Funds allocated to priority areas                                           c. Satisfactory
d. Project proposal and evaluation criteria in                                 d. Satisfactory
place
e. Research contracts and funds transferred                                    e. Satisfactory
2. Research capacity to deliver priority                                       2.
research
a. Training needs analysis relating to priority                                a. Marginally Satisfactory
programs                                                                       b.
b. Training delivered                                                            Marginally Satisfactory
c. Economics and Policy capacity developed                                     c. Highly Satisfactory
d. Research coordination and collaboration                                     d. Unsatisfactory
e. Research Projects completed                                                 e. Satisfactory
f. Multi-disciplinary research programs                                        f. Unsatisfactory
g. Research applicable to less developed                                       g. Marginally Satisfactory
areas
h. Research Publications                                                       h. Marginally Satisfactory
3. Research Management Development                                             3.
a. On-the-job and formal training delivered                                    a. Satisfactory
b. Job Descriptions                                                            b. Unsatisfactory
c. Performance management systems                                              c. Unsatisfactory (beyond Project control)
d. Research Institute rationalized                                             d. Unsatisfactory
e. Nongovemment funding for research                                           e. Marginally Satisfactory
f. NARS sustainability                                                        f. Unsatisfactory
4. Research Management Information                                             4.
System
a. RMIS defined                                                                a. Satisfactory
b. LANs and WANs installed                                                     b. Satisfactory
c. RMIS installed and operational                                              c. Satisfactory
d. LIS and central library operational                                         d. Satisfactory
End of project
Note: The SAR did not provide a logical framework or define any performance indicators. Such
indicators were developed during the first supervision mission (May 1993). The Mid-Term
Review developed a logical framework and GDAR, GDRS, MoF and AERI MoF defined
indicators and means of verification in 1997.
- 27 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component            US$ million  US$ million
Agricultural Policy                                0.00           6.00
Applied Research                                   0.00           7.30
Institutional Strengthening                       10.60          23.80           220
Soil and Water                                     12.10          5.50            45
Forestry                                           5.60           3.80            68
Crops                                             22.60           9.60            42
Livestock                                          9.30           1.50            16
Farming Systems                                     1.50          0.80            53
Integrated Pest Management                         4.50           0.80            18
Residue Control                                    2.30           0.00             0
Total Baseline Cost                               68.50          59.10
Physical Contingencies                            3.70           0.00             0
Price Contingencies                               3.80           0.00             0
Total Project Costs            76.00          59.10
Total Financing Required            76.00          59.10  _             -
Note: All components after the restructuring in 1997 have been taken into consideration.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category     ICB       Procurement Method          N.B.F.     Total Cost
NCB         Other2
1. Works                    10.00        11.90        0.00         0.00        21.90
(3.50)       (4.20)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (7.70)
2. Goods                    14.60         0.00        3.20         0.00         17.80
(12.70)      (0.00)        (2.60)      (0.00)       (15.30)
3. Services                 0.00          0.00        28.10         0.00       28.10
(0.00)       (0.00)      (25.10)       (0.00)      (25.10)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00          0.00        4.00          0.00        4.00
Research Grants            (0.00)        (0.00)       (4.00)       (0.00)      (4.00)
5. Miscellaneous            0.00          0.00         0.00        5.80         5.80
Incremental OC              (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (2.90)      (2.90)
6. Miscellaneous            0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                    24.60         11.90        35.30        5.80        77.60
(16.20)      (4.20)       (31.70)       (2.90)      (55.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category     ICB       Procurement Method          N.B.F.    Total Cost
NCB         Other
-28 -



1. Works                        0.00           1.38          0.00           0.00          1.38
(0.00)         (0.69)        (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.69)
2. Goods                        4.57           0.00           6.96          0.00          11.53
(3.94)         (0.00)        (5.80)         (0.00)       (9.74)
3. Services                     0.00           0.00          19.30          0.00          19.30
(0.00)         (0.00)        (17.37)        (0.00)       (17.37)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00          0.00          16.67          0.00          16.67
Research Grants                (0.00)          (0.00)       (15.64)        (0.01)        (15.65)
5. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00           0.00          0.01          0.01
Incremental OC                  (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                         4.57           1.38         42.93          0.01          48.89
(3.94)         (0.69)        (38.81)        (0.01)       (43.45)
Notes: 1. National shopping was disaggregated to below limits of NCB for expediency reason.
2. Throughout the project the regulations regarding payment of VAT and customs were variously
exempt or applied. On average VAT and Customs duty is assumed to be 15 precent each, with the
cumnulative effect being 32 percent.
' Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contractcd staff
of the project mranagemcnt office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
r             |                             | Perce~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ntage of Appraisal|
Component       L      Appraisal Eslimate          ActualfLatesl Estimale
Bank      Goil.     CoF.      Bank       Go% t.    CoF.    Bank   Govt.   CoF.
Institutional strengthening  7.90   2.70               18.00      5.80              227.8  214.8
Farming systems           1.30      0.20                0.60      0.20               46.2   100.0
Crops                    12.50     10.10                7.30      2.30               58.4   22.8
Livestock                6.70       2.60                1.20      0.30               17.9   11.5
Soil & water             10.20      1.90                4.20      1.10               41.2   57.9
Forestry                 5.00       0.60                2.90      0.90               58.0   150.0
Integrated pest          3.50       1.00                0.60      0.20               17.1   20.0
management
Residue control           1.90      0.40                                             0.0    0.0
Additional components
after restructuring:
Applied research                                        5.60      1.70
Agricultural policy                                     4.60      2.60
[Cancellation]                                          6.00
Agricultural Policy, Training, Applied Research were new components added after midterm review. The original
components Crops, Livestock, Integrated pest Management were amalgamated in Applied Research and
Institutional Strengthening. Residue Control was cancelled.
- 29 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
- 30 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year     Count          Specialty                      Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
06/90                        6   Crop, Economist, Soils
Irrigation, Forestry, Livestock,
Farming Systems Research
Appraisal/Negotiation
Preappraisal               11    Team leader, Consultant,
04/91                            Farming Systems
Appraisal 06/91             --   --
Post Appraisal                   Team leader
01/92
Supervision
6/92                         3   Team leader, agriculturist,
operation specialist
(consultant) Startup mission
05/93                        2   Team leader, agriculturist,        U             U
operations specialist (consultant)
10/93
03/94                        3    Team leader, agriculturist,       U             U
Farming Systems specialist
11/94
4/95                        3    Team leader, farming systems      U             U
specialist (consultant)
11/95                           Tearn leader                       U             U
3/96                         3   Team leader, economist,            U             U
agriculturist
8/96                         2   Team leader, economist,            U             U
agriculturist
12/96                       2    Team leader, economist            U             U
5/97                        2    Team leader, project officer       S            S
02/98                       5   Tearn leader, sector leader,        S            S
agriculturist, forester, land and
water development specialist
(consultant)
10/98                        3   Team leader, agriculturist, sector  S            S
leader
3/99                             Teamn leader, financial specialist  S            S
09/99                        6   Team leader, economist livestock   S             S
specialist, agriculturist, financial
management specialist,
procurement specialist
(consultant)
- 31 -



6/00                         3   Team leader, livestock/research     S             S
mgt. specialist
10/00                        3   Team leader, sector leader,        S              S
livestock/ research mgt specialist
ICR
2    Team leader, research
management specialist
(consultant)
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               17.1                     279,954
Appraisal/Negotiation                    29.1             included in above
Supervision                              67.0                     579,667
ICR                                       8.6                        21.2
Total
- 32 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU-Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OMacro policies                         O H   OSUOM      * N   O NA
O Sector Policies                        O H  O SU O M   * N   O NA
O Physical                              O H   O SU * M   O N   OVA
O Financial                             O H   OSUOM      ON    * NA
O Institutional Development              0 H  0 SU * M   0 N   O NA
O Environmental                         O H   O SU * M   O N   O NA
Social
3I Poverty Reduction              O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
L Gender                          O H   O SU O M   O N   * NA
L Other (Please specify)          O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
L Private sector development            0 H   0 SU 0 M   0 N   * NA
O Public sector management              0 H   O SU * M   0 N   0 NA
OOther (Please specify)                  OH   OSUOM      O N   * NA
- 33 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
0 Lending                                            OHS OS *U OHU
CJ Supervision                                       OHS OS       OU     O HU
C Overall                                            OHS OS       OU     O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
O Preparation                                        OHS OS       *   U  O HU
O Government implementation performance              O HS O S     0  U   0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                  O HS OS      0   U  0 HU
O Overall                                            OHS OS O u O HU
- 34 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
I .    Staff Appraisal Report
2.     Loan Agreement
3..    Aide Memoires
4.     Project Status Reports (Form 590s)
5.     Project Files -correspondence with govemment
6..    Research Master Plans - GDAR, GDRS, MoF (first and revised)
7.     Mid-Term Review
8.     Strategic plans:
(a)    Strategic plan to improve research relevancy And efficiency of the Central Research
Institute for Field Crops; 1997.
(b)    The plan for improvement of the Trabzon Fisheries Research Institute, 1997.
(c)    Strategic plan for improvement of the Central Research Institute of Food Technology;
1997.
(d)    The plan for improvement of the Ataturk Horticultural Central Research Institute; 1997.
(e)    The plan for improvement of the Lalahan Livestock Central Research Institute; 1997.
(f)    The plan for improvement of the Ankara Plant Protection Research Institute; 1997.
(g)    The plan for improvement of the Etlik Central Veterinary Control and Research Institute,
1997.
9.     GDAR Implementation Completion Report.
10.    MoF Implementation Completion Report.
II.    GDRS Implementation Completion Report.
12.    TUBITAK Research Grant Committee Status Report.
13.    AERI Research projects Report.
14.    TARP Independent Auditors Report.
15.    Furtan, W. et al., 1999 An Examination of Agricultural Productivity and Returns to Agricultural
Research in Turkey, Ankara, AERI May 1999.
16.    Letter Treasury Department 11/01/01 on implementation evaluation.
- 35 -



-36 -



