Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MIICROFICHE COPY
Report No.  9890-TU   Type: (SAR)                   ReportNo.9890-TU
GASSNER    / X32072 / H5071/ EMlAG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
April 9, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department 1
Europe and Central Asia
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Carren..y Unit = Turkish Lira (TL)
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
(Turkish Lira per US$)
1988    1989    1990    1991    1992(Feb.)
1421    2121    2608    4160        5700
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AEARP       -    Agricultural Extension and Applied Research Projects
AERI        -     Agricultural Economic Research Institute
APK         -     Research, Planning and Coordination Bureaus of MARA and MOF
ASAL        -     Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
CGIAR       -     Consultative Group for International Agricultural Research
CIAT        -     International Center for Tropical Agriculturel Research
CIMMYT      -     International Center for Maize & Wheat Improvement Research
CIP         -     International Center for Potato Research
FAO         -     Food and Agricultural Organization
GDAR        -     General Directorate of Agricultural Research
GDOF        -     General Directorate of Forestry
GDOS        -     General Directorate of Organizational and Supporting Services
GDPI        -     General Directorate of Project and Implementation (Renamed in
GDPD        -     August 1991 as General Directorate of Agricultural
Production and Development [GDPD])
GDPC        -     General Directorate of Protection and Control
GDRS        -     General Directorate of Rural Services
HCRD        -     High Council for Research and Development
MAFRA       -     Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Affairs
MARA        -     Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs
MOF         -     Ministry of Forestry
LCB         -     Local Competitive Bidding
ICARDA      -     International Center for Agricultural Research in Dry Areas
ICB         -     International Competitive Bidding
ICRISAT     -     International Center for Research in Semiarid Tropics
IRRI        -     International Rice Research Institute
TUBITAK     -     Scientific and Technical Research Organization of Turkey
YOK         -     Higher Education Board
TURKEY - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFmICIAL USE ONLY
TUIRKEY
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Project Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    ()
I.  PROJECT AND SECTOR BACKGROUND . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               1
A. Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               1
B. Agricultural Sector  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              1
C. Bank Group Lending for Agriculture . . . . . . . . . . .              5
II.  AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH IN TURKEY . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               7
A.  General   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  7
B. Organization of MARA Agricultural Research . . . . . . .              8
C. Rationale for Bank Involvement . . . . . . . . . . . . .             13
III.  THE PROJETg   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            15
A. Project Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             15
B. Summary Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             15
C. Project Details  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             16
D. Cost Estimates . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             22
E. Procurement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             23
F. Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             25
G. Accounts and Audits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             26
H. Project Supervision  . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . .             26
IV.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              27
V.  BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS . . . . . . . . . . . . .              30
A. Benefits and Justification . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             30
B. Environmental Effects  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             31
C.  Risks  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  31
VI.  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  . . . . . . .              31
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Turkey in June 1991. Mission members included Messrs./Mmes. H.P. Gassner
(Mission Leader), K. Somel (part time), N. Mattson and N. Durutan (IBRD) and
S.R. Freiberg, H. Floyd, J. Glenn, D. Johnston, R. Etheredge (Consultants).
A postappraisal mission comprising of Messrs. A. Ablasser, H. Akhavan and S.
Freiberg visited Turkey in January/February 1992.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
Of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disolosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2-
Table of Contents (cont'd)
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1  Project Cost Estimates
Table 1 & 2 - Summary and Project Components Expenditures by Year
Table 3 & 4 - Annual Project Expenditures Including Contingencies
Table 5     - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Table 6     - Proposed Allocation of Loan Funds
Table 7     - Training Abroad Program
Table 8     - Consultants' Services
ANNEX 2  Institutional Strengthening
A. Research Organization and Management
B. Institutional Strengthening Component
APPENDIX 1       Research Master Plan Terms of Reference
APPENDIX 2       Technical Assistance Terms of Refererce
APPENDIX 3       Agricultural Economics Research Institute
ANNEX 3 Farming Systems Research
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION FILE
ANNEX 4 Production and Protection Research
ANNEX 5  Animal and Forage Production Research
ANNEX 6  Soil and Water Management Research
ANNEX 7  Forestry Research
ANNEX 8  Civil Works and Cost Assumptions
CHARTS
1. Implementation Schedule
2. GDAR Organization
IAkP
IBRD No. 23282R -- Turkey Agricultural Research Project



(i)
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borxowor,3r              Rspublic of Turkey.
Beneficiaries:           Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs (MARA) and
Ministry of Forestry (MOF)
Amount:                  US$ 55.0 million equivalent.
Terms:                   Seventeen years, with a five-year grace period, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Proiect Oblectives:      The  project  would  support  Government  efforts  to
strengthen MARA and MOF agricultural and forestry
research services to provide appropriate technologies
for solving farmers' problems and raising their incomes,
with a concentration of effort on the less developed
regions of eastern and southeastern Turkey.
Proiect                  The project would strengthen: (i) the research capabi-
Descrioti2n              lities of institutions developing technology suitable
for eastern and southeastern Turkey; (ii) national
research programs in the areas of erosion control/soil
conservation, soil fertility, pesticide management,
residue control, and farming systems research;
(iii) research planning, budgeting and monitoring
systems; and (iv) capacity for testing food products for
conformity to pesticide and hormone residue regulations;
and would establish an Agricultural Economic Research
Institute (AERI). The project would include civil works
(laboratories, offices, workshops, staff housing),
laboratory and field equipment, vehicles, staff
training, incremental vehicle and equipment operating
costs and technical assistance.
Bnefits *nt              To remain competitive and to develop new markets and
Risks:                   products, Turkish agriculture must become more efficient
both in the modern and traditional smallholder
subsectors.   The proposed project would  strengthen
Turkey's ability for developing and testing a continuing
stream of improved agricultural practices, leading to
increases in productivity and farmer incomes as well as
more sustainable agricultural practices. Concentration



(ii)
on research benefiting the less developed regions of
Turkey is justified both for social/equity reasons and
because of large irrigation investments currently
underway in these areas. Programs to improve research
planning, budgeting and monitoring would increase the
efficiency of the system and its responsiveness to
farmer  requirements.    The  new  AERI  would  provide
policymakers with information on the costs and benefits
of various policy options, as well as improved
information on agricultural investment priorities, trade
opportunities, and human resource issues in rural areas.
Risks include: (i) insufficient funding by Government in
the face of budget constraints; and (ii) inadequate
control of research coordination and management of
priorities leading to inefficient research or new
technologies    inadequately   adapted   for   farmer
requirements.   The second risk is being addressed by
project supported efforts to improve research planning
and budgeting systems, and research/extension and farmer
links.   The first risk was addressed by reducing the
project size in line with estimates of financial
capacity. The recent decision to create a new General
Directorate of Agricultural Research (GDAR) is an
indication of the Government's increased commitment to
the importance of strengthening agricultural research.
Finally, two research and project effectiveness
assessments provide opportunities for making any
required   adjustments   based   upon   implementation
experience.



(lil)
Costs. Financinit and Disbursement Summary
Estimated Project Costs:
XFo=eign    %Total
Components                         Local   Foreign  Total   Excbange  Base Costs
------US$ million------
Institutional Strengthening          2.7      7.9      10.6      74.5        15.5
Farming Systems                      0.2      1.3       1.5       90.1        2.2
Crops                               10.1     12.5      22.6       55.3       33.0
Livestock                            2.6      6.7       9.3       72.0       13.5
Soil & Water                         1.9     10 2      12.1       84.3       17.7
Forestry                             0.6      5.0       5.6       89.3        8.2
Integrated Pest Management           1.0      3.5       4.5       76.9        6.6
Residue Control                      0.4       1.9      2.3       80.7        3.3
Total Baseline Costs             19.5     49.0      68.5      71.5       100.0
Physical contingencies               1.5      2.2       3.7       60.4        5.4
Price contingencies                           3.8       5.4       69.7        7.9
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS              22.6 aJ   55.O     77.6      70.1       113.4
Financing Plan:
Percentage of Proiect
Total      F.E.
Local  Foreign   Total      Costs      Costs
------US$ million-----
Government                          22.6/a    -        22.6       29.0        0.0
IBRD                                 0.0     55.0      55.0      71.0       100.0
TOTAL                             26.6     51.0      77.6     100.0       100.0
Estimated Completion Date:    December 31, 1999
Estimated IBRD Disbursements:
IBRD Fiscal Year
93     94     95      96     97      98     99     00
-- --------------(US$ million,------------------
Annual                     9.0   15.5   13.5    8.5    4.0    2.5   1.5    0.5
Cumulative                 9.0   24.5   38.0   46.5   50.5   53.0  54.5   55.0
MA&:  IBRD 23282R - Turkey Agricultural Research Project
a/ Includes USS 6.3 million taxes



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCIJ PROJECT
1. PROJECT AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.01      The Government of Turkey (GOT) plans to strengthen its agricultural
research services to better serve its farming community and has requested the
World Bank to assist in financing a project to achieve its objective. A World
Bank Mission agreed with GOT on possible components of such a project with an
emphasis on strengthening agricultural research capacity to benefit the less
developed regions of the country and particularly the eastern and southeastern
regions. Furthermore, a few research programs of high priority would also be
included on a nationwide basis.
1.02      Under the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (2585-TU) the AGRAR
Consulting firm and nine Turkish specialists conducted a review of the former
Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Affairs' "Agricultural Research
Activities" and issued a report in December 1989. This report was the basis for
an FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program Mission visit to Turkey in June 1990 and the
issuance of a preparation "Agricultural Research Project" report dated August
24, 1990 which was submitted to GOT for its approval. A subsequent World Bank
Preappraisal Mission agreed with GOT in April 1991 on the various project
components suitable for consideration by a Bank Appraisal Mission which visited
in June 1991. Final arrangements were discussed with GOT by a Postappraisal
Mission in February 1992.
B. Agricultural Sector
1.03      Turkey has nearly 28 million hectares of cultivated land.  Signifi-
cantly, Turkey not only is self sufficient in food but also has large net exports
of agriculturat products. Although declining in relative importance, the agricul-
tural sector in recent years (1985-88) generated about 16% of total GDP and
averaged about 21% of export earnings. In addition, clothing and textiles (based
largely on domestic agricultural raw materials) represented 37% of exports in
1990, while other industries based upon agricultural raw materials generated
about 16% of exports. About half the labor force in Turkey is engaged in agricul-
tural pursuits, with crops contributing 56%, animal products 32%, forestry 7% and
fisheries 4% of income.
1.04      Nearly 42 million hectares are considered agricultural land and its
land use is as follows:



- 2 -
Agricultural Land Use in Turkey
Area       Percent of
(Million ha)       Area
I. Cultivated Land
1. Field CroDs
Cereals                                 13.8            50
Pulses                                   2.1             8
Industrial crops                         1.3             4
Oil seeds                                1.0             4
Tubers                                   0.3             1
Subtotal                                18.5            67
2. Horticultural CroRs
Fruit                                    1.5             6
Vegetable                                0.6             2
Vineyards                                0.6             2
Olives                                   0.9             3
Subtotal                                 3.6            13
3. Fallow                                    5.6            20
Total Cultivated Land                   27.7           100
II.  Pasture and Meadows                         14.2
Total Agricultural Land                 41.9
Source: Statistical Yearbook, 1987
Of some 22 million ha in field and horticultural crops, about 3.2 million ha are
irrigated, with a substantial expansion (about 1.7 mil.lion ha) planned for this
decade with the construction of irrigation works on the Euphrates River.
1.05      Turkey occupies an area of about 78 million ha under diverse geo-
climatic conditions which permits the production of a wide range of crops and
livestock. Its western and coastal regiois (Mediterranean, Aegean, Black Sea)
have the most favorable climate and are the most developed agriculturally. The
central, eastern and southeastern Anatolia regions have lower rainfall and
progressively harsher winter conditions as one travels eastward. Central Anatolia
is the main cereal growing region, while mountainous eastern Anacolia has sparse
cereal production in the valleys and livestock which graze the mountain psetures
in summer and are housed in winter.
1.06      Livestock is a major resource in Turkey with some 15 million head of
cattle and buffalo, 44 million sheep and 17 million goats and 64 million poultry.
Commercial  poultry production  is  increasingly  important.    Apiculture  and
sericulture are growing in importance as sources of income for rural people. In
lower income areas, mainly in the eastern provinces, livestock herds are
maintained under low input/low output conditions, with much of the pastures and
rangelands degraded. Furthermore, severe winters in these provinces limit the
growing season and many of the animals suffer considerable feed deficit for four
to six months of the year which is only partially offset by crop residues and



3
conserved forages. Turkey's livestock yields (i.e., milk per cow and beef per
carcass) are similar to those in Central Asia's grazing based regions and well
below those in Eastern European countries of similar income levels. In recent
years some 50,000 head of exotic cattle have been imported as part of a major
breeding program tc increase milk production through genetic  improvement.
Holstein, Brown Swiss and Simental heifers and bulls have been distributed
throughout the country to farmers and to establish bull centers. The results of
this program are mixed, with problems arising from an inadequate supply of high
quality animal feed and a lack of appropriate animal husbandry management
practices. A  strengthened livestock research program is essential to improved
animal nutrition, increased forage and pasture production, improved livestock
management and herd upgrading.
1.07      Mixed farming is the predominant system of agricultural operations in
Turkey and accounts for about 86% of all holdings. In the climatically favorable
areas of the Mediterranean and Aegean coastal areas, as many as three crops can
be grown with irrigation, whereas only one crop can be grown in the harsher, rain
deficit areas of Central and Eastern Anatolia.
1.08      As demand for food has increased due to population growth and export
opportunities, more pasture land has been brought into cultivation. This has
resulted in shifting grazing to marginal and forested land, overgrazing and
degradation of pasture quality with concomitant loss of ground cover and erosion.
Furthermore, as grazing rights on pasture and rangeland are usually communal,
problems related to the management of these grazing resources are difficult to
overcome.   Thus environmental problems are becoming closely associated with
livestock production.
1.09      Forestry.  About 20.2 million ha of land in Turkey, or about one fourth
of Turkey, is still forested area of which about 56% are degraded or unpro-
ductive, due in part to arson and illegal grazing. In 1945, all forests were
nationalized.  Amendments in 1987 allowed some categories of private forests
(estimated at 1% of forested areas). In addition, farmers have been encouraged
to grow poplars and other fast growing trees, particularly on farm borders.
About 17,000 villages with a population of 9.4 million reside within or adjacent
to the forests and rely on the forest land for fuel and for grazing their
livestock including collection of browse for stall feeding. Key priorities are:
(i) reduction of erosion damage and rehabilitation of eroded areas, including
development of programs to encourage forest villagers to assist in safeguarding
such areas; and (ii) improvement of productivity to meet rising demand for forest
products.
1.10      Development Objectives.   The main agricultural sector dsvelopment
objectives of the GOT are to:  (s) modernize production techniques to raise
productivity, yield and farmer income; (b) maintain food requirements of a
growing population; and (c) promote agricultural exports.
1.11      Strategies.  A wide range of structural reforms throughout the economy
has been adopted by the GOT since 1980 representing a marked diversion from
previous policies which emphasized centralized controls. The major thrust of the
new policies was to promote greater reliance on the private sector and market
forces for increased efficiency and growth. Although key changes were introduced
in industrial and macroeconomic policy, progress on agricultural policy was more
limited, although still of importance. The private sector was encouraged to take



a more important role in input distribution, regulatory restrictions were
loosened and input subsidies were reduced. In line with its sectoral objectives,
government strategy has emphasized improving agricultural productivity through
expanding irrigated areas and import of exotic livestock breeds, strengthening
its technical support to farmers through improved extension and better
extension/research linkages and encouraging the increased use of agricultural
inputs and improved seeds. At the same time, however, agricultural research has
been weakoned by limited funding and growth of private sector opportunities
outside research for agricultural scientists.
1.12      Despite the shift in agricultural strategies described above, major
macroeconomic disturbances in 1979/80 resulted in ar initial sharp decline in
agricultural growth rates in 1980 and 1981.  However, from 1983 through 1988
agricultural growth rates averaged 4.9% per annum and kept pace with Turkey's
impressive aggregate economic ou-put and income growth.  After a severe drought
in 1989, agricultural GDP dropped sharply and only in 1990 returned to 1988
levels.   Moreover,  there are underlying signs of a weakening agricultural
performance including a lessening in the rate of agricultural commodity yield
increases.
1.13      Although Turkey has a comparative advantage in the production of such
crops as wheat, barley, cotton, tobacco, sunflower seeds, olive oil and melons,
its crop yields are significantly belo- its potential and crop yield growth rates
are behind many of its competitors. Yields of wheat remained static during the
1980s at a national average of 1.9 t/ha, with Central Anatolia yielding 2.2 t/ha,
the Mediterranean region 2.8 t/ha and Eastern Anatolia at only 1.0 t/ha. Unless
Turkey accelerates progress in developing and adopting improved technology, there
is concern that it will lose opportunities for profitably exporting crops and
competing successfully against imports. Inadequately supported research, weak
extension services, inappropriate irrigated farming techniques, and agricultural
resource degradation all contribute to a reduction in productivity growth.
1.14      Agricultural Resource: Base Dearadation.   Intensive land use and
increasing population have substantially degraded Turkey's agricultural resource
base. Excessive grazing of natural pastures, cropping of steep fragile slopes
and denuding of forested areas have led to massive erosion and damaged soil
resources. Streams, lakes and groundwater have been polluted by excessive and
improper use of fertilizers and pesticides which has resulted in food and water
contamination and has on occasion resulted in the loss of livestock. Agricultural
research will be essential in formulating sustainable solutions for reversing
this degradation, particularly through integrated pest management practices and
rangeland and watershed rehabilitation.
1.15      Bank's Agricultural Strategy.  Agricultural lending by the Bank to the
GOT has aimed at increasing output productivity, exports and rural employment,
and supporting and promoting the necessary policy and institutional reforms in
the sector. Strategy by the Bank has included:
(a) supporting institutional reform and particularly technical support
services of research and extension, establishing a sectoral planning
capability, improving irrigation agencies' implementation capabilities
and reforming government enterprises involved in agricultural
marketing and input supply;



- 5 -
(b) rationalizing the public sector investment program, particularly in
irrigation, with greater emphasis on quick gestating projects;
(c) expanding the credit s8pply, especially for medium and small farrm
holdings, together with increasing the efficiency of credit
institutions and i&proving financial sector policies to encourage
greater private investment in the sector;
(d) reducing subsidies and price supports to promote increased use of
market forces, interest rate reform and increased involvement of the
private sector in marketing agricultural inputs and products; and
(e) foreign trade liberalization, including deregulating exports and
imports.
1.16      If Turkey is to meet its agricultural sector objectives, it must expand
and accelerate its ongoing programs to: (a) improve technical support services
and especially agricultural research; (b) develop a stronger and more effective
network of financial intermediation services and institutions providing increased
agricultural credit; (c) accelerate completion of economically justified
irrigation projects and improve efficiency of irrigated land use; and (d)
increase the efficiency of its agricultural marketing systems. Concomitantly, GOT
should continue the deregu. i-ion of the agricultural sector, by removing export
levies, phasing out input subsidies and reducing costly purchase and storage
price support operations.
C. Bank Group Lending For Agriculture
1.17      As of December 1991, the Bank Group has supported 26 agricultural
proJects in Turkey of which 20 are closed and 6 are being implemented. These
include the following loans which became effective since 1980:
Livestock V Project                                  Loan 1862-TU
Second Fruit and Vegetable Project                   Loan 1967-TU
Erzurum Rural Development Project                    Loan 2094-TU
Agricultural Credit II Project                       Loan 2318-TU
Agricultural Extension and Applied Res. Project    Loan 2405-TU
IAEE Irrigation Project                              Loan 2433-TU
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan                  Loan 2585-TU
Drainage and On-Farm Development Project             Loan 2663-TU
Agroindustry Project                                 Loan 3077-TU
Agricultural Credit III Project                      Loan 3090-TU
Second Agricultural Ext. & Applied Res. Project    Loan 3177-TU
These eleven projects were designed to increase production and institutional
development (livestock, fruits and vegetables and rural levelopment), strengthen
credit institutions and expand agricultural credit, improve irrigation systems,
upgrade and strengthen agricultural extension in 39 of Turkey's 73 provinces, and
improve and expand processing of agricultural produce by focussing on
restructuring existing enterprises and developing and/or strengthening technical,
financial and marketing institutions in the private sector. The Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Loan emphasized: (i) ending the parastatal monopoly on



- 6 -
fertilizer distribution and imports and phasing out of the fertilizer subsidy;
(ii) liberalization of seed pricing and distribution; (iii) efficiency
improvements in State Economic Enterprises (SEEs) involved in seed production and
fertilizer and seed distribution; (iv) improved allocation of irrigation
investment through preparation of an irrigation investment plan and implement-
ation of an agreed core program for completion of drainage and on-farm
development works; and (v) improved capacity for sectoral planning and analysis
in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs (MARA)L'
1.18.     Research Components.  Limited funds were made available in some of the
above listed projects for agricultural research, primarily to assist the
Extension Services in subjects appropriate to the project in question.   Under
the Fruit and Vegetable II Project, funds were made available to strengthen
citrus research oriented to solving farmers' problems. In the Erzurum Rural
Development Project, funds were allocated to strengthening the Regional Rural
Services Research Institute and, to a lesser extent, the Eastern Anatolia
Research Institute, to provide information to the extension services on improved
wheat varieties, soil analyses and fertilizer requirements. Under the Agricul-
tural Extension and Applied Research Project (AEARP), significant progress has
been made in the 18 project provinces in improving linkages between extension and
research through involving five res-arch institutes in training extension staff
and receiving feedback on farmers concerns from the extension service, through
monthly workshops and other provincial and regional meetings. Some new equipment
was provided for participating institutions.   Similar programs to strengthen
extension/research linkages are included under the second AEARP approved in March
1990. The first AEARP included also a limited program to construct new research
facilities in the project area. Most of this program was not undertaken since
the reorganization of research activities and reallocation of responsibilities
among research institutions was only completed in 1987, and design and
construction of new facilities could not have taken place without major
extensions of the loan closing date.  Both of these projects were limited to
applied research needed to service the extension programs in the project areas
and neither of them attempted to tackle the more general issues of the national
agricultural research program. The Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL)
provided for a review of the priority needs for strengthening MARA's agricultural
research system which could serve as the basis for future Bank assistance in a
free standing Agricultural Research Project.
1.19      Proiect  Performance  Audit  Reports.    The  Operations  Evaluation
Department (OED) of the Bank has issued four project performance audit reports
(PPARs) on five Bank-assisted projects in Turkey which established agricultural
extension units. These are:
Seyhan Irrigation Stage II            Loan/Credit 587/143-TU, PPAR No.2747
Irrigation Rehab. & Completion        Credit 281-TU, PPAR No.3515
Fruit & Vegetable Export              Loan/Credit 762/257-TU, PPAR No.4265
Ceyhan-Aslantas Multipurpose and    Loan/Credit 883/360-TU
v   The former Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Affairs (HAFRA) was
split in 1991 to create a separate Ministry of Forestry (MOF). For ease
of reference, MARA will be used throughout this report, even when
referring to the ministerial structure before the split, whereas MAFRA
will be used when referring specifically to the pre-1991 organization.



-7-
Corum-Cankiri Rural Development       Loan 1130-TU, PPAR No.6756
Second Fruit & Vegetable              Loan 1967-TU, PPAR No.8885
The OED also issued an Impact Evaluation Report No. 5745, ten years after
completion of the Seyhan Irrigation Project State II (Loan/Cridit 587/143-TU).
One of the major lessons of these reports is the need to have strong linkages
between extension and research and the urgency of having a flow of improved
technology packages developed by research to enable extension to impact
effectively on farmers productivity and incomes.
1.20     In general, the irrigation projects proved to have a greater impact than
was projected at time of appraisal. Yields and cropping intensities increased
faster and reached a higher level than anticipated and significant increases in
farmer incomes and improved living standards were evident.  However, project
closing was delayed by several years due to planning weaknesses and construction
delays and highlighted the need for engineering designs for irrigation
infrastructure prior to project approval and synchronizing construction schedules
with the cropping calendar and which has been incorporated in later irrigation
projects. The first extension T&V system initiated with Bank funds was in the
Seyhan Irrigation project.   However, it was only when Government noted the
significant impact of T&V on rainfed agriculture in the Corum Cankiri Rural
Development (CCRD) Project that they fully adopted the system for other provinces
in Turkey. Since the CCRD project involved many different agencies and government
ministries, coordination was difficult and a main lesson was the need for
measures to ensure inter-agency coordination, planning and monitoring.   Many
lessons learned with the CCRD project were taken into account in the subsequent
Erzurum Rural Development Project.
1.21     The livestock projects were only marginally successful and achieved much
less than the development target set at appraisal. Emphasis on imported dairy
cattle appeared unwarranted and supervised credit with local cattle finally
occurred in 60% of the subloans.   Furthermore, the artificial insemination
program by the public sector proved too inefficient and expensive in both
investment and recurrent expenditures.   Livestock programs operated in an
inadequate clearly defined livestock development strategy and it is evident that
such a strategy needs to be devised before considering further lending in this
subsector. Difficulties were also encountered in the Fruit and Vegetable or
Credit  and Agroindustries  projects.    Both  projects  were  limited  by  the
agricultural bank not making improved technology a condition of lending. The bulk
of the supervised credit was utilized by small farmers in the more developed west
and south and relatively little flowed to the much poorer center and east.
11. AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH IN TURKEY
A. General
2.01      Most agricultural research in Turkey is conducted by the public sector
and primarily in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs (MARA) and the
Ministry of Forestry (MOF).   Other public sector agricultural research is
performed by the state enterprises of tea (CAYKUR), tobacco (TEKEL) and sugar
beets (SEKER).  The Scientific and Technical Research Organization of Turkey
(TUBITAK) funds some agricultural research projects in specific fields which they



wish to support.  The Atomic Energy Association of Turkey in its Center for
Nuclear Research uses nuclear techniques for plant breeding, plant protection,
soil fertility, food conservation and animal health research.
2.02      Agricultural faculties conduct some research especially at Ankara, Ege
and Cukurova Universities, including agricultural economics at Middle East
Technical University and Haeettepe University, but are constrained by budgetary
limitations and teaching responsibilities. Cukurova University at Adana is
conducting some research in the Southeastern Anatolia region with funding (which
terminates in 1992) from the Southeastern Anatolia Project (GAP). In the private
sector, research is concerned with adaptive trials by private seed companies of
varieties developed elsewhere, such as hybrid maize, sunflower, soybeans,
sorghum, rape and vegetables. The private sector frequently contracts with MARA
research stations for testing their varieties under different conditions
throughout Turkey. Important agricultural research is reviewed and discussed
also at the Soil Science Society of Turkey, Phytopathology Society of Turkey and
Culture Technique Society of Turkey.
B. Organization of MARA Agricultural Research
2.03      The reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Rural
Affairs (MAFRA) in 1984 led to the division of research among five General
Directorates as follows:
(a) General Directorate of Projects and Implementation (GDPI)' in 38
institutes including field crops (6), horticultural crops (12),
livestock/aquaculture (8), regional research (8), & irrigation (1);
(b) General Directorate of Protection and Control (GDPC) - in 14
institutes including plant protection (4), veterinary (9), and
food/feed control (1);
(c) General Directorate of Rural Services (GDRS) - in 11 institutes
including central soil-and fertilizer research (1) and regional (10);
(d) General Directorate of Forestry (GDOF) - in an institute of central
forestry research and one in poplar and other rapid growing trees;
(e) General Directorate of Organization and Support Services (GDOS) -
2 institutes in handicraft and leather research.
2.04      In August 1991, forestry and its research entities were transferred
into a reconstituted Ministry of Forestry (MOF), and within the remaining
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs (MARA) a new General Directorate of
Agricultural Research (GDAR) was established. Prior to the Ministerial reorgani-
zation in 1984 several reorganizations occurred which affected research
operations. Public sector agricultural research was fragmented to an unusual
extent with soil, water and fertilizer research on irrigated lands being
U   Renamed in August 1991 as General Directorate of Agricultural Production
and Development.



conducted within a Ministry of Village Affairs separate from the Ministry of
Agriculture and Forestry. Much greater focus was given by the GOT to agricul-
tural research on crLI., forages and livestock, which for a ten year period
(1971-1981) was grouped within a separate General Directorate of Agricultural
Research (GDAR). It was during this period that major technological advances
were developed which resulted in doubling of wheat yields and introduction of
improved higher yielding varieties of a number of field and Morticultural crops.
GDAR was abolished in 1981 and merged with extension in an enlarged General
Directorate of Agricultural Affairs (GDAA) which lasted until December 1983. At
that time a major government change abolished the Ministry of Village Affairs and
its activities were merged into an enlarged Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and
Rural Affairs (MAFRA).   The GDAA was then abolished as well as the General
Directorate of Plant Protection and Quarantine and the General Directorate of
Veterinary Services and the GDPI, GDPC and GDOS were established. Furthermore,
these new General Directorates (GDs) were given only advisory authority over the
research institutes associated with them as described in para 2.03 and line
authority was passed to the Provincial Director of Agriculture for the province
in which each research institute was located. This led to a demoralized research
environment with Provincial Directors often using equipment from the institutes
to carry out their own field work to the detriment of research experimentation.
A number of highly qualified research scientists resigned to join the private
sector. Some subsequent actions have been taken to strengthen the role of the
GDs in coordinating the activities of the research institutions under their
jurisdiction, reducing the ability of Provincial Directors to reallocate
resources from their intended purposes.
2.05      A High Council for Research and Development (HCRD) was established
within MAFRA by ministerial decree in 1987 in an attempt to ameliorate the
situation and continues to operate in MARA. Its functions are to define targets
and priorities for long-term research policies; define target areas for
investment in accordance with research and development plans and programs; and
examine and evaluate manpower training and training locations of the research
establishments of MARA. The HCRD is supposed to meet annually but additional
meetings can be called by the Chairman, who is the Minister of MARA.  Other
members include the Undersecretary and relevant assistant undersecretaries, the
general directors of the service units (GDPD, GDPC and GDOS), affiliated GDs such
as GDRS, representatives of the Ministries of Forestry, Finance and Customs,
Industry and Commerce, State Planning Organization (SPO), Higher Education Board
(YOK), Scientific and Technical Research Organization of Turkey (TUBITAK),
agricultural bank (TCZB) and invited scientists from universities and other
agencies and Directors of MARA's research institutes.
2.06      The Secretariat of the HCRD is the Research, Planning and Coordination
Board (APK) of MARA. APK has authority to coordinate research among the general
directorates of MARA (GDAR, GDRS and GDOS). In addition, APK also has authority
to coordinate relations with non-ministerial and international organizations and
to examine proposals to be carried out jointly. The concerned GDs (GDAR, GDRS)
have national working groups which meet annually to review previous findings and
to recommend the research programs for the following year.   APK,  in its
secretariat function, compiles these annual research programs for approval by
HCRD. The recommended programs are then submitted to SPO for final approval
after MARA recommends appropriate budgetary allocations. Some strengthening of
APK will be necessary to enable it to carry out its activities more effectively.



- 10 -
2.07      Staff ina.  The personnel of the Research Institutes (as of 1991) is in
excess of eight thousand of which 176 have Ph.D. and 453 Masters degrees and 550
Agricultural Engineers (B.Sc. equivalent) and 449 technicians. This results in
an unsatisfactory ratio of 0.5 technician per university graduate. In practice,
however, many of the Agricultural Engineers are generally young and inexperienced
and without adequate knowledge of research methodology and are mainly involved
in the execution of trials together with the technicians. Administrative staff
number 768, support staff: are 1130 and laborers account for 4,840 or about 58%
of total staff. The preponderance of administrative, support and field staff are
to accommodate production activities in addition to research programs. Responsi-
bilities for basic seed production as well as other crop and livestock production
absorb considerable staff resources. Future staff development should concentrate
on recruitment of research and technical staff at the expense of support staff
and laborers.
2.08      Research staff morale is low and constitutes a major restraint to the
development of agricultural research. University staff at a comparable level to
MARA researchers are paid nearly double and have higher status, better working
conditions and housing. MARA research staff stability has been limited due to
frequent transfers to other positions within or outside the MARA research system,
regardless of the research programs underway, and without consulting the
Institute's Director or the concerned staff. Institute Directors also have no
say in the recruitment of new staff in their Institutes. Furthermore, the regu-
lations which formerly provided a career structure in research have become
dormant. Opportunity for improvement in status and salary is often bound to
assuming administrative and managerial responsibilities. These constraints are
magnified in the less developed regions where living conditions are much harsher
than in Central and Western Turkey and where, until recently, no added compen-
sation was offered to staff willing to settle under these conditions. The
situation for MOF researchers is similar, although less severe and without the
problems of frequent transfers. Recruitment of staff native to their respective
regions could help alleviate staffing problems.
2.09      Budgets. MARA research Institutes receive their funding from three
different sources: (a) Ministry of Finance for salaries; (b) MARA for the
investments and operating expenditures; and (c) Research Institutes revolving
funds from a portion of revenues accrued from sales of produce and from services
to a given maximum beyond which such revenues are returned to Treasury. Revolving
funds are increasingly important for the functioning of the Institutes because
of increasing Government budget constraints resulting in decreased budget
allocations for the agricultural research subsector.   This has resulted in
greater attention being given to production activities at the expense of research
activities. MOF research institutes have a similar situation except that they
receive a portion of revenues from the MOF revolving fund from sales of forestry
products.
2.10      The 1990 budget for MARA and MOF research institutes combined amounted
to TL 66.8 billion (US$ 25.7 million at TL 2600=US$1). This is about 0.2% of
agricultural GDP which is far below the Bank suggested rate of 1% of agricultural
GDP and far below countries with a similar level of development. Agricultural
research as a share of agricultural GDP actually declined by some 15% from 1980.
Thus, it is clear that GOT needs to increase its financing of agricultural
research, particularly in the Eastern and Southeastern regions to approach a more
reasonable percentage of agricultural GDP. Recurrent costs (TL 33.5 billion) or



- 11 -
about 50% of the total budget are mainly for salaries with only 14% allocated for
operating expenditures. Inadequate funding of operating expenditures is often a
major constraint for operating viable research programs. Incrementality in the
research budget should provide for more adequate operating expenditures.
2.11      Research Programs.   Projects are organized into overall research
programs.   There are, however, no generalized procedures for introducing new
projects. Since contacts between research and extension have, in general, been
haphazard, research projects tend to be generated by researchers themselves, with
little guarantee that they will answer key field problems facing the farmers.
The situation has improved in the area of the Bank supported Agricultural
Extension and Applied Research Project (AEARP) where regular institutionalized
contacts between researchers from the five research institutes and extensionists
providing services in the 18 provinces of the project have led to improved user-
oriented research. Similar extension and research links are to be introduced in
the 21 provinces of the Second AEARP.
2.12      Proposals formulated for projects by researchers are first reviewed by
the research committee of the Institute in question.   Each proposal is then
reviewed by a working group of researchers in the particular discipline from
different regions of the country and finally decided upon by the High Council of
Research and Development (HCRD).
2.13      The management of the research programs has been somewhat different in
the former GDPI from the other GDs.  Some 540 projects are organized into 32
commodity research programs, each of which is under a national coordinator
residing at the lead research institute.   Each national commodity research
program may involve several research institutes in different agro-ecological
zones and it is the task of the national coordinator to coordinate the annual
research work program. Such coordination also involves, at least in principle,
research work on the commodity undertaken by institutes in other GDs.   For
example, wheat programs involve pesticide research by GDPC and fertilizer
research by GDRS. However, the authority and influence of the research coordi-
nator has weakened in recent years, particularly with regard to institutes in
other GDs.  In an effort to overcome this problem, the Directors of the lead
research institutes have been designated as the national coordinators, but this
has not improved the situation. A few similar coordinating groups are operating
in the other GDs, but expansion of this system would seem advantageous for
facilitating coordination amongst the institutes working on a common problem.
2.14      Crop Research.    The  programs  cover  all major  aspects  of  crop
development with a strong emphasis on variety development, while cultural
practices have been researched to a more limited extent. Main successes are the
development of improved winter cereal varieties for the central and western
plains of Turkey, of vegetables for the intensive coastal areas and of cotton.
Technology development for the less developed eastern and southeastern areas has
been neglected.
2.15      Livestock Research.    Livestock research has  received much  less
attention than crop research and little resources have been given to important
programs such as animal nutrition, management and pasture improvement.



- 12 -
2.16      Soil/Irrigation Research.  Research programs under GDRS on irrigation
and drainage have provided a solid basis for the implementation activities of the
General Directorate, especially in the irrigation schemes in western Turkey.
Soil conservation and hydrology research programs have gathered a wealth of data
and recommendations but had little impact on the implementation of water shed
management and erosion control activities.
2.17      Farmin2 System and Farm Management Research. Little attention has been
given in the past to these research programs which were, in general, limited to
the assessment of the profitability of developed technologies.
2.18      Economic and Marketing Research.  No systematic research is presently
underway in economic and marketing research. This needs to be remedied to assist
Turkey to compete effectively for market share of exports and to develop
appropriate policies affecting its agricultural sector.
2.19      Forestry Research.  There is a long tradition of forestry research in
Turkey. Achievements are particularly noteworthy in the field of introduction
and development of poplar and other fast growing tree species.
2.20      Regional  AsRects  of Aaricultural  Research.    The  activities  in
agricultural research are heavily concentrated in the four most developed regions
of the country, namely, Central North (Ankara), Aegean, Marmara and
Mediterranean. These four regions hold some 80% of research staff and some 75%
of the research budget, while only limited resources are devoted to research
activities in the less developed areas of eastern and southeastern Turkey.
Consequently, little area specific research results are available for the eastern
and southeastern regions and there is an urgent need to rectify the situation
through the intensification of agricultural research in these areas.
2.21      International and Institutional Linkaees.  A number of MARA research
institutes have contacts or cooperative arrangements with or receive support from
international research organizations. Financial support for these arrangements
comes mainly from the Bank supported AEARP. In the past, excellent contacts were
made through the bilateral assistance program of the Agency for International
Development with the Rockefeller Foundation and Oregon State University which was
instrumental in developing an effective national wheat improvement program.
Presently, good contacts and cooperation have been established with the CGIAR
international research institutes of CIMMYT, ICARDA, ICRISAT, CIP, IRRI and CIAT.
2.22      Research/Extension Linkages.  Farm level research/extension Linkages
were introduced in the national Wheat Training and Research Project in 1969.
On a broader scale, they were expanded through the first AEARP in the 18
provinces of the project area and are planned to be introduced in another 21
provinces through AEARP II. They are based on a close cooperation between the
provincial agricultural offices and research institutes located in the project
area. They include: (a) establishment of a Research-Extension Liaison Department
in each of the Research Institutes; (b) regular training of Subject Matter
Specialists (SMSs) in the Research Institutes; (c) participdtion of research
staff in SMSs workshops; (d) participation of research staff in an initial
diagnostic survey in all provinces in the project area of AEARP II; (e) conduct
of on-farm trials together with the extension service; and (f) integration of
research results into appropriate recommendations for different categories of
farmers.



- 13 -
2.23      Constraints.    Main  constraints  for an  effective  development  of
agricultural research are detailed in Annexes 2 & 3 and Annexes 4-7 to be found
in the Project Implementation File. They have included:
(a) ineffective priority setting for planning, programming, budgeting,
monitoring and evaluation stemming from inadequate policy guidance and
APK's lack of expertise to act as Secretariat in the performance of
these functions including the coordination of all research in MARA;
(b) the overall fragmentation of the former MAFRA's agricultural research
with its 67 research institutes in 4 General Directorates and with
partly overlapping responsibilities (e.g. crop, livestock and
fisheries research in GDPI; soil, water and fertilizer research in
GDRS; plant and animal diseases and food control research in GDPC; and
forestry research in the former General Directorate of Forestry);
(c) low staff morale due to inadequate schemes of service compared with
other Turkish institutions and comparable positions (universities) and
frequent transfer of research personnel to other locations within and
outside of MARA's research activities; and
(d) concentration of research activities, personnel and facilities in the
more developed regions of Turkey to the neglect of research in the
less developed regions, especially in eastern and southeastern
Anatolia.
C. Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.24      The project would conform to the Bank's agricultural sector development
strategy and provides for strengthening of agricultural research capabilities to
develop improved technologies needed for Turkey to achieve its stated goals in
this sector for providing food, increased rural incomes, employment and export
earnings. Since Turkey is faced with a rapidly growing population (2.3% p.a.)
and limited availability for increasing cultivable land, increased productivity
must derive from existing farmland areas. Furthermore, with the rise in dietary
standards, increased production of livestock products, fruits and vegetables will
be required. Increased productivity per unit area of land will be essential and
research must be expanded to provide the improved technologies needed.
2.25      Design Considerations. Under the Bank's Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Loan (2585-TU) of 1985, funds were provided for an in-depth agricultural research
study. Following years of debate, the former MAFRA commissioned a more limited
study which was completed in December 1989 by AGRAR Consultants and nine Turkish
specialists. The report recommended a further reorganization of the agricultural
research system including the reestablishment of a General Directorate of
Agricultural Research (GDAR) in charge of research programming and coordination
and the regionalization of research through the establishment of 11 Regional
Research Institutes and down-grading of the remaining institutes to Research
Sections of the Regional Research Institutes.  Another possibility described
would have been the formation of a semi-autonomous Agricultural Research
Organization reporting to the Minister of Agriculture but with sufficient
eutonomy to set approved staff regulations for promotions, salaries and staff



- 14 -
incentives.   It might have been similar to siuch organizations established in
Indonesia and Brazil.  While such suggestions were supported in principle by many
MARA officials, they would have required new legislation and were considered
politically infeasible.
2.26      In June 1991, Parliament authorized for a period of 10 months the
Ministries of Government to initiate structural reforms of their activities
without requiring Parliament's approval. In August 1991, the Council of Ministers
approved the reestablishment of GDAR and the reestablishment of a Ministry of
Forestry (MOF). The soil and water research institutes remain in the GDRS and
responsible to its own APK which remains separate from MARA's APK. GDAP, absorbed
the research institutes formerly in GDPI, GDPC and GDOS. The research institutes
in the former GDOF have been transferred to the new Forestry ministry. GDAR has
assumed the functions of APK in providing effective planning, programming,
budgeting, coordination and monitoring of research for the institutes under its
jurisdiction. APK retains its overall responsibility for planning and budgeting
of ministerial activities. The establishment of GDAR, consolidating functions
previously in several GD's and Bureaus and with research, planning and
coordination   responsibilities,   represents  a  significant  organizational
improvement.
2.27      Presently, the role and authority of the national commodity research
program coordinators has deteriorated and de facto research in MARA is conducted
mainly on an institute rather than a program basis. Past experience (e.g. the
national wheat research program) has demonstrated the usefulness of a multi-
disciplinary approach and of research teams with representatives from Institutes
from different General Directorates. While merging the main activities into GDAR
reduces the problem, interdisciplinary coordination problems remain.
2.28      Research  to develop appropriate  technology  for  the  eastern  and
southeastern regions of Turkey, where agro-ecological conditions are difficult,
has a high priority, since existing research is inadequate to the needs of the
regions, and the relative poverty of the population of these regions gives
importance  to devising appropriate  strategies  for their development.    In
addition, significant irrigation developments in southeast Turkey are to be
completed in the next few years, giving increased urgency to developing
appropriate technologies for the area. Improved capability in regional adaptive
research, supported and complemented by commodity research institutes for
undertaking more basic research problems affecting these areas, will be required
for developing appropriate technologies for these regions.
2.29      The degradation of the agricultural resource base is increasingly of
concern to the GOT. Increased population densities and intensity of land use
have led to cropping on steep slopes, excessive grazing of natural pasture and
forests, while excessive use of pesticides and fertilizers has damaged streams,
lakes and groundwater and contaminated food. Soil fertility, erosion control/
soil conservation and integrated pest management and residue controls research
are of high prioritv and will be included in the strengthening of research in
MARA and MOF.
2.30      Surprisingly, for a country as developed as Turkey, MARA has no macro-
or micro-economic research unit or institute to conduct economic research on such
matters as land use and production policies; producer and input prices and
investment policies; export opportunities, marketing and trade policies and their



- 15 -
effect on farm income and employment. Such a unit or institute will be essential
for MARA and GOT decision makers to develop sour.d policies affecting the
agricultural sector.
111. THE PROJECT
A. ProJect OCblectives
3.01      The proposed project is intended to support the Government's efforts
to strengthen the ability of MARA's and MOF's agricultural and forestry research
services to provide appropriate technologies for solving Turkish farmers'
problems and raising their incomes. More specifically, the objectives include:
(a) developing technologies suitable for the less developed regions of
eastern and southeastern Turkey;
(b) strengthening selected high-priority national research programs
because of their relevance beyond the less developed regions;
sc) contributing to institution building of MARA's and MOF's agricultural
and forestry research services;
(d) establishing an economics and policy research capability for
agriculture; and
(e) strengthening MARA's capacity for testing food products so as to
enforce pesticide and hormone residue regulations.
B. Summary Description
3.02      The largest component of the project would consist of investments to
strengthen research programs of importance to the less developed regions of
eastern and southeastern Turkey. This would include not only research institutes
located in these regions but also lead institutions in other parts of Turkey
responsible for coordinating research programs of importance to these regions.
The research areas supported would include nine crop research programs, five
livestock programs, four forestry programs, and programs in irrigation and
drainage.   While selected for their importance to eastern and southeastern
Turkey, the results of these research programs would also be expected to provide
benefits to farmers in other parts of Turkey. A few additional priority research
programs have been selected for strengthening on a national basis, in view of
their importance for the overall agricultural sector in Turkey. These include
farming systems research, erosion control and soil conservation, soil fertility,
integrated pest management, and residue control. In addition, while not strictly
agricultural research, the MARA laboratories enforcing pesticide and hormone
residue regulations would be strengthened and limited support would be provided
for laboratories providing livestock disease diagnostic services for eastern
Turkey.



- 16 -
3.03      A major emphasis of the project would be the strengthening of MARA's
capacity for prioritizing and coordinating research programs including
improvements to carry out research planning, budgeting, monitoring and evaluation
functions. This would be facilitated by the recent establishment of a General
Directorate of Agricultural Research (GDAR). This new GD would also prepare a
long-term research master plan and expand on a management information system
expected to be initiated in the project areas of the first and second AEARP so
as to link all research institutes to provide needed data to decision makers.
3.04      The project would also establish an Agricultural Economic Research
Irstitute (AERI) to provide MARA with macro and micro economic analyses
concerning agriculture's role and performance and information on marketing,
production and technical matters.
3.05      The project would be executed over a period of seven years and would
include civil works (laboratories, offices, workshops, staff housing), laboratory
and field equipment, vehicles, training of research and research management
staff, incremental operating costs for vehicles and equipment, and technical
assistance.
C. Prolect Details
Institutional Strengthening
3.06      A General  Directorate  of Agricultural  Research  (GDAR)  has  been
established under a decree effective August 9, 1991, to provide for successful
coordination, programming, evaluation and monitoring of agricultural research in
MARA and to assure the successful implementation of the project.  A  General
Director with some experience in agricultural research was appointed in September
1991. An indicative plan was agreed for adequately staffing GDAR headquarters.
While the currently proposed project was prepared on an ad hoc basis by a team
of consultants and Turkish experts, there is a need to make such planning and
prioritizing a normal part of MARA and MOF regular activities. Accordingly, the
new GDAR would also be in charge of coordinating the preparation, under the
project, of a long term master agricultural research plan for MARA, which would
be updated annually.   The master plan would also include recommendations on
improvement in research staff career structure, training programs, and staff
incentives. The goal of the master plan is not the preparation of a single
document, but rather the institutionalization of a planning and budgeting system
which could be operated independently of consultants by the end of the project
period. It was agreed that the initial master plan would be completed by October
31, 1994.   GDAR would also be provided with funds to complete a nationwide
research management information system which would be implemented in close
cooperation with TUBITAK's planned technology information center. GDAR would be
provided with training to accomplish these new functions, technical assistance,
equipment, transport and incremental operating costs. The forestry research
component of the project would be coordinated by the APK of MOF and implemented
by the Forestry Research Institute and the Poplar and Fast Growing Trees Species
Research Institute and their subsidiaries. Project support may be extended, in
agreement with the Bank, to the ten regional forestry research institutes
currently in the process of being established. An indicative plan was agreed for
staffing Forestry's APK to handle the responsibilities under the project.



- 17 -
3.07      Agricultural Economics Research Institute (AERI).  An AERI would be
established to conduct research in answering key questions regarding the role of
agriculture in the economy and the implementation of this role including: land
use and production policies; technology policies; producer prices; inputs and
investment incentives policies; public investment policies; and export
opportunities, marketing and trade policies and their effects on farm income and
employment.   AERI would work closely with researchers at the GDAR research
institutes on research methods, would provide cooperation on specific projects,
and would organize training and seminars to impart a socio-economic dimension to
commodity, regional and farming systems research.   It would be located in
existing facilities in the Yenimahalle section of Ankara and report to the
Minister and Undersecretary of MARA through APK. It was agreed that AERI would
be established by October 31, 1993.
Priority Research Programs For The Less Developed Regions
3.08      Crop Research Programs (9). Research programs would be carried out on
cereals, food legumes, cotton, second crops for irrigated areas, fruit,
pistachio, grapes, vegetables and genetic resources. Subprograms for crops would
include the areas of plant breeding, agronomy, plant protection, technology and
economics. Plant breeding would include cross breeding, selection, preliminary
yield trials, multi-location trials at and off research stations and basic seed
production. The subprogram of agronomy would include improvement of cultural
practices to maximize the genetic potential of the plant varieties. The plant
protection subprogram would include resistance breeding and the development of
integrated pest and disease control methods. The subprogram on technology would
include biotechnology and biological engineering to develop desirable
characteristics for improving crop quality and conservation of produce. It could
include genetical manipulation to impact on higher yield, low or no fertilizer
input, pathogen and insect resistance, improved nutritional quality and/or
drought or saline tolerance. The economics subprogram would concentrate on the
profitability of the proposed technologies on farm incomes within a farming
system approach.  In total, 154 projects would be implemented at 13 Research
Institutes of which five are located in the less developed regions and the other
eight would serve as lead/supporting institutes located in other areas. Other
Research Institutes would collaborate in the plant protection subprograms and the
Rural Services Research Institutes would assist in questions of fertilization and
mechanization.
3.09      Livestock Research Proerams (5).  The research programs on livestock
would include large ruminants; small ruminants; fodder and pasture; apiculture
and sericulture; and inland fisheries. Each livestock research program has four
subprogram components of nutrition, management, breeding and health.   The
programs include 43 research projects to be implemented in six Livestock Research
Institutes and six Animal Health Research Institutes. The nutrition research
subprogram aims at determining the supplementary nutritional requirements of
animals and at increasing the profitability of animal production by a rational
use of on-farm inputs. The management research subprogram includes rangeland
rehabilitation, stocking densities and animal housing. The breeding research
subprogram would have as its ob4ective the establishment of purebred indigenous
animal resources to maintain genetic diversity and would develop performance
recording systems for ruminants and determine the role of exotic breeding in
Turkey. The health research subprogram would include the development of farm



- 18 -
level prevention and control programs for major animal diseases, the improvement
of the efficiency of national disease control programs and the determination of
linkages between pollution and fish production. Limited support would also be
provided for laboratories providing livestock disease diagnostic services for
eastern Turkey. It was agreed that an additional 1,000 ha of land, suitable for
range and pasture trials and demonstrations, woull1 be made available to the
Eastern Anatolia Agricultural Research Institute, by the transfer no later than
April 30, 1993 of two parcels of land from the State Farm of Gule in Kars
province and the State Farm of Kazim Karabekir in Igdir province.
3.10      Irrigation and Drainage Research Program (1).  The research program
would determine the water requirements of crops, the reclamation criteria for
saline, sodic and boron affected soils and identify water saving irrigation
methods adapted to crops.   The research program would be conducted in the
Sanliurfa and Erzurum Regional Rural Services Research Institutes.
3.11      Forestry Research Programs (4).  The four research programs include
silviculture, forest management and forest protection; major and minor forest
products; community forestry (including sociological and economic research); and
erosion control and soil conservatiin.  An important research program of the
forestry research institutes would be the development of agroforestry and
silvipastoral systems.   The silviculture/forest management/forest protection
research program would include nursery techniques, establishment techniques,
species and provenance trials, shelter belt investigations, poplar and willow
cultivation, improvement of degraded oak coppice, natural regeneration of Pinus
sylvestris and forest protection. The research program on major and minor forest
products would focus on timber testing, utilization of wood waste and investi-
gationi' on medicinal, aromatic and other plants. The watershed research program
would be conducted in close cooperation with the national soil conservation
program.
Priority National Research Programs
3.12      Farming Systems Research (FSR) Program.   This new research program
would be initiated on a pilot basis in the less developed regions by the two
Regional Research Institutes at Erzurum and Diyarbakir and the Regional Rural
Services Research Institute at Sanliurfa.  It would also be initiated by the
Research Institute at Eskisehir.   The main purpose of this research, to be
carried out by FSR teams at each institute, collaborating with researchers,
extensionists, and farmers, would be to evaluate existing farming systems;
evaluate the natural resource base and the socio-economic environment; identify
problems which limit or affect stability of production; conduct research on new
or improved practices, system or subsystem components; evaluate new or improved
practices; and assess the benefits of improved technology systems. It was agreed
that the establishment of four new farming systems research teams, i.e, at the
research institutes in Diyarbakir, Erzurum, Eskisehir and Sanliurfa, would take
place no later than April 30, 1993.
3.13      Erosion Control and Soil Conservation Research Program.  This research
program would be carried out by the 10 Regional Rural Services Research
Institutes. The research would include: developing hydrological models for small
agricultural watersheds; studying the effect of strip cropping and stabilization
methods on soil and water conservation; determining the effects of different



- 19 -
cultivation systems on yields, erosion and moisture conservation projects; and
studying social issues in soil conservation.
3.14      Soil Fertility Research Program.   This research program would be
conducted by the Soil and Fertilizer Research Institute in Ankara and its 10
Regional Rural Services Research Institutes in close collaboration with the
various crop research programs of Crops Research Institutes. The research would
include:   determination of the economic rate, time and method of fertilizer
application; calibration of soils in view of fertilizer recommendations;
determination of the micro-element status of Turkish soils; and rhizobium
population studies on different soil types.
3.15      Integrated Pest Management (IPM) Research Program.  This program would
be implemented by all the Plant Protection Research Institutes and Departments
of Plant Protection at Yalova, Antalya, Samsun and Erzincan Research Institutes.
Research would include: developing and applying biotechnical methods in pest
control; biological control of citrus pests and mass production of natural
predators; and introducing IPM in crops with a high usage rate of pesticides,
especially on vegetables, cotton, apple, potatoes and maize.
3.16      Residue  Control Research Pro2ram.   This program  is primarily a
laboratory activity which aims at efficiently monitoring residues of pesticides,
fertilizer, and growth regulators in field and horticultural crops; heavy metals
and residue of veterinary and agricultural drugs in animal products; and residues
of packing materials in food. This research program would be implemented in four
Plant Protection Research Institutes for control of residues in crops, at the
Food Research Institute and the two Regional Research Institutes for control of
residues in animal products and food.
3.17      MARA published in 1990 new regulations limiting pesticide and hormone
residues in food products. The regional food control laboratory in Ankara has
also been strengthened to enable it to carry out MARA's mandate to enforce such
residue regulations for domestic and exported food products. However, capacity
needs to be created to enable GDAR to carry out similar residue analysis work in
the other major production centers of Turkey. Under the project such regional
laboratory facilities for residue testing would be established in Adana, Antalya,
Gaziantep and Istanbul.   Overseas training of laboratory staff and technical
assistance would also be provided.
Staffing and Major Investnents
3.18      Implementation of the programs described in para 3.06-3.17 will require
additional scientific and technical personnel; training; technical assistance;
facilities; equipment; transport; and incremental operating costs.
3.19      Staff.  Research and technical staff will be required for the research
institutes carrying out the programs supported under the project, and for
establishing the GDAR and Agricultural Economic Research Institute. An estimated
317 research staff and 436 technical staff would be hired under the project to
accomplish the goals outlined above.



- 20 -
3.20      Training.  The most important aspect of sustained and long-term viable
agricultural research operations is the development of the human resources.
Turkish scientific and technical staff would be trained both long term to receive
advanced degrees and also short term. It would include 45 trained to the Ph.D
level (15 local and 30 abroad), and 110 to the Master degree level. There would
also be short term training abroad (1,069 months) for scientific staff and
technical staff including trips to attend and/or present papers at scientific
meetings, seminars and conferences (Annex 1, Table 7). Language training will
also be provided to those going for advanced degree training abroad. In-country
training of 839 months will also be provided including attendance at seminars.
3.21      Consultants'  Services.   The project would provide for long term
technical assistance for two research programs which are non-existent (farming
systems research) or weak (livestock research) and where external expertise could
expedite the strengthening of these activities. Short term technical assistance
would be provided to assist the other research programs, particularly where an
internationally renowned scientist would assist in the specific research program
or project, and to assist in carrying out two research program effectiveness
assessments (para 4.06). Consultant service would also be required to strengthen
GDAR in the program budgeting, monitoring and evaluation methodologies, including
the preparation of the Master Research Plan and in establishing a management
information system.   Some technical assistance would also be needed for the
establishment  of  the  Agricultural  Economics  Research  Institute.    Also,
consultants assistance would be provided to assist in administering the overseas
training programs described in para 3.20 above. The project has budgeted for 30
months of long term external assistance and 134 months for short term external
assistance (including consultants for external reviews). See details in Annex
1, Table 8.
3.22      An internationally recruited firm of co.,sultants would be contracted
to provide consultancies in livestock research (10 staff months-sm), farming
systems (22 sm), strengthening GDAR in research budgeting, monitoring, evaluation
and preparing a Master Research Plan and establishing a management information
system (33 sm), providing short and long term consultancies (109 sm) for the six
different research programs and for establishing the AERI, and assistance in
administering the Ph.D, M.Sc and short-term training abroad in suitable foreign
universities and programs. It was agreed that such a contract would be signed by
no later than April 30, 1993.
3.23      Research Grants.    A fund of US$ 4.0 million equivalent would be
provided for research grants to provide awards to outstanding researchers within
MARA and MOF which have contributed to the Turkish economy or are conducting
research with high promise. It would also provide grants to conduct agricul-
tural, soils and water or forestry research to complement ongoing adaptive
research.  Eligible researchers would include those at MARA and MOF research
institutes and at Universities conducting such research.   Eligible items for
funding research grants would include reseatch merit awards, contractual studies,
equipment and supplies, travel, visits to other institutions and such other items
as agreed to between the GOT and the Bank. It was agreed that both MARA and MOF
would each appoint a committee headed by the General Director of Agricultural
Research and by the Director of the Research Department, respectively. In
addition, each committee would comprise of two experts from their respective



- 21 -
ministries, two representatives for the Universities and one representative from
TUBITAK. Furthermore,terms of reference for the committees would be prepared as
to criteria and eligibility for issuing awards and grants as agreed with the Bank
3.24      Facilities.  In order to accommodate strengthened research activities
and the required staff, facilities would need to be expanded, modified or
repaired as follows: 10,517 e2 for rehabilitation or renovation of existing
facilities; 128 houses for lodging in rural areas; 662 en for laboratories; 885
en for offices; and 6,559 e2 for miscellaneous construction including warehouses,
storage sheds, experimental animal buildings and greenhouses. In addition, about
9,900 en would be for construction of a research complex at Kazan (to substitute
for GDAR's Field Crops Central Research Institute at Lodumlu which is being
overtaken by urban expansion and loss of land for research trials).
3.25      Equipment and Transport. Laboratory, field and office equipment would
be provided to strengthen the research program activities and for the operations
of the new GDAR and AERI. This would include computers for the new research
management information system which will be expanded from the program initiated
under AEARPs so as to link all research institutes in MARA. Some 174 vehicles,
including trucks and tractors, would be provided as additional or as replacement
for existing vehicles.
3.26      Recurrent Costs.  MARA and MOF have agreed to staff its institutes in
accordance with estimates and schedules described in this Report and its Annexes.
Such staffing has not been included as incremental costs in the project. Costs
for incremental operating expenditures for vehicles and research equipment has
been included in the project and calculated as equivalent to 20% annually of the
initial vehicle and equipment purchase price of which it is proposed to reimburse
50% from the World Bank loan.   The Bank loan share of US$ 2.9 million is
justifiea as it is a small component for seven years and covers only a portion
of foreign exchange (58%) for fuel and spare parts crucial for carrying out the
project research programs. It was agreed that adequate recurrent funds for
project supported research would be provided during the project period and after
project completion.
3.27      Monitorinz and  Evaluation.    GDAR would organize  and  implement
monitoring and analysis of project activities. It would be assisted by the APK
of GDRS and by GDPD's Department of Externally Financed Projects in collecting
information and assessing the effectiveness of project activities. The APK for
the MOF would organize and implement monitoring and analysis of project
activities for forestry research.
3.28      Monitoring would bp instituted in order to provide research managers
with information for making sound internal project management decisions. Project
activities would be monitored and evaluated as to: (a) project inputs (research
staff, equipment, transport, facilities); (b) project outputs (research programs,
staff trained); (c) project effects (improved varieties and practices developed,
released, and farmer adoption); and (d) project long-term impact (increased
productivity and farmer income).   Technical assistance would be provided to
establishing monitoring and evaluation procedures.



- 22 -
0. Cost Estimates
3.29      Total estimated project cost is USS 77.6 million, of which USS 55.0
million is the foreign exchange component. Project costs are expressed in June
1991 prices, and exclude customs duties but include VAT (value added tax)
payments and other taxes estimated at USS 6.3 million. Base cost estimates were
derived from recent costs for: agricultural research operations in MARA;
facilities construction in Turkey; procurement of equipment and transport;
training programs locally and abroad; and technical assistance. Contract
quantities for facilities construction are based on standard GOT designs. The
cost estimates include allowances for physical contingencies of 10% for civil
works, v'hicles, equipment, and library and information services. Additionally,
price contingencies which allow for foreign and domestic price escalation during
implementation (9.5% of base cost plus physical contingencies) based on Bank
projections for the Manufacturing Unit Value Index for Turkey's main trading
partners at various rates averaging 3.2% per year from 1992 through 1998.
Changes in Turkish exchange rates are expected to compensate for the
differentials between Turkey's domestic inflation rate and those of its trading
partners.
3.30      Project Costs are summarized in Table 3.1, while Annex 1, Tables 1
through 4 present the information in more detail.
Table 3.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
%Foreign   %Total
Local  Foreign   Total    Exchange Base Costs
-------US$ million------
A. Institutional Strengthening 2.7        7.9      10.6      74.5       15.5
B. Farming Systems               0.2      1.3       1.5      90.1        2.2
C. Crops                        10.1     12.5      22.6      55.3       33.0
D. Livestock                     2.6      6.7       9.3      72.0       13.5
E. Soil & Water                  1.9     10.2      12.1      84.3       17.7
F. Forestry                      0.6      5.0       5.6      89.3        8.2
G. Integrated Pest Management  1.0        3.5       4.5      76.9        6.6
H. Residue Control               0.4      1.9       2.3      80.7        3.3
Total BASELINE COSTS        19.5     49.0       68.5      71.5      100.0
Physical contingencies           1.5      2.2       3.7      60.4        5.4
Price contingencies              1.6      3.8       5.4      69.7        7.9
Total PROJECT COSTS         22.6      55.0      77.6      70.1      113.4



- 23 -
Financing
3.31      The proposed financing plan is shown in Table 3.2.  The proposed IBRD
loan of US$ 55.0 million would finance about 70% of project costs and cover 100%
of foreign exchange costs. GOT would provide the balance of the project funds
(about US$ 22.6 million) to project implementing agencies out of annual budget
appropriations.
Table 3.2: Project Financing Plan (US$ million)
Category                                           GOT       IBRD      Total
Civil Works                                        14.2       7.7      21.9
Vehicles                                            0.8       4.9       5.7
Research Farm Equipment                             0.4       2.7       3.1
Scientific Equipment                                1.0       7.3       8.3
Office Equipment                                    0.3       0.4       0.7
Library & Info.Services                             0.5       3.5       4.0
Training                                            2.2      14.1      16.3
Consultants' Services                               0.3       7.5       7.8
Research Grants                                     -         4.0       4.0
Incremental Operational Costs                       2.9       2.9       5.8
Total                                          22.6 l   55.0        77.6
;La Includes US$ 6.3 million estimated taxes.
3.32      Funds have been allocated in the 1992 budget for financing the
investments and operations planned for that year of project implementation.
E. Procurement
3.33      Procurement arrangements for the project are summarized in Table 3.3
followed by a description of arrangements respecting civil works and goods.



- 24 -
Table 3.3: Procurement Method and Disbursements
(US$ Million) A/
Procurement Procedure
Project Component                ICB   LCB   Other  NA  /   Total Cost
Civil Works                      10.0    11.9                      21.9
( 3.5)  ( 4.2)                    ( 7.7)
Vehicles                          5.7                               5.7
(4.9)                             (4.9)
Farm & Scientific Equipment       8.9            2.5               11.4
(7.8)          (2.2)             (10.0)
Office Equipment                                 0.7                0.7
(0.4)              (0.4)
Library & Information Services                   4.0                4.0
(3.5)              (3.5)
Training                                        16.3               16.3
(14.1)             (14.1)
Consultants' Services                            7.8                7.8
(7.5)              (7.5)
Research Grants                                  4.0                4.0
(4.0)              (4.0)
Incremental Operational Costs                             5.8       5.8
(2.9)     (2.9)
Total                     24.6    11.9   35.3       5.8      77.6
(16.2)  ( 4.2) (31.7)    (2.9)    (55.0)
A/  Includes taxes and contingencies.  Figures in parenthesis are the amounts
financed by the IBRD loan.
hi Procurement procedures not applicable.
3.34      Civil Works (US$ 21.9 million).   The construction of a research
facility at Kazan for the Central Field Crops Research Institute (US$10.0
million) would be contracted through ICB procedures. This new facility would
replace facilities presently on the outskirts of Ankara being overtaken by
urbanization and loss of land for experimental field research. Other buildings
to be constructed under the project (US$ 11.9 million) would consist of civil
works of little interest to international bidders because of their small size or
scattered locations and accordingly contractors would be selected through LCB.
It would include staff housing at research institute locations outside of large
urban areas; and additional offices, laboratories, greenhouses, worksheds and
barns. Turkish LCB procedures are generally consistent with the need for economy
and efficiency in the execution of the project, and procurement under the project
would follow a format agreed under earlier projects regarding use of LCB



- 25 -
procedures. Works would be packaged into contracts of at least (i) US$ 150,000,
or (ii) the minimum value required for supervision by the Ministry of Public
Works, whichever is larger.
3.35      Goods.   Vehicles (US$ 5.7 million) and research farm and scientific
equipment (US$ 11.4 million) will be bulked wherever possible and procured
following IBRD international competitive bidding (ICB) guidelines. A preference
limited to 15% of the c.i.f. bid price or the actual customs duty applicable to
non-exempt importers, whichever is lower, would be extended to qualified local
manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Machinery and other goods and equipment
needed at different places and in small quantities costing less than USS 75,000
for each contract and not to exceed a total of US$7.5 million, could be procured
through shopping involving at least three price quotations. In addition,
scientific books and journals (US$ 2.0 million) may be purchased directly from
the suppliers.
3.36      Consultants would be recruited in accordance with IBRD Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants to provide technical assistance (US$ 7.8 million).
Arrangements (including candidates' qualifications, choice of training insti-
tutions and training programs) for training (US$ 16.3 million) would be subject
to IBRD approval. Project items in the category of incremental recurrent costs
(US$ 5.8 million, which includes vehicle and scientific equipment operating and
maintenance costs) would be procured following normal GOT procedures.
3.37      Contracts for US$ 1,000,000 equivalent or more for both civil works and
goods would require IBRD review of documentation before tendering and award, and
this would cover some 50% of the value of the works and 75% of the goods. Other
contracts would be subject to selective post-award review.
F. Disbursements
3.38      The project is expected to be completed in about seven years and the
loan to be disbursed over a period of approximately seven and a half years, or
by June 30, 1999.   However,  the Closing Date (December 31, 1999) and the
estimated disbursement schedule (Annex 1, Table 5) have been extended by an
additional year to be consistent with the actual disbursement profiles for the
first Agricultural Extension and Applied Research Project, the Erzurum Rural
Development Project, and the Corum-Cankiri Rural Development Project, which were
disbursed over approximately similar periods. This is still about one year less
than the standard disbursement profile for all Turkish agricultural projects,
including irrigation and other subsectors, but is consistent with the last three
projects covering agricultural extension and applied research or rural
development.
3.39      IBRD would disburse loan funds at the following.rates for these items:



- 26 -
Category                             Percent to be Financed
(1) Civil works                     45%
(2) Vehicles and equipment,         100% of foreign expenditures;
books and periodicals           100% of local expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 90% of local expenditures
for other items procured locally
(3) Training                        100%
(4) Consultants' Services           100%
(5) Research grants                 100%
(6) Incremental operating           50%
cost for vehicles and
research equipment
3.40      Disbursements would be made against statements of expenditures for
incremental operating costs, civil works contracts below US$ 1.0 million
equivalent, goods procured through direct purchases or prudent shopping, and
training locally and abroad.   Implementing agencies would retain supporting
documentation for these items for review by IBRD and external auditors. Annex 1,
Table 6 shows the allocation of Loan Funds to the different disbursement
categories.
3.41      GOT would establish a special account at the Central Bank to facilitate
implementation of the project into which it would deposit USS 3.0 million of loan
funds. This account would be opened in accordance with arrangements for existing
Bank assisted projects, and would be used for most disbursements except those in
excess of US$1.0 million.
G. Accounts and Audits
3.42      GDAR will prepare detailed reports on MARA project expenditures and the
APK of MOF on forestry research expenditures under the project on a semiannual
basis. Such statements of expenditures would be submitted within two months of
completion of each semiannual period, i.e. by March 1 and September 1 of each
year.   In addition, an annual audit would be carried out by the Treasury
inspectors, including specific reference to, and comments on, SOEs and supporting
documents and disbursements from the special account (para 3.40), and submitted
to the Bank within nine months of the end of each fiscal year. It was agreed
with GOT that implementing agencies would follow these auditing practices.
H. Project Supervision
3.43      Two  Bank  supervision  missions  per  year  during  seven  years  of
implementation would be required to adequately review implementation of the
complex project. More extensive supervision would be required during the first



- 27 -
two years of the project during which time: (i) GDAR, AERI and FSR teams would
be established and organized; (ii) the initial master research plan would be
prepared; (iii) progress on priority research programs in agriculture and
forestry would be reviewed; (iv) MIS would be established; (v) the training
program would be initiated; (vi) technical assistance would be made operational;
and (vii) initial experience of GDAR staff with procurement would be obtained.
In year three, discussion of the first research effectiveness assessment (para
4.06) will add to supervision time.  Each supervision mission should include
research organization and management and crops and soils expertise and about half
of the missions should include livestock and forestry specialists. In the latter
four years of the project, supervision time could be reduced. Estimatel staff
weeks for supervision would be about 20 in years one through three of the project
and 16 during years four through seven.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.01      Project Implementation.  Most project activities would be carried out
by the General Directorate of Agricultural Research (GDAR) in MARA and by the two
forestry research institutes and the APK in the Ministry of Forestry (MOF). GDAR
and the APK of MOF would be responsible for overall coordination, reporting,
monitoring and evaluation of the project. Coordination of project activities
would be monitored by a Steering Committee to be headed by the Undersecretary of
MARA with representation from MARA of the GDAR, GDRS, GDPD and APK and from MOF.
The Steering Committee will meet as frequently as required. The High Council of
Research and Development (HCRD) of MARA will meet annually to review and approve
research programs and budgets prepared by the Research Working Groups for each
commodity and discipline. APX will continue to act as the Secretariat for the
HCRD. It is the intent that MOF will be invited to attend the HCRD meetings.
4.02      GDAR's capability to coordinate and direct research in MARA has been
strengthened by the appointment of a General Director with some research and
administrative experience. The General Director is being assisted by two Deputy
General Directors and five Department Directors for Breeding and Improvement;
Animal Health, Plant Protection, Food and Feed, Coordination and Evaluation; and
a Section of Administration and Financial Matters. Since all crops, livestock and
fisheries are in one large department of Breeding and Improvement, GDAR has
agreed to divide the Department in one for Plant Breeding and Improvement and
another for Animal and Fisheries Breeding and Improvement. Chart 1 illustrates
the organization arrangement for GDAR.
4.03      The new GDAR has responsibility for preparing, by two years after loan
effectiveness, a 10-year Research Master Plan for MARA with five-year detailed
budgets and indicative budgets for the outer five years. The Research Master
Plan would be submitted to the HCRD for approval. The Research Master Plan would
be updated annually. A similar Research Master Plan would be prepared by the
strengthened APK of MOF for forestry research and submitted to an executive
committee appointed by the Undersecretary of MOF for approval. Annex 2 outlines
proposed Terms of Reference and schedule for preparing a 10-year Research Master
Plan, which would be agreed to at negotiations. The GDAR would also be directly
responsible for implementing the Components for establishment of a national
research management information system.



- 28 -
4.04      Most procurement of civil works and equipment would be handled by GDAR
of MARA and the APK of MOF. However, for vehicles and some types of equipment
used by all research institutes, substantial savings would be expected for larger
orders covering the needs of MARA and MOF.   Accordingly,  coordination of
tendering for such joint orders will be handled by GDAR. However, while GDAR is
gaining experience, assistance would be provided by the Department of Externally
Financed Projects of GDPD since this directorate has the most experience with
Bank procurement procedures.
4.05      The GDAR would be responsible for hiring a firm of consultants to:
(i) assist in improving research budgeting, monitoring and evaluation and in
preparation of the Research Master Plan; and (ii) to coordinate overseas
training.   The GDAR would also hire consultants  (probably under separate
contracts)  for  assistance  in design  and  implementation  of  the  research
information system component and for assisting in the initial operations of
AERI.  With regard to the training component, the Research Institutes would be
responsible for developing the initial proposals for their staff which would be
reviewed and approved by the GDAR (and APK of MOF) for consistency with overall
research staff training plans approved by HCRD. GDAR and APK of MOF would be
responsible for developing proposals for training of their own headquarters
staffs.
4.06      Research  System and Proiect Effectiveness  Assessments.    As  the
reorganization of agricultural research is a complex undertaking, with lessons
to be learned based upon initial experience and experience of comparable
organizations in other countries, a review of the functioning of the agricultural
research systems would be completed within 30 months after project effectiveness.
It would be carried out by a joint committee of MARA, MOF and internationally
recruited consultants. Following such assessment, a joint MARA, MOF and Bank
mission would review the report and discuss its findings and recommendations to
determine any changes desirable to achieve project objectives. At the same time,
the staffing, equipment and facilities to be provided under the project would be
reviewed and adjusted based upon implementation experience and Government
budgetary constraints. A similar review using international consultants would
be completed within 60 months after project effectiveness, followed by
discussions a:nd adjustments in the project by a MARA/MOF/BANK team. This could
also become the basis for initiating preparation of a second research project.
It was agreed that the preparation of the research effectiveness assessments
would occur no later than April 30, 1995 and October 31, 1997, in accordance with
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, followed by discussion with the Bank
of the findings and implications of the reports and of implementation exper,ence
in terms of desirable adjustments in the project. Beyond, the project period,
periodic joint reviews with international consultants should be continued at
least every three years to incorporate the benefits of international experience
into Turkey's research planning and evaluation systems.
4.07      Research Program Working GrouDs. In accordance with MARA's Ministerial
Decree, working groups would operate on research programs on field crops,
horticulture, livestock, aquaculture, food technology, soil and water resources.
Research on a program basis needs to involve scientists from different institutes
to achieve a multi-disciplinary approach. Each working group would be staffed
by key scientists in the particular field as well as directors of related
institutes, heads of related sections, project coordinators, and where
appropriate, representatives of general directorates, universities, provincial



- 29 -
dizectorates, private sector and related groups such as TUBITAK. Annually, each
working group would review last year's activities and propose the coming year's
activities.   It would outline detailed proposed research projects for each
program, staffing and training requirements, capital and operating budgets. Such
detailed research programs would be submitted to GDAR and APK of MOF in
sufficient time for review before presenting the overall annual plan to their
respective ministries for approval.
4.08      Each research program would be led under the supervision of a national
coordinator who would normally reside at the lead research institute, and would
coordinate and monitor the annual research program which may include several
institutes in different agro-ecological zones and would propose the activities
for the coming year to the concerned research working group. It was agreed that
reactivation will occur of the national commodity research program approach and
for research program working groups.
4.09      Research Institution Reviews.  It was agreed that in order to improve
the functioning of the research system, a multi-disciplinary team of at least two
research scientists (from MARA and the universities) and one extension official
would visit each major MARA research institution at least once every two years
and report its findings and areas for desirable improvements. Funds to provide
training for carrying out such assessments and to support such visits would be
included under the project.
4.10      Research Incentive Structure.  Progress on research salary scales is
likely to be limited in the near future, given overall budgetary constraints
affecting civil service salary levels.   However,  important improvements in
research staff morale and in the attractiveness of careers in agricultural
research can still be achieved.   As a first step, it was agreed to renew
implementation of existing (but dormant) research staff career structure
regulations, governing inter alia, training and promotion opportunities, minimum
permissible requirements for key positions and security of tenure for adequate
performers. In addition, provisions under the project for staff training, staff
housing and improved facilities in eastern and south-eastern Turkey, access to
professional journals, and improved funding of operating costs will all benefit
research staff morale. Perhaps most importantly, the creation of the GDAR is an
indication of the Government's increased recognition of the importance of
agricultural research, creating an atmosphere where researchers again feel valued
and respected. It is recommended that ways and means be explored to: (i) give
greater authority to institute directors in the selection of institute staff; and
(ii) give preference to recruitment of candidates who are natives of the region
where the institute is located. The research master plan (Annex 2, Appendix 1)
would include a review of research staff incentives and recommendations for
further improvements in career structure and other incentives.
4.11      Measures to Strengthen Research/Farmer Links.  As noted in uara 2.23,
in the areas of the ongoing AEARP projects, arrangements have been iigreed for
strengthening research-extension-farmer linkages. It was agreed that project
research institutions in areas of strengthened extension activities would
continue such arrangements (as outlined in para. 2.23) even after completion of
the externally financed projects. Project supported institutions would also be
expected to conduct at least one farmer field day per year, with farmers and
representation of farmers' union invited to visit the research institutions to
discuss their problems. In AEARP II provinces, research staff are to participate



- 30 -
with extension staff in area diagnostic studies, bringing staff in close contact
with the farming community.  To the extent feasible, such diagnostic studies
would be encouraged in other parts of the country.  The GDAR would designate
staff to provide information on research findings of practical value to farmers
through extension workers and to the media.
V. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Benefits and Justification
5.01      Agricultural research can directly influence only a small number of the
factors determining agricultural productivity, such as variety, input use,
extension and crop and livestock management practices. The application of these
factors is in turn influenced by pricing policies, marketing opportunities and
household level socio-economic factors. Benefits from agricultural research are,
therefore, complementary. Yet, when effective, agricultural research appropriate
to the ecological conditions provides the basis for agricultural policies and
practices  leading  to higher  quality and productivity.    Six  elements  of
agricultural research are of particular importance: breeding high yielding and
disease resistant varieties of crops, trees and livestock adapted to the
different ecological regions; development of new production techniques; carrying
out adaptive research to optimize and develop the use of production technologies
appropriate to the socio-economic environment of the farmers; maintenance of
animal health; maintenance of soil fertility; and conservation of a healthy
environment.
5.02      The existing low output of almost all crops and livestock in eastern
and southeastern Turkey clearly needs attention if the potential for increased
productivity and for exports, especially to the Middle East, is to be realized.
Furthermore, the development of appropriate technology packages is urgently
needed for a rational use of the large irrigation areas which will become
available in the next decade in southeastern Anatolia. Given the sheer size of
the areas involved, even small improvements in yield would generate substantial
benefits from such developments. It would be expected that improved adaptive
research efforts would produce production practices suited to the particular
conditions of the widely varying agro-ecological regions under study.   An
important input of the Agricultural Research Project would be the establishment
of farming systems research programs in four regions of Turkey in order to
determine the economic as well as technical opportunities and constraints at the
farm level which should lead to better recommendations as to cropping and
livestock production patterns and more efficient input regimes, leading to
increased production and farmer incomes.
5.03      It is difficult to quantity benefits from agricultural research in
precise terms because of the uncertainties in outcome of results. Nevertheless,
numerous worldwide studies have demonstrated that well conceived and effectively
conducted research can produce substantial benefits, often in excess of a 35%
internal rate of return on investment.



- 31 -
B. Environmental Effects
5.04      The proposed project has been placed in environmental  screening
category C/D under the provisions of Operational Directive 4.00, Annex A.
Environmental benefits can be expected from the forestry, soil conservation, soil
fertility research programs and the two plant protection programs of integrated
pest management (IPM) and residue control. The forestry and soil conservation
program would help to maintain and/or improve the natural resource base. The
soil fertility program and the IPM program would develop technology to reduce
application of fertilizer and pesticides. This is of particular importance in
some areas in western and southern Turkey where excessive use of fertilizer and
plant protection chemicals has led to an alarming increase in pollution of ground
and surface waters and to *nacceptable levels of residues in agricultural
produce. The residue research and control programs would contribute to reducing
such incidence.
C. Risks
5.05      The main project risks include new technology being inadequately
adapted for different categories of farmers and not effectively accepted.
Risks also include inadequate commitment by GOT to the project, leading to
budgetary shortfalls, inadequate training of project research staff, delayed
recruitment of incremental research, technical and administrative staff, slow
procurement of vehicles, laboratory and field equipment, delays in construction
of civil works,  and lack of effective coordination and management.   The
reestablishment of GDAR and measures agreed under the project to strengthen its
ability to coordinate MARA's research through planning, programming, budgeting,
monitoring and evaluation should go far to limit inadequate adaptive technology,
duplication of efforts and inefficient use of limited financial resources. It
is also an indication of the Government's increased commitment to the importance
of strengthening agricultural research. While the creation of GDAR also creates
some risks during the period of transition, the availability of the Department
of Externally Financed Projects, GDPD, well experienced with Bank procedures, to
act as a back-up as required should alleviate this problem. The preparation and
annual updating of a 10-year Master Research Plan for MARA and by the APK of MOF
shou.ld provide Government decision makers with the necessary data for forward
planning and justification for budgetary commitment. Finally, the two research
and project effectiveness assessments would provide opportunities for making any
required adjustments based upon implementation experience.
VI. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations agreement was reached with GOT on the following
points:



- 32 -
(a) an indicative plan and schedule for strengthening staffing of GDAR
beadquarters to enable it to undertake responsibility for coordination
of all MARA research, including planning, programming, budgeting,
monitoring, and evaluation and for strengthening staffing of the APK
of MOF to enable it to undertake similar responbibilities for forestry
research (paras 3.06 and 4.02);
(b)  the preparation of an annually updated 10-year Master Research Plan
(under an agreed schedule and TOR) with the initial master plan
completed by October 31, 1994 (paras 3.06 and 4.03);
(c) establishment of an Agricultural Economics Research Institute no later
than October 31, 1993 (para. 3.07);
(d) arrangements would be made by no later than April 30, 1993 for
provision of 1,000 ha of land for pasture research in Erzurum (para
3.09);
(e) the terms of reference and the establishment of four new farming
systems research teams in the regional research institutes in
Diyarbakir, Erzurum, and Eskisehir, and the GDRS research institute
in Sanliurfa by no later than April 30, 1993 (para 3.12);
(f)  engagement   of   internationally   recruited   consultants   with
qualifications acceptable to the Bank to assist in administering the
training program abroad; strengthening of GDA-Rs research capabilities
in the areas outlined in (a) above; initiating farming systems
research; the establishment of the AERI; and assisting the various
research programs as required by April 30, 1993 (para 3.22);
(g) preparation by MARA and MOF assisted by consultants of research
effectiveness assessments not later than April 30, 1995 and October
31, 1997, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank, and discussion with the Bank of the findings and implications
of the report and of implementation experience in terms of desirable
adjustments in the project (para 4.06);
(h) reactivation of the national commodity research program approach and
arrangements for research program working groups (para 4.07 and 4.08)
and commencement of biannual reviews of each MARA research institution
(para 4.09) and measures for strengthening research/farmer links (para
4.11); and
(i) renewed implementation of research staff career structure regulations
(para 4.10).
6.02       With the above agreements, the project is suitable for an IBRD Loan
of US$ 55.0 million equivalent at the Bank's standard variable interest rate, for
a period of 17 years with a five-year grace period. The Borrower would be the
Government of Turkey.



TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Project Components by Year
Base Costs                           Total
. ....... .......... ..... ...... ... .... . . .. ........... ... ..
1992    1993    1994    1996    1996    1997    1996  USS0
A. Irstitutional Strength'n        28.0  2113.0  2325.2  2061.3  1653.8  1370.8  1010.0  10582.0
S. Crops                           62.6  6478.1  689.5  6078.5  1612.5   994.2   496.6  22617.0
C. Livestock                       25.2  1289.3  1854.7  3384.1  2004.4   514.3   143.4   9245.4
D. Farming Systems                 7 .0   261.5   407.7   327.9   178.9   161.9    73.9   1485.6
E. Soil & Water Ngt.               28.0  1866.2  2903.7  3066.7  1988.5  1312.2   883.1  12048.5
F. Forestry                        64.5   782.9  1188.5  1315.2  1076.9   847.2   297.3   5572.5
6. Resfdue Control                  0.0   590.1   806.2   499.0   204.7   147.0    86.6   2333.8
H. integrated Pest Ngt.            15.0  1022.2  1227.9   953.7   859.9   400.0    49.0   4527.8
Total BASELINE COSTS               297.2  14403.3  17608.4  17706.3  9f79.8  SM.5  3040.1  68412.7
Physical Contingencies            8.0   901.8  1042.2  1050.1   462.6   232.1    30.8   3727.7
Price Contingencies               0.0   145.4   725.0  15S8.5  1301.4  1033.0   672.1   5435.5
.. .._.......... . ........................................... ...............................
Total PROJECT COSTS                305.3  1S450.5  19315.6 20314.9 11343.7  7042.7  3743.1  77575.9
Taxes                            11.1  1321.8  1606.0  1706.3   871.9   535.9   219.9   6272.9
Foreign Exchawge                196.5  10288.6  13429.5  13721.4  8653.1  S810.5  2951.4  55051.1
3/121992  15:51S
I F-'



TUEY
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCI PROJECT
USSOOO
Sumary Accoumts by Year
Base Costs                                            Foreign Exchange
1992      1993      1994       15        199       1997       1998     Total         X    Amxat
I. IiVESTMENT COSTS
...................
A. Civil Uorks                         0.0    5265.4    5748.1    6234.5    1537.6        74.5       7.8   18867.9         35.0  6603.8
B. Vehicles                            0.0    1804.2    1848.6    836.2        394.6      53.5      17.5   4954.6          86.8  4300.2
C.  Research Farm Equiprent            0.0      261.6     653.9     653.9      523.1    392.4    130.8   2615.7            87.5  2288.7
D.  Scientific Equipment               0.0      681.7    1022.6   2045.2    1706.3    1368.4        11.0    6835.2         87.5  5980.8
E.  Office Equipment                  32.5      165.0     165.0      97.5       75.0      67.5      20.0    622.5          60.0   373.5
F. Library 8 Info. Services           48.0     840.5      984.0     633.5      389.0     365.0     121.0   3381.0          87.5  2958.4
G.  Training                         142.7    4011.5    5280.2    4954.6    2559.1    1303.8    672.1  18924.1             89.4  16911.4
H. Technical Assistance               74.0      999.9    1161.9    1328.9    1376.9    1116.4    1023.9   7081.9           69.4   4914.1
........ --....---.--.-.-..-.--.-..--.----------.----..-.---.--.-..-..-.. ---. -- -----------------.
Total INVESTMENT COSTS               297.2   14029.8   16864.3  16784.3   8561.7    4741.5   2004.1  63282.9               70.1  44330.9
It. RECURRENT COSTS
1. Inc. Operationat Costs
1. Vehicles                         0.0     372.0      735.1     912.1    1008.1   1026.0   1026.0   5079.3             86.6  4398.5
2. Scientific Equipment             0.0        1.5       9.0      10.0       10.0      10.0      10.0      50.5         87.5    44.2
Sub-total                              0.0      373.5     744.1     922.1    1018.1    1036.0   1036.0    5129.8           86.6  4442.7
Total BASELINE COSTS-                297.2   14403.3   17608.4   17706.3   9579.8   5777.5    3040.1  68412.7              71.3 48m.6
Physical Contingencies              8.0     901.8    1042.2    1050.1       462.6     232.1      30.8   3727.7          60.4  2250.S
Price Contingencies                 0.0      145.4     725.0    1558.S    1301.4   1033.0       672.1    5435.5         74.1  4027.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                  305.3   15450.5   19375.6   20314.9   11343.7   7042.7   3743.1   77575.9             71.0  55051.1
Taxes                              I1.1    1321.8    1606.0    1706.3       871.9    535.9      219.9   6272.9           0.0      0.0
Foreign Exchange                  196.5   10288.6   13429.5   13721.4   8653.1    5810.5   2951.4  55051.1             100.0  55051.1
.......... ..................  __.................................. ..... .........__.. ................. .................................... ............ ..........__.................... .. .....
3/12/1992 15:52
iIo
ID0
I- It'



TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Summary Accounts by Year
Totals Including Contingencies
USSOO0
1992     1993     1994     1995     1996     1997      1998    Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Works                         0.0   5846.9  6568.6   7427.8   1910.6      96.1      10.5  21860.5
B. Vehicles                           0.0   2003.5   2112.5    996.2    490.3      69.0     23.5   5695.0
C. Research Farm Equipment            0.0    290.5   747.3    779.1    650.0    505.8    175.4  3148.0
0. Scientific Equipment                0.0    757.b   1168.6  2436.6   2120.2  1764.0        14.7  8261.2
E. Office Equipment                  35.7    183.2   188.6   116.2        93.2     87.0    26.8   730.7
F. Library & Info. Services          52.8   933.3   1124.5    754.8    483.4    470.5    162.2  3981.5
G. Training                         142.7   4049.6   5485.5   5366.3   2890.7   1527.9   819.2  20282.0
H. Technical Assistance              74.0   1009.4   1207.1   1439.3   1555.3   1308.3   1248.0  7841.4
Total INVESTHENT COSTS              305.3  15073.5  18602.6  19316.2  10193.7  5828.6   2480.3  71800.2
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Inc. Operational Costs
1. Vehicles                        0.0    375.5    763.7   987.9   1138.8   1202.4   1250.6  5718.8
2. Scientific Equipment            0.0       1.5      9.3     10.8     11.3     11.7     12.2    56.9                                                                1
Sub-Total                             0.0    377.0  m7.1   998.7   1150.0  1214.1   1262.7  5775.7                                                                      t
====s==========-===_======_=============
Total PROJECT COSTS                 305.3  15450.5  19375.6  20314.9  11343.7  7042.7  3743.1  77575.9
============================---- ==========8======---------==- =======
3/12/1992 15:52
mx



TWKEY
AGRICLLTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Suamary Account by Project Coeponent
Institut                                                                                           Physical           Price
fanol                                   Soil &                        Integrat                 Contingencies      Contingencies
Strength            Livestoc   Forming    Water               Residue   ed Pest                 ................................
on       Crops       k      System      Not.    Forestry  Control    Ngt.         Total        X     Aanmot       X   Amount
1. INVESTNENT COSTS
....................
A. Civil Works                        500.0   13106.7    2935.4         0.0     965.2      84.2     313.6     962.8   18867.9       10.0    1886.8      5.9    1105.8
B. Vehicles                           209.0    1241.1      421.5      99.3    2357.7    404.2        81.8      140.0   4954.6       10.0    495.5       4.9     24.9
C. Research Farm Equipuent              0.0    1210.6      112.5        0.0     832.7     459.9       0.0        0.0   2615.7       10.0    261.6   10.3        270.7
0. Scientific Equiphent                 0.0      865.1     930.5        0.0    1576.6    1994.3    263.7    1185.0   6835.2         10.0    683.5    10.9       742.4
E. Office Equipoent                    125.0     302.5      35.0       60.0       0.0       0.0      50.0       50.0     622.5      10.0      62.2      7.4      46.0
F. Library & Info. Services          2252.5      252.0      85.0      72.0      312.5     247.0      72.o      88.0    3381.0       10.0    338.1       7.8     262.4
6. Training                          1949.5    4123.0    4097.1       748.0   3492.0    1410.5    1267.0    1837.0  18924.1          0.0       0.0      7.2    1357.9
H. Technicai Assistance              5324.4      111.0     185.0     407.0      185.0     555.0    203.5       111.0   7081.9        0.0       0.0    10.7      759.5
.............. ................................... .............. ............................. .................. .................................   .... ........    ...  
Total IVESTNENT COSTS              10360.4   21232.0   8802.0    1386.3   9721.7    5155.1    2251.6   4373.8  63282.9              5.9    3727.7      7.6    4789.6
It. RECIMRENT COSTS
.. . ............. .
A. Inc. Operational Costs
1. Vehicles                          221.6    1334.6      443.4      99.3    2326.8      417.4      82.2     154.0   5079.3         0.0       0.0    12.6      639.5      cb
2. Scientific Equipsant                0.0       50.5       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      50.5       0.0       0.0    12.7        6.4
Sub-total                            221.6    1385.0    443.4        99.3    2326.8      417.4      82.2      154.0    5129.8       0.0       0.0    12.6      645.9
Total BASELINE COSTS                10582.0   22617.0    9245.4    1485.6  12048.5   5572.5    2333.8   4527.8  68412.7              5.4    3727.7      7.9    5435.5
Physical Contingencies              308.6    1699.8      452.0      23.1      604.5     319.0      78.1     242.6    3727.7
Price Contingencies                 97n.4    1409.8      792.1      115.0    1106.5     541.2     154.1     344.2    5435.5        4.5     242.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                 11863.1   25726.7   10489.5    1623.8  13759.4    6432.7   2566.0    5114.6   77575.9            5.1    3970.6      7.0    5435.5
Taxes                               493.9    2673.4      741.1      56.9    1254.7      541.5     133.6     377.9    6272.9        8.0     500.0
Foreign Exchnge                    8590.5   14174.5    7472.1    1459.9  11637.5    5732.1    2060.0   3924.5  55051.1             4.4    2409.1
1..1.... ...................................................................................................................15:52.................................
3/12/1992 15:52
Its 1



- 37 -
ANNEX 1
Table 5
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
IBRD Fiscal Year            IBRD            Cumulative            Percent of
and Ouarter           Disbursements       Disbursements        Loan Disbursed
--------(US $ million)---------
FY93 - 1                   3.0 1/               3.0                  5
- 2                  0.0                  3.0                  5
- 3                  3.0                  6.0                 11
- 4                  3.0                  9.0                 16
FY94 - 1                   3.5                 12.5                 22
- 2                  4.0                 16.5                 30
- 3                  4.7                 21.2                 39
- 4                  3.3                 24.5                 45
FY95 - 1                   3.3                 27.8                 51
- 2                  3.3                 31.1                 57
- 3                  3.3                 34.4                 63
- 4                  3.6                 38.0                 69
FY96 - 1                   3.1                 41.1                 74
- 2                  2.5                 43.6                 79
- 3                  1.6                 45.2                 82
- 4                  1.3                 46.5                 85
FY97 - 1                   1.0                 47.5                 86
- 2                  1.0                 48.5                 88
- 3                  1.0                 49.5                 90
- 4                  1.0                 50.5                 92
FY98 - 1                   0.8                 51.3                 93
- 2                  0.6                 51.9                 94
- 3                  0.6                 52.5                 95
- 4                  0.5                 53.0                 96
FY99 - 1                   0.4                 53.4                 97
- 2                  0.4                 53.8                 98
- 3                  0.4                 54.2                 99
- 4                  0.3                 54.5                 99
FYOO - 1                   0.3                 54.8                 99
- 2                  0.2                 55.0                100
/ Initial deposit in Special Account.



- 38 -
Table 6
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Proposed Allocatlon of Loan Funds
(US $ million)
Loan
Total l        Foreizn         Amount
Civil Works Z                      19.7              7.7             7.3
Vehicles and Equipment E
Books and Periodicals            16.0             15.4            15.3
Training F                         14.3             13.1            13.5
Consultants' Services F             7.0              3.2             6.8
Research Grants Y                   4.0              -               4.0
Incremental Operating Costs 2'    5.2                2.9             2.6
Unallocated                        11.4             10.5             5.5
Total                           77.6             52.8           55.0
u First five items exclude portions included under unallocated.
2 45% of civil works.
I/  100% of foreign expenditures and of ex-factory prices of locally
manufactured items, and 90% of local costs of imported items purchased
locally.
f 100% of costs of training abroad.
F 100% of consultant services costs.
F 100% of the amount of research grants.
'  50% of operating costs of vehicles and research equipment purchase4 under
the project with annual operating costs calculated as equivalent to 20% of
the initial vehicle and equipment purchase price.



- 39 -
ANNEX 1
Table 7
Page 1
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Training Abroad Program
PhDI'        MSZ     Short Term3'
Program or Institution                           No.          No.        Months
Strengthening GDAR                                 1           3           30
Strengthening AERI                                 2           3           90
Farming Systems Research                           2           4           36
Crop Production & Protection Research
Hortic. Res. Institute - Erzincan                  -            -          10
Pistachio R.I. - Gaziantep                         -           2           24
Agric. R.I. - Akcakale                             1           2           20
E. Anatolia R.I. - Erzurum                         2           3           24
Central Field Crops R.I. - Ankara                  2           4           32
S.E. Anatolia R.I. - Diyarbakir                    1           2           16
Mediterranean R.I. - Antalya                       -            1          12
Transitional Zone R.I. - Eskisehir                 2           2           14
Plant Genetics R.I. - Izmir                        -           1           18
Fruit Res. Inst. - Malatya                         -            -           6
Cotton Res. Inst. - Nazilli                        1           -            6
Viticulture R.I. - Tekirdag                        -           1            8
Central Hort. R. I. - Yalova                       1           1            6
Integrated Pest Management                         2          16           72
Residue Control                                    1          10           68
1' PHD training program abroad would be for three years and candidates would be
sent during years 1993-1995.
v MS training abroad would be for two years and candidates would be sent during
year 1993-1995.
3' Short term training abroad would be carried out throughout the duration of
the project.



- 40 -
ANNEX 1
Table 7
Page 2
Animal & Forage Production Research             Ph           MS          ST
Central Livestock R.I.-Konya                     2            3           8
Animal Production R.I.-Lalahan                    2           5           16
S.E.Anatolia R.I.-Diyarbakir                      -           1          10
E.Anatolia R.I.-Ersurum                           1           3          12
Silkworm R.I.-Bursa                               -           2          10.
Fisheries R.I.-Egridir                            -           2          10
Animal Disease R.I.-Pendik                        -           3           10
Animal Disease R.I.-Etlik                         1           4           12
Animal Disease Lab.-Erzurum                       -           3           12
Animal Dis.Diagnostic Lab.-Xonya                  -           2           12
Animal Dis.Diagnostic Lab.-Elazig                 -           2            8
Foot & Mouth Disease R.I.-Ankara                 1            2           8
Soil and Water Manafement Research
Soil & Fert. R.I. & 8 Rural Services R.I.         -           9         270
Rural Services R.I.-Sanliurfa                     1           2           55
Rural Services R.I.-Ersurum                       1           2          54
Forestry Research                                 3          10           70
Total                    30         110        1069



- 41 -
ANNEX 1
Table 8
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Consultants' Services
Months
Lona-term   Short-term   Total
1. Strenathening GDAR
(a) Preparation Master Plan                     -           12           12
(b) Planning, Programming                       -            5            5
(c) Budgeting, Monitoring, Evaluation           -            4            4
(d) MIS                                         -            4            4
(e) External Reviews                            -            8            8
2. Strengthening AERI                              30           6           36
3. Farming Systems Research                                    22           22
'. Crop Research
(a) Production                                  -            6            6
(b) Protectior.                                 -           17           17
5. Livestock Research                               -          10           10
6. Soils and Water Research                         -          10           10
7. Forestry R_search                                -          30           30
Total                               30         134          164



- 42 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Institutlonal Strgngthening
A. Research OrganizatiQn and Management
Backaround
1.      Aaricultural Research in Turkey.  Most agricultural research in Turkey
is conducted by the public sector and primarily in the Ministry of Agriculture
and Rural Affairs (MARA) with forestry research in the Ministry of Forestry
(MOF).  Other public sector agricultural research is performed by the state
enterprises of tea (CAYKUR), tobacco and sugar beets (SEKER). The Scientific and
Technical Research Organization of Turkey (TUBITAX) funds some research projects
in its agricultural section which they wish to support.   The Atomic Energy
Association of Turkey in its Center for Nuclear Research uses nuclear techniques
for plant breeding, plant protection, soil fertility, food preservation, and
animal health research.
2.      Agricultural faculties conduct some research especially at Ankara, Ege
and Cukurova Universities, including agricultural economics at Middle East
Technical University and Hacettepe University, but are constrained by teaching
loads and limited funds.  Cukurova University at Adana is carrying out some
research in the southeast Anatolia region (GAP) which is due to be completed in
1992. In the private sector, very little research is underway. Most private
sector research is concerned with adaptive research trials by private seed
companies on varieties developed elsewhere such as hybrid maize, sunflower,
soybean, rape and vegetables.
3.      Aoricultural Research Until 1991.   Agricultural research made major
technological advances during the 1970s which resulted in the doubling of wheat
yields and introduction of improved higher yielding varieties of a number of
field and horticultural crops. During that time, much greater emphasis was given
to agricultural research on crops, forages and livestock, which for a ten-year
period (1971-1981) was grouped within a separate General Directorate of
Agricultural Research (GDAR) within the Ministry of Agriculture. However, public
sector agricultural research was fragmented to an unusual extent with soil, water
and fertilizer research being conducted in the Ministry of Village Affairs
separate from the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry.
4.      GDAR was abolished in 1981 and its research activities were merged with
extension services in an enlarged General Directorate of Agricultural Affairs
(GDAA) which lasted until December 1983. At that time a major government change
abolished the Ministry of Village Affairs and its activities were merged into an



- 43 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
enlarged Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Affairs (MAFRA). A
reorganization of the Ministry in 1984 (designed in part to decentralize more
responsibility and improve coordination at the Provincial level) led to the
division of research into five separate General Directorates as follows:
(a) General Directorate of Project and Implementation (GDPI). Crop
and forage improvement, agronomic research, and animal husbandry
research;
(b) General Directorate of Protection and Control (GDPC). Plant
protection, animal health, food, feed and seed quality control
research;
(c) General Directorate of Rural Services (GDRS). Soil, water and
fertilizer research;
(d) General Directorate of Forestry (GDOF). Forestry research; and
(e) General Directorate of Organization and Support Services (GDOS)
Handicraft and leather research.
S.      The research activities of the General Directorates of Forestry (GDOF)
and Rural Services (GDRS) had previously been located in other government
ministries which were abolished and all existing activities were then transferred
into MAFRA. However, they continued to operate their research entities as before
with direct operational and budgetary control from their respective General
Directorate management in Ankara. Prior to the reorganization of MAFRA in 1984,
the research activities shown for GDPI, GDPC and GDOS had been located in the
General Directorates of Agricultural Affairs, Plant Protection and Plant
Quarantine and in Veterinary Services all of which had direct operational and
budgetary control from their respective General Directorate management in Ankara.
6.      The reorganization of MAFRA led to the abolishment of the General
Directorates of Agricultural Affairs, Plant Protection and Plant Quarantine and
of Veterinary Services and the establishment of the GDPI, GDPC, and GDOS.
Furthermore, these new General Directorates were given only advisory authority
over the research institutes associated with them (see para. 4) and line
authority passed to the Provincial Directors of Agriculture in which each
Research Institute was located. It led to a demoralized research environment with
Provincial Directors often using equipment from the institutes to carry on their
own field work to the detriment of research experimentation and to a number of
highly qualified research scientists resigning to join the private sector.
7.      A ministerial decree in 1987 established a High Council for Research and
Development (HCRD) in an attempt to rectify the situation. Its functions are to
define targets and priorities for long-term research policies; define target
areas for investment in accordance with research and development plans and
programs; examine and eValuate manpower training and training locations of the
research establishments of MAFRA (since 1991 MARA - see para. 11 below). The
HCRD is supposed to meet annually in June but additional meetings can be called



- 44 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
by the Chairman, who is the Minister of MAFRA.   Other members include the
Undersecretary and relevant deputy undersecretaries, the general directors of the
service units (GDPI, GDPC, and GDOS), affiliated GDs (including GDRS and GDOF),
representatives of the Ministries of Finance and Customs, Industry and Commerce,
State Planning Organization (SPO), Higher Education Board (YOK), Scientific and
Technical Research Organization of Turkey (TUBITAK), agricultural bank (TCZB) and
invited scientists from universities or other agencies and Directors of MAFRA's
research institutes. The first meeting of HCRD was not until January 1989 and
then two meetings were held in 1991.
8.      The Secretariat for the HCRD was the Research, Planning and Coordination
Board (APR) of MAFRA. APK has been given authority to prepare instructions,
circulars, etc. which develop, regulate and rationalize research, ensure the
preparation of annual research budgets and to monitor and control the
distribution of funds to the research organizations associated with GDPI, GDPC
and GDOS. It also has responsibility to supervise and direct program-project
applications by ensuring coordination and cooperation with the concerned General
Directorates.   APK also has authority to coordinate relations with non-
ministerial and international organizations and to examine proposals to be
carried out jointly.
9.      APK did not have the resources by which to carry out its mandate as
described in the previous paragraph. This problem is further compounded by the
inadequate policy guidance and support at the national level and by ODOF and GDRS
having their own APKs and budgetary controls.   This autonomy has, however,
permitted GDRS and GDOF to maintain more adequate levels of research funding and
direction than is available to the research institutes affiliated with GDPI, GDPC
or GDOS.   In effect, each General Directorate has national research working
groups which meet annually to review previous findings and to recommend the
research programs for the following year.  APK, in its secretarial function
compiled annual research programs in its Research and Statistics Department for
approval by HCRD which were then submitted to SPO for final approval after MAFRA
recommends appropriate budgetary allocations. However, APK was unable to carry
out effective planning, programming and budgeting as no staff with such skills
and with competent knowledge on agricultural research was available.
Accordingly, it has ended up with MAFRA and SPO mostly endorsing programs
submitted to them without critical appraisal or avoidance of duplication of
effort such as occurs between GDPI and GDRS research entities often in close
proximity to each other.
10.     Acricultural Economics Research.  What is particularly surprising, in
view of the stage of development of Turkey, is that the Ministry of Agriculture
has no macro-economic and micro-economic research unit or Research Institute to
conduct the research so needed in answering key questions of government
regarding: (a) land use and production policies; (b) technology policies; (c)
producer prices; (d) inputs and investment policies; (e) public investment
policies; and particularly (f) export opportunities and marketing and trade
policies and their effects on farm income and employment. Other countries, less
developed than Turkey, i.e. Indonesia, have a separate Agricultural Economic
Research Institute as an integral part of an Agricultural Research System to



- 45 -
ANMEX 2
Page 4
advise top Ministry of Agriculture and other Government officials on the above-
mentioned matters. An effort to provide such important expertise to MAFRA was
attempted in the Bank's Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (2585-TU). However,
MAFRA and particularly, APR, did not mobilize the manpower resources,
particularly qualified agricultural economists, to properly carry out the above-
mentioned functions.
11.     Agricultural Research Status in 1991.  In August 1991, the Council of
Ministers approved a split of MAFRA into two ministries: the Ministry of
Agriculture and Rural Affairs (MARA) and the Ministry Forestry (MOF). At the same
time the Council of Ministers approved the establishment of a General Directorate
of Agricultural Research (GDAR) for the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
Affairs.   All research  institutes associated with GDPI  (renamed General
Directorate of Production and Development (GDPD)), GDPC and GDOS were to be
transferred to the newly established GDAR. The research institutes for soil,
water and fertilizer research continue to remain in GDRS. The Ministry of
Forestry includes the forestry research activities from the former MAFRA. GDAR
takes over the research planning and coordinating responsibilities formerly under
the jurisdiction of MAFRA (but excluding forestry research). The APK of MARA
retains its overall responsibilities for planning and budgeting of ministerial
activities.
B. Institutional Strengthening Component
12.     The project would provide  for the  strengthening of  the neneral
Directorate of Agricultural Research (GDAR) in MARA and of the APK in MOF for
forestry research to enable these organizations to   carry out effectively
research planning, programming, coordination, budgeting, monitoring and
evaluation. It would also provide for the preparation of annually updated master
research plans for agriculture (including the GDRS research institute plans
provided through its APK) and forestry research. The project would also provide
for the establishment of an Agricultural Economics Research Institute (AERI).
13.     Strenothenina GDAR in MARA and APK in MOF.  The GDAR would be headed by
a recognized research scientist with administrative experience who should be
selected based upon research stature, experience and broad perspective (i.e. an
experienced former Director of a major Agricultural Research Institute of MARA
who is well respected by his staff).  The General Director of GDAR would be
assisted by two Deputy General Directors (DGD); one for research and the other
for administration.  The DGD for research would be assisted by five Research
Directors for crops; livestock and fisheries; soils and water management; and
technology; and for research programming. The Research Director for technology
would be responsible for overseeing the coordination if research on farming
systems, biotechnology and post-harvest research in MARA; collaborative efforts
with national and international organizations (including universities and private
sector NGOs) for the Bank-financed grants program; and linkages with extension
and farmers. The DGD for administration would be supported by staff involved in



- 46 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5
budgeting, manpower and training requirements, and in monitoring and evaluation.
A similar strengthening, but to a lesser extent, would also be carried out for
the APK of MOP.
14.     Research Master Plan. While the currently proposed project was prepared
on an ad hoc basis by a team of consultants and Turkish experts, there is a need
to make such research planning and prioritizing a normal part of MARA and MOF's
regular activities.   Accordingly, GDAR in MARA and the APK in MOP would be
responsible for preparing an annually updated 10-year Research Master Plan with
detailed five-year budgets and indicative budgets for the outer five years.
These master research plans would be approved by the respective ministries and
be the basis for annual budgets, investments, staffing and training requirements.
Terms of Reference cor the preparation of a 10-year Research Master Plan is
outlined as Appendix 1 of this Annex.
15.     Research Program Working Groups.   Working groups would operate on
research programs on field crops, livestock, horticulture, aquaculture, food
technology, soil and water resources in GDAR and in the research institutes for
forestry research in MOF. Each working group would be staffed by key scientists
representing various disciplines in the particular field as well as directors of
related institutes, heads of related sections, project coordinators, and where
appropriate,   representatives  of  general  directorates,   farmers  union,
universities, provincial directorates, private sector and related groups such as
TUBITAK. Annually, each working group would review last year's activities and
propose the coming year's activities.   It would outline detailed proposed
research projects for each program, staffing, and training requirements, capital
and operating budgets preferably on a five-year basis.   It would coordinate
related research in various fields as well as avoiding duplication of similar
research efforts. Such detailed research programs would be submitted to GDAR and
the APK of MOP in sufficient time for review before preparing the overall
Research Master Plan.
16.     Research Grants.  A fund of US$ 4.0 million equivalent would be provided
for awards to outstanding researchers within MARA and MOF which have contributed
to the Turkish economy or are conducting research with high promise. It would
also provide grants to conduct agricultural, soil and water, and forestry
research to complement ongoing adaptive research. Eligible researchers would
include those at MARA, MOF research institutes and Universities conducting such
research. Eligible items for funding research grants would include research merit
awards, contractual studies, equipment and supplies, travel, visits to other
institutions and such othe! items as agreed to between the GOT and the Bank. MARA
and MOF would each set up aResearch Awards Committee headed by the General
Director of Agricultural Research and Director of the Research Department,
respectively. In addition, each committee would comprise of two experts from
their respective ministries, two representatives from the Universities and one
representative from TUBITAK. Furthermore, terms of reference for the committees
would be prepared as to criteria and eligibility for issuing awards and grants
as agreed with the Bank.



- 47 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6
17.     Consultants' Services.  Technical assistance will be provided by the
project to strengthen GDAR of MARA and APK of MOF.  It would include consultants
for strengthening planning, programming, budgeting, monitoring and evaluation
methodologies and in the preparation of the master research plans. Terms of
Reference for such technical assistance is shown in Appendix 2 of this Annex.
18.     Estimated Costs for Strenathenina GDAR of MARA and APK of MOF.  The
project would provide for an estimated US$ 8.8 million to strengthen GDAR of MARA
and the APR of MOF through provisions of training (1 Ph.D. and 4 MSc.) and 38
months of short-term foreign training, vehicles, technical assistance, contract
research grants and incremental operating costs. Table 101 provides the detailed
costs for the seven years of the project.
19.         Establishment of the Aaricultural Economics Research Institute. The
project would provide for funds for the establishment of an Agricultural Economic
Research Institute (AERI) to be established in MARA. The objective of AERI would
be to develop agricultural options from which policy makers can choose as well
determine the consequences of these choices in terms of their effects, benefits
and costs. Appendix 3 presents detailed information regarding the establishment
of such an Institute and the estimated project costs which is shown in Table 1
of Appendix 3.



TMET
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Table 101. General Directorate of Agricultural Research (MqAR )- Ankara
Institutional Strengthening
Detailed Cost Table
Quantity                        Unit Cost                              Base Costs
Unit  1992  1993  1994  I9   1996  1997  1M98 Total       1992-98       1992    1993   1994    1995   1996    1997   1998  total
.................................................................   ... . .  . . .. . . . . . . . . . ... . . . .. . . . . .. . . .. .
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
................
A. Vehicles
Sedan                   no.       0     1     1    1    0       0    0      3       15.60        0.0    15.6   15.6   15.6    0.0    0.0    0.0   46.8
Nidi-Bus 30 Passenger  no.        0     1    0      0     0     0     0     1       63.00        0.0   63.0    0.0    0.0    0.0         0.0    0.0   63.0
Sub-aotal                                                                                         0.0   78.6   15.6   15.6    0.0         0.0    0.0  109.8
B. Civit Works               .2       -     .    -      -     -     .    -      *           -         0.0  300.0  200.0    0.0    0.0         0.0    0.0  500.0
C. Technical Assistance
Foreign Consultants    value    -        *       *   *               -                 .         0.0   100.0  100.0  100.0   70.0    0.0    0.0  370.0
External Evaluation     value    -     -    -            -     -    -    -             -         0.0    0.0  120.0    0.0  120.0    0.0    0.0  240.0
Internal Review        value    -      -     -     -     -     -    -      -           -        0.0    2.4       24     2.4    2.4      2.4    2.4   14.4
SuA-Total                                                                                         0.0  102.4  222.4  102.4  192.4    2.4    2.4  624.4
D. Research Grants                    -     -    -      -    -      -    -      .                     0.0  500.0  500.0  750.0  750.0  750.0  750.0 4000.0
E. Office Eq. & Furnishings aet        3    4      4     4     3     2    0    20         2.50        7.5   10.0   10.0   10.0    7.5         5.0    0.0   50.0
F. Management Info. System            -     -     -    .      -     .    -      -                     0.0  250.0  500.0  250.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  1000.0
G. LIbrary S Info. Services
Desk Top Cqtpters       no.       1    2      1     1     1           1    8         8.00        8.0    16.0    8.0    8.0    8.0    8.0    8.0   64.0
L'p Top Coapzters       no.       0     1    0    0       0     0     0     1        4.S0        0.0    4.5      0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0    4.5              I
Sooks k Journals        value    -       -                 -      -    -                         0.0    8.0      8.0    8.0    8.0    5.0    8.0   48.0                -P
"is                     no.      -     -    -      -     -                                       0.0  200.0  200.0  200.0  200.0  200.0    0.0  1000.0                 CO
Sub-Total                                                                                         8.0  228.5  216.0  216.0  216.0  216.0   16.0  1116.5                  1
R. Training
Foreign PhM            year       0     1    1      1    0      0    0      3       35.00        0.0   35.0   35.0   3S.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  105.0
Foreign PS             year      0      1    2    3       0     0    0    6         35.00        0.0   35.0   70.0  10S.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  210.0
Short Term Foreign    month       0     5    6      7    4      4     4    30        5.50        0.0   27.5   33.0   38.5   22.0    22.0   22.0  165.0
Language Training      no.        0     2     2     2     1    0    0       ?        2.50        0.0    5.0    5.0    S.0    2.5    0.0    0.0   17.5
Seminars * Conferenses           -     -     -           -     -    .    .             -         0.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0    0.0  500.0
Sub-Total                                                                                         0.0  202.5  243.0  283.5  124.5  122.0   22.0  997.5
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                  15.5  1672.0  1907.0  162W.5  1290.4  1095.4  790.4 8395.2
11. RECURRENT COSTS
.. .............
A. Incremental Oper. Costs
Sedan                  no.        0     1    2    3       3     3    3    15         3.12        0.0    3.1     6.2     9.4    9.4    9.4    9.4   46.8
Midi-Bus 30 Passenger  no.        0     1    1      1     1     1    1    6         12.60        0.0   12.6   12.6   12.6   12.6   12.6   12.6   75.6
Sub-Total                                                                                         0.0   IS.?   18.8   22.0   22.0   22.0   22.0  122.4
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                    0.0    15.7   18.8   22.0   22.0   22.0   22.0  122.4
Total                                                                                                15.5  1687.7  1925.8  1649.5  1312.4  1117.4  812.4  8520.6
D X
1-JM



-49 -
ANNEX 2
AR2endix 1
Page 1
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Research Master Plan
Terms of Reference
Objectives
1.      While research programs and priorities were reviewed on an ad hoc basis
in the preparation of this project, there is a need to incorporate such research
planning procedures as a normal part of MARA's functioning. Accordingly, long-
term research master plans would be prepared, with the first to be completed
within two years of loan effectiveness, and with annual updates thereafter. The
goal would be to incorporate the procedures so that they could be continued
without foreign assistance by the end of the project period. The main objectives
of the research master plan (RMP) would be to:
(a) establish the regional and agro-ecological priorities to be
used in developing crops, livestock, and soil and water research
programs over the next ten years based on sound economic analyses
and agreed national sector goals;
(b) define the means for strengthening research organization, management
planning, programming, budgeting, financial control, monitoringand
evaluation;
(c) estimate the manpower and training requirements for the next ten
years to effectively conduct the national and regional research
programs and projects;
(d) assess means for improving research staff incentives, promotion and
remuneration, to attract and retain highly qualified and capable
research scientific personnel;
(e) in the light of (a), assess the functions of all crops, livestock,
soils and water research facilities of MARA and provide specific
recommendations    for    their    retantion,    improvement,    or
discontinuation,  in order to minu -e duplication and promote
consolidation;
(f) determine means for promoting more effective linkages with the
extension services, universities, other research organizations,
private sector research and with international agricultural research
centers and other institutions;



- 50 -
ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
Page 2
(g) determine the means for improving the research management
information systems for all activities through computer hardware and
software, radio, audiovisual, publications and journals;
(h) determine funds needed for capital investments and recurrent
expenditures for a finite five years and an indicative further
five-year period to achieve targeted goals;
(i) collate all the above information in the preparation of the Pesearch
Master Plan to serve as a blueprint for further institutional reform
and development; and
(j) implement the Research Master Plan no later than the end of the
second year of the Agricultural Research Project implementation
period. Such RMP would serve as the basis for determining
government funding as well as possible support by external donors.
Scope of Review 1Qr .esearch Master Plan Preparation
2.      Define Cr   S. j       estock.  and Soil and Water Research Programs and
Proiects. All research sliould have a defined purpose in light of established
national and regional priorities. Therefore, each master plan should:
(a) review all existing research programs and projects, and advise o n
their need in light of national and regional priorities to be
established at the outset of this Research Master Plan preparation
and recommend additional research needs as necessary;
(b) assess the research programs and projects to eliminate duplication
and promote consolidation of effort; and
(c) recommend additions in scope, where necessary, to strengthen the
research effort (that is, economic assessments, farm management.
farming systems research, etc.).
3.      Review Research Oreanization and Management Reguirements to:
(a) assess existing organizational structures and recommend, as
required, measures for further strengthening, to facilitate more
effectively conduct the research priority programs;
(b) assess and make recommendations for improving research management;
and



- 51 -
ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
Page 3
(c) review existing planning, programming, budgeting, financial
control and monitoring and evaluation procedures, and make
recommendations for further strengthening these procedures.
4.      EstimatinR Mangower and Training Requirements.   Some research staff
require additional training in their particular disciplines and research
methodology. Therefore, there is a need to assess manpower requirements a n d
training periodically to meet requirements for the effective conduct of the
agreed research programs and projects over the next ten years.   Similarly,
assessment is necessary periodically, of the manpower and training needs for
adequately carrying out the management, administration, planning, information,
budgeting, financial and monitoring and evaluation functions. The review would
therefore:
(a) assess the qualifications and experience of all researchers,
management, administrative and support services as to training and
experience;
(b) estimate staff requirements by discipline and/or functions,
training, location and agro-ecological region for a ten-year period;
and
(c) recommend additional training needs in Turkey and abroad, inclusive
of graduate degree training, for ten years and their estimated
costs.
5.      Assess Staff Incentives Improvement.  There is a need to review means of
improving staff incentives to attract and retain professionals of high caliber.
Accordingly, the review would:
(a) review all existing staff salaries, incentives and promotion
procedures;
(b) recommend realistic means for improving staff incentives to retain
qualified personnel; and
(c) estimate the incremental costs to recurrent expenditures resulting
from enacting recommended staff incentives improvements.
6.      Assess Functions of All Research Facilities Conducting Crop. Livestock.
and Soil and Vater Research in MARA. All research institutes, stations, farms
and laboratories need to be individually visited and assessed for:
(a) justification for its operations as a research facility and its
appropriateness for conducting national and regional priority
research programs;



- 52 -
ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
Page 4
(b) adequacy of existing facilities for offices, laboratories,
greenhouses, workshops and housing;
(c) adequacy of existing laboratory and farm equipment and vehicles, and
for the proper maintenance of all facilities, research plots, trials
and access roads;
(d) recommendations on consolidation of research facilities, where
possible, for improved efficiency of operations; and
(e) international research organizations, scientific exchange, attending
scientific meetings and presentation of significant scientific
contributions to international societies and in publications.
7.      Improving Research and Nanagement Information Systems. The research and
management information systems should be continuously updated and strengthened.
Therefore, the review should:
(a) review all library and documentation units of all research
facilities and recommend measures and costs over a ten-year period
for strengthening same; and
(b) recommendations on restructuring of existing networks among
institutes, stations and farms, to provide a smooth blending of
national research programs, research programs with a regional focus,
and farmer oriented applied research.
8.      More Effective Linkages  to Extension.  Indisenous  Institutions and
External Research. Linkages between research and extension in the provinces are
being strengthened in the Bank-assisted AEARP I and II Projects and need to be
further supported. Similarly, contacts with indigenous institutions which can
assist researchers, especially training at the Universities need to be enhanced.
Contacts with external research institutions and especially the International
Agricultural Research Centers are being made and need to be expanded. The review
would assess and recommend:
(a) means for more effective linkages with extension and farmers union,
especially farming systems research, on-farm trials and periodic
meetings to exchange information;
(b) methodology for improving training of extension subject matter
specialists at various research facilities;
(c) methodology for periodic reviews of research progress and farmers
problems;
(d) methodology for establishing farmers' field days at research
facilities, on-farm trials and on-farm demonstrations;



- 53 -
ANN-EX 2
Page 5
(e) methodology for effective research input to mass media releases,
audiovisual aids and documentation to be used by the extension
services;
(f) means for more effective contacts with Universities through
contracts for more basic research geared to specific problems facing
farmers, advanced degree training of research staff, and
collaborative efforts by conducting thesis research programs at
research institutes; and
(g) establishing  improved  contacts  with  external  national  and
international research organizations, scientific exchange, attending
scientific meetings and presentation of significant scientific
contributions to international societies and in publications.
9.      Improving Research and Mana8ement Information Systems. The research and
management Information systems for agricultural research in MARA are
uncoordinated and require strengthening. Therefore, the review would:
(a) review all library and documentation units of all research
facilities and recommend measures and costs over a ten-year period
for strengthening same;
(b) review all systems. for management information, such as planning,
budgeting, accounting, inventories of capital and recurrent items,
and assess feasibility (costs, benefits) of computerization/
mechanization and recommended computer hardware, software, radio and
fax linkages of all research facilities, audiovisual and printing
facilities; and
(c) review research station requirements to serve similar needs as well
as for specific research programs.
10.     Budgetary Requirements.  Based on the findings and recommendations with
their costs determined in paras. 2-9 above, recommendations should be made on
capital and recurrent expenditures to achieve stated goals of MARA's crop,
livestock, soil and water research programs for a finite five-years and an
indicative period of a further five-year period. Recommendations would include:
(a) capital and recurrent expenditures for each research program and
* project;
(b) capital and recurrent expenditures for each research facility
within MARA and within MOF;
(e) capital expenditures for civil works, laboratory and research farm
equipment and vehicles;



- 54 -
ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
Page 6
(d) recurrent expenditures for existiril and incremental staff salaries
(professional, technical, administrative, and labor), materials
(chemicals, fertilizers, pesticides, drugs, vaccines,etc.) office,
laboratory, and farm supplies, operation and maintenance of all
buildings, greenhouses, workshops, research farms, livestock,
equipment and vehicles;
(e) training, including advanced degree training and attendance at
international scientific meetings and visits to recognized
international research centers and institutions; and
(f) installation of computer, communications, documentation and
information facilities, to optimize research, administrative,
accounting, monitoring, evaluation and financial management.
Research Master Plan Arrangements
11.     MARA through its newly established GDAR would appoint Heads of a Research
Working Group and Subgroups to work in the areas outlined in Paras. 2-9 above.
Each group would include research directors and professional staff. The in-depth
review and preparation of the first MRP for MARA will be conducted with technical
assistance provided through nationally and internationally recruited consultants.
These consultants would be hired through a recognized international organization
with international experience in conducting such in-depth reviews.  Terms of
reference for such Technical Assistance are as shown in ApRendix 2 and would be
issued with full approval of Government and the Bank.
12.     Initiation of such reviews and the preparation of the RMP by MARA would
commence soon after the Agricultural Research Project is approved. The individual
designated to lead the consultants would have prime responsibility to assist GDAR
in collating and preparing the RMPs. The other consultants would be involved for
about three months each.   The first RMP prepared and approved by MARA for
agricultural research would be ready for review by the World Bank by no later
than the end of the second year of the project.
Annual Updating of Research Master Plans
13.     The updating of the RMPs by MARA would be an annual exercise to revise
the research programs, projects, manpower requirements, training, facilities and
equipment as national priorities change and as programs and projects terminate
or require change.  It will be the basis for top MARA management, other high
government officials and research directors to more clearly determine the basis
for investments in research.



- 55 -
ANNEX 2
Aniendix 2
Page 1
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
1.       Highly qualified consultants of international repute and with extensive
experience in agricultural policy analysis in developing countries and in
datermining natiorial and regional and agricultural and forestry research
priorities would be made available for the period from about the second year to
the sixth year of the project for a maximum of 164 months total. The consultants
would provide guidance in methodology for planning, programming, budgeting,
monitoring evaluation and the preparation of the first Research Master Plan MARA.
The consultants would also assist in establishing a management information system
to serve the needs of all research entities in MARA.   The TOR for GDAR
preparation of the research master plan is given in Appendix 1. In this program,
the consultants would concentrate their assistance on the following:
(a) presenting various options for a methodology to be followed;
(b) advising on the details of the selected methodology;
(c) introducing appropriate economic analytical techniques for
determining some of the factors involved in the methodology
for assessing research priorities; and
(d) assisting GDAR in MARA in presenting to top Ministry management an
indicative allocation of agricultural research resources amongst
commodity and production factors as an initial frame of reference
for assessing the size and scope of the national and regional
research programs.
Preparation of First Master Research Plan for MARA
2.       Prooram-Budoetinc. A formalized program-budgeting methodology would be
introduced as a management tool for clearly defining the resources required for
research programs previously determined.  The consultants would assist in the
establishment of a program-budgeting system as follows:
(a) assist in establishing appropriate procedures for collecting
relevant information on research operational activities;
(b) assist in producing manuals for procedures in program-budgeting and
arrange training courses for management and research staff in their
use;



- 56 -
ANNEX 2
Anvendix 2
Page 2
(c) assist in teeting the procedures with suitable formats for dtails
of experiments, surveys and studies;
(d) assist in the development of a computer capability to facilitate
the operation of the system; and
(e) assist in the preparation of the first Master Research Plan and,
on a reduced scale, in the preparation of the annual updates, with
the goal of enabling such plans to be prepared without foreign
assistance by the end of the project period.
3.       Monitorina and Evaluation Methodologies.  The consultants would assist
in the development of new monitoring and evaluation procedures, and in monitoring
performance of the various research programs as follows:
(a) assist in establishing appropriate procedures for collecting
relevant information on research progress;
(b) with Research Program Working Groups and respective Coordinators to
develop and test suitable indications of research progress at
different management levels;
(c) assist in the reviewing of completed evaluations of research
programs and institutions and assist in further evaluations;
and
(d) assist in tralning courses in monitoring and evaluation in GDAR
of MARA, and at the key regional research institutes.



- 57 -
ANNEX 2
ARpendix 3
Page 1
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Agricultural Economics Research Institute
A. Introduction
1.      The Government of Turkey has initiated the proposal to establish an
Agricultural Economics Research Institute (AERI). The Bank fully supports this
initiative and certain costs towards the establishment of the AERI and training
of its staff will be partially funded by the Agricultural Research Project (ARP).
2.      The significance of the agricultural sector in Turkey, in terms of
contribution to national income, international trade and employment need not be
reiterated. It is to Turkey's credit that it is one of the few countries in the
Middle East which is virtually self sufficient in food production. On the other
hand, while the performance of the sector within the past three decades has been
strong, the consensus is that the potential of the sector is considerably higher
than what is currently achieved. Meeting the challenges of the 21st Century,
with a growing domestic demand and a regional and global market to which Turkish
agriculture can contribute, will require a liberal market environment which is
managed efficiently to insure against risks of food security and to allow the
sector to express its potential in a flexible manner.
3.      In the 1980s, as part of an economy-wide liberalization pr cess, Turkish
agriculture gradually began to change and integrate with the global economy. In
response to changes involving reduction of subsidies and outward oriented
policies, the product mix shifted from the traditional cereal focus towards high
value and expert crops.  Yet, the remaining vestiges of Government controls
appear to constrain the sector from fully expressing its potential.
4.      The transition to an increased level of liberalization,  where the
Government will assume the role of the regulator, will require a more subtle
management of policies than the direct interventions that have been historically
pervasive. The Government should guide the sector towards desired directions,
using tools that are less burdensome on the constrained public resources and more
efficient in achieving objectives. Towards this end, policy options will need
to be developed with due consideration of domestic and international developments
and assessed with respect to potential consequences.
5.      Given these facts, a research group that analyses developments in a
systematic manner and that develops and assesses policy options becomes
indispensable and imperative. The ideal location for such a group is in the
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs (MARA). The excellent record of



- 58 -
ANNEX 2
Api2endix 3
Page 2
Turkey in agricultural research has to be enhanced by giving economic research
its deserved place. Therefore, the AERI is recommended to be established in the
MARA. Its general characteristics and requirements will be elaborated upon in
this Annex.   This exercise aims at establishing a center of excellence in
agricultural economics research, with high quality staff and adequate resources.
Obiectives of the AERI
6.      The objective of economic research in the AERI is to develop options from
which policy makers can choose and to present the potential consequences of these
options in terms of their effects, benefits and costs.
7.      The role of such economic research for policy analysis is not, as is
sometimes erroneously understood, to make or decide policy; this is the
responsibility of political decision makers. In the final analysis, it has to
be recognized that policy decisions are political decisions, and in a democratic
environment they involve the assessment of options with respect to technical,
social, economic and political considerations and tradeoffs by decision makers
primarily in the MARA and in the legislative and executive branches of the
Government.
S.      A second objective is to provide guidance to and collaborate with
agricultural economists and other scientists and researchers in the commodity and
regional agricultural research institutes with methods, training seminars and
similar activities. This collaboration should enhance the economic content of
agricultural research in the broad sense.
9.      AERI's Status in the MARA Organization.   It is recommended that AERI
report directly to the Undersecretary and Deputy Undersecretary MARA through APK.
Its mandate should allow the AERI to be closely and directly associated with the
policy making echelons and also permit it to collaborate with the line
organizations (other General Directorates, other research institutes, etc).
10.     It is recommended that the Government of Turkey expedite processing,
publication and implementation of the necessary legal and administrative texts
(decrees, by-laws, regulations, etc.) fcr the establishment of AERI, its staffing
and funding according to the general principles discussed above and the other
details elaborated upon below.
Functions and Responsibilities of the AERI
11.     The principal focus of the AERI would be economic developments (both
macroeconomic and microeconomic) that affect the agricultural sector.   These
would pertain to developments both in the domestic and the international economy.
More specifically, some of the broad areas of research (with no claim of being
exhaustive) can be:



- 59 -
ANNEX 2
Anpendix 3
Page 3
(a) changes in macroeconomic prices (wages, interest rates and foreign
exchange rates), absolute and relative prices, internal terms of
trade, costs of production;
(b) changes in incentive and support policies and their implications for
fiscal burden, risk management for food security, economic
efficiency and the promotion of the private sector in agriculture;
(c) economic developments in international markets and trade such as in
the EC and the Gulf, which are critical export markets, developments
in commodity prices in international markets, broad issues of
comparative advantage (development and review of coefficients of
comparative advantage such as NPC, EPC, DRC, etc), multilateral and
bilateral  trade  issues,  GATT  negotiations  or.  agriculture,
developments in competing producer countries, etc.;
(d) rural finance and agricultural credit policies;
(c) human resources issues such as rural employment, training and
education, women in agriculture and rural areas;
(d) agricultural investment priorities for the public and the private
sector;
(e) agricultural marketing; and,
(f) other socioeconomic aspects of agricultural development issues.
12.     As part of the collaborative activities with the agricultural economists
and other scientists and researchers in the commodity and regional agricultural
research institutes, the AERI would focus on research methods, cooperation in
specific projects, organizing training and occasional seminars with a view
towards imparting a socio-economic dimension to commodity, regional and farming
systems research. The AERI should be represented and actively participate in the
design and planning of the commodity, subject matter or regional agricultural
research projects and provide guidance and trainingv in analytical methods to
the agricultural economists in the research institutes.
13.     The AERI would approach assessment of economic issues analytically, using
such tools as economic models, econometric techniques and reviews of the
literature.  Howe-or, these analytical methods should only be the tools that
serve the objective of the AERI in assessing policy options in the face of actual
or anti$ipated developments. In other words, these analytical tools are only the
means and not the ends.
/ Some of these training activ,ities can be organized in collaboration with
universities and other training organizations.



-60 -                           ANNEX 2
Appendix 3
Page 4
14.     The research priorities of the AERI should be determined within the
context of an agricultural strategy adopted by policy makers and documented in
such official publications as the Five Year Development Plans and Anneal
Programs. The High Council for Research and Development could be another forum
in which the AERI's research priorities could be assessed. The identification of
priorities should be based on explicit criteria such as "actual and/or potential
contribution to agricultural GDP," "contribution to employment," "contribution
to exports," etc. The AERI should be allowed to concentrate on the business of
research and not be distracted by routine and daily responsi ilities of a
temporary or transient nature.
15.     The research agenda should be developed through a consultative process
involving other MARA authorities and researchers, university staff, private
sector representatives, and staff of other Government authorities. This process
should formally be institutionalized and the consultative process should be
resorted to periodically. The High Council for Research and Development would
be an ideal medium for this purpose.
16.     Publications and Revorts.   Research results should be presented as
serialized research reports. For each research report, an executive summary which
will provide a brief, non-technical synthesis of the conclusions and policy
implications and recommendations should be prepared and submitted through the
proper channels to higher authorities and policy makers. A brief annual report
summarizing activities, achievements, progress and future plans should be
prepared as a background for the annual budgeting exercise; however, this report
should be concise and not be an over-riding concern and a time consuming
exercise.
17.     The AERI staff should be encouraged to publish in Turkish and foreign
journals and to participate in national and international fora to disseminate
research findings. Such activities should be taken into consideration in the
performance evaluation of the research staff. The possibility of a journal open
to all researchers (foreign and Turkish, official, academic or otherwise) can
also be considered in the long run. The editorial board for such a journal should
reflect wide representation from the Government, the universities and the private
sector. All AERI publications (journal, periodic and other research reports)
should be subject to a scientific and, editorial review process by experts within
and outside the MARA and the rules for such a review process should be
established and explicitly documented. The AERI should also organize periodic
or occasional conferences, seminars or workshops and collaborate with other
national or international public or private organizations for this purpose.
18.     The AERI should have a well focused and modest documentation center, a
library containing up to date publications and with subscriptions to national and
international journals related to agricultural economics.
19.     A research program, particularly in a new institute like the AERI, will
take time to develop and stabilize. Hence, results should not be expected in the
immediate future. A well planned medium-term research program should be put in
place and results should flow from this program as scheduled assuming adequate
resources are provided.



61 -                          ANNEX 2
Appendix 3
Page 5
20.     Within this framework, the AERI is to function as the principal authority
on economic matters related to agriculture and provide the Minister, the
Undersecretary, the Deputy Undersecretaries and other MARA authorities with
advice and information on economic issues pertaining to agriculture. By the same
token, the process of seeking advice should become part of the bureaucratic
culture in order to use the services of the AERI efficiently.  This culture and
custom can be induced by assuring continuity in the research activities of the
AERI and by giving it a satisfactory and respectable status (see para. 9 above).
Conversely, the AERI and its staff should aim to achieve and maintain research
of high quality to deserve and sustain such interest, support and status.
21.     The AERI should also, when authorized, represent the MARA on economic
matters in fora outside the MARA. This authority should be based on information
generated through its research activities. Such research activities should be
the only responsibility of the AERI; in other words, the AERI should not be
burdened with the activities of the executive branch that will disrupt the
primary focus on research.
Staffing and Operational Modes
22.     The Research Director.  The AERI should be under the direction of a
highly qualified research director, who has extensive experience in agricultural
economics and related research issues, research methods and research management
techniques.   The research director's qualific-tions should be a Ph.D.  in
economics or agricultural economics, fluency in English or French and experience
in research on economic issues in agriculture, credibly demonstrated through
publications and participation in research projects. In addition the research
director should have either demonstrated research management experience or should
be required to take a three to six month research management training program
involving courses and observation in other research centers of a similar nature.
The research director should guide and freely participate in individual research
projects just like any other principal researcher (see below). A thorough job
description should be developed for this position to ensure that the best
candidate is appointed. Research requires stability and continuity in research
management. Therefore, security of tenure for the research director should be
assured for a minimum period of five years.
23.     PrinciDal Researchers.  Given the limited public resources, the highest
research echelon in the AERI should eventually comprise of principal researchers
of around 10 economists or agricultural economists maximum (of which, 4 or 5
would be employed during the project period).  These should have or develop
expertise in different aspects of macro- and micro-economics such as public
finance, international trade, commodity markets, agricultural marketing and
agroincfustry, etc. The qualifications for these positions should be a Ph.D. in
economics or agricultural economics, fluency in English or French and research
experience and interest.   Principal researchers should not be involved in
administrative matters on a routine basis. Thorough job drscriptions should be
prepared for each position to assure that the best possible candidates are
appointed. Research requires time and commitment. Therefore, security of tenure
for the principal researchers should be assured for a minimum of five years,



- 62 -
ANNEX 2
Appendix 3
Page 6
unless the researchers are eeconded from other organizations for a shorter
period.
24.     In order to be able to recruit highly qualified staff to the research
director and principal researcher positions, the option of contractual staff
positions should be explored, developed and exploited.
25.     Researchers.  The principal researcher echelon should be supported with
a layer of researchers with Ph.D., Master's or Bachelor's degrees in economics,
agricultural economics, agriculture or other disciplines such as sociology, rural
sociology or anthropology. These staff should be appointed in a probationary
manner for a given period (e.g., 1-2 years) and upon satisfactory performance be
incorporated into the AERI. 'Researchers successfully completing the probationary
period should be supported for graduate training in economics or agricultural
economics (including language training) and, provided they conform to the
qualifications, be promoted to the upper echelon. The positions at this layer
can also be filled temporarily and for specific tasks with staff from other parts
of the MARA or from outside the MARA (universities, other Government services
such as the SPO, SIS, etc.), to facilitate dialogue with authorities outside the
AERI or the MAFRA. In general, the ratio between this echelon and the higher one
should be around 3:1.
26.     In order to minimize the burden of routine administrative matters on the
research director, a small Administrative and Financial Matters Unit should be
formed and placed under the direct supervision of the research director.
27.     SuOport Staff.  In addition, the AERI should have professional support
staff of secretaries and typists (some proficient in Turkish and others
bilingual), one statistician/econometrician, one computer technician responsible
for maintenance1l and trouble shooting and English and Turkish language
editors/translators. Other staff will be building maintenance staff, drivers,
etc. The critical secretarial and typist staffing should aim at a ratio of 3:1
for the two researcher levels and the director should have an executive
secretary.
28.     Consultants.  The AERI should flexibly be allowed to employ the services
of consultants (individuals, public organizations such as universities or private
firms), nationally and internationally, for fixed-term assignments to perform
specific functions or activities that would not require permanent appointments.
The AERI should be allowed to enter into contractual arrangements and provide
consultancy fees and honoraria for such services. Some examples in thiB vein
could be systems analysts for matters related to computer program development,
statis,ticians for survey design, or specialists in specific issues who can
provide support in project development.
1/      Some of these services can be contracted to the private sector.



- 63 -                          ANNEX 2
Appendix 3
Page 7
29.     Research Proiect Organization.  The AERI activities should be organized
along research projects which pool the resources of principal researchers. In
other words, research should be organized around a matrix, with the projects on
one axis and research staff on the other, with the individual cells indicating
individual researcher time allocated to each project. Aided by a time management
system, staff time should be allocated and monitored among research projects.
Individual research projecto should have a project coordinator, a given lifetime
and objectives and assured resources controlled by the research coordinator. By
the same token, project coordinators and participants should be accountable for
product delivery. Performance of staff should be directly associated with the
quality and the timely delivery of the research results.
30.     Reviews.   For research projects, periodic reviews and routine peer
reviews and for the AERI well organized external reviews with a periodicity of
3-5 years should be the norm. Given the limited staffing of the AERI,
reviewers should be chosen from outside the AERI and the MAFRA and even from
foreign or international sources without reservation.
31.     Collaboration with External Researchers.  Given the limited staffing at
the AERI, research at the AERI should be encouraged to develop collaborative
projects with researchers at universities, NGOs, the private sector and other
public research organizations, such as the State Institute of Statistics or the
National Productivity Center.   Contracting out parts or whole of research
projects or hiring consultants from the universities or the private sector for
project activities should be encouraged.   The AERI  should also follow-up
pertinent research being conducted independently in other national and
international organizations, avoid duplication and review such research with the
purpose of distilling relevant information. Such information should be stored,
possibly through computerized processes, in a documentation center in the AERI.
32.     External Fundina.  The AERI, by itself or in collaboration with other
researchers from the universities, NGOs, the private sector or research
organizations, should have the authority and be encouraged to develop research
projects within its mandate and priorities and seek external funding from
national and international sources. The possibility of establishing a Revolving
Fund in the AERI should be explored. UJnless it fits into the established research
program, the AERI should not be allowed to do contractual research work as it may
affect its priorities and performance.
33.     The AERI should be authorized to act as the focal contact point on
matters pertaining to agricultural economics research and information for
collaboration and cooperation with international and national agencies such as
FAO, OECD, EC, USDA/ERS, IFPRI, CIMMYT/Economics, ICARDA/FRMP, etc. The AERI
should facilitate collaboration with foreign scientists involved in research of
pertinence to priority areas of agricultural research and these scientists should
be accommodated in the AERI facilities.
34.     Data Reauirements.  The AERI should not be responsible for collecting
routine data; this should be the responsibility of the State Institute of
Statistics. However, the AERI should have access to national and international
data banks, databases and statistical publications. It should only generate data



-64-                            ANNEX 2
ADDendix 3
Page 8
for specific research projects with well defined objectives (i.e., where data
generation is not the objective).
35.     It  is  recommended  that  the  MARA:  (a)  take  necessary  legal  and
administrative steps to formalize the personnel structure described above,
particularly the measures necessary to institutionalize the process of recruiting
personnel based on clear and explicit job descriptions; (b) prepare proto-type
job description forms; and (c) prepare specific job descriptions for the research
director position and some of the basic principal researcher positions.
36.     It is also recommended that the MARA compile a roster of (a) the existing
agricultural economists in the Ministry working as agricultural economists"/ and
(b) those agricultural economists with research experience, interest and
potential.    This  roster  should  include  information  on  the  individuals'
backgrounds, training, experience and employment record.
Resource requirements
37.     Yenimahalle Facilities. The AERI has been proposed to be established at
the Yenimahalle facilities of the MARA. This facility is quite old (built before
the 1950s, possibly in the 1930s) and the infrastructure is not geared to the
requirements of a modern institute. Resources will be needed to renovate and
refurbish the Yenimaaballe facilities to fit the requirements of the AERI.
Specifically, office space organization, power, sanitary and heating
infrastructure have to be reviewed, redesigned and reconstructed.   It is
recommended that modest resources (possibly pre-project) be allocated to contract
consultants to assess from an engineering and architectural point the optior of
renovating the Yenimahalle facilities with other options whi-h may include a new
building, other existing buildings and temporary quarters.
38.     Comouter Hardware and Software.   An adequate number of computers,
comparable to 386 characteristics, VGA monitors, laptop computers to be used in
the field, with high quality dot matrix and/or laser printers) to be used for
word processing, information management and analytical work should be supplied
and organized, preferably with local area networks (LAN) and communication
capabilities and backed up with uninterrupted power supply (UPS) facilities.
Other interventions may be necessary to assure dust-free and/or controlled
temperature/humidity environments. After sales service should be incorporated
into the purchase contracts.   Software for word processing in Turkish and
English, communication, spreadsheets, database management and analytical work
(TSP, SPSS, etc.) should be provided. Software training for staff should also be
arranged.    It  is recommehded that these goods  and services be procured
competitively from reputable suppliers who have satisfactorily been used in other
World Bank projects in Turkey.
v  Some agricultural economists are employed at the MARA as experts in other
disciplines.



- 65 -
ANNEX 2
Aloendix 3
Page 9
39.     Vehicles.   Transportation for researchers would involve the standard
vehicle allocations for staff and a minibus for the transportation of personnel
and trainees. In addition, 2-4 all-terrain vehicles may be necessary for field
research.
40.     Trainina will be a critical component demanding resources in the initial
years of the AERI and will be a routine component in the future. Training should
involve: (a) short-term training (e.g., analytical methods); (b) language
training (fluency to be established by accepted tests and standards); (c)
graduate training (M.A., M.Sc. and Ph.D. programs); and (d) technical training
(e.g., computers).   Adequate resources must be allocated for these training
activities. Non-degree training can take place in-country or abroad.
41.     The selection of the candidates for the training positions, particularly
those for graduate training abroad, including in-country language training for
this purpose, should be done through a rigorous, independent and objective
testing process focusing strictly on capabilities:
(a) candidates from the MAR.A, other parts of the Government and from
outside the Government should be allowed to freely apply for
graduate training positions in the AERI, including language training
towards graduate training.   The availability of such training
positions should be advertised in national newspapers of wide
circulation and in professional publications and should be announced
at the departments of economics and agricultural economics or other
departments in the universities;
(b) selection of candidates should be based strictly on capabilities and
those capabilities should be objectively assessed in a competitive
written examination on both language and scientific capabilities,
and the said examination should be prepared, administered and
assessed by an independent body from the universities (e.g.,
nominated by the Higher Educatio. Council); and,
(c) successful candidates should be required to provide the necessary
legal forms guaranteeing Government service for double the period
spent in graduate training abroad, and a minimum of half this
compulsory period should be dedicated to service in the AERI.
42.     Recurrent Expenditures. O&M and Investments.  Adequate resources should
be allocated for the AERI for uurrent expenditures (salaries, travel, fuel,
etc.), O&M of equipment and buildings and future investmerts from the budget of
the MARA to assure the stable operation of the AERI. As stated above, the AERI,
as a semi-autonomous institute, should be allowed to independently seek external
funding and to charge overhead costs that it can directly use for the AERI
expenditures of a general nature.
The AERI component in Aaricultural Research Proiect



- 66 -
ANNEX 2
Appendix 3
Page 10
43.     The following line items (in thousand US dollars) are proposed for the
AERI in ARP. The allocations between Turkish Lira and foreign exchange components
and phasing are to be determined subsequently. Table 102 presents the detailed
cost table for the items listed below. While the ideal complement of principal
researchers, researchers and support staff are outlined in parae. 23-27, it is
recognized that it will be some time befoxe a highly competent staff is recruited
and therefore, the project will initially support a professional staff of 18 and
technical/administrative staff of 12 for the duration of the project.
The AERI component In ARP
Item
Cost
(US$'000)
Computer equipment (6 PCs and 8 laptops, 386 equivalent
or higher, VGA monitors, associated dot matrix and/or
laser printers) including UPS, LAN, etc. and software            88
Office equipment (2 copiers, facsimile machine, phones,
telex, etc.                                                      75
Degree training abroad (app. 3 Ph.b., 3 N.Sc. or M.A.)          525
Language, short-term and technical training (non-degree)        697
Vehicles (app. 2 sedans, 2 4wd twin cap pickup & 1 minibus)  222
Cunsultancies and honoraria                                     700
Books and Journals                                               48
Total Base Costs                                              2.355



AGRICU TURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Table 102. Agriculttirat Economics Research Institute - Ankara
Institutional Strengthening
Detailed Cost Table
USSOOC
Quantity                      Unit Cost                             Base Costs
:55==:=5====5-    "    ".~~~=======   a====    _== ==              =g =3 =_ __ =_^n_=
Unit  192  1993 1994 1995  1996 1997 1998 total    1992-98         1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998  Totat
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
................
A. Vehicles
4wd Twin C. Pickup     no.      0    2    0    0    0    0    0    2            17.50       0.0   35.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   35.0
Sedan                  no.      0    2    0    0    0    0    0    2            15.60       0.0   31.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   31.2
12-14 Passenger Minibus no.     0    0    0    0    1    0    0    1            33.00       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   33.0    0.0    0.0   33.0
Sub-Total                                                                                    0.0   66.2    0.0    0.0   33.0    0.0    0.0   99.2
S. Consultants & Honoraria  value         -          -    -    -    -    -              -        0.0  120.0  125.0  125.0  120.0  105.0  105.0  700.0
C. Office Eq. B Furnishings set      5    5    5    5    5    5    0   30             2.50      12.5   12.5   12.5   12.5   12.5   12.5    0.0   75.0
D. Library & Info. Services
Desk Top Computers     no.      0    2    2    2    2    2    1   11             8.00       0.0   16.0   16.0   16.0   16.0   16.0    8.0   88.0
Books & Journals       value   -    .    -    -    -             -     -           -        0.0    8.0    8.0    8.0    8.0    8.0    8.0   48.0
Sub-Total                                                                                    0.0   24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0   16.0  136.0
E. Training
Foreign PhD            year     0    0    1    2    2    1    0    6            35.00       0.0    0.0   35.0   70.0  .70.0   35.0    0.0  210.0
Foreign MS             no.      0    2    2    2    0    0    0    6            35.00       0.0   70.0   70.0   70.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  210.0
Short Term Foreign     month    0   20   20   20   10   10   10   90             5.50       0.0  110.0  110.0  110.0   55.0   55.0   55.0  495.0
Short Term Local       month    0    6    7    7    7    7    6   40             0.30       0.0    1.8    2.1    2.1    2.1    2.1    1.8   12.0
Language Training      no.      0    3    3    2    2    0    0   10             2.50       0.0    7.5    7.5    5.0    5.0    0.0    0.0   25.0            1
,,,,,, :...... . ....... ....... ....... ....... . ...... .......
Sub-Total                                                                                    0 0  189.3  224.6  257.1  132.1   92.1   56.8  952.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                             12.5  412.0  386.1  418.6  321.6  233.6  177.8  1962.2
I1. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Incremental Oper. Costs
4ud Twin C. Pickup     no.      0    2    2    2    2    2    2   12             3.50       0.0    7.0    7.0    7.0    7.0    7.0    7.0   42.0
Sedan                  no.      0    2    2    2    2    2    2   12             3.12       0.0    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2   37.4
12-14 Passenger Minibus no.     0    0    0    0    1    1    1    3             6.60       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    6.6    6.6    6.6   19.8
Sub-Total                                                                                    0.0   13.2   13.2   13.2   19.8   19.8   19.8   99.2
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                               0.0   13.2   13.2   13.2   19.8   19.8   19.6   99.2
Total                                                                                           12.5  425.2  399.3  431.8  341.4  253.4  197.6 2061.4
2/24/1992 11:12
I la
N 3
fDI X>
'1?



- 68 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FARMING SYSTEMS RESEARCH COMPONENT
A. Background
1.      There is a clear need to involve farmers in the process of determining
the factors which limit productivity and farm income and to then tailor research
to overcome these constraints.   It is a common observation that crop yields
obtained at research stations are often higher than those obtained by farmers in
the same agroecological area.  It suggests that, too often, not all factors
related to farming operations have been taken into account.   It needs to be
recognized that considering the farm as a whole is more than a collection of
crops and animals of which can be applied a specific input and expect an
automatic improvement.   Most farms are a complex of plants, animals,  soil
conditions, labor, equipment and agroecological variations which the farmer needs
to coordinate with inputs and technology to provide optimum net income.   In
Turkey, the predominant system is mixed farming and accounts for 86% of all
farming operations.
2.      The  approach  of  evaluating  with  farmers  all  aspects  of  farming
operations, including social, economic, marketing parameters and then conducting
research to meet perceived needs is called "farming systems research".  Such
evaluations call upon various professional disciplines to focus on the
complexities and interrelationships between crops, animals, soils, labor, farm
equipment, inputs, climate, credit, marketing and pricing policies which impinge
upon farmers decisions on the mix of what to farm.
3.      A farming systems research (FRS) approach involves a muti-disciplinary
team of crop, livestock, economic and rural sociology professionals who jointly
attempt to comprehend the problem and needs of the farmer. Through focusing on
the priority problems and requirements of the farmers, FSR attempts to improve
the effectiveness of the research carried out to develop pertinent improved
technology. The relevance of the improved technology recommended is improved
because FSR takes into account the interactions between technologies and the
existing  environmental  and  social  conditions.    Furthermore,  the  active
participation of researchers, extensionists and farmers in the FSR process
strengthens the linkages between these entities. The results can lead to the
enactment of government policies to aid in overcoming farmers problems.
B. Farming Systems Research Program
4.      At present Turkey has no farming systems research program.  A research
program involving FSR would need to consider several parameters in comprehending
existing farming conditions of a specific area and how best to improve those
conditions. These would include:



- 69 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
(a) evaluating existing farming systems as to physical and socio-
economic conditions to better assess the farmers of different
land holdings as to practice and performance, skills and
motivations. These would entail farming systems representative
of the major agroecological regions of Turkey;
(b) evaluating the land, water and climatic resources and socio-
economic environment within which the representative farming
systems operate. A resource base would accrue which includes land
suitability. Socio-economic data would be obtained on population
density, distribution of land between agricultural households,
income levels, markets of inputs on distribution of produce, food
consumption patterns, infrastructure conditions, land tenure,
community holdings, grazing rights and other pertinent cultural
characteristics;
(c) identifying problems which limit or affect stability of production
and farm income based on the data obtained from (a) and (b) to more
effectively direct research activities to alleviate the constraints
identified;
(d) strengthening Turkish research entities to conduct research on
identified priority farming systems problems to generate improved
system of production;
(e) conducting research within an FSR framework on new or improved
practices, system or subsystems components;
(f) farm evaluation of new or improved practices or system or
subsystem components in the major production areas to assess
farmers reactions to the new technology; and
(g) assessing the benefits of improved technology systems on farms where
baseline data has been obtained as described in (a) and (b) to
determine the impact of technology especially on small farm
holdings. Such impact studies may be the basis for further research
or for action by government decision makers.
5.      The above mentioned parameters for effective FSR require three areas of
studies which include the collection of all data necessary to evaluate the
regional ervironment. It will require land resource mapping and evaluation. The
socio-economic data would include information on population, size of land
holdings and its distribution, land leasing practices and other rural household
practices, farming systems practiced, production and income levels and other
aspects of the existing farming systems.
6.      The purpose of baseline studies is to assese as thoroughly as possible
the land and water resources of a region and the variations in soil and weather
conditions which influence farm production as well as to determine the key socio-
economic indicators which affect the way in which resources are used.   The
gathering of such data would result in a series of maps showing agroclimatic
zones, land/soil units and land use.   Such information can then be used to
identify potential sites for detailed study and subsequent impact evaluations of
new systems approaches.



- 70 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
C. Farming Systems Research Component
7.      The project would provide for the establishment of farming systems
research teams to explore all aspects of farming operations under existing
regional conditions.   It would involve close working relationships between
researchers, farmers and extension personnel to conduct in-depth studies of the
interactions of cropping and livestock patterns, socio-economic conditions,
soils, water, climate, inputs, marketing and pricing of farm produce by farmers
with different land holdings. The information obtained would be the basis for
designing research to overcome perceived major constraints to increased farmers
income.
The collection of the information described above will require the
coordinated effort of several entities of the Ministry of Agriculture.   For
overall coordination, the General Dir ctorate of Agricultural Research (GDAR)
would be responsible. For assessing the socio-economic conditions of various
farmers and their crop and livestock practices, the regional agricultural
research institutes would be involved. For the collection of the land, soil,
water and climatic data, the regional soil and water research institutes as well
as the Soil and Fertilizer Research Institute in Ankara would be involved. As
to crop and livestock pests, diseases and control practices, the plant protection
and animal disease research institutes would be involved.
9.      Research Station Studies would focus on the major constraints uncovered
through baseline studies on the existing farming systems in a particular region.
it might involve the generation of an improved technology package, design
components for new systems or modifying an existing technology.   Specific
research institutes mentioned for the baseline studies would be actively involved
as agreed to and based on the specific field and regLon requiring research.
10.     On Farm Studies would include evaluation of technology developed at the
research station for verification under farmer conditions.   In addition to
studies on the rate of adoption of new technology or systems in a specific
region, it would also involve monitoring the changes in the farming systems and
the assessment of the impact of the change on farmers income and socio-economic
conditions.
11.     It should be noted that some researchers and institutes in Turkey have
a close working relationship with farmers in their region and often are aware of
many aspects of the farmers conditions.   However, it is not often that all
parameters are taken into consideration, particularly where various components
important for overall consideration (crops, soils, water management, disease and
pest control, etc.) are determined by different research institutes. It would
clearly not be a problem if regional research institutes included all the
disciplines required to study the crops and livestock conditions important to a
given region. Until such regional research institutes come into existence, it
will require a closer coordination between institutes than has been the case in
the past.
12.     FSR Teams.  Since the concept of FSR as described above is new to Turkey,
it would begin with the establishment of FSR teams on a pilot basis at four
regional research institutes. These would include:



-71-                         ANNEX 3
page 4
(a) Eastern Anatolia Regional Agricultural Research Institute at
Erzurum;
(b) Southeastern Anatolia Regional Agricultural Research institute at
Diyatbakir;
(c) Sanliurfa Rural Services Research Institute; and
(d) Transitional Zone Regional Agricultural Research Institute at
Eskisehir.
The regional research institutes at Erzurum and Diyarbakir were selected in light
of emphasis in the project to strengthen research in the less developed eastern
and southeastern regions of Turkey.   The Regional Soil and Water Research
Institute at Sanliurfa was selected because of its location in a region where
substantial new irrigated land will become available due to the construction of
irrigation works and the Ataturk dam nearby. The Research Institute at Eskisehir
was selected as a basis for comparison as it is a more developed region of
Turkey.
13.     FSR Coordinator.   The FSR activities would be coordinated by an  3SR
Coordinator  (FSRC)  located at the GDAR in Ankara.   The FSRC would assure
uniformity of methodology in collection and assessment of data collected and
evaluated by the FSR teams at the regional research institutes. The FSRC would
also arrange periodic meetings of all the FSR teams on a rotational basis from
one regional research institute to another. At least two such meetings would be
held each year. The FSRC would also be responsible for seeing that input data
is stored not only at each regional research institute but also in a central
computer in GDAR.
14.     Training and Technical Assistance.  The concept of FSR is relatively new
to Turkey.   Furthermore, there are no rural sociologists in MARA's research
entities and few agricultural economists.   Thus, both long and short term
training will be required as well as technical assistance to assure it is
initiated properly.   Table 1 presents the estimated staffing, training and
technical assistance requirements during the seven years of the project for
establishing farming systems research. Some transport, furniture and computers
are also included.
15. Costs. Estimated project costs for farming sybtems research over the seven
years of the project is estimated at US$ 1.8 million, of which USS 1.6 million
is for investments an USS 0.2 million is for recurrent costs. Cost estimates are
shown in Table 2.



TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Table 301. Farming Systems Research
Erzurum. Diyarbakir, Sanliurfa, Eskisehir Research Insts.
Detailed Cost Table
US$=O0
Quantity                     Unit Cost                            Base Costs
Unit  1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 Total    1992-98         1992   1993   194   1995   1996   1997   1998  Total
1. *NVESTNENT COSTS
.. ..............
A. Vehicles
Sedans                no.      0    0    3    0    0    0    0    3          15.60       0.0    0.0    6.8    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    6.8
4ud Twin C. Pickup    no.      0    0    3    0    0    0    0    3          17.50       0.0    0.0   52.5    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   52.5
Sub-Total                                                                                 0.0    0.0   9-.3    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   99.3
B. Office Furiture A Eqip. set      0    2    2    4    2   10    4   24          2.50       0.0    5.0    5.0   10.0    5.0   2S.0   10.0   60.0
C. Library A Info. Services
Lap Top Couters       no.      0    0    0    0    8    8    0   16           4.50       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   36.0   36.0    0.0   72.0
0. Training
Foreign PhD           year     0    2    2    2    0    0    0    6          35.00       0.0   70.0   70.0   70.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  210.0
Foreign NS            year     0    3    3    3    0    0    0    9          35.00       0.0  105.0  105.0  105.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  315.0
Short Term Foreign    month    0    0    4    8    8    8    8   36           5.50       0.0    0.0   22.0   44.0   44.0   44.0   44.0  198.0
Language              no.      0    3    5    2    0    0    0   10           2.50       0.0    7.5   12.5    5.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   25.0
Sub-Total                                                                                 0.0  182.5  209.5  224.0   44.0   44.0   44.0  748.0
E. Foreign Ceosultants
Short Term            month    4    4    '4    4    4    2    0   22         18.50      74.0   74.0   74.0   74.0   74.0   37.0    0.0  407.0
Total IEESTJIET COSTS                                                                          74.0  261.5  387.8  308.0  159.0  142.0   54.0 1386.3
11. REOJRRENT COSTS
...............
A. Inc. Operating Costs
Sedans                no.      0    0    3    3    3    3    3   15           3.12       0.0    0.0    9.4    9.4    9.4    9.4    9.4   46.8
4id Twin C. Pickup    no.      0    0    3    3    3    3    3   15           3.50       0.0    0.0   10.S   10.5   10.5   10.5   10.5   52.5
Sub-Total                                                                                 0.0    0.0   19.9   19.9   19.9   19.9   19.9   99.3
Totat RECURRENT COSTS                                                                           0.0    0.0   19.9   19.9   19.9   19.9   19.9   99.3
Total                                                                                       74.0  261.5  407.7  327.9  178.9  161.9   73.9 1485.6
2/24/1992 11:16



- 73 -
CHART 1
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
tnnlerentation Schedule
Year  :1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998
Quarter            Ouarter  :1234  1234  1234  1234  1234  1234  1234
CIVIL WORKS
Site Acquisition           X:
Contract Documents          : XX  XX
Construction                       XXXX  XXXX  XXXX  X
VEHICLES
Procurement                        XXXX  XXXX  XXXX  XXXX  XXXX  XXXX
EQUIPMENT
Procurement                        XXXX  XXXX  XXXX  XXXX  XXXX  XXXX
PERSONNEL
a. Professional             : XXX  XXXX  XXXX  XXXX  XXXX
b. Technical/Adminstrative  : XXX  XXXX  XXXX  XXXX  XXXX
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING :
Establish GDAR              : XX  XXXX
Establish AERI              : XX  XXXX
Prepare Master Research Plan:            X     X     X     X      X
TRAINING
Language Training           :XXXX  XXXX  XXXX  XXXX
External PH.Ds & MS.        :  X  XXXX XXXX  XXXX  XXXX   XXXX  XXXX
Short Term-External         :       XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
a. Master Research Planning : XX  XXXX
b. Monitoring, Evaluation   : XX  XXXX
c. Management Info. System  : XX  XXXX
d. Economists for AERI      : XX  XXXX XXXX  XXXX
e. Research specialties     : XX  XXXX  XXXX XXXX XXXX  XXXX  XXXX
f. Contract Research Grants :             X     X     X      X     X
REPORTING
a. Semi-annual progress     :  X   X      X X   X X    X X   X X   X X
b. Audit Reports            :       X     X      X     X     X     X
c. Mid-term Review                        X



MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND RURAL AFFAIRS GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF
AGRICULTL RESARCH
GENERAL DIRECTOR
DEPUTY GENEMRL
DIRECTORS  (2)
BREEDING AND         PLANT                 ANIMAL              FOOD AND             COORDINAION
IMI'ROVtEMENT        PROTECTION            HEALrH              FEED                 AND          I
RESF-ARCH            RESEARCH             RESEARCH            EVALUATION
DMSION               DIVISION             DMSION               DIVISION            DIVISION
Platit              _Inses               Infectious            Plant Origina-      Coordination
-Diseases             ted Food    1        Division 
_ Rescarch        _  Research            Research             Research              Section
SecLion              Section             Section     _qctlon
Livestock            Plant               Parasite Born I      Animal Origina -     Evaluation   I
R_ sach          _  Diseases          _ Diseases              ted Food            Division
tRscarch             K Research          Researcih            Recearch            lSection
Secti in            Section              Section              Smction              _
[FisbIrlers    l   { Chemicals           Metabolic            Feed                 Archives and
1 Research           an D1s                                   ReserhI1=.1          Documentatlo
Rescar,(Ai      Equipment           Reseairch           Research              Decuiontio 
gection        ~Pewearch           SectionSetoScin
Administration and
Financial Matters.
Section



IBRD 23282R
, BULGARIA               X                      8lACK                                                                        SEA                                               SNO* sFORMER
'~oftbo,eod~~                        MEDITERRANEAN                            SEA                                               \                                              cEYS REEEAR~ NST ~d1TS          ~               PR B KSA  S OVIET
/ GSlOkO0J 1 9NOF ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UNION
~~ Th. doe,~~~~noiio.~~~                                                                                                                                       AN MM RESEARC'~~~~~ I%S"UTES ~KAS' ONNA   A'A
|    Q   )>   >  t  ,@4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6'ONGU.                                                                                                                                   k                                                   - 03 RC07) 
; 2+ t 4 jt d~~~~C                                                 P R S                                                                                                                     -    I T R NA Q  N   O A A   0
po  fT. Wod BoI &o,p                                    ______________                                                                                                                     FORICSLURESEARCH PROIJTES           ~CT  OARE
Mufn                                          Bo
rhismophoso"epnTporodby   /                                                                     S                                     I!  AREASOFPRO,E-TRESEARCHEI%PHASS              O    SEiECtEDTowXs^DVilA5ES~~~~~UINrANREP. O
wchbo.o,ddonKoN. Ylsv                                                                                                                                                                         30?* 
toMKoeveninISoflhomoden  MEDITERRANEANRSE A         m/z                    nVASCROpSRESEARR   19N92T IRAN
,aodoedthoboesedorios51   ,,5 o   o    10          150                     1                                                                             kS  SO''ANOWATERYESEARC, NSF'dt,KIRSRRCAD
porf ot Tbo Wotid tioek GQTD,                   J                                                                                    te  FORES 'RV RESEARCH NST TOTES                    wOV"NCE EOU \ DAR " S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXAROAIR  R
otanysdtoryoroey   4TS  O   30      100     1S      m       s           <                J                                 \                                                                                      INTERNA'KOWA  AO4N  0 E ADARE
ondorlem nto!Xot>roeceol             '               Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
ch~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MD bouMoo% 3p.A R 3                                          
AEGEAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C M99



