RESTRICTED
Report No. P-548
FIE, COY
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE TELECOMUNICACIONES
COLOMBIA
May 24, 1967



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE TELECOIMUICACIONES (TELECOM)
COLOMBIA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$16 million to
Empresa Nacional de Telecomunicaciones (TELECOM).
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        After several years of discussions with the Bank commencing in
1963 and a number of appraisals, negotiations took place in June 1966 with
the Government of Colombia and TELECOM for a Bank loan of US$23 million
equivalent. At that time, it was agreed that presentation of the loan
documentation for approval of the Bank's Executive Directors would be post-
poned until TELECOM had obtained authorization for and made effective
certain tariff increases. The implementation of the new tariffs, together
with a reduction of the external financing required and other changes in
the expansion program originally proposed, made it necessary for TELECOM
to revise and update its financial forecasts. This work was completed in
January 1967. A final appraisal mission visited Colombia in February.
3.        Renewed negotiations on the proposed loan took place in Washington
on May 8 - 10, 1967. TEIECOM was represented by the Director-General,
Dr. Francisco Lozano Valcarcel; the Government was represented by
Dr. Jose Camacho.
4.        The proposed Bank loan for the revised program would be US$16 mil-
lion. This would bring the Bank's total lending to Colombia to US$h46 mil-
lion, in addition to an IDA credit of US$19.5 million made in 1961. The
status of previous Bank loans and the single IDA credit, as of April 30,
1967, is summarized below:
Loan                                         Amt.  Credit (US$ Million)
Year   No.  Borrower              Purpose     Bank  IDA    No.   Undisbursed
1949-60     Loans fully disbursed            178.6
1961   295 Republic of Colombia   Roads       19.5
1961        Republic of Colombia  Roads             19.5   5       8.7
1961   282  Emp. de Medellin      Power      22.0                  0.5
1962   313 Emp. Electrica de
Bogota             Power      50.0                  1.6
1963   339  CVC and CHIDRAL       Power        8.8
1963   347 Electribol             Power        5.0                  .5
1963   343 Ferrocarriles
Nacionales         Railways   30.0                  2.3
1963   345  Paz del Rio           Steel       30.0                12.6



-2-
Loan                                       Amt.   Credit (US$ Million)
Year    No.  Borrower              Purpose   Bank  IDA    No.   Undisbursed
196L   369   Emp. de Medellin     Power     45.0                    35.1
1966   451   Banco de la
Republica         Industry   25.0                   2L.6
1966   448   Rep. of Colombia     Agricul-
ture    16.7                   16.6
Total (less cancellations)                 430.6  19.5
of which has been repaid                   86.5
Total now outstanding                       344.1
Amount sold                      16.3
of which has been repaid       13.3        3.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA              3L1.1  19.5
Total undisbursed                           97.2    5.3            102.5
5.        Delays in disbursements have been experienced with Loan/Credit
295 Co/5 CO for highways which resulted in the Closing Date being twice
extended. The present Closing Date is June 30,1967. The delays have
largely been due to poor organization and to cumbersome legal and admin-
istrative procedures in the awarding and paying of contracts. The project
was also adversely affected by delays in the provision of adequate local
funds. However, in the past few months certain steps have been taken
which are resulting in an improved administration and execution of the
project. The Ministry of Public Works is undergoing reorganization and
new senior personnel have been appointed; management consultants are being
contracted to advise on organizational matters; a semi-autonomous National
Highway Fund has also been established which has made possible the re-
duction in administrative delays, and which assures availability of local
funds for highway construction and maintenance.
6.        It is expected that in the near future a proposed loan of
US$9 million to the Colombian Institute for Agrarian Reform for an irri-
gation project will be presented to the Executive Directors for approval.
7.        IFC has made 18 investments and underwriting commitments in
Colombia totalling US$15.3 million.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
8.        Borrower: Empresa Nacional de Telecomunicaciones (TELECOM).
Guarantor: Republic of Colombia.
Amount: The equivalent in various currencies of US$16 million.



Purpose: To finance most of the foreign exchange costs of the
1967-1970 program to expand and improve the tele-
phone, telex and telegraph facilities of TELECOM.
Amortization:  20 years, including 4 years of grace; 34 semi-
annual repayments beginning on April 15, 1971
and ending on October 15, 1987.
Interest Rate: 6 percent.
Commitment Charge: 3/8 of 1 percent.
PART III - THE PROJECT
9.        An Appraisal of the Project (No. TO 529b) is attached.
10.       There is an urgent need for the presently planned expansion of
telecommunication facilities in Colombia. Colombia's telephone density
of 2.4 telephones per 100 inhabitants may be compared with 5.9 for the
entire world and 30 to 48 for the most highly developed countries. The
existing national long-distance circuits are not sufficient to meet the
demand for service. Since an analysis of calls shows that nearly 50 per-
cent of the usage of long-distance telephone service is for the purposes
of commerce and industry, it may reasonably be expected that the attain-
ment of a satisfactory standard of service will be reflected in the in-
creasingly efficient operation of private and government organizations.
As for international service, it is estimated that the annual rate of
growth in telephone use will be 20 percent in 1969 (when additional high
frequency facilities come into operation), and 15 percent thereafter; and
that telegraph traffic will increase at least 10 percent annually.
11.       TELECOM is an autonomous government utility organized in 1947.
The Minister of Communications is Chairman of the Board and all members of
the Board are appointed by the President. The Director-General is the
Chief Executive of TELECOM and is responsible for the day-to-day operations.
With the assistance of its consultants, together with assistance of the
German Bundespost and UNDP, TELECOM is expected to carry out its program
satisfactorily.
12.       The project proposed for Bank financing would principally con-
sist of:
A. Principal Long-Distance Telephone Systems: (i) microwave
systems interconnecting principal cities; (ii) short coaxial
and voice frequency cable systems; (iii) recovery and rein-
stallation of existing VHF radio equipment; (iv) carrier
equipment; (v) toll switching equipment in 83 cities and
towns.



- 4 -
B.  Increase in the long-distance circuits between the large
capacity microwave system and the communities not served
by it.
C.  New urban facilities.
D.  Interconnection facilities, mainly automatic equipment.
E.  Expansion of international service through the addition
of five 30 kw high frequency radio transmitters and
accompanying equipment.
13.       The construction of facilities and installation of equipment is
expected to be completed by the first quarter of 1970. The total cost of
the 1967-1970 Bank-financed program is estimated at US$27.6 million equiva-
lent of which US$19.7 million would be in foreign exchange; US$16 million
would be covered by the proposed Bank loan and US$3.7 million by supplier
credits. Col.$128 million would be in local currency provided by the
borrower. In addition, TELECOM is carrying out some routine works and
works under outstanding contracts. They are considering the installation
of a satellite ground station for which financing from other sources will
be sought. Considering TELECOM's overall program during the next four
years, 55 percent would be financed from borrowing and 45 percent from
internal cash generation. During the negotiations, TELECOM agreed not
to incur any debt unless its net revenue was 1.7 times the maximum debt
service requirement.
1b.       All contracts proposed for Bank financing are to be awarded on
the basis of international competitive bidding. Because of the long delay
since the original negotiations commenced some financing of past expendi-
tures would be permitted but reimbursements would be limited to payments
made within three months of the date of loan approval.
15.       The financial results of TELECOM have not been satisfactory in
recent years. Substantial tariff adjustments were made in 1965 but their
effects were largely offset by increases in costs. However, an increase
in domestic long distance tariffs by about 25 percent became effective in
October 1966. In addition, international tariffs will be adjusted by
October 1967 to give TELECOM the benefit of the capital market exchange
rate of Col.$16.30 for 1US$. Therefore no further tariff adjustment is
expected to be required in the near future. An undertaking was obtained
during the negotiations that in the future, tariffs would be maintained
at a level such as to produce a return of 9 percent on revalued net fixed
assets in operation. On this basis TELECOM should be able to maintain a
sound financial position.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
16.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Empresa Nacional
de Telecomunicaciones and the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic
of Colombia and the Bank as well as the report of the Committee provided



for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Bank, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
17.       These draft Agreements conform to the general pattern of recent
agreements for Telecommunications projects.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
18.       An economic report entitled "Current Economic Position and
Prospects of Colombia" (WH-172a) is being circulated to the Executive
Directors separately.
19.       The report notes that since September 1965, and particularly
since the assumption of office by the new Government in August 1966,
economic policy improved appreciably. Persistent fiscal deficits were
changed to surpluses in 1966, and the rate of expansion of money supply
in 1966 was reduced considerably in comparison to that of the two previous
years. After a long period in which the Government had been slow to
adjust public utility tariffs, a more flexible policy in this respect was
adopted in 1966. In the coffee sector, where the Government had previously
been reluctant to reduce the domestic support price for coffee in line
with the declining international price, a more realistic price policy was
initiated in 1966. The new Government has given clear evidence of its
intention to continue these policies and also to establish the sector
policies required for the successful execution of the development program
and the realization of its econcmic benefits. Noteworthy in this respect
are the incentives for the production of basic foodstuffs already in
operation; the eight-fold increase in the gasoline tax, which will, in
addition to its fiscal impact, have the effect of permitting a more
rational distribution of traffic among different modes of transportation;
and the taking of the initial steps towards the interconnection of the
major power producers.
20.       The financial policies outlined above provide a basis for
improving the management of the balance of payments, and in addition the
Government has recently adopted measures of exchange rate and import
policy directed towards this objective. Colombia's most critical eco-
nomic problem has been and still is to reconcile her aspirations for
accelerated economic development with the existence of a structural dis-
equilibrium in the balance of payments, arising from a large dependence
upon coffee exports. In the past, with the international price of coffee
declining, export earnings could not finance the imports required to
sustain a satisfactory rate of growth. Difficulties in managing the bal-
ance of payments have been chronic because of a tendency to maintain
exchange rates that were overvalued in relation to the need to provide
incentives for non-coffee exports, for petroleum investment, and to
restrain the demand for imports. On March 22, 1967, the new Government has
undertaken a reorientation of its balance of payments policy by means of
Decree-Law 4I4. This Decree-Law created two principal exchange markets;
one of them, the certificate market, has a fluctuating exchange rate to be
determined by market forces with only limited intervention by the authorifties.



- 6 -
Although in the first weeks of operation of the new system, exchange
rate flexibility has been less than expected, a flexible exchange rate
policy is something new in Colombia, and if managed properly, would
for the first time provide a basis for encouraging the development
of non-coffee sources of foreign exchange.
21.       The service ratio on existing debt is estimated at 17 percent
in 1967. If, as is now expected, the new balance of payments policies
are successful in stimulating the development of non-coffee exports and
taking account of the new borrowing planned for the 1967-70 period,
this ratio would remain at about 17 percent through 1970.
22.       The Government has submitted to the Bank for distribution to
the Consultative Group a project list requiring from US$300 to 350 mil-
lion of new external commitments frcm the Bank and other members of the
Group during the period from July 1967 to June 1968. The projects
included in the list will become the heart of the development program
that the Government is preparing. On the basis of the policy measures
which have already been taken and in the expectation that the new ex-
change system will be managed so as to achieve the objective of making
the external sector's prospects consistent with the development effort,
Colombia merits full support in its external financing plans. Both
external lenders and the Government will, however, wish to observe
closely the degree of success in the critical effort to enlarge and
diversify Colombia's sources of exchange earnings on which her long-
term growth prospects rest.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH THE ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
23.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 7 -
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
24.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of Loan to Empresa Nacional de Telecomunicaciones,
in the amount of the equivalent of US$16,000,000 to be
guaranteed by the Republic of Colombia.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to Empresa Nacional de Tele-
comunicaciones, to be guaranteed by the Republic of Colombia, in an
amount in various currencies equivalent to sixteen million United States
dollars (US$16,000,000), to mature on and prior to October 15, 1987, to
bear interest at the rate of six percent (6%) per annum, and to be upon
such other terms and conditions as sball be substantially in accordance
with the terms and conditions set forth in-the form of Loan Agreement
(Telecommunications Project) between the Bank and Empresa Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones, and the form of Guarantee Agreement (Telecommuni-
cations Project) between the Republic of Colombia and the Bank, which
have been presented to this meeting.
George D. Woods
President
By S. R. Cope
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
Date:  May 24, 1967



