CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 671 CHA
Guarantee Agreement
(Second Power Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF CHINA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED MAY 16, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 671 CHA
Guarantee Agreement
(Second Power Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF CHINA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED MAY 16, 1970


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 16, 1970, between REPUBLIC OF CHINA
(hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank
and the Taiwan Power Company (hereinafter called the Borrower) the Bank has
agreed to make to the Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to forty-four
million five hundred thousand dollars ($44,500,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree
to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan as hereinafter
provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations
of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Section 1.01. The parties to this Guarantee Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Guarantee Agreement, unless the context
otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in
Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under this Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally
guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and punctual
payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan and
the Bonds, the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan or the redemption


﻿4
of the Bonds prior to their maturity and the punctual performance of all the
obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement and in the
Bonds.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section
2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor specifically undertakes, whenever there is
reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be
inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of
the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide
the Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with such funds as are needed
to meet such expenditures.
ARTICLE III
Section 3.01. It is the mutual intention of the Guarantor and the Bank that
no other external debt shall enjoy any priority over the Loan by way of a lien
on governmental assets. To that end, the Guarantor undertakes that, except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any lien shall be created on any assets of the
Guarantor as security for any external debt, such lien will ipso facto equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan and the Bonds, and that in the creation of any such lien express
provision will be made to that effect; provided, however, that the foregoing
provisions of this Section shall not apply to: (i) any lien created on property,
at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase
price of such property; or (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions to secure a debt maturing not more than one year after the date on
which it is originally incurred.
The term "assets of the Guarantor" as used in this Section includes assets
of the Guarantor or of any of its political subdivisions or of any agency of the
Guarantor or of any such political subdivision, including the Central Bank of China
or any other institution performing the functions of a central bank.
Section 3.02. (a) The Guarantor and the Bank shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To that end, each of them
shall furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request with
regard to the general status of the Loan. On the part of the Guarantor, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Guarantor and the international balance of
payments position of the Guarantor.


﻿5
(b)   The Guarantor and the Bank shall from time to time exchange views
through their representatives with regard to matters relating to the purposes of
the Loan and the maintenance of the service thereof. The Guarantor shall promptly
inform the Bank of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere
with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan or the maintenance of the
service thereof.
(c)   The Guarantor shall afford all reasonable opportunity for accredited
representatives of the Bank to visit any part of the territories of the Guarantor
for purposes related to the Loan.
Section 3.03. The principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan
and the Bonds shall be paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes,
and free from all restrictions, impo3ed under the laws of the Guarantor; provided,
however, that the provisions of this Section shall not apply to taxation of payments
under any Bond to a holder thereof other than the Bank when such Bond is
beneficially owned by an individual or corporate resident of the Guarantor.
Section 3.04. This Guarantee Agreement, the Loan Agreement and the Bonds
shall be free from any taxes that shall be imposed under the laws of the Guarantor
on or in connection with the execution, issue, delivery or registration thereof.
Section 3.05. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, prior to the
termination of the Loan Agreement in accordance with its terms, the Guarantor
shall cause the Bank of Communications not to:
(i)         exercise the right to effect any lien given by the Borrower to
the Bank of Communications under the CIECD loan agreements;
(ii)       transfer or assign the loans and any right, including the lien,
provided for under such CIECD loan agreements; and
(iii)       amend any provision relating to the lien provided for under such
CIECD loan agreements.
(b)   If the circumstances would justify the Bank of Communications to
effect the lien referred to in subsection (a) hereof and if the Bank so agrees, the
Guarantor shall cause the Bank of Communications to:
(i)         share such lien pari passu by the Bank and the Bank of
Communications to secure the payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan and the Bonds, and the


﻿6
outstanding principal of, and interest on, the loans provided for
under the CIECD loan agreements; and
(ii)       make express provision to that effect in the registration or in
any other legal documents required to effect the lien.
Section 3.06. The Guarantor shall take all such action as will be necessary
to enable the Borrower to obtain, and shall not take any action which would
prevent the Borrower from obtaining, from time to time, such adjustment in the
Borrower's tariffs as provided in Section 5.11 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 3.07. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall
reinvest in the Borrower, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, any
sums which it shall earn from time to time, until December 31, 1982, as dividends
on its shareholdings in the Borrower.
Section 3.08. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall not
take any action which would result in the amendment of the Borrower's Charter.
ARTICLE IV
Section 4.01. The Guarantor shall endorse, in accordance with the provisions
of the General Conditions, its guarantee on the Bonds to be executed and delivered
by the Borrower. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor and such other person
or persons as he shall appoint in writing are designated as the authorized
representatives of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 8.10 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Section 5.01. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor is designated as
representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 10.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministry of Finance
Taipei
Taiwan, China


﻿7
Alternative address for cables:
Chifinance
Taipei
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Intbafrad
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Guarantee Agreement
to be signed in their respective names and delivered in the City of Taipei, Republic
of China, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s / K. T. Li
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s Robert S. McNamara
President


