Document of
The World Bank   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3065-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 13, 1981
Thi document has a restricted distribution and may be ued by recipients only in the performance of  |
their ofaial dutes. Its coutents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00       =  Rp 625
Rp 1.00       =  US$0.0016
Rp 1 million  =  US$1,600
ABBREVIATIONS
P.T. ASKRINDO    - Indonesian Credit Insurance Corporation
BAPINDO          - Development Bank of Indonesia
BI               - Bank Indonesia
BIPIK            - Guidance and Development of Small-Scale Industries
BRI              - Bank Rakyat Indonesia
CPMU             - Central Project Management Unit
GOI              - Government of Indonesia
KIB              - General Investment Credit
KIK              - Small Investment Credit
KMKP             - Small Permanent Working Capital Credit
LPPI             - Institution for the Development of Banking in
Indonesia
MOI              - Ministry of Industry
ODA              - Official Development Assistance
PDFCI            - Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia
PUPN             - State Committee for Settlement of Credit Claims
RCP              - Rural Credit Project
RDB              - Regional Development Bank
RPMU             - Regional Project Management Unit
SEDP             - Small Enterprise Development Project
SI               - Small-Scale Industries
SSE              - Small-Scale Enterprises
UNDP             - United Nations Development Programme
UNIDO            - United Nations Industrial Development Organization
UPPINDO (IDFC)   - Indonesian Development Finance Company
FISCAL YEAR
Government      -  April 1 to March 31
Bank Indonesia  -  April 1 to March 31
State Banks     -  January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiaries:    Bank Indonesia and Ministry of Industry
Amount:            $106 million equivalent
Terms:             20 years, including five years of grace, with interest
at 9.6% per annum.
Relending Terms:  $100 million of the proposed loan proceeds would be onlent
by the Government to Bank Indonesia (BI) on the same terms
as the Bank loan to cover about 20% of BI's rediscount of
investment credits made by the handling banks to small-scale
enterprises (SSEs). The balance of $6 million would be
passed on to the Ministry of Industry (MOI) in the form of a
budgetary allocation to finance a complementary program of
nonfinancial support services for SSEs. The Government
would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:    From the three regions covered under SEDP I (Credit 785-IND)
the project would be expanded to cover all 27 regions in
Indonesia where the Small Investment Credit (KIK)/Small
Permanent Working Capital Credit (KMKP) program has been in
operation since 1974. In addition, a program designed to
strengthen nonfinancial support services for SSEs would be
implemented by MOI. The project consists of: (a) credit to
finance 20% of KIK lending for two and a half years from
around mid-1981; (b) technical assistance and training to
the banking system to plan and implement the KIK/KMKP
program; (c) a program to improve the operational
capabilities of 26 regional development banks; (d) a program
to strengthen SSE technical support .services by MOI; and (e)
credit impact and demand studies to stimulate labor-
intensive industries. Approximately 70,000 subloans would
be extended to indigenous SSEs in virtually all economic
sectors, creating some 140,000 new jobs at an investment
cost per job of about $4,000. The training and actual
lending experience gained by handling banks' staff under the
proposed project would improve their operational skills
in term lending and sharpen their awareness of the
financial and technical problems of small borrowers. The
major risk of the project is the level of arrears which, if
uncontrolled, could threaten cost recovery and program
' This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
replicability and erode its development impact. The pro-
ject, therefore, provides substantial technical assistance
and training to BI and the handling banks, for an improved
monitoring and evaluation of lending and collection per-
formance, strengthening of the handlings banks appraisal
and supervision capabilities and technical assistance to
SSEs.
Estimated Cost:
(in current prices)                        Local   Foreign   Total
…---- ($ million) ----
Credit                   335.0    223.4    558.4
Technical assistance
and training            26.6      13.8      40.4
Small-scale industry
support services       1.5       5.0      6.5
Total                363.1    242.2    605.3
Financing Plan:                                                  Handling   Other
BI/GOI  IBRD/IDA    banks       donor
Credit                   458.4    100.0            -         -
Local                  335.0       -             -         -
Foreign                123.4    100.0            -         -
Technical assistance      16.7      10.4 /a      4.6       8.6
Local                   177       _7-         Z:T        3.0
Foreign                  1.3       6.8           -      5.6
Small-scale enterprise
support services         1.5       5.0                     -
Local                                -           -         -
Foreign                    -       5.0
Estimated
Disbursements:/b Bank FY:                       1982        1983      1984
Annual                        37.6       43.5       24.9
Cumulative                    37.6       81.1      106.0
Appraisal Report:    No. 3386-IND, dated May 8, 1981.
/a  Comprises $1.0 million of the proposed loan proceeds allocated for
technical assistance to the MOI and the balance of the undisbursed credit
proceeds of Credit 785-IND, which would be disbursed under that credit
during the first two years of SEDP II.
/b Estimated disbursement of the proposed loan only.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $106 million to help
finance a Second Small Enterprise Development Project. The loan would have
a term of 20 years, including five years of grace, with interest at 9.6% per
annum. The amount of $100 million out of the proceeds of the Bank loan
would be onlent to Bank Indonesia on the same terms as the Bank loan. The
balance of $6 million would be passed on to the Ministry of Industry in the
form of a budgetary allocation.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social
Progress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979. An updating
country economic memorandum, "Indonesia: Long-Run Development and Short-Run
Adjustment" (No. 2788-IND, dated February 20, 1980), was distributed to the
Executive Directors in 1980 and a further country economic memorandum,
"Indonesia: Development Prospects and Policy Options," (No. 3307-IND dated
April 6, 1981) was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 13, 1981.
Annex I gives selected social and economic indicators for the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is an archipelago of more than 13,000
islands covering a land area of about two million sq km. With over 145
million people /2 it is the world's fifth most populous nation. The popula-
tion density exceeds 650 persons per sq km on Java, where almost 65% of the
population live, but averages less than 30 persons per sq km in the rest of
the country; over 80% of the population live in rural areas. GNP per capita
is estimated to be $365./3
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Fourth Urban
Development Project (No. P-3000-IND), circulated under cover of R81-66,
dated April 2, 1981, and approved by the Executive Directors on
April 21, 1981.
/2  Preliminary results of the 1980 population census.
/3 Estimate for 1979.



- 2 -
4.         The economy has grown at an annual rate of 6-8% for over a decade -
the highest sustained growth rate of any low income country. Until about the
end of the First Five-Year Development Plan, Repelita I (1969/70 to 1973/74),
this rapid growth was largely due to effective recovery from the severe
dislocations of the 1960s. The Government of Indonesia (GOI) took effective
action to restore and then maintain macroeconomic stability, to liberalize
the economy and provide incentives for investment. There was a major rehabi-
litation of the neglected infrastructure, and the investment rate doubled to
18% of GDP. Since then growth has been greatly assisted by international
developments, in particular the dramatic increase in oil prices and the com-
modity boom. The oil enclave is of particular importance to the structure of
the economy. Net oil exports increased from $0.6 million in 1973 to $7.0
billion in 1979, while physical production increased less than 20%. This has
had a direct effect on the balance of payments - in 1979/80 a current account
surplus of $2.0 billion was recorded for the first time since independence.
Although production linkages with other sectors have been very weak, the oil
enclave has had an important influence on overall growth through the infusion
of foreign exchange resources into the economy.  Since a significant fraction
of these resources accrue to GOI through taxation of oil companies  profits,
the public sector has been one of the major channels for the increased
expenditure.  GOI expenditures have been rising at about 15% annually.  These
factors contributed to a growth rate of over 6% for GDP, with 12% for cons-
truction and 9% for services. Manufacturring has also grown rapidly, at 11%
p.a., but it still accounts for less than 10% of GDP, compared with 13% for
all low income countries. In agriculture, growth has been largely determined
by supply factors, and has been about 3% p.a.; as a result its share of GDP
has declined from 40% to 30%. Despite the favorable general indicators, the
economy remains very underdeveloped and the nonoil current account is in
persistent deficit. To lay the foundations for a post-oil future, a broad-
based expansion of industrial production and of both industrial and agri-
cultural exports will be required in the 1980s.
Incomes and Poverty
5.         Despite the rapid growth in output, equivalent to a growth rate of
per capita income of about 5% p.a., Indonesia remains an extremely poor
country. Over 60% of the population, some 90 million persons, are estimated
to be living in conditions of absolute poverty. There are conflicting views
on the extent to which the poor have shared in economic growth. However, the
1970 and 1976 National Household Expenditure Surveys suggest a rate of growth
of per capita income of 3.5-5.2% p.a. for the poorest 40% of households, and
a reduction in poverty incidence of at least 10% between the two years.
Rural urban income disparities have widened, while intra-rural and inter-
regional income distribution appear to have improved. Although a large
majority of the poor live in rural areas, especially on Java, where landless
laborers form a large proportion of the population, poverty is also serious
in urban areas, where it is compounded by poor and overcrowded living
conditions.



- 3 -
6.         The availability of productive employment, is a key determinant of
incomes.  Total employment has been increasing at 3.3% p.a.  during the
1970s. In 1977/78 open unemployment was less than 2% in rural areas and
about 6% in urban areas. There was, however, a particularly heavy incidence
amongst young educated males - 30% for urban males aged 20-24 with secondary
school education. The changing structure of employment, though very
different from that of production, is a reflection of the same underlying
factors. In the period 1971-78 manufacturing provided only 6% of the
increase in employment, and mining almost none, while the more labor-
intensive agriculture and tertiary sectors provided 42% and 52% respectively.
Agriculture still accounted for 61% of total employment at the end of the
period. Because the oil sector has played a leading role in economic growth,
thereby encouraging a fast growing tertiary sector, the relative lack of
industrial employment has not had serious consequences in the past.  However,
in the future, the growth of the industrial sector will be of critical
importance for the direct and indirect provision of employment.  It is also
clear that increasing renumerative employiaent in agriculture, for example in
cash crop production, will have a major role to play in poverty alleviation.
7.         Indonesia's basic social indicators directly reflect the prevalence
of poverty. While impressive progress has been made in primary education,
where universal primary enrollment will be achieved in the near future,
secondary and higher education is comparatively less well-developed - this
is one of the main reasons for the current manpower shortage. hiealth
indicators are also generally poor:  life expectancy is only 47 compared
with 50 for all low-income countries and 60 for Thailand and the
Philippines. Indonesia's infant mortality rate of 126 is almost double the
rates prevailing in these two South East Asian countries. Every year almost
700,000 infants less than one year old die. Low incomes, inadequate water and
sanitation facilities - only 12% of the population has access to safe water -
and a relatively high population to physician ratio are key factors explaining
the situation. The area of family planning, however, has been a notable
success. As a consequence of the National Family Planning Program,
established in 1970, fertility rates have fallen by almost 20% on Java and
Bali, where almost 50% of married women in the productive age group practice
modern methods of contraception.
Policy for Structural Adjustment
8.         Indonesia's past growth performance has been good, but the country
is now faced with the need both to put the nonoil economy on to a viable
long-run growth path and to effectively improve the basic needs situation of
the poor. The three primary goals of the Third Five-Year Development Plan,
Repelita III (1979/80 to 1983/84) are equity, growth and the maintenance



- 4 -
and the maintenance of national stability.  The fact that Indonesia-s
resource position is likely to be favorable for most of the 1980s presents
the country with an unusual opportunity to take effective policy action to
bring about the adjustments required to realize these goals.
9.         Although the main concern for the allocation of the resource wind-
fall is with long-run develoment, the maintenance of short-run stability is
also important. The channeling of the foreign exchange resource into the
economy, not least via the GOI budget, is already putting pressure on
domestic markets and encouraging a rapid expansion of liquidity. There is a
risk that medium-term supply responses will be too slow to prevent an
acceleration of inflation. This emphasizes the importance of a distribution
of incremental expenditure in favor of improving sectoral supply responses.
In particular, it is important that a reasonable expansion of credit to the
private sector be maintained - in the past this has been excessively squeezed
to maintain monetary stability. This could entail a slower rate of expansion
of GOI expenditure.
10.        The performance of the industrial sector will be of critical
importance to long-run development. GOI is planning a program of large-scale
industrial investments, in refineries, LNG, petrochemicals, fertilizer,
cement, pulp and paper, basic metals and mining, with an estimated investment
cost of $15-20 billion. This will broaden the industrial base, but will have
very limited employment implications. Of greater importance for employment is
the encouragement of small- and medium-scale private manufacturing. The 1978
devaluation from Rp 415 to Rp 625 per US dollar significantly improved the
profitability of labor-intensive import substitution and export industries and
was accompanied by a system of export certificates (tax rebates) to provide
additional incentives. However, by mid-1980 over half of the gains in
competitiveness in manufactured exports and import substitutes had been eroded
by domestic inflation. In addition, private industry continues to be
constrained by cumbersome administrative procedures, a wide variation in
rates of effective protection, and limitations on the availability of credit.
These require effective policy reforms. The favorable resource position
provides an opportunity for rationalizing the tariff structure and improving
the investment climate, accompanied, where necessary, by selected adjustment
assistance to adversely affected industries. Import liberalization would
also help to maintain short-run stability to the extent that it takes
pressure off tight domestic markets. The construction industry requires
special attention, as limited capacity is currently a critical constraint on
new investment and is contributing to higher inflationary pressures. To
encourage its rapid expansion, measures should be taken to provide additional
finance, through the banking system and equity participation, and to increase
the availability of skills, through training and relaxation of restrictions
on the use of foreign specialists.



- 5 -
11.       Agriculture will continue to be of great importance for export
revenue (agriculture accounted for 75% of 1979 non-oil export revenue), food
production and employment. Rice production has been steadily rising to a
record level of around 20 million tons in 1980, compared with 13 million a
decade earlier, largely as a result of irrigation and the dissemination of new
agricultural technology. Future investment in physical infrastructure in
irrigation and roads, combined with a favorable market environment will be the
main determinants of further expansion in food production. Tree crops have
suffered from relative neglect, and the age structure of the trees is now very
old, but GOI has a highly ambitious program of rehabilitation and replanting.
This will require substantial investment in manpower and improved organization
of distribution and marketing.
12.      Hluman resources development is of central importance.  The lack of
skilled manpower affects almost every sector. Shortages are largely due to
the poorly developed secondary and higher education system, although the high
rates of employment amongst secondary school leavers suggest a major mismatch
between supply and demand at this level. In the short run there is scope for
better utilization of existing manpower through stopgap training schemes,
while available foreign exchange resources could be used to finance fellow-
ships abroad and, in the interim, to purchase foreign skills. The poor health
indicators provide a strong justification for the use of incremental resources
in this sector. Ilowever, increased outlays on health infrastructure and urban
and rural water supply will have to be complemented by the development of
innovative approaches to identifying and tackling health problems, involving
the participation of local communities. The successful family planning
program provides a good model.
13.       Other sectors also require effective policy action.  In the energy
sector the rapid growth in consumption of oil and LNG accounts for almost all
of the consumption of modern sources of energy and could significantly reduce
the resource surplus. Diversification will require the development of hydro-
power, geothermal and coal resources, and a reduction in the high rate of
subsidization of petroleum products. The transport sector is a major
beneficiary of the fuel subsidy; this has shifted demand away from more
fuel-efficient systems.
14.       The activity of the public sector will have a critical influence
on long-run development. The oil windfall has substantially improved GOI
revenue: total revenue increased from Rp 5 trillion in 1978/79 to Rp. 14 tril-
lion budgeted for 1981/82, of which 70% derives from oil; GOI expenditures now
account for around 30% of GDP. A significant fraction of incremental
resources, about 50% in 1980/81, has gone directly to public and private
consumption in the form of higher civil service and military salaries from
initial low levels, and subsidies on commodities. Subsidies on petroleum
products, food and fertilizer have grown very rapidly to a budgeted level



- 6 -
of over $3 billion in 1981/82.  Although this has shielded the economy from
sudden shocks, the long-run impact on inflation is likely to be limited and
consumption data suggest that the main beneficiaries have not heen the very
poor. Resources for development have also risen rapidly, to the extent that
it now appears that the financial constraint is often less important than
nonfinancial constraints, including the availability of skilled manpower,
the capacity of the construction industry and limited administrative
capability. The administrative framework for project implementation was
greatly improved in 1979 by the introduction of simplified appropriation
procedures and the adoption of post-auditing practices.  However, restric-
tions in eligibility of certain smaller contracts to small firms controlled
by economically weak groups is likely to delay local project implementation.
Wider issues of administration, including the question of decentralization,
are also under review. An additional problem affecting the productivity of
public investment is inadequate maintenance of existing infrastructure, of
particular importance in irrigation and roads.
Domestic Resource Mobilization and External Capital Flows
15.       The external resource surplus has greatly helped GOI-s budgetary
position. However, in order to reduce the dependence on oil revenue and lay
the foundation for long-term resource mobilization it is important to main-
tain the domestic effort. Domestic revenue is of particular value since
expenditure from this source has a smaller inflationary impact than expen-
diture from oil revenue. Nonoil tax revenue as a proportion of nonmining GDP
actually declined from almost 10% in 1978/79 to less than 9% in 1979/80 and
1980/81. It is critical that the capacity of the tax system be increased
through expanding the tax base, eliminating loopholes, and improving
administration. There is also great scope for mobilization of resources
through reduction of the budgetary subsidies on petroleum and other products.
A steady rise in domestic petroleuim prices to the international level during
the 1980s would have a major impact on budget savings as well as encouraging
alternative energy uses and eliminating distortions.
16.       External financing of government expenditure is budgeted at $2.4
billion in 1980/81 or 20% of the development budget, compared with almost 40%
in 1978/79. Total disbursed and outstanding external public debt was about
$15 billion at the end of 1980; including undishursed amounts, external
public debt totalled almost $24 billion. The Inter-Governmental Group on
Indonesia remains the principal source of external capital, including
Official Development Assistance (ODA) to the country. New commitments in
1980 were almost equal to the $2.1 billion recommended in the Bank's 1980
economic memorandum on Indonesia. Public sector commercial borrowings are
estimated to have reached $1.7 billion in 1980. With the increased avail-
ability of foreign exchange, capital inflows are no longer required on
resource grounds, at least in the medium term.  However, toward the end of
the disbursement periods of projects currently being considered it is
anticipated that a resource gap will re-emerge in Indonesia. In addition,
there is still an urgent need for the technical assistance embodied in
foreign loans.  It is anticipated that ODA will continue at a reduced real



level, and on harder terms in the first half of the 1980s. It is of
particular importance that external finance he used to support policies
designed to prevent the re-emergence of the resource deficit toward the end of
the decade. It is anticipated that the public debt service ratio, with oil
exports on a net basis, will remain in the region of 10-12% for the first half
of the 1980s.
17.       In the past, selective local cost financing of projects has been
recommended on the grounds that finance of only the foreign exchange cost of
projects would not suffice to meet Indonesia's capital requirements. In view
of the present favorable resource position, in the future local cost financing
will be limited to projects of key importance and where such financing is
required to ensure a significant Bank contribution.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA /1
18.       As of April 30, 1981, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits total-
ling $931.8 million, and 55 Bank loans amounting to $3,696.5 million. IFC
investments totalled $132.5 million. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia-s total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1979 was
about 9.5%, and the share of debt service about 4.7%. By the end of 1980,
these ratios are estimated to have increased to around 10.8% and 6.7%,
respectively. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC
investments as of February 28, 1981, as well as notes on the execution of
ongoing projects. Given the critical importance of agriculture (including
transmigration) for employment, food security and exports, over one-third of
Bank Group supported projects have been in this sector. In addition, loans
and credits have been extended to virtually all other sectors of the economy,
including transportation, education, urban development, water supply, rural
development, nutrition, industrial development financing (including small-
scale industry), power, telecommunications, population and technical
assistance.
19.       During Repelitas I and II, and in line with the objectives of these
first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group lending was
directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then increasingly towards the
expansion of infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was
also given to meet the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance
needed for preinvestment studies and project execution. Reflecting in part
the successes of the first two Plan periods, Repelita III, published in early
1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and stability, but departed
from previous plans by placing special emphasis on more equitable income
distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which was fully in line
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Fourth Urban
Development Project (No. P-3000-IND), circulated under cover of R81-66,
dated April 2, 1981, and approved by the Executive Directors on
April 21, 1981.



- 8 -
with the conclusions of the basic economic report, required greater attention
to employment generation (particularly in the industrial sector) and
improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was already
consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis is being given to GOI's
new priorities.
20.        While in many respects Indonesia's basic development constraints and
issues remain unchanged, the resource surplus discussed in Part I of this
report provides GOI with a unique opportunity to accelerate its development
effort. This will require the articulation of a coherent set of policies
designed to promote employment through the development of an efficient
industrial sector; the acceleration of irrigation and tree crop development
programs; increased emphasis on measures designed to alleviate critical
manpower constraints, particularly at the intermediate and higher levels; and
the development of innovative low-cost programs designed to meet the basic
needs of the population. Special attention will also have to be given to
alleviating institutional and administrative bottlenecks which currently
inhibit plan implementation.  The Bank's own program of lending and economic
and sector worlc is being geared to support GOI's efforts to address these
issues. For example, the Bank is planning to significantly expand its
hitherto modest involvement in the industrial sector. An industrial sector
report which focuses on policy issues is being completed and additional
economic work designed to provide the necessary understanding for an expanded
involvement in the sector is under way. An industrial finance operation
designed to support industrial lending through several financial inter-
mediaries is being prepared and projects designed to support engineering
industries, export processing, small-scale industry as well as some large
scale enterprises, are at various stages of identification and preparation.
Initiatives are also planned in the energy sector.   Indonesia is overly
dependent on oil for its own energy consumption. In an effort to help
Indonesia articulate an energy development program of domestic energy sources
as well as a rational set of domestic pricing policies (para. 15 above), the
Bank has embarked on a significant program of energy sector work. This is
also expected to result in a number of projects suitable for Bank
participation.
21.        Outside industry and energy, no major shifts in the balance of Bank
lending are expected. Irrigation and tree crops will continue to absorb a
substantial portion of Bank agricultural lending and continued support for
the provision of basic services (population, education, health, nutrition,
urban development and water supply) and transport is anticipated.  However,
it is expected that these operations will increasingly focus on institutional
changes and policy issues and that they will be gradually broadened to a
subsector and sector basis to have a broader impact than hitherto. For
example, a proposed maritime transport project would focus on required
regulatory reforms and a planned health project would attempt to improve
low-cost health care systems.  The justification for Bank lending will thus
depend more on technical assistance rather than resource transfers.
22.        For about the last two years the Bank and GOI have made a major
effort to improve disbursement performance. Many of the problems appear to



- 9 -
be related to GOI's cumbersome budgetary, procurement and payment procedures,
including issuance of tender documents and opening of letters of credit.
These problems are further compounded by the severe shortages of both
managerial and technical manpower.  A number of steps have been taken by GOI
and the Bank to address these issues. Several special Bank missions have
visited Indonesia to analyze the problems and make recommendations for
simplifying budgetary and financial procedures. The GOI and the Bank have
also instituted formal and regular joint review procedures to identify general
and project-specific problems and work out corrective measures. The first of
these reviews was held in June 1979 and a second, more comprehensive one, in
September 1980. In addition, a procurement seminar was held in Jakarta in
September 1979. As a consequence of these joint initiatives, GOI has taken
several measures to streamline some of the complex budgetary and financial
procedures affecting project implementation. Finally, to reduce initial
project implementation difficulties, many operations are now being presented
for Board consideration at a later stage in the project cycle. Indications
are that, as a result of these efforts, improvements are taking place.  This
was reflected in an increase in disbursements from $204.0 million in FY79 to
$277.8 million in FY80; considerably higher disbursements are projected in
FY81 (if the performance of the first six months of this fiscal year
continues, disbursements for FY81 will exceed $400 million). While it is
important that the Bank and GOI maintain their efforts, these trends are
encouraging.
23.        From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through IDA.
Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commodity and oil
price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's subsequent lending has
been through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA lending being justified
primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita GNP was well below the IDA
cutoff of $625. Given Indonesia's much improved balance of payments position,
IDA lending was discontinued in FY80.
24.       The proposed project constitutes the seventh lending operation
presented to the Executive Directors this fiscal year. Previously approved
loans include the Smallholder Coconut Development, University Development,
Fourth Urban, Swamp Reclamation, Tenth Power and Fifth Nucleus Estates and
Smallholders projects. Projects under advanced stage of preparation and
appraisal include the Jakarta Cikampek highway, Bukit Asam mining and second
seeds projects.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
A. The Industrial Sector/I
25.       The rapid increase in oil earnings which enabled Indonesia to
undertake a high level of development expenditures and sustain a real GDP
/1 Defined as: manufacturing, mining, construction, and services (power,
water and gas) unless otherwise specified.



- 10 -
growth of 6.5% p.a. in 1974-79, also provided the basis of recent industrial
growth. GOI invested a substantial portion of its oil income in large,
capital-intensive industries (cement, steel, fertilizer, petrochemicals)
during the period, adding to other industrial investments in the private
sector which had been attracted when GOI reopened its doors to foreign and
domestic investments in the late 1960s. As a result, the industrial sector
has grown faster than the economy at a rate of 8.4% p.a. and by 1978
accounted for 33% of GDP. The manufacturing sector grew at over 12.4% p.a.
and at the end of 1978 contributed 9% of GDP, followed by mining at 11%,
construction 6% and other services 7%.
26.       Most of the recent manufacturing growth took place in the modern
sector which consists primarily of medium- and large-scale industries.
According to the latest (1974) Census of Manufacturing Industries, the modern
sector comprised less than 1% of the number of manufacturing establishments
and yet accounted for over 78% of industrial output, value-added and wages.
The small-scale industries (SSI) sector,/1 on the other hand, employed nearly
90% of manufacturing workers and contributed 22% of output and value-added.
The growth of this sector, averaging 5% p.a. in the 1970s, is constrained by
a variety of financial, management, marketing and technical problems that are
endemic to most small production units.
27.       Repelita III aims at an 11% p.a. growth rate for the industrial
sector which is expected to result in a 12% GDP share for manufacturing by
1983 and create 1.1 million new jobs, including 434,000 in the SSI sector.
The annual growth rate of this sector is expected to rise to about 7% p.a.
The policy objectives of the plan include the promotion of indigenous
(pribumi) /2 entrepreneurs, employment creation and the development of labor-
intensive, manufactured exports. To achieve these objectives, a Bank report
"Selected Issues of Industrial Development Strategy," (Report No. 3182-IND),/3
dated March 15, 1981, recommended a number of policy and other measures
designed to create a policy environment more conducive to the growth of an
efficient and balanced industrial sector. The report stressed the need for
phased policy reform aimed at addressing issues relating to, inter alia,
industrial incentives, tariff reforms, export promotion, financial policy and
the regulatory system. The Bank is presently discussing the report's
recommendations with GOI.
/1 The SSI sector includes only small firms engaged in manufacturing
activities which represent in aggregate about 48% of all small-scale
enterprises. See para. 30 below.
/2   An indigenous or pribumi enterprise is one where: (a) at least 75%
of its capital is owned by indigenous persons; or (b) at least 50%
of its capital is owned by indigenous persons and the majority of its
directors are indigenous.
/3   In the rest of this report, this document is referred to as the
"Industrial Sector Report."



- 11 -
B. The Small-Scale Enterprise Sector
28.       The small-scale enterprise (SSE) sector, which encompasses all small
enterprises in agriculture, industry, trade, transport and services sectors
throughout Indonesia, has the potential to absorb a significant portion of the
already unemployed and new entrants to the labor force. The number of SSEs
scattered throughout Indonesia, particularly in the rural areas, is unoffi-
cially estimated at 2.5 million (of which about 1.2 million are engaged in
manufacturing and agro-industries). On average, they have a lower capital/
labor ratio (about $1,000 per job created) than medium- and large-scale
industries ($15,000 and $250,000 per job). They generally require lower
skills and thus can absorb a large segment of the labor force; on the whole,
they are labor-intensive and accotnt for about 20% of industrial energy use.
Under Repelita III, GOI stresses the development of the SSE sector, not only
as a means of absorbing excess labor from the agricultural sector, but also to
develop entrepreneurship and improve income distribution by reducing
rural/urban income differentials.
29.       GOI is addressing problems on two major fronts by providing finan-
cial and technical assistance to promote their growth. In 1974, it initiated
a program of financial assistance comprising the Small Investment Credit
(Kredit Investasi Kecil - KIK), which provides finance for fixed assets, and
the Small Permanent Working Capital Credit (Kredit Modal Kerja Permanen -
KMKP) which provides short-term working capital loans. Up to Rp 15 million
($24,000) may be obtained under each type of credit at 10.5% p.a. interest
rate for KIK and 12% p.a. for KMKP loans.
30.       The KIK/KIKP program is the main channel for official term finance
to SSEs in Indonesia. It supports SSEs in virtually all sectors: manu-
facturing (16%), agriculture (12%), trade (51%), transport (13%); and other
services (8%). As of June 1980, cumulative lending amounted to Rp 214 billion
(S342 million) under the KIK and Rp 312 billion ($499 million) under the KIKP
programs. So far, about 500,000 small borrowers have obtained credits. The
lending program is expanding rapidly under the overall management of Bank
Indonesia (BI) and is administered by practically all major banks in the
country with a network of over 1,000 branches. It has, however, reached only
about 3% of the total manufacturing firms in the SSI sector and about 10% of
the estimated number of SSEs throughout the country, partly because of SSE's
reluctance to approach banks for credit or their inability to formulate
feasible projects and also partly because banking procedures are still too
cumbersome for most small borrowers. Both problems are being addressed under
this project. There is, therefore, considerable scope for further expansion.
Between 1980-84 BI expects KIK lending to grow by about 16% p.a. in real
terms, reaching an incremental lending volume of Rp 574 billion ($913 mil-
lion). KMKP lending for working capital is expected to grow even faster than
KIK lending. BI also plans to steer more lending to labor-intensive
manufacturing firms, through special promotional measures and regional
subsector studies to identify investment opportunities.



- 12 -
31.       Nonfinancial assistance programs are mainly funded through the
budget and carried out by various technical departments along sectoral lines.
There is, therefore, a great deal of overlap among programs and overall
coordination has been less than satisfactory.  In recent years, some progress
has been achieved in fostering interagency cooperation at the grassroot
levels, with emphasis on forging practical linkages between nonfinancial and
financial assistance programs.  Industrial extension needs to be strengthened.
This task was delegated to the UNDP/UNIlDO under SEDP I (Credit 785-IND) and
more recently a second $2.4 million technical assistance project designed to
support industrial extension services and entrepreneurial training was
approved by UNIDO and GOI.  The Bank has allocated $300,000 out of the Fifth
Technical Assistance Credit (Credit 898-IND) for consultancy services to the
Ministry of Industry (MOI) to strengthen industrial extension services
development, marketing assistance and field officers training. To complement
the above efforts, $5.0 million is allocated out of the proposed loan for
the procurement of equipment, machinery and materials and $1.0 million for
technical assistance needed to support the existing extension program.
Collaboration between the Bank and UNIDO in implementing the technical
assistance programs to MOI would be strengthened during this project.
C. The Financial Sector
32.       Financial Institutions.  The Indonesian financial sector consists
of BI, the central bank, 5 state-owned commercial banks,/l 79 private
domestic banks, 10 foreign banks, 3 development finance companies, and 26
Regional Development Banks (RDBs). As of end-1979, there were 144 com-
mercial and development banks (excluding rural banks) with a total of 1,150
branch offices. The monetary system, consisting of BI and deposit money
banks, accounted for 96% of the total gross assets of financial institutions.
The state banks accounted for almost 80% of the assets of all deposit money
banks and they are also the major suppliers of credit to the industrial
sector; their share in total outstanding credit is about 85%.  Currently,
the asset structure of the financial system is characterized by a dearth of
long-term credits; short-term credits, of less than one year maturity,
account for approximately 77% of all credits to the mnanufacturing sector.
33.       BI also directs credit to certain priority economic sectors
through the banking system. The bulk (83%) of its total outstanding
credits, amounting to Rp 1,785 billion ($2.9 billion) as of May 31, 1980,
represented credits to state banks for this purpose.  BI has 29 regional and
branch offices throughout Indonesia.
34.       The five state-owned commercial banks, which are the major channels
of the special investment credit programs (including KIK/KNKP), are the
/1 Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI), Bank Bumi Daya (BBD), Bank Negara Indonesia
1946 (BNI 46), Bank Dagang Negara (BDN), and Bank Ekspor-Impor Indonesia
(BEII).



- 13 -
dominant financial institutions. BAPINDO, the state-owned development bank,
which accepts deposits and makes some short-term loans, is principally engaged
in granting medium- and long-term credit and some equity finance. The 26 RDBs
owned by the provincial governments, while originally intended to operate as
development banks, have in the past, mainly concentrated on providing
commercial banking services and also function as fiscal agents. However, in
the past few years, some of these banks have taken an active interest in
developing their long-term lending business, and BI is proposing to help them
further in this respect. P.T. ASKRINDO, a credit insurance agency owned by
GOI and BI, insures up to 75% of loans made by state-owned financial
institutions to small- and medium-sized enterprises.
35.       Financial Policies.  Financial policies in Indonesia are aimed at
promoting general economic development, particularly in the industrial sector.
The four major policy objectives are the use of increased resources for
overall development while maintaining price stability; the allocation of
credit to priority sectors including industry; the promotion of indigenous
(pribumi) entrepreneurs; and the creation of an institutional environment to
increase the range of financial services. To achieve these objectives, GOI
uses the budget, overall credit ceilings, a mandated interest rate structure,
and the rediscount mechanism.
36.       The current interest rate structure is characterized by an
interlinked network of loan, deposit and rediscount rates that are mandated by
GOI rather than market-determined. Over the period 1975 to 1979, real
interest rates on priority credits have been generally negative and deposit
rates have been marginally positive. The subsidization of lending and deposit
rates by GOI has had an adverse effect on both resource mobilization and
allocation. The Bank's Industrial Sector Report has identified a number of
areas for future policy reforms. Such reforms, inter alia, focus on the use
of appropriate instruments to control domestic inflation, the gradual
elimination of credit ceilings, the introduction of a more flexible and
market-oriented interest rate policy, reform of the rediscount mechanism,
financial and nonfinancial assistance to pribumi entrepreneurs, and reform of
financial institutions. Discussions are going on between the Bank and GOI on
the implementation of these reforms.
D. The Bank's Lending Strategy
37.       The Bank's involvement in the industrial sector in the past has
been primarily for DFC operations, fertilizer production, industrial estate
and small enterprise development. Eowever, the Bank is now trying to
develop a more policy-based lending program that would address some of the
industrial and financial sector issues, in tandem with its involvement with
specific project financing. The Bank's proposed lending program in the
industrial sector includes one project which would try to address



- 14 -
institutional issues affecting the financial sector, and another to address
trade-related issues. In addition, the Bank would continue to support GOI's
small- and medium-scale industries programs with increasing emphasis on
nonfinancial support services and would also consider financing a limited
number of larger, resource-based projects in which Indonesia has a comparative
advantage such as petrochemicals, fertilizer and pulp and paper.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.       The project was prepared by BI, in consultation with the Bank.  The
project was appraised in October/November 1980. A Staff Appraisal Report (No.
3386-IND), is being distributed separately. Supplementary project data are
provided in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington, from April 30 to
May 4, 1981; the GOI delegation was led by Mrs. Buly 0. Surjaatmadja,
Director for External Funds, Ministry of Finance.
Project Background
39.       The rapid buildup in resources resulting from rising oil revenues
beginning in the mid-1970s has permitted the rapid expansion in GOI-sponsored
credit programs such as the KIK/KMKP credit scheme.  The strategy of GOI is to
expand these programs as rapidly as practically possible to support productive
investment by small enterprises throughout the country. GOI and BI officials
clearly recognize that the success of this strategy is critically dependent on
expanding and strengthening the banking system to administer such lending
programs and, in the longer term, on improving nonfinancial support services
for SSEs.
40.       To assist in implementing this strategy, a $40 million IDA Credit
(Credit No. 785-IND) was made in 1978 for the first Small Enterprise Deve-
lopment Project (SEDP I) to provide credit and technical assistance in the
regions of Central Java, East Java and West Sumatra, which together accounted
for about 33% of total KIK/KMKP lending in 1978. The first project aimed at
improving both the volume and quality of KIK/KMKP lending in those regions by:
supplementing BI's rediscount resources with the proceeds of the IDA Credit,
strengthening program management and supervision at BI, and improving loan
administration by some 600 participating branches of state and private
commercial banks. These efforts were supplemented by a $30 million Rural
Credit Project (Credit No. 827-IND),/1 focusing on small agricultural KIK/KMKP
loans and on strengthening term lending capabilities of Bank Rakyat Indonesia
(BRI).
/1 This Credit was approved in June 1978 and became effective in
November 1978; as of March 31, 1981, around $7.5 million has been
disbursed.



- 15 -
Performance Under SEDP I
41.        On the whole, progress under SEDP I has been satisfactory.  The
credit component of the project is expected to be fully disbursed by the
present Closing Date, December 31, 1981; the technical assistance component,
however, will not be fully disbursed until about two years later. According
to the evaluation studies carried out under SEDP I, which were based on sample
surveys, most of the KIK/KMKP loans in the three project regions have gone to
worthwhile projects in the agricultural, manufacturing and services sectors,
and generated significant economic and financial benefits. The studies also
revealed some problems still affecting the KIK/KMKP program. Although
declining, the arrears on KIK/KMKP loans are still relatively high, amounting
to about 19% of outstanding principal portfolio as of June 1980, compared with
about 25% in 1977, 24% in 1978, and 20% at the end of 1979. Studies suggest
that a major reason for arrears is business failure due to lack of access to
effective technical assistance. The capacity of the handling banks' staff to
administer these rapidly expanding programs needs to be improved and at the
same time technical supporting services need to be strengthened. Recognizing
these problems, GOI requested the Bank to help finance this project, with
major emphasis on institutional support.
Project Description
42.        From the three regions covered under SEDP I, the proposed project
would be expanded to support the KIK/KMKP program in all 27 regions of
Indonesia. In addition, a beginning would be made in strengthening
nonfinancial support services for SSEs provided by the MOI. The project
would consist of: (a) credit to finance 20% of KIK lending; (b) technical
assistance and training for the banking system; (c) an upgrading program for
26 regional development banks; (d) a program for strengthening the support
services of MOI; and (e) studies to determine the impact and demand for KIK
lending.
43.        Credit.  The project would finance all KIK lending by the five
state comnmercial banks (excluding subprojects eligible for financing under
Rural Credit Projects in BRI), selected private commercial banks and RDBs for
about two and a half years from around mid-1981. It is estimated that about
70,000 KIK loans with average size of Rp 5 million ($8,000) would be made by
the some 1,000 bank branches involved. Sectoral/subsectoral studies would be
carried out by Regional Project Management Units (RPMUs) under the project, to
assist handling banks in identifying potential areas for investment,
particularly in industry. It is estimated that in 1980-84, KIK loan approvals
would grow at an annual rate of 16% p.a. in real terms (compared with about
12% p.a. in 1974-79), resulting an incremental lending volume of Rp 574
billion ($918 million) by the end of the period.
44.        A number of measures are to be undertaken under the project to
improve the quality of the credit program. BI-s KIK/KMKP Policy and Strategy
Statement has been modified and adopted by BI. Improved planning procedures



- 16 -
in BI and the handling banks would be introduced to improve long-term
management of the lending program.  An improved reporting system that would
provide timely and accurate information on delinquent loans and facilitate
better supervision by BI of the handling banks collection performance would
also be implemented. During negotiations agreement was reached on the timing
and details of the implementation of these reforms (Sections 2.06 and 2.07 of
the draft Project Agreement). Finally, the Bank has obtained assurances from
GOI to take steps, based on a consultant study, to improve the operation of
P.T. ASKRINDO so that it can play its role more effectively in mitigating the
risks associated with KIK/KMKP lending (Section 3.03 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
45.        Technical Assistance and Training for KIK/KMKP.  The technical
assistance envisaged under the project would address the most critical
problems still affecting the program and focus on building up those systems
and institutions that could carry out further reforms later. In 1980, more
than 5,000 bank staff were involved in KIK/KMKP lending operations and handled
over 77,000 KIK loans and nearly 500,000 KMKP accounts. Given the enormous
size of the potential target group, the technical assistance under this
project should be seen as part of a longer-term institution-building effort.
Within the three-year life of this project, this limited technical assistance
would directly benefit about 1,500-2,000 loan officers, and an indeterminate
number of bank officers would benefit from the extensive in-house training
proposed. Indirectly, however, all participating banks would benefit from the
improved management and policy direction of the program.
46.        To support the technical assistance program under SEDP II, 63
long-term consultants, including 36 Indonesians, would provide advisory
services to BI and handling banks for a period of three years. Altogether
276 man-years of long-term (three year duration) and 29 man-years of
short-term consultancy would be provided at an average cost per man-year of
about $25,000 for Indonesian and $100,000 for expatriate consultants. In
addition, 20 staff of the Development Bank of Indonesia (BAPINDO) and the
Indonesian Development Finance Company (UPPINDO) have been engaged to
conduct the RDB upgrading program for a first phase period of three years
beginning in October 1980. To systematize consultant recruitment and
evaluation, the implementation of a consultant performance evaluation system
has been agreed between the Bank and BI. The selection and terms of
reference of all consultants financed by the Bank under the project would be
done in accordance with normal Bank Group procedures.
47.       Under SEDP I, training of the handling banks' staff was delegated to
the Institute for the Development of Banking in Indonesia (LPPI), BI's own
training institute. LPPI encountered severe manpower and skills constraints
and, to some extent, because of limited physical facilities, failed to reach
the training target of some 1,000 bank officers set under SEDP I. Therefore,
to reach a larger target group under SEDP II, the training component would be
expanded and decentralized by having the handling banks themselves conduct
the bulk of training, using their own trainers and physical facilities and



- 17 -
involving line managers in the training process.  LPPI would then act as
principal training coordinator whose main functions would be to develop
training matetials and courses, instruct trainers and evaluate the implemen-
tation of the training program. The training units of the banks and LPPI
would be supported by ten training consultants including two Staff Development
Advisors. To coordinate the program, a Training Coordinator would be assigned
to the Central Project Management Unit (CPMU) at BlIs Head Office and a Staff
Development Advisor would be recruited to assist him. At the regional level,
the CPMU and LPPI assisted by the RPMUs would coordinate training. During
negotiations, agreement was reached on the organizational arrangements
and the financing plans for the technical assistance and training components
of the project (para. 55 below).
48.       Regional Development Banks Upgrading.  The RDB system was estab-
lished in the 1950s to serve as the main channel of development finance in
the regions. Consisting of 26 banks located in the capitals of 26 regions and
with a network of 136 branches, the RDBs at present serve mainly as their
local governments' fiscal agents and the bulk of their lending operations is
for short-term commercial purposes. Their present participation in term
lending is marginal. Under SEDP I, RDBs in the three project areas accounted
for only a small fraction of KIK/KMKP lending. Nationwide RDBs contributed
about 3% of KIK and 2% of KMKP lending. However, in view of their regional
government ties, many of these banks have a potential for increased partici-
pation in the KIK/KMKP programs and other term lending. BI s detailed survey
of 20 of these banks identified the main problems (management, personnel,
accounting) affecting them. Based on this survey, BI launched an upgrading
program in October 1980 under the auspices of BAPINDO and UPPINDO consisting
of on-the-spot consultancy and training to RDBs in the regions, the intro-
duction of operational manuals and limited classroom training. Under the
proposed project, periodic reports on the progress of the RDB upgrading
program would be sent to the Bank for comments.
49.       Small Enterprise Support Services.  The need for improved support
services to assist SSEs, particularly those receiving credit assistance
under the program, has been recognized for some time. However, because of
the many agencies involved and the diversity of present technical support
services to SSEs, it has not been possible to develop a well coordinated
program of assistance. In the meantime, as the credit assistance program
under KIK/KMKP expands, the need for complementary technical, nonfinancial
assistance has become more critical both to improve the viability of credit
recipients and increase the number of potential ones. To address this need
and to lay the basis for a much larger program, an SSE technical assistance
component is included in this project. This component would involve Bank
funding of $6.0 million which would be used for the purchase of equipment
($5.0 million) and technical assistance ($1.0 million) needed by MOI for its
industrial extension work in selected localities during the period 1981-84.
Submission of a detailed program supported by a list of items to be
procured for this component would be subject to Bank approval and would be a
condition of disbursement (Section 4(b) of Schedule I to the draft Loan
Agreement).



- 18 -
50.       Evaluation of Credit Impact and Other Studies.  Reliable informa-
tion on SSEs and the operational aspects of the KIK/KMKP program is still
lacking. Under SEDP II, an economic/financial evaluation of project lending
would be continued to determine the incremental impact of KIK lending on
production, employment, sales and profits. In addition, a follow-up study is
envisaged on the handling banks' administrative costs and other studies of
operational import. As in SEDP I, studies would be contracted out to suit-
able local universities and consultants and supervised by BI's Economic and
Research Department and the CPMU. The terms of reference for some of these
studies have been presented to the Bank for review and approval.
Strengthening the Project Management Structure
51.       At present, SEDP I is managed within RI by a separate unit, the
CPMU, whose manager and staff are administratively a part of the Loan Depart-
ment. The CPMU has carried the main burden of project management which
includes the monitoring of KIK lending and project activities in the three
regions covered under SEDP I, while another unit, the Desk for Small Credits,
parallel to the CPMU, is responsible for supervising and monitoring the
KIK/KMKP rediscount facilities applicable to all the regions. These
administrative arrangements have led to some degree of overlap between the
CPMU and the Desk for Small Credits.  BI is still evaluating ways to further
strengthen program and project management and has recently issued circulars
redefining the main functions of these two units and clarifying their
operational relationships. Similar measures to strengthen project management
at the regional level are also planned. Official English versions of the
above circulars, with supporting materials have been submitted to the Bank
(Section 2.08 of the draft Project Agreement).
52.       The RPMUs are separate offices attached to BI's regional branches.
They consist of a four- to five-man consulting team and 10 to 14 Indonesian
counterparts drawn from BI's Young Professional Program and from the handling
banks. The RPMUs would continue to function as the provincial extensions of
the CPMU, carrying the main burden of the field work. These units train BI
and handling bank staff counterparts, provide limited training sessions and
seminars to other staff dealing with KIK/KMKP, and conduct project studies for
handling banks to identify potential demand for KIK/KMKP financing. RPMUs
serve as main contacts for the project administration between BI on the one
hand and branches of handling banks and relevant local government agencies on
the other.
53.       Ten RPMUs have been established in various parts of the country,
operating on the same Terms of Reference that were agreed with the Bank for
SEDP I. It is expected that all ten RPMUs would be substantially staffed and
operational when the SEDP II starts around mid-1981. The proposed 10 RPMUs
would cover 12 regions which account for about 80% of KIK/KMKP lending,
while BI's regional branches, assisted by the CPMU, would coordinate project
activities in the remaining 14 regions whose KIK/KMKP lending is still too
small to justify establishment of RMPUs.



- 19 -
Project Cost and Financing
54.        Total project cost is estimated at $605 million, including foreign
exchange costs of $242.2 million, or 40% of the total. The credit component
of the project amounting to $558.4 million, or 93% of the total, for two and a
half years beginning about mid-1981, assumes a projected growth rate of KIK
lending for this period of 16% p.a. in real terms, which appears realistic
considering the present momentum of the lending program and the strong support
of GOI. BI is expected to finance 82% of this credit component, with the
balance of 18% to be financed from the credit portion of $100 million of the
proposed loan.
55.       The cost of technical assistance, including the SSE technical sup-
port component of this project, is estimated at $46.9 million, or about 8% of
total project costs. BI envisages financing this technical assistance with
bilateral aid and the undisbursed balance of SEDP I of about $10 million. The
Development Credit Agreement for SEDP I (Credit 785-IND) is being duly
amended. The foreign cost of the support services component would be financed
by the Bank ($6 million) with the balance of local cost requirements being met
by GOI from budget proceeds. This was reconfirmed at negotiations.
56.       The proposed Bank loan of $106 million would be made to GOI which
would onlend $100 million of the proceeds to BI under a Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement), the signing of which would
be a condition of loan effectiveness. The balance of $6 million for the sup-
port services component would be passed on to MOI as a budgetary allocation
(Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement). GOI would bear the foreign
exchange risk.
57.       Under SEDP I, the IDA Credit proceeds were pooled with BI's own
resources and were used to rediscount 80% of KIK subloans extended by handling
banks in the three project regions.  Present lending rates are 10.5% p.a. for
KIK and 12% p.a. for KMKP loans. Since IDA funding for the credit component
of SEDP II is not available, GOI agreed to use funding on Bank terms, and to
onlend the proceeds of the proposed loan to handling banks (through BI) on the
same terms as the Bank loan. However, BI proposes to modify financing arrange
ments for KIK loans under SEDP II by rediscounting 80% of KIK lending from its
own resources at the present rate of 3% p.a. and use the Bank loan proceeds
to finance the remaining 20% on Bank terms. The combined costs of BI funding
to handling banks under these arrangements would be about 4.4%/1 which would
provide them a satisfactory spread of 5.1% (after payment of credit insurance
fee to P.T. ASKRINDO), which is not significantly different from what they
now earn. It is recommended that this loan be repaid according to a fixed
schedule, on country terms, i.e., 20 years maturity including 5 years of
grace. Since the average maturity of KIK subloans during the project period
would be about 5 years, this would result in a significant amount of funds
being repaid to BI before the Bank loan is due for repayment. BI is committed
to re-use these second generation funds to provide further support to the KIK
program.
/1 Based on an IBRD lending rate of 10%.



- 20 -
58.       The subsidized KIK lending rate of 10.5% is currently negative
in real terms./I This rate is, however, consistent with rates charged by
GOI for development projects in most sectors and is higher than the
smallholder onlending rate charged under several Bank-supported agriculture
projects. The subsidized credit for this project reflects GOI's policy to
support the small indigenous entrepreneurs. Furthermore, this form of credit
represents a very small proportion (about 1.5%) of all outstanding credit,
consequently minimizing the resource misallocation effects of subsidized
rates. While there remains the more general problem of the entire interest
rate structure in Indonesia, it was decided that this project would not be the
appropriate vehicle to undertake such a reform, primarily because interest
rates were merely one set of a number of interrelated issues that needed to be
addressed to bring about effective financial policy reform in Indonesia. As
noted in para. 36 of this report the Bank is currently discussing these policy
issues, including interest rates, in the context of the Industrial Sector
Report. The report suggests a gradual transition from the current administra-
tively controlled system to a price determined one with real positive interest
rates as the primary allocators on credit.
Disbursement
59.       Withdrawal applications would be submitted by the CPMU to the Bank
for the credit component of the proposed loan and for the technical assist-
ance costs covered under SEDP I.  For the SSE support services component,
disbursements would cover 100% of the foreign exchange cost of directly
imported items, 95% of the ex-factory cost of locally produced items and 65%
of foreign-produced locally procured items. For the credit component,
disbursements would cover 20% of amounts disbursed by BI to handling banks
for eligible KIK lending under the project. As in SEDP I, withdrawal
applications would be supported by certificates of expenditures, prepared by
BI, certifying that equivalent amounts had been disbursed to subborrowers.
The loan-by-loan documentation for the certificates of expenditure would be
retained by the handling banks for review by the Bank. Disbursement of the
remaining portion of SEDP I and SEDP II funds would be made in accordance with
the following procedures: (a) 100% of total expenditures for all project
consultants; and (b) 100% of the foreign cost of training evidenced by
appropriate invoices and other payments documents.
Procurement
60.       Given the small size, great variety and wide geographic spread of
KIK/KMKP loans, bulking for the purposes of carrying out international
competitive bidding (ICB) would not be feasible. However, to ensure that
goods and services financed under such loans are procured at competitive
prices, BI's regulations stipulate that for any large purchases, borrowers
should obtain and submit to the handling bank three price quotations from
suppliers/contractors. These procedures are acceptable to the Bank. All
consultants to be financed by Bank funds would be recruited in accordance
with normal Bank Group procedures.
/1 Recent inflation rates of about 18% p.a. are expected to fall to about
12% p.a. by 1982.



- 21 -
61.       A total of $5.0 million worth of machinery, equipment and materials
needed for industrial extension services would be procured by MOI on the
basis of a list of items approved by the Bank. Due to the small size of bid
packages for the type of equipment, machinery and materials required, bulking
for ICB purposes would not be feasible for most of the items to be procured.
Hence, normal government procurement procedures which are acceptable to the
Bank would be applied (see Schedule 4(A)2 of the draft Loan Agreement)./l
Accounts and Audits
62.       Given the difficulties encountered by BI, the executing agency in
meeting the agreed accounts and audit requirements under SEDP I we are
proposing to revise these requirements under this project.  For SEDP II,
therefore, the reporting requirement should be revised so that the Bank can
realistically expect to receive information regularly from the borrower
concerning the utilization of Bank funds as well as the overall operation
under the KIK/KMKP Program. Accordingly, BI and the handling banks would
have their accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank (the State Accountancy Directorate
in the case of BI, state-owned and regional development banks). BI would send
certified copies in English of its audited statements and the auditors' report
no later than nine months after the end of the fiscal year. In addition, BI
would furnish information concerning its accounts and financial statements,
including its KIK liquidity credit accounts (unaudited) which would be sent to
the Bank every quarter (Section 3.02 of the draft Project Agreement).
Handling banks would submit audited accounts and financial statements with
supporting information no later than 12 months after each fiscal year (Section
4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Benefits and Risks
63.       This project would provide needed technical and financial assis-
tance to make KIK/KMKP a more effective and efficient system for channelling
development finance to small enterprises. Nationwide KIK lending for fixed
investments over the period mid-1981 till end-1983 is expected to create
additional employment for some 140,000 workers at an investment cost per job
of about $4,000 in the small enterprise sector (compared to $15,000 and
$250,000 for medium- and large-scale industry).
64.       The extensive technical assistance envisaged under the project is
designed to improve the handling banks' overall capability to plan and carry
out term lending operations nationwide. The training component is expected
to improve development banking skills and increase the banks' awareness of
the financial and nonfinancial problems of small borrowers. In addition, by
providing financial and technical assistance to MOI to strengthen its
industrial support services, the project would provide the necessary non-
financial assistance critical to the growth of SSEs and SSE borrowers.
/1 In 1980, new GOI procurement procedures were implemented which include
various provisions to strengthen small local firms operating in project
areas. These procedures should ensure efficient procurement at
reasonable prices.



- 22 -
65.       The major risk to the project is the level of arrears which if
uncontrolled could erode the financial soundness and development impact of the
lending program. The project, therefore, provides for substantial technical
assistance and training to BI and the handling banks, an improved monitoring
and evaluation system, strengthening of the handling banks' appraisal and
supervision capabilities and a credit impact review.
66.       A crucial factor to project success is the effectiveness of Bl's
management of the nationwide program. BI proposes to address this risk by
strengthening the program's management structure at its head office and
regional branches and by implementing an expanded training program that is
aimed at all participating banks.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and
the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and BI, and the Report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles
of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
68.       In addition to the special features of the Loan and Project
Agreements which are referred to in Section III of Annex III, an additional
condition of effectiveness of the Loan (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan
Agreement) is that a Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been signed on behalf of
the Borrower and BI. Appropriate amendment to SEDP I (Credit 785-IND) will
be made as indicated earlier in paragraph 55.
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
70.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 13, 1981
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
- 23 -                                         Page 1 of 5 pages
INDONESLA - SOCIAL iNDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                       REFERENCE GRDUPS (WEIGHTED A.Ek.AGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ . KM.)                                                         )- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            2027.1                                     MOST RECENT             LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      292.5                1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b           ASIA & PACIFIC           ASIA & PACIFIC
GNF PER CAPITA (USG)                      80.0        130.0      380.0                  212.4                  1114.7
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KLOGRAMOF OP COAL EQUIVALENT)       129.0        120.0      278.0                  166.0                    842.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)        94.7         117.6      136.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 14.6             17.1       19.5                   20.8                    39.1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          204.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (?ILLIONS)                           350.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                      2155
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                          47.0         58.0       67.0                  193.2                   37b.1
PER SO. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    337.0           419.0      465.0                  409.6                  2350.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURF (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                            40.8         44.0       41.0                   42.0                    40.4
15-64 YRS.                            56.1         53.5       56.0                   55.0                    56.2
65 YRS. AND ABNVE                      3.1          2.5        3.0                    3.0                      3.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 2.1          2.2        1.8                    2.2                      2.4
LURBAN                                3.8          3.8        3.5                    3.9                     4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        47.0          43.0       37.0                   37.4                    28.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        23.0          18.0       17.0                   14.6                     7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 2.8           3.2        2.4                    2.6                     1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..        181.1    Z246.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             0.2       19.0*                  15.6                    39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
TIDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)             93.0        102.0      107.0                  101.4                   116.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                      89.0         92.0      105.0                   92.4                   108.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             41.0         41.0       47.0                   49.8                    60.3
DF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           6.0          6.0        6.0                   12.0                    18.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY SATE        31.0          22.0       20.0                   17.9                     5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    41.0            46.0       47.0                    50.8                    63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                          126.0                     8. 52.
ACCESS TO SAFE HATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION )
TOTAL                                  ..          3.0       12.0                   30.2                    42.4
uRBAN                                  ..         10.0       35.0                   66.0                    L2.1
RURAL                                  ..          1.0        6.0                   20.0                    29.7
ACCESS TO RXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..        12.0       15.0                   17.7                    52.8
URBAN                                             50,0       60.0                   71.3                    71.1
RURAL                                  ..          4.0        5.0                     ..                    42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            41000.O/c   26830.0   14580.0                   6322.7                  4120.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON             ..      8010.0    2818.0                  9459.0                  2213.6
POFPLATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              1360.0       1530.0    1578.0                  1758.4                   819.4
URBAN                                  ..       1090.0
RURAL                                  ..       1670.0
ADMISSIONS TER HOSPITAL BED               ..          ..       22.4                     ..                     2e.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 4.4          4.8 0
GRBAN                                 4.9          5.3
RURAL                                 4.3          4.7
AVERAGE NUMNER OF PERSONS PER ROGOM
TOTAL                                  ..          1.5
URBAN                                  ..          1.6
RURAL                                  .-          1.6         .
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                   ..          ..
URBAN
RURAL
* Estimate for 1979 is 27%.



-24-                                                     ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
INDONESIA - SOCIAL. lNDl.ATOKS UATA SHLET
INDONESIA                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AYEKAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT              LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b           ASIA & PACIFIC            ASIA & PACIFIC
,:0:; Y        )ThTAL                71.0         78.0        86.s                 80.9                     98.6
MALFi                   86.0         83.0       91.0                  94.3                     99.2
FEMAIL                 Sk.O          73.0       81.0                  66.7                     97.7
S:o2.o.veY:    0'IT; .                 k,.J         16.0       21.0                  26.6                     55.5
MAlF                    10.0         21.0       25.0                  34.8                     60.7
FFXALEF                  3.0         11.0       17.0                  18.2                     49.9
VOCATIONAL FN90-. !% OF SECONDARY)  20.0              22.0       21.0                   9.9                     13.7
PVPIL-TEACHER '-IA O0
PRIMARY                               39.0          29.0       30.0                 41.1                      34.6
SECONDARY                             14.0          13.0       i8.3                  20.5                    22.'.
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)            39.0         57.0       62.0                  40.9                     80.8
CONS UMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER rHOUSAND
PIOPULATION                            1.0           2.0        3.6                   1.8                       .0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             7.0          21.0       37.0                 25.8
TV RECEIVERS PEP THIOUSAN'D
POPULATION                             0.1           0.8        2.3                   2.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRC'ULATION PER
THOUSA:iD POPULATION                       ..           ..       16.0                  13.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..                ..        0.9                    ..                      4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    34752.5           41547.3   48610.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                      27.9          31.0       29.0                 29.4                      36.d
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                 74.8          66.3       60.1                  70.5                    -,.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                     8.4           9.7       11.0                 11.6                     2!.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                   36.7          35.3       34.6                  37.9                     39.1
MALE                                     54.2         49.5       48.6                  51.3                    -,. 5
FEMALE                                  20.0          21.6       20.8                  23.7                     29.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                   1.2          1.3         1.2                  1.2                      1.2
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS          ..         33.7/d
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..              52.0/d
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS          ..          6.87         ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS         ..          17.37/d
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..            ..      150.0/e              107.8
RURLAL                                  ..            ..      107.07;               86.5                    192.i
ESTIHATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..            ..      145.I0e
RURAL                                   ..            ..       98.I7;                  ..                   182.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                   ..            ..       59.0                 46.2
RURAL                                   ..            ..       65.0                 51.7                     33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetir. means.  Coverage of countries
amor.g tne indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   2962;  /d Income recipients;  /e 1980.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 25 -                                                                     ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5 pages
DEFINITIONS OF sociAL rINDITATYIts
boe.Alt.u.~no.   o   ru   roeoto    oral    de   h  mast sutbortct iv                            oreibl.ittshould  sla  be note  that they say not be inter
nationaL   ~...it o<t Trcooc  abe tao ~fetanna dloddfiniin    n   oopsusdb   ifrn    onrIes I  -oclietin   hb  data,  Th. da. are, no..e-
t.he) re,Z_t         dnro    ic               otd,  ;nt.A  at  trends, andchauttole    etanemajo  diff---oe   btwoen coutyien
Thorrrtrnncr cotuno r..   . to  taco  <..0.  grou  ofthenl sonj  cutry and (2) ac -nfy group with  -omeh., oig'ar averap,l.  ..  .no    than the country grop
of  hota  to   coto  Cc  pttoo coa)- oioa  tl   uprtrs  groP wher  `NiddlabovCine1 forth Atfrica and MIdlel East  In cMsoc  becaus.e cfsrne
.ncoc-olcur la:lnttrt   ctoo caelr-co group daco the avrge             Ir Populatio    ege  arihmei.           ea  for  -ah  nicaico- t-doos only ah.ca
testcal  olobtotoartt t  a  r , od  Ioa fr tat  ndiato.  Sncethetonrag  o~ocufrln aongtheindcatrstec-ot niaraclltilth                                  o
daaa   I   c  ulan  catoIoti.urr  edt   eei                              avrgeso n  idator to another   These averge  am  or. a..                 ocoprn   the u-1u
at  it ldin-it  aat            amn   .ncoro    t   eteteocs groups.
LAND dALl (th-s-d nybe.)                                                                       PoaliO pr phoyattia  - inpulaian titidnd by tmeS  at prat-licin   pay-
Total - Tata  suf.ac rr  co-epolttIocae  and inleoda teta.uianqalfe  tr eamd-ica  -uh-  at un-Loeity level.
Eliaora-ttst  o   giu tota  are  andtmprrl  or permanetly                           Pa   PainarNrigPeraon - PopulatIon dioided by rashe  ofLri                    icn
foe  -.rcy p. atcrea, narkot and k1ctehe garden. or 'to lie Yfallen, 1977 dais,             mate end female. graduateuss   pr-tio-  nurs, sd mesiePt-m nrses
Psaltisa  gas,idtal Ned - totel.rh. sad  -rurl - 'Pplat ios SI tal.
GNP PER TAhITi loS       A   t   aluatmtsatorenaoe   rom   e-                                    abs   and rura) dvddb   heir remei-e sabr of btesitl1 bedm
cuIuted tonue  o              -trlo  oold an World l.kAth 1 btla   9I77-79 beatL.; 1960,       avileble in poblic and peti-e  geners1 snd speolelead hespita1 and re-
1970. and  19t dat.-                                                                           hbabiitatiantatrs.         -apitals areeseblisbhasnm peemasetly mtaffed
by at leat one physician.  fEteblisfmer ,pravidisg pnisoipslly ooattdi.1
ENERGY CONSiUMPTION PER CAPITA - Auno .     c..    ro       tmerileeg   anl                      tr   r o  inclded,aura  hopitals, henener, inrOads health sad -ndiaal
adlianite, pecrolne, ctrIgeanhya,  tncersdgohrallc-                                          oeamntprm             O   mtaffed by a physiri.a (bac by a medit.1al asiseet.
orcIi~yI to kilogram   of coal eqiaetper topits; 1960. 1971, and 1976                          marin, mIdwife, etc.) which offer in-psLiet  --andstiae aed provide 
data,                                                                                          limited rea ga of medical facilities.  For stetie tite1 paopame  aebs  hespi-
tale imolude WiHl. priecIpe1 gererml sad_epeo lsite hespi tell. and raea1
POPULATION AND VITAL. STATISTICS                                                                 boPini        a rrrlhompinaim and me Ica  sad materity oanees
Tota  Popu1 tio.. Rid-Your (milli-c) - At of July 1; 1960, 1970, aed 1978                    Admiemiane  er         ..ame Bel td - Tota  number of admissions to or discharges
data.                                                                                        free haspitale divided by the number of bade.
Cehan PulasotnoI (oproso  of toa)-IdA     of urban to tota 'papalatian;
dIfferent defiltioa of or en srenmYaffeot  -aparsility of dete                          HOlUSING
amn   ...ntrill; 190  1970, ood 1978 data.AnrmDito   'oshld(eenRt hoshl)-oilorbam. and erl
Puoulaion Prv)ot-Io                                                                           A houshold a..miete  f      an f        idvdas  h   hr   ivieg qa.rtsr
PouainIn veer 2000 C-Tretpoplation projettln'             r   me   n16                and their maca meaI..  b boardet or  ad,er may or may mar he lnoLdad Es
total papulatOoabY .aead sanae  their meooltyI and fetility reEse.                        the.humbod forstesia  purposee.
Projeotion parsanters for mortalitdy rates oumprise of three levlsases                  A-erag  .=atbr af per.... ear Lao  - toal , urban, end rural - Average .
ing lite eapac--.y an hirto isco-nn  with c..strys pe   m -pins incame                    her of per---a pet roan I  all unbar.s-druealr--pied tonv-tiomal
lavo, end  Oele Ott  oce-o...cY eta iitg   tOy5yar.Th. Par-                               d.elliags, r-penti-ely.  OWellitoga  .  o.de  a-erae t -mat-rem seA
manors for fertility nae alan have three leel-         sese   detlise  is                  ucancopied pati..
fetLit   acodigtoYcmrlve   tdp     family planning perfar"ance.                        Atoe.. to   lnece    orne   fdslvn  - total, uban, and  -ese1 -
Each ....nnry is then asgo    nnof thesin oaebinanton   of matnlity                       Coonional dwellings-t   ltecn    nlvigqatr   spreng
aod fertility irends far projecit   purpee.                                               of tata1, urban,a  rPe.welig                repct-ey
brartio..ary p.p.lati.   - I.  a stationery populatintees no growth s.lat
the birth rt   aault   h  death Rate,and alma the age structure re-    EDDEATIONR
sine vnta...      ThiaInahieve.d. Yal  sle  fertility rtne dealime En                  adutdEe           Lee  Ratioa
the replacemat leve  ad unit sat reprad-tein  resin, wb. eabh ge..ena.ie                 Primeary sobsol - tatel. male and female - Iroam  total, male sad femal
atome  teploe   itnelff ..a.ctly.  The etatinasry pepalasien eisa wee                        esr.oll_ne  of all  gem at the primacy leve  am perer.angsa af rmepantlee
aetlesed ante  ai the        hepbeaedoegamisim thth    eulta                                 primayeba-g   papuletiem ..oPm-lly in-ludes  hildet aged 6-11
in the year 2000, aed rho rana of decline of fernility rate te replete-                     year  hot edjamted Par diff-eret lengths of primary ndastias; far
Yea  atgtieaary parulatian J. eranhed - The yea  when tetaiesey pustn                          sInsma papis eira held or ateva -hs effiiY mhani  D.age.a
mien has been ee..cbed.                                                                   Sasdaro         -Ioa  - natal.mle end  female - CampaLed sa ebev-;eecnd
Paooletiao Density                                                       a~~~~~~~dac.ia I requires en least fou  yer  of  ppeavd proimaey intatrstisa;
Per so. ho.- Mid-year pepoletian Per sqaure kilamter (105   oerr          f)a                  p-sidss geneal v          .anam.  a.  r ee...bsr treiniag imeergoti... f or papib.
Pare.  ha.  ag    1atua      -ad - Cospatad me shor  far sgrirnltara1 lend                       tell   o   1dmd.L   f   .  ...panda...oe                ....se   are      l
only.                                                                                     V ..ssissel asrai1met  Pero..at of secand.rrl - Venotimall i-stitatiass
PParletian ARe Structure fRerc..otl - Children  f0-14 yeses), warkise-age (iS-                   isolude tebhina1, tadastri.l, or other pengr-  whiob operansteid.abg-
64 yess)  and reird (AS years end avr)e  p-aratagea ad mid-ymer papa-                          deetly or am depaommt   f.s....dmyintitu nioss
laion   1960, 1975  end 1979 data.                                                         Paeul-te...ber panic - Ptiemry. and esederyl - Total etadents anrIled is
"P'utltlnir      he  Nt  (RaeEas.t) -  .tatl - dA-tal growh raies af tonal mid-                  primary end ms...adsy ievni  divided by ebamer  of tmmh.a. ie the
yerppGlat~ien   fr190-S   960a-70, and 1970-78.aerpndglvls
P     G-ltie  rei  late tre(rte.s  -   barha  - Asennal greeh rstas of urba  papa-       Adl   iteayrnperdt      ieeeeue                        el   ora   e   ie
rlunloas far 1950-AS. 1960-y0, and 1970-7g.            thaap-ernetsge of natal adat pepulettee aged 15 years  aad ove r.
Ceda Rirth late fpre thsosand) - Manual live bireha per nhn..m.d of mld-yegr
poaai tn:160, 197, ad19ids.oNlgTg
Crude les  lte Soe  ths-an) - Atanal deaths per the..aa.d of sid-ymsr                        Pmgeeasee Cars Semr tho-amed PRansltiag   - P.....eagr nt  cepsmte
Gpopulanien;   Aa. 1,M9700, and 1979 data.                                                    oars.. Leeing lame than eight Per....a; esaldee embulana, he.rsmeand
lraeea Enrodttan lte- Avera.ge numbe:r ofde-ghtern a  oa   ill bear Em                        military v-hials..
bee enme  repo-dutive Period if shn. msieoe  poesmt ngm-mpoif it fee-                      WinaRi  . Eoivrs fPre  th-aand papalatiori - All types of rece ivers far reAM
tilloy rats;us"lY  .iv.-...r.vragee sodin-glis1960, 1970, and lily7.                         br-deasce to  eea  pablic per thensend.at epulation; smldes melt-
Pesily Pleaine - I c.eRtra.: Aasaa .Pit..of natid.. - ana  nabee of ....sae                    tense-,d eseier  .is ogomrie  mad in years when esgistretien of radia  g
adbrf     csrldeis   re    upoe   fetae   eily plaae  pragrak.                              esa inefet;L dte far            yentyara may set be  :   . bepaale  t..e mess
PilPsaio,G-Oae       Prer.ent of married wse  -   eroetag  of maeeied                   taneriss abolished liwM ing.
ese   oPcild-bearing age f15-44 yeare)  hbc sebirth-cantr-1 dsvi.s. en                  aTeiY         m e  the..sa.d neetletise) - TV rece.ivers far bre  adet to
all married osmen te aena age group.                                 gensrel1 publia yet th-sand papalatiom;  -noldem  aeliosased TV ree..ivees
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~in anuaries smd in years whenregistoetion of TV seEs was in  Wffatt.
7001 gIlD aOTRITiOif                                              Nenstaner Cirealan~~~~ian fear thoamed popultis) .- Ihows the everega eIr...l-
laden of Pond Predantian earp    oita f967-1.405) - laden of per cepita aeaei                tie aI   f  daily gneralinrs  aeeae dfined -    priadice1 ptbh
predattian of all fon.     oaiis   Prodati..aaenludem  seed end feedand                     dli         ...a devtd primril   o  s ding genera  sews..  It is onse14Ldre
isa   oene   erbseie:. Cammdit lee cavmr primary goads (e...g. eugera               to he "daily' if In aPpas at lat faa  tim    a week.
tea  re ecluad).Aggrgat Pronnnao   eb_nse  ieg97 bta eiior  eld. during the year, itluding edmimea    En. driv-in gimama
oTio...l average Prod..r. rieeihts; 19h1-65, 1970, aed 196date.                              adkmthile uit.
Per taring aupply of nalrie  (rr.n  of enira"eas) - Caspatad fr rab
ea r1ysoinlet   atse .fo   sppliem  avaible. in noastry Pan capita n.    0C
yen day.  Available suppliesnspi              . aei  produotie, impartm  lees           Total Lahor Fome  (th-sands) - aenasioolly arrive pemne. isaading
_nporo,j and ohasm  ino inntEk.  Ret sappliae.  uolude animal feed, smeds,                are   ooe  npn...e    t   nooigbnewvs   naet,sr
queniissed So fod pr-o..siag, and l.s.ms in dietoibatien.  Rsqair-                       Definitians isnvaisamaasetrieeaoenancaparable; 1960. 1970 end
menra were estimated by FAO b..and en physiolagiea1 ..sede foe   -Ime  enti-               1978 data.
viyan  health Ic..mideriag  -mi-ralnsta1 tempertutrs, bady weights, age                 Femal fPrere t)   -        Pael  labar farom  as pero..atge of totml lebee fame..
edsadie tributi.. ad papa1atios, aad allowing 10 perie_t for waste at               A.i;.rPrree)-iaa   ansi   amn,frety    ais 
Poere.aid  level  1916o       190fn            Y17   ae                                     fimhing as percentage of tRial laher foote; 1960, 1970 and 1978 date.
Per  apia esrlo rE  rtsis (arom   per day) - Protein aestent of Per capita           Industry (peroemt) '- ighr faros in miming. oasrei               mmfetrn
set eupply at foad par day.  Nea saeply of fond Is defined as shv.-   Re-                  an.ioros,   aa   n.ata ernaeatrtdlhrfras  iA.g
quirmete foar all coustirse   establimhed by USDA Provide for miima                        1970 sad 1976 desa.
alaut   f 60 gram  at ta tal protete Pee day and 00 gream  af  Wanml en           ParEiiaiels  (e st) - total, male, end female - Psetiaipetia  er
pusproatei,of whio   0 gros  should be animal pateim.  Teeead                            eaiviy ratsae  upnd em esne1, male, and female labor f.eesm
ards are la-o  than nhb.ofna  75 gees  of ntotl peeteim  and 23 graem        f 50.L&                            1  l    n     -,p.lt-f.1..                        P,t-7
animalproomc as a  averge far the world, prspa..sd by FAO is rho Thied              pe           :Isgs   f Esl   aeaAfml   auaina   l  ee epniey
Wrand Pond Sury -      6-5  1970 and 1977 dana.                                            1960,!1970, en  1975 deto.  These are SILO'g pertialpatias ratss rsfl.otleg
______ _____ _____ _____ _____ ______ _____          din-        see-m  seiro tare    f   the   papl:tise,   end   long   time   treed.  A   few    aeti-
pen cAriEs rrutei  mutely from animal end aolla - Prtein mapply of feed                      manem,  aretfees, teiae  aurm.
rie   rmaigl   e   ussi   iaprdy   961-5  190gnt97,ae                            onamia Dsreadmna ltis  - latie   f popolatina ader 15 and AN mand rme
Child  eae...     i6ealn l    ate )rrtagnd) - MAnual deaths per the-mad is                     to  b  ntal ea  ERese
age gr.ap i-t. years, in ohlldrao in this age group; foar mans developing Rea-                                    f..
tries data deived fro  life  emblem; 1960, 1970 and 1977 dane,                          INCOEa  DISTgRIBoTIa
HMTF.   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~. P-eantase of Privmc  Income (both In camh aead kisn) - R.ceived by richest
lifetarctuan  E lib (ear) -Aveaga  esht o  yers a  lie  rseling        5 peen.nt, richost 20 p-rcant, pooreet 20 perosst, sod ponrest 40C peramt
enbrh   1960, 1970 and I97R data.
Inan   ortality Rlae (-e thouasad) A-oAsal deaths of infann  under Rae year   POVERTY TARGET GtOUPS
oFL ag  pr tha....nd live birihe.                                                           Emnimetad Aheolint Poverny Darns Leve fUSS prontl-sbaadrrl
Nosbeaof Pral   ttl   rbn   abua)   ihranelna s  en safe                                     nurtin _iu ly adequate diet plus eaete   e-fend reqfairmnanet le sno
aster sopply lietlodee treated myfeon waters or  stresated bat unos-Emeinsed                 affordsbla.
water auth an that from  pnunerted boreholee, springs, and ea.sitery wells) as             Estimated RelativeP .averty imas  level (1$11 per oseine) - aryA   re,nea-
perontafte of thel. repctv   popuatios,  T  en arbanre    public                            tua   eai_da p arty  mans leve Is one-third ofaeng  pe  opita
d  iunal  or adpt lacand net mere tben 200 meters from a haee may he                      parensi in.-m  of the cot-try.  UrbenL leve ISi  derived 0fsos the rural
...nsidedn   had bina w~ithin ....mnable. ac..s. of that b.ooin.  In rurli "rs.s             leve   tnh sdjoenmat far high.o cast of liviog In srbeesen....
reasonbleace    ouldSaly  ~thatoha h.ousaif a or mebhrm  of the heagehold                  EstmtdPnlnocOlmLelt Paeo   sae n                                L , irret) - urban
dt mo  hav  to  ceodacspr iovtteat  pat of the day in ftsEhiae nhe                  and erl-Preto  poslttn(rbnar  vrl)aa  r V                           shelate  ou
fesloi".'e octet ceada.                                                                                   P _    tf__o___ __- ;d.I)Ioo"
r 1- fPan~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nnhrER
of hose       It,aee  and nests-wter by ester-heren.  ypetn   or tha use atOt..18
pit Orlve a:nd similar lneltee



- 26 -                                 ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1979 /a                     ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTHI (X, constant prices)
US$ Mln    %          1960-65      1965-70     1970-75      1975-79
GNP at Miarket Prices           46,939  100.0           1.9           4.9         7.4          6.5
Gross Domestic Investment        11,069   23.6          3.3          11.5        18.3         10.5
Gross National Saving           12,362   26.3           5.8           5.1        20.3         20.3
Current Account Balance           1,293    2.8
Exports of Goods, NFS           14,742   31.4           1.5           7.8         9.2         11.1
Imports of Goods, NFS           11,331   24.1           0.2          10.9        22.1         14.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added        Labor Force /b    V.A. Per Worker
US$ Mln    %          Mln    %_              US*      Z
Agriculture                      11,624   31.1       35.3    62.6            329    49.7
Industry                        12,672   33.9         4.7      8.3        2,696   407.3
Services                        13,043   35.0        13.4    23.8            973   147.0
Unallocated                           -    -          3.0      5.3
Total/Average                37,339  100.0       56.4   100.0            662   100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
CENTRAL GOVERNt4IENT
(Rp billion)                               % of GDP
1978/79    1979/80                          1978    1979
Current Receipts                   4,266      6,697                          19.4    21.8
Current Expenditure                2,530      3,920                          11.5    12.8
Current Surplus                    1,736      2,777                           7.9      9.1
Capital Expenditures               2,473      3,889                          11.3    12.7
External Assistance (net)            739      1,114                           3.4      3.6
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES
1975      1976      1977      1978      1979    1980 (June)
(Million Rp outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                  1,978    2,631    3,131        3,809     5,216         6,480
Bank Credit to Public Sector             990    1,051         883     1,442     1,065           -72
Bank Credit to Private Sector          1,376      1,737    2,017    2,605       3,160        3,607
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP   15.6           17.0      16.7      17.5      17.u
General Price Index (1973 = 100)          166       190       214       232       309
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                     12.9       14.5      12.6       8.4      33.2
Bank Credit to Public Sector           373.7        6.2    -16.0       63.3    -26.1
Bank Credit to Private Sector           16.0       26.2      16.1      29.2      21.3
Note:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
/a Exchange rate of Rp 415 = US$1 up to November 14, 1978, Rp 625 = US$1, thereafter.
/b  Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
"Unallocated" consists mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
Not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
February 13, 1981



- 27 -                                           ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 5 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
(US$ million at current prices)
Actual                  Estimate            Projected
1976      1977      1978      1979     1980        1981      1982      1985
Balance of Payments /a
1.  Exports                                      9,213   10,861   11,353   17,488   22,656    26,349   32,159   46,443
(a)  Oil and LNG (gross)                     6,350    7,354    7,374   11,323   16,903    19,806   23,668   32,039
(b)  Nonoil                                  2,863    3,507    3,979    6,165    5,753          6,543    8,491   14,404
2.  Imports                                     -9,297  -10,686  -11,493  -14,233  -18,236   -22,657  -28,203  -44,106
(a)  Oil sector                             -2,640   -2,909   -3,364   -4,439   -5,884    -7,712   -9,495  -11,554
(b)  Nonoil                                 -6,167   -7,241   -7,543   -9,230  -11,503   -14,143  -17,534  -30,663
(c)  NFS (net)                                -490      -536      -586      -659      -849    -1,002   -1,174   -1,889
3.  Resource balance                                -84       175      -140    3,225    4,420        3,692    3,956    2,337
4.  Factor services                                -718      -865   -1,015   -1,261        -957       -679      -370       542
(a)  Interest on public debt                  -318      -441      -485      -772      -807       -942   -1,069   -1,398
(b)  Other (net)                              -400      -424      -530      -489      -150        263       699    1,940
5.  Capital grants                                  100       100       100       100       100        100        50        50
6.  Balance on current account                     -702      -590   -1,055    2,094    3,563         3,113    3,636    2,929
7.  Direct foreign investment                       287       285       271       217       170        170       200       300
8.  Public M & LT loans
(a)  Disbursements                           2,332    1,956    1,637    1,940    2,864          2,881    3,053    2,995
(b)  Amortization                             -437      -825      -978   -1,335       -987    -1,043   -1,193   -1,885
(c)  Net disbursements                       1,895    1,131        660       604    1,877       1,838    1,860    1,110
9.  Other capital (net)                            -479     -175        832   -1,221   -3,000    -2,600   -1,863   -1,048
10.  Change in reserves (- increase)             -1,001       -651      -708   -1,690   -2,610    -2,521   -3,783   -3,291
11.  Net official reserves                         1,557    2,208    2,916    4,606    7,216          9,737   13,520   23,901
Reserves in months of nonoil imports
+ NFS                                        2.8       3.4       4.3       5.6       7.0        7.7       8.7       8.8
Public Loan Commitments                                                                                             Average
IBRD                                               564       406      432        726                              1977-79
IDA                                                  -         -       119        89  Merchandise Exports   Amount    %
Other multilateral                                 109       136       199       235
Government                                         953       648       775    1,152  Oil and LNG (gross)    8,684   65.2
Others /b                                       1,194        436       962    1,313  Timber                     1,347   10.2
Total                                           3,134    1,727    2,704    3,825  Rubber                          802    6.1
Coffee                     616    4.7
Public Debt and Debt Service                                                            Palm oil                    227    1.7
Total debt outstanding and disbursed (end                                             Tin                         322    2.4
of period)                                   10,018   11,671   13,125   13,317  Manufactures                   534    4.0
Including undisbursed                          14,551   16,153   18,952   20,832  Other                           702    5.3
Amortization                                       437       825       978    1,335
Interest                                          318       441       485       772        Total              13,234  100.0
Total debt service                                 755    1,266    1,463    2,107
Outstanding
Debt Burden                                                                                                      Dec. 31, 1979
Public debt service/exports (%)                    8.2      11.7     12.9      12.0  External Debt            Amount    %
Public debt service/GDP (x)                       2.0       2.8       3.0       4.3
Public debt service/Government revenues                                               Disbursed only:
(x)                                            10.9      14.8      17.0      16.3    IBRD                      739    5.5
IDA                      525    3.9
Average Terms on Public Debt                                                              Other multilateral        176    1.3
Interest/DOD at beginning of period (%)            4.0       4.4      4.2        5.9    Governments            7,071   53.1
Debt service/DOD at beginning of period                                                 Suppliers              1,487   11.2
(x)                                             9.4      12.6      12.5      16.1    Financial instit.    2,927   22.0
Bonds                    164    1.2
Rate of Exchange                                                                          Other                     227    1.7
August 1971 Through November 14, 1978                                                   Total                 13,317  100.0
US$1.00  = Rp 415                                                                   Incl. undisbursed       20,832  156.4
Rp 1,000 = US$2.41
Since November 15, 1978
US$1.00 = Rp 625
Rp 1,000 = US$1.60
/a  Balance of payments figures are on an April to March fiscal year basis.
lb  This includes suppliers' credits, financial institutions and bonds.
East Asia and Pacific Programs
March 23, 1981



- 28 -                     ANNEX II
Page 1 of 26 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of February 28, 1981)
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Seven Loans and twenty-seven Credits fully disbursed  356.51  432.43            -
259     1971   Tea                                                15.00        0.29
300     1972   Population                                         13.20        1.06
319     1972   Fourth Agricultural Estates                        11.00        0.59
358     1973   North Sumatra Smallholder Development               5.00        0.80
387     1973   Third Education                                    13.50        3.51
400     1973   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea                   7.80       4.42
428     1974   Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                      16.50        8.74
451     1974   Fourth Technical Assistance                         5.00        1.04
479     1974   Bali Tourism                                       16.00        4.84
480     1974   Fisheries Credit                                    6.50        0.76
514     1975   Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                     30.00       11.94
785     1978   Small Enterprise Development Project               40.00       10.87
827     1978   Rural Credit                                       30.00       22.31
869     1979   Polytechnic                                        49.00       47.04
898     1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                         10.00        9.43
919     1979   Transmigration II                                  67.00       60.18
946     1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                       12.00       11.45
984     1980   Smallholder Rubber Dev. Project                    45.00       44.14
995     1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                               45.00       44.75
996     1980   National Agriculture Extension II                  42.00       42.00
1014     1980   National Ag. Research Project                      30.00       30.00
1049     1975   Five Cities Water Supply                   14.50                1.76
1100     1975   Sixth Irrigation                           65.00               27.82
1179     1976   Agricultural Research & Extension          21.50                7.96
1197     1976   National Resource Survey & Mapping         13.00                6.28
1236     1976   Fourth Highway                            130.00               52.12
1237     1976   Fourth Education                           37.00               14.61
1250     1976   Second Shipping                            54.00               21.57
1254     1976   Third Fertilizer Expansion (PUSRI IV)  70.00                    1.07
1259     1976   Fifth Power                                90.00                7.65
1267     1976   National Food Crops Extension              22.00                6.45
1268     1976   Seventh Irrigation                         33.00               12.05



- 29 -                          ANNEX II
Page 2 of 26 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
1318    1977   Transmigration and Rural Development   30.00                 12.02
1336    1977   Second Urban Development                   52.50              9.62
1337    1977   Tanjung Priok Port                         32.00             13.28
1363    1977   Second PDFCI                               15.00              2.41
1365    1977   Sixth Power                               116.00             41.65
1373    1977   Nutrition Development                      13.00             10.40
1433    1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education           19.00             15.25
1434    1977   Eighth Irrigation                          63.00             46.34
1435    1977   Ninth Irrigation                           35.00             18.67
1437    1977   Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO III)  40.00                  3.91
1472    1977   Second Population                          24.50             16.15
1486    1978   Non-Formal Education                       15.00              8.62
1499    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I         65.00             43.50
1513    1978   Seventh Power                            109.00              74.61
1578    1978   Tenth Irrigation                         140.00             127.29
1579    1978   Eleventh Irrigation                        31.00             25.36
1604    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders II    65.00                 62.77
1645    1979   Twelfth Irrigation                         77.00             65.47
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                   54.00              46.97
1691    1979   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control          50.00             46.51
1692    1979   Second Agricultural Training               42.00             40.11
1696    1979   Fifth Hlighway                           130.00             121.19
1703    1979   Fourth BAPINDO                             50.00             39.68
1707    1979   Transmigration II                         90.00              90.00
1708    1979   Eighth Power                             175.00             155.38
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                        36.00             34.70
1751    1980   Nucleus Estates and S'holders III         99.00              91.25
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                     116.00            116.00
1835    1980   Nucleus Estates and S'holders IV           42.00             41.16
1840    1980   Nat. Ag. Research Project                 35.00              35.00
1869    1980   Third Population Project                   35.00             35.00
1872    1980   Ninth Power Project                      253.00             245.18
1898    1981   S-holder Coconut Dev. Project             46.00              46.00
1904    1981   University Development Project             45.00             45.00
1950    1981   Tenth Power Project                      250.00             250.00
1958    1981   Swamp Reclamation Project /a              22.00              22.00
/a Not yet effective.



- 30 -                          ANNEX II
Page 3 of 26 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                 Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                        Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Total Bank loans and IDA credits               3,397.00  931.80
less cancellations                             -15.49   -1.47
Total                                          3,381.51  930.33
of which has been repaid                       -67.90   -1.72
Total now outstanding                          3,313.61  928.61
Amount sold to third party             28.24
Anount repaid by third party          -26.91      -1.33
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a             3,311.28  928.61
Total undisbursed                              1,986.59  360.17   2,346.76
/a Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 31 -                        ANNEX II
Page 4 of 26 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of February 28, 1981)
Fiscal                                Type of            Loan    Equity    Total
year          Obligor                business           ---- (US$ million) ----
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement              10.6       2.5       13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                  Textiles             2.5       0.8        3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles               2.0       0.5        2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia         Cable                2.8       0.4        3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles             4.5       1.5        6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Tnt. Hotel    Tourism               11.0         -       11.0
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               5.4       0.7       6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles               2.0       0.3       2.3
1974   P.T. Monsanto Pan            Electronics          0.9         -       0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                   Devel. Fin. Co.        -       0.5       0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles             2.4       0.6       3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               5.0       1.5       6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement                 -       1.1       1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles             0.4         -        0.4
1977   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles             1.3       0.2       1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                 Textiles             0.9         -       0.9
1980   P.T. Papan Sejahtera         Capital Market       4.0       1.2       5.2
1980   P.T. Indo American
Industries           Glass Dinnerware  11.1         0.9      12.0
1980   P.T. Semen Andalas           Cement and
Indonesia            Construction
Material           48.0       5.0       53.0
Total gross commitments                            114.8     17.7      132.5
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                 70.7      2.2       72.9
Total held by IFC                                   44.1     15.5       59.6
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)   29.1           6.0      35.1



ANNEX II
- 32                           Page 5 of 26 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Page No.
Agriculture
Irrigation (514, 1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, 1578,                               6-9
1579, 1645, 1691, 1811 and 995)
Other Agriculture Production (319, 358, 400, 480,                            9-12
1318, 1707/919, 1499, 1604, 1751,
1835, 984 and 1898)
Agriculture Support Services (1179, 1267, 996 and 1840/1014)                12-13
Rural Development (946)                                                      13
Agro-Business and Credit (785 and 827)                                         14
Education (387, 869, 1237, 1433, 1486, 1692 and 1904)                         14-17
Energy (1259, 1365, 1513, 1708, 1872 ana 1950)                                17-18
Industrial Development and Finance
Fertilizer Production (1254)                                                 18
Industrial Estates (428)                                                     19
Development Finance Companies (1363, 1437 and 1703)                          19
Population and Nutrition
Population (300, 1472 and 1869)                                             19-20
Nutrition (1373)                                                             21
Technical Assistance (451, 898 and 1197)                                      21-22
Transportation
Highways (1236 and 1696)                                                     22
Marine Transport (1250)                                                      23
Ports (1337)                                                                 23
Tourism (479)                                                                  24
Urban Development (1336 and 1653)                                             24-25
Water Supply (1049 and 1709)                                                   25
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 33 -
ANNEX 11
Page 6 of 26 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRI CULTuRE
Irrigation
Credit No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: ;30 Million Credit of
October 3, 1974; Effective Dlate:  January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Initial organizational difficulties, extensive changes in the design
of project works and delays in awarding civil works contracts are expected to
substantially delay project completion. Consequently, the closing date of
December 31, 1980, has been postponed for two years to December 31, 1982.
All major contracts for civil works have been awarded.  The total project
cost is currently estimated to be about 90% over the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  $65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closinig Date: June 30, 1982
The project is currently expected to be comipleted by March 1984,
about three years behind the original completion date. This is mainly due to
a delay of more than one year in the completion of bidding documents, followed
by a delay of another year due to delayed land acquisition, delayed payments
to contractors and the effects of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation. The total
project cost is currently estimnated at $227 million, which is 38% above the
appraisal estimate. Disbursements are currently about 50% of the appraisal
estimate, but are expected to significantly increase in FY80/31. All major
contracts have been awarded and sufficient funds are allocated for the
programmed construction this year.
Loan No. 1268    Seventh Irrigation:  $33 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Construction is underway in the North Sadang and tertiary develop-
ment areas, and studies being funded under the project are expected to be
completed shortly. The mapping progara is progressing satisfactorily.
Disbursements are ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation:  $63 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project is being implemented satisfactorily, although disburse-
ments are currently about 80% behind the appraisal estimate largely due to



- 34 -                       ANNEX II
Page 7 of 26 pages
delays in the Madiun rehabilitation and Ciujung drainage components, and
partly due to late payment to contractors. Disbursements are expected to
improve in succeeding semesters because of increased activity in these
components.
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  $35 Million Loan of June 6, 1977; Effective
Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
After an initial slow start in the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung Irrigation
System, which is to provide new irrigation facilities to transmigrants and
local farmers over a 3,500 ha area, good progress is being made in awarding
all major contracts, including the construction of a pumping station. The
balance of the contracts are proposed to be awarded in FY80/81. When the
pumping station is completed and plant installed, water can be supplied to
part of the 3,500 ha area by December 1981, or at the latest by March 1982.
The Sedeku Irrigation Rehabilitation and Drainage System is proceeding without
the Iragung Dam being built. The Government decided not to construct major
dams in Java, including the Iragung. This has required a review of the
designs and a revision of cost estimates to be incorporated in continuing
contracts and future works, thus causing further delays. Because of the
delays in project implementation, the project is expected to be completed by
March 1983, a delay of 21 months, presuming no new constraints develop. It is
expected the current closing date of December 31, 1981 will have to be
extended.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  $140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
Delay in implementation of the project components is about 12
months. Some delays have occurred in awarding contracts and the construction
program will have to be accelerated to achieve the completion target. Pro-
gress of studies of dams and irrigation subprojects is behind schedule due
to the late awarding of contracts for aerial mapping for the Kali Progo, Way
Seputih and Way Sekampung areas. Progress on studies at Dumoga and Gumbasa
has been satisfactory. The staff of the PIBD, the Executive Body for Major
Irrigation Projects with World Bank Assistance, will have to be strengthened
in order to cope with the increased construction program from FY80/81 onwards.
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  $31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Due to slow progress the project is currently estimated to be
completed in March 1983, a delay of about one year. The Hydrologic
Measurement Program, after initial inaction on the consultants work program,
and delay of one year in procurement of equipment, is now progressing well and



- 35 -                       ANNEX II
Page 8 of 26 pages
estimated to be completed by September 1982. Studies for a master plan for
the development of the Cimanuk River Basin were completed in January 1980 and
a final report is under preparation. Detailed designs of flood control works
of the Lower Cimanuk, Cipanas and Ciwaringin Rivers have been completed and
construction is proceeding under Loan 1691-IND. Due to unfavorable foundation
conditions at the dam site and GOI's decision not to construct large dams on
Java this component is indefinitely postponed and an alternative use of loan
funds is under consideration.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  $77 Million Loan of December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: May 10, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The Jatiluhur Tertiary Development on an area of 186,000 ha is
proceeding on schedule; construction on 50,866 ha has been completed and the
balance of the area would be covered in three fiscal years 80/81 to 82/83.
The Cisedane drainage works have not commenced due to a delay in the
acquisition of construction to FY81/82, except one contract programmed to be
awarded in FY80/81. Completion of this component of the project is currently
estimated to be delayed by over one year subject to right of-way acquisition
being completed early 1981.  Consultants for studies of tidal swamp areas and
drainage blocks are engaged and expected to be completed by July 1981 with a
delay of six to eighteen months compared to appraisal estimates. The project
is currently estimated to be completed by March 1984, a delay of one year.
Loan No. 1691   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control:  $51 Million Loan of
May 7, 1979; Effective Date: October 16, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
Initial progress is satisfactory. Consultants have been engaged for
the construction supervision and studies provided under the project. The
construction of river training works and flood protection levees under six
on-going contracts is progressing well and on schedule. Land acquisition for
the rights-of-way is being handled with the assistance of private land
surveying companies which has significantly reduced the time to about six
months. No further difficulties are foreseen for this aspect of the project.
Loans No. 1811 Fourteenth Irrigation Project: $116 Million Loan of April 3,
1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: January 31, 1986
The main components of the project are construction and rehabilita-
tion of drainage and flood protection works on the Serang River to reduce
flooding of some 61,000 ha of farm land, rehabilitation of Madiun irrigation
systems serving about 65,000 ha area of Stage II and tertiary development
serving 120,000 ha in the Pemali Comal and Pekalen Sampean Sub-projects. The
project is in the initial stages of mobilization for the Serang River. Works
in Madiun area and tertiary development are progressing well ahead of
schedule. Consultants contracts are being finalized.



- 36 -                      ANNEX II
Page 9 of 26 pages
Credit No. 995 Fifteenth Irrigation Project: $45 Million Credit of April 3,
1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: January 31, 1985
This credit was declared effective on July 3, 1980.
Loan No. 1958 Swamp Reclamation Project: $22 Million Loan of March 31, 1981;
Not Yet Effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
This loan has not yet been declared effective.
Other Agriculture Production Projects
Credit No. 319 Fourth Agricultural Estates: $11 Million Credit of
June 28, 1972; Effective Date: January 30, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The planting program under the project has been completed and the
construction of processing facilities should be completed by the middle of
1981. Production, profitability and costs of PNP X continue to be satisfac-
tory. PNP X has expanded its operations further under Loan 1499-IND
(NES I), and its work on planting rubber for smallholders under NES I and
under Loan 1318-IND (Transmigration I) is progressing well. Although there
are some temporary difficulties relating to completion of the palm oil mill
and rubber processing facilities, overall project performance remains very
satisfactory.
Credit No. 358 North Sumatra Smallholder Development: $5 Million Credit
of February 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The 9,000 ha planting program under the project is now completed.
Rubber and oil palm continue to show very satisfactory growth with the
1974/75 plantings of rubber and oil palm coming into production. Control of
weeding and general maintenance standards will require close supervision up
to 1982/83 when all plantings reach maturity.
Credit No. 400 Smallholder and Private Estate Tea: $7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date:  March 31, 1982
The project provides credit through Bank Rakyat Indonesia and
extension advice through a Project Management Unit for improvement of
Indonesian smallholder and private estate tea. Of 13,200 ha, 60% was to be
rehabilitated and 40% replanted. Participants have preferred more costly
replanting and the target area has therefore been changed to 10,500 ha, and
the proportions reversed. While production will not be adversely affected
(replanting yields are higher), costs are estimated to exceed appraisal
estimates by about 60% because replanting is more expensive due to inflation.
The project has made a significant impact on the private sector of the
Indonesian tea industry. The project training program is especially
noteworthy having now involved more than 9,000 smallholders through practical
village training schemes.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 26 pages
Credit No. 480 Fisheries Credit: $6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date:
Deceiaber 31, 1981.
Initial delays have put the project about 18 months behind schedule.
The marine fishing complex at Anbon is completed, making a promising start
with twenty fishing boats operating, ten by GOI's skipjack tuna enterprise
and ten by a cooperative; two 100 gross ton catcher/carriers have been
ordered and are due to be delivered early 1981. The quality of fishpond
lending by Bank Rakyat Indonesia suffered early deficiencies, but is now
completed; results are patchy and arrears excessive in some areas. Coverage
is much less than appraisal forecast (31% of farmers, 60% of area) and details
not yet available, but inflation and the inability of smaller owners to
participate are probably the reasons.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development:  $30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date:  March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Although the project is still about eighteen months behind
schedule due to early slippage in implementation, since last year per-
formance has shown considerable improvement. To date about 2,760 families
have moved into Baturaja, equivalent to 61% of the ultimate target. Construc-
tion of water supply reservoirs has accelerated and has reached 50% of target.
Contracts for construction of the last three villages have been signed; the
pasture development program is well established and cattle procurement has
restarted. The rubber planting is proceeding well and the cropping systems
trials are continuing satisfactorily. Funding is no longer a problem and dis-
bursements are in line with the revised schedule and have reached 51% of the
appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1707   Transmigration II:  $90 Million Loan and $67 Million Credit of
(Cr. No. 919)   June 1, 1979; Effeccive Date:  October 4, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
There have been delays in the implementation of the project. Land
clearing and road construction are now about six months behind appraisal
estimates due to: (i) the rejection of large areas identified for site
development in the appraisal report due to unsuitability for the agri-
cultural development proposed; (ii) weak overall project organization and
management; and (iii) delays in contractor's and consultant-s engagement.
More recently, significant numbers of unauthorized settlers have been found
in areas presently identified for site development, and the GOI has proposed
some changes to design criteria for the large areas already prepared. These
matters are being reviewed with GOI but will likely take some time to resolve.
Consequently, completion of project works and settlement of families are now
expected to lag at least one year behind appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estates and Smallholder I:  $65 Million Loan
of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 12, 1978;
Closing Date.: Tune 30, 1982
The project's overall planting program is ahead of schedule in
PTP XI and in other estates almost on appraisal target. The conditions of the



- 38 -                      ANNEX IT
Page 11 of 26 pages
plantations are good and preparations for the completion of the remaining
works well advanced. Construction of settler houses and roads is behind
schedule although less settlers are on the sites than targeted at appraisal.
In view of the recent amendments to the loan agreement, the managements of the
nucleus estates are now fully in command and speeding up the construction of
the houses for settlers. It is expected that the project will be completed
about the end of 1982 or one year later than expected. Disbursements are
below the appraisal estimate, but now acceleration is expected. The newly
established  Team Khusus  (Special Team) in the Directorate General of Estates
is of great assistance to the execution of the project.
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder II:  $65 Million Loan of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Planting program is almost on schedule, but housing, roads and
village development is delayed. PTP IV management is undertaking the
acceleration of the civil works program. Tendering of main acess and primary
village roads is in process and works executed and supervised by Bina Marga
(Directorage General for Highway Construction) are expected to start early
1981. Upgrading of the Sungai Tiga Extension and Training Center is proceed-
ing expeditiously. The new management of PTP IV is endeavoring to accelerate
and improve project execution. Funds for executing the FY80/81 work program
are available in the approved budget. Preparation of the FY81/82 budget is
in process and its approval on time is expected.
Loan No. 1751   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders III:  $99 Million
Loan of August 13, 1979; Effective Date: November 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project is off to a good start. Reasonable progress has been
achieved in the estate development components, and preparations being made
to start implementation of the smallholder components this year should
result in the planting of about 5,000 ha of smallholder rubber and the
settlement of the first 600 participating settlers by March 1981.
Loan No. 1835   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders IV:  $42 Million
Loan of May 16, 1980: Effective Date: August 11, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This loan was declared effective on August 11, 1980.
Credit No. 984 Smallholder Rubber Development: $45 Million Credit
of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: May 23, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The project has got off to a satisfactory start in spite of late
approval and release of the first year's budget. There are no major problems
with the project at this stage and it is anticipated that about 75% of the



- 39 -
AN4NEX 1[
Page 12 of 26 pages
first year's planting program will be achieved. Disbursements in FYS1 are
expected to reach US$3 million equivalent.
Loan No. 1898   Smallholder Coconut Development Project:  $46 Million
Loan of August 25, 1980; Effective Date:  November 25, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
This loan has just been declared eEfective.
Agriculture Support Services
Loan No. 1179   Agricultural Research and Extension 1:  $21.5 Million
Loan of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Overall progress is acceptable. Under the Agency for Agricultural
Research and Development (AARD) civil works in Pangragajian have been
comapleted, in Margahayu are ahead of schedule, in Baruajak (all highland
vegetables) have been completed (slightly behind schedule), while in Sungei
Putih, Sembawa (both rubber) and in Sukanandi (Phase I rice and paliwija
crops) are behind schedule due to shnortage of labor and difficulties in
procurement.  Tenders for Sukamnandi Phase II have been issued and contracts
have been awarded for field and workshop equipment, furniture and vehicles.
Tenders for laboratory equipment and chemnicals for MIargahayu are expected to
be issued shortly. In addition to 60 long-term fellowships abroad, 247 long-
term domestic fellowships have been arranged. Under the Agency for Agricul-
tural Education, Training and Extension (AAETE) most of the equipment,
furniture and vehicles have been received and distributed to ten completed
agricultural information centers (AICs).  Extension materials are being
produced and distributed fromn the AICs. Disbursements under the project are
improving.
Loan No. 1267   National Food Crops Extension; $22 Million Loan of
June 4, 1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project management unit has been strengthened by creation of
new positions which brings the number of assistant directors to five,
divisional chiefs to four and section heads to eight.  Due to a dearth of
suitable senior staff, one assistant director, two divisional chiefs and four
section heads are working on a part-tiine basis. Vacancies in the posts of
field extension workers (PPL) and subject matter specialists (PPS) in the
Other Islands are proposed to be filled up by recruiting PPLs from Java and by
upgrading suitable PPLs for appointment as PPSs. Construction of 165 new
Rural Extension Centers (RECs) and renovation of 52 RECs out of a total of 645
for 13 provinces have been comnpleted. Progress of civil works has suffered
due to an initial delay in prefinancing, inflation and inadequate supervision.
Most of these problems have largely been overcome and all remaining contracts



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 26 pages
are expected to be awarded by end-1980. Procurement of vehicles, equipment
and furniture as well as in-service and overseas training are progressing
satisfactorily.
Credit No. 996  Second National Agricultural Extension:  $24 Million
Credit of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The project is the second phase of a national program for strength-
ening agricultural extension services in Indonesia. The project would cover
26 provinces of Indonesia, proceeding on a phased basis to expand the food
crops extension services to the 13 provinces excluded from the first phase,
to introduce: (a) a unified extension service for transmigration areas; and
(b) extension of technical recommendations covering smallholder estate crops,
livestock, inland fisheries and soil conservation activities into the
extension program developed heretofore for food crops.  An implementation
schedu'le for five years has been prepared. Standard bid documents for civil
works and procurement are in the process of finalization.
Loan No. 1840   National Agricultural Research:  $35 MIillion Loan and $30
(Cr. No. 1040) Million Credit of May 16, 1980; Effective Date: July 16,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1990
The project is the second phase in the strengthening of the overall
institutional framework of the Agency for Agricultural Research and Develop-
ment for agricultural research in fruits, lowland vegetables, livestock,
fisheries, forestry, estate crops other than rubber and industrial crops. The
Project Implementation Unit has been strengthened by appointment of four
heads of the offices but one hlead of office and the project secretary are
yet to be appointed. A Mtinisterial decree announcing the appointments of
directors for the Central Research Institutes and Research Institutes and
Centers already approved by the Minister of Agriculture, is expected to be
published shiortly. Implementation schedules for the next nine years have been
prepared. Standard bid documents for civil works and procurement have been
finalized. Tender documents for civil works in six location for which
provision has been made in the budget of 80/81 are in the final stage of
preparation and tenders are expected to be issued shortly.
Rural Development
Credit No. 946 Yogyakarta Rural Development: $12 Million Credit of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Implementation of this project is behind schedule. The principal
reasons for delays are (i) the late release of project funds, and (ii) the
lack of appropriate salary scales conforming with government regulations.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 26 pages
These factors have resulted in low morale of project staff and distrust on the
part of some farmers. Disbursement conditions have not yet been met due to
part-time rather than full-time project positions.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development: $40 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project, which provides financial and technical assistance to
strengthen Bank Indonesia-s (BI) small credit programs, KIK/KMKP, became
effective August 17, 1978. Despite start-up difficulties, BI has now
established and staffed all project management units. The three field units
in Central Java, East Java, and West Sumatra are developing new lending
approaches and assisting handling banks in project promotion and preparation.
The training and studies components of the project are progressing satis-
factorily.
Credit No. 827 Rural Credit: $30 Million Credit of June 23, 1978;
Effective Date: November 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 smallholders,
primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and technical assis-
tance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) for program development, training,
credit procedures and accounting and management information systems. Due
primarily to delays in obtaining project consultancy, the project is about
nine months behind schedule.
EDUCATION
Credit No. 387 Third Education: $13.5 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: August 29, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
This first textbook project is an ambitious undertaking under diffi-
cult circumstances. Since the start five years ago, over 150 million books
have been printed, 120% of the appraisal target, and about 430,000 teachers
have been upgraded, or 23% over the original target of 350,000. About 100
million books have been distributed to schools. Delivery of books takes
about one month to a year depending on the location of schools. The Project
Implementing Unit advises that the remaining 50 million textbooks (grades 5
and 6) are expected to be printed and delivered before the present closing
date. Project costs have increased due to the increased scope of the project
and inflation since 1973.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 26 pages
Credit No. 869 Polytechnic: $49 Million Credit of December 29, 1978;
Effective Date: May 11, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project objectives are to establish a new systema for traiaing
engineering technicians, to improve the quality of accountancy training and
practices and to assist in strengtlhening education planning and management.
The project would establish a Technician Education Developlent Center (TEDC),
six polytechnics and four accountancy development centers and include
technical assistance and associated studies. The engineering technicians
(polytechnic) component is making good progress. Staff appointments follow
the appraisal schedule. Site grading for the TEDC and the Bandung polytechnic
has been completed.  Construction of the TEDC and the six polytechnics has
started.  Equipment for the TEDC has been awarded.  The expert services and
fellowship program are progressing satisfactorily. The accountancy comuponent
after initial delays is now making good progress.
Loan No. 1237   Fourth Education:  $37 .Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
The three subprojects under the Ministry of Education (MOE),
Ministry of Manpower (MOM) and National Institute of Administration (LAN),
are to provide buildings, furniture, equipment and technical assistance
respectively for four Technical Training Centers (TTCs) and two Faculties of
Technology in Teacher Training Colleges (FKTs) for WOE; 17 new Vocational
Training Centers and 25 mobile training units for MOM; and the principal
civil service training institute in Indonesia (LAN). The Project suffered
initial delays due to slow site acquisition and late contracting agencies.
Additional delays due to slow awarding of contracts for physical facilities,
late release of budget funds, late ministerial approval and slow settlement of
contractors- claims to adjust contract prices for the 1978 Rupiah devaluation:
all these reflect limited management capacity.  As of now, the MOE component
is nearly completed; all but one TTC are in operation and about $11 million of
equipment (93%) has been contracted.  The MOM coraponent has progressed slowly,
resulting in a 2-year delay. About 60% of civil works have been contracted
and 31% of equipment has been awarded. The LAN-s civil works are only 20%
complete, and estimated to be completed by mid-1981, two and a half years
behind the appraisal estimate. Procurement of furniture and equipment follow
the civil works schedule. The technical assistance program for all project
components is being satisfactorily completed. Loan disbursement has improved
significantly in the last six months but overall delays required a
postponement of the closing date by two years to December 31, 1982.
Loan No. 1433   Teacher Training:  $19 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project is now progressing satisfactorily. About 35% of civil
works have been awarded and 30% completed. Corresponding percentages for



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 26 pages
equipment are 40 and 28. Five more civil works contracts are being awarded
during July 1980, and the remaining six sites are being acquired. The staff
training program is on schedule and development of new curricula and instruc-
tional materials is progressing satisfactorily. Special seminars and courses
for administrators have been conducted and 60 members of the national team
of 150 educators have been appointed as disseminators to overcome slow adjust-
ment at the institutional level to new curricula and teacher training methods
developed under the project. The technical assistance program is on schedule
and successful. Despite earlier delays and low disbursements (35% of
appraisal estimate), the project is expected to be completed on schedule.
Loan No. 1486   Non-Formal Education:  $15 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims at strengthening the Department of Education's
nonformal education programs in seven provinces. Financing would cover civil
works to renovate two existing and establish four new provincial centers,
instructional equipment and vehicles, in-service training, materials
development, a basic learning fund, and related technical assistance. Of
the six Balai PENMAS (directorates for out-of-school education) centers, four
have been completed. The extension to the existing Jakarta center is 50%
completed and the Samarang center is 10% completed; both centers will be ready
by the end of 1980. All furniture and equipment have been ordered; 10% is
already on site and the rest is due to arrive later this year. About 80% of
the staff training program is meeting appraisal targets, production and
distribution of pretested learning materials have started, and 1,500 learning
funds are being distributed to selected learning groups. The technical
assistance program is on schedule; local staff are gradually replacing foreign
consultants. Disbursements will increase substantially this year and are
expected to reach $4.5 million or 72% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1692   Second Agricultural Training:  $42 Million Loan of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: July 31, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project constitutes the second phase of GOI-s long-term strategy
to improve the quality and supply of middle level agricultural manpower. It
finances the renovation, furnishing and equipping, expansion and relocation of
26 existing agricultural development schools and 16 existing agricultural
in-service training centers; and the construction and furnishing and equipping
of 5 agricultural development schools and 7 agricultural in-service training
centers. It also provides technical assistance for the improvement of
curricula, education planning and evaluation. Physical implementation is
generally on schedule. A number of problems affecting educational aspects are
emerging; action is being taken to prevent them impeding project progress.
The fully staffed Project Implementation Unit is operating effectively.



- 44 -
ANNEFX 11
Page 17 of 26 pages
Loan No. 1904   University Development Project:  $45 Million Loan of
November 13, 1980; Effective Date: January 22, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Loan has just declared effective.
ENERGY
Loan No. 1259   Fifth Power:  $90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: September 20, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Disbursements on this project have been somewhat slower than anti-
cipated due to delays in placing orders for the third lot of equipment.
These orders have now been placed and on the basis of contracted deliveries,
the situation is expected to improve. Physical progress has been
satisfactory on extension of the 20 kV distribution lines, but very slow on
the installation of the 20 kV stepdown cubicles. Delay is due to
difficulties in acquisition of substation sites. The closing date has just
been postponed from 'March 31, 1981 to December 31, 1981 in order that
disbursements can be completed.
Loan No. 1365   Sixth Power:  $116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
Construction of the fourth and fifth generating sets (200 MW each)
has been delayed. The fourth generating set is expected to be in commercial
operation around May 1981, about 9 months later than the contract date, but
only 3 months later than forecast at appraisal. Engineering of the Semarang 3
(Seventh Power) project and of the Java Interconnected system has been
completed.
Loan No. 1513   Seventh Power:  $109 Million Loan of February 3, 1978;
Effective Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1983
All contracts have been awarded at highly competitive costs with
a substantial reduction in foreign costs and, therefore, $15 million of the
loan has been cancelled. Delays in award of contracts for civil works
caused by introduction of new procedures for such contract awards by GOI
have resulted in a three-month delay in the construction program. This will
delay commissioning of the 200 MW generating set which is now expected in
August 1982.



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 18 of 26 pages
Loan No. 1708   Eighth Power:  $175 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: November 5, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Contracts for turbine generators, ancillary plants, piling work,
and civil construction have all been signed. Bid documents for steelworks
and cladding were issued in August and are being evaluated. The tender
documents for marine works have been delayed due to a change in the design
concept. The revision in the scope of the marine works will increase
original appraisal estimates and final cost estimates are being worked out.
Schedules are being revised in order to minimize delays. It is expected
that the overall delay in the commissioning date for the first unit will be
about three months. No delay is expected in the scheduled commissioning
date of the second unit.
Loan No. 1872   Ninth Power:  $253 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: October 24, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1985
This loan has only recently been declared effective. Tenders for
EHV lines and substations were issued in July 1980; bids were received in
December 1980. The issue of the documents was about ten weeks behind
schedule. Aerial survey has been completed. Profiling and tower spotting
in the field have commenced. Land for substations at Suralaya, Ungaran and
Gandul substations has been purchased. No delay is expected in the land
acquisition for the other substation at Bandung and tower locations. Design
and specifications for the Java control center are being finalized.
Loan No. 1950   Tenth Power Project:  $250 Million Loan of March 6, 1981;
Effective Date:  April 23, 1981; Closing Date:  June 30,
1987
This loan has just been declared effective.
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Fertilizer Production
Loan No. 1254   Third Fertilizer Expansion:  $70 Million Loan of May 20,
1976; Effective Date: August 15, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
The project (PUSRI IV) was commissioned on November 26, 1977,
about four months ahead of schedule. During 1978, PUSRI IV produced nearly
470,000 tons of urea, reflecting a capacity utilization of 83% in the first
year of operation. Some auxiliary facilities are planned to be expanded in
1980. The project is not expected to show a cost overrun. The closing date
of this loan has just been postponed by six months to June 30, 1981, in
order that procurement under an existing contract can be completed.



- 46 -                   ANNEX II
Page 19 of 26 pages
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: $16.5 Million Credit of
September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate is now scheduled for completion
in 1982. Of 400 ha of raw land now earmaked for acquisition, 331 ha had
been purchased as of early 1979. 127 ha of the 270 ha of developed land
reserved for factory use has been sold to 107 firms, with full capacity
employment estimated at around 22,000. Slack sales and difficulties in
land acquisition have reduced the amount of land planned for sale from 337 ha
to 270 ha. Operations are profitable with a cash surplus and bank deposits
of Rp 2,389 million over the past three years to the project owners, the
Municipal Government of Jakarta and the Government of Indonesia. GOI has
agreed to designate 22.5 ha of the Pulo Gadung industrial estate as an Export
Processing Zone (EPZ) with PT JIFP as the sole administrator. The closing
date of the credit was therefore postponed by two years to December 31, 1982
and the EPZ is expected to be completed within this period.
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1363   Second PDFCI:  $15 Million Loan of January 28, 1977;
Effective Date: April 21, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1437   Third BAPINDO:  $40.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: September 23, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
The project is being implemented satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1703   Fourth BAPINDO:  $50 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: September 25, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983
This project is being implemented satisfactorily.
POPULATION AND NUTRITION
Population
Credit No. 300 Population: $13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The performance of the Indonesian national family planning program
continues to show satisfactory results. Since 1972/73 the program targets



- 47
ANNEX II
Page 20 of 26 pages
have been fully achieved and, in some cases, exceeded. The implementation of
the project is in its final stages. The construction of all buildings has
been completed and furniture and equipment procured, offices in Jakarta and
six provinces have been occupied and all provincial and subprovincial training
centers and nine nurse/midwife training schools are in operation.  Most of the
population education activities have been completed and the remainder are
expected to be completed this year. The production of films and procurement
of a computer financed out of savings under this project is expected to be
completed in 1981. Because of delays in the signing of the computer
contract and in order to allow sufficient time for its purchase, install-
ation and subsequent disbursement, it is now clear that final disbursements
will not be completed until about mid-December 1981. The Closing Date has
therefore been postponed until December 31, 1981.
Loan No. 1472   Second Population:  $24.5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
Effective Date: August 4, 1977; Closing Date: April 30,
1983
The implementation of the second population project is proceeding
satisfactorily. The construction of all buildings has been completed.
The major issues outstanding are (a) expediting the implementation of the -
contraceptive raw materials study, (b) implementation of the community
incentive scheme, and (c) acceleration of the rate of disbursement.
Regarding the contraceptive raw materials study, the mission was assured
that all obstacles will be overcome and progress should be faster in the
coming months. The community incentive scheme has been redesigned and the
National Family Planning Coordinating Board (BKKBN) undertook to prepare
an operational plan for review. This is expected shortly and we expect
implementation to start on schedule early 1981.  Progress on these aspects,
coupled with timely submission of withdrawal applications, should
contribute to the acceleration of the rate of disbursement. The BKKBN is
also reviewing the costs of the project in order to determine the extent of
savings. We expect to receive the revised costs as well as proposals for
utilization of project savings, if any, shortly.
Loan No. 1869   Third Population:  $35 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: September 10, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
This loan was declared effective on September 10, 1980 and a
smooth start to project implementation has begun. A Ministerial Decree
establishing a steering committee and appointing a project coordinator has
been signed. Civil works constitute the largest component of this project
and considerable attention is being given to this component so that delays
will not occur; the mission recommended that the staff entrusted with the
handling of this project be brought to at least the strength of that
provided for the second project (Loan 1472-IND).



- 48 -
ANNEX II
Page 21 of 26 pages
Nutrition
Loan No. 1373   Nutrition Development:  $13.0 Million Loan of March 14,
1977; Effective Date:  March 31, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1982
As a result of recently strengthened management, the pace of
implementation is beginning to pick up in most components. The new
campuses of the Food Technology Development Center (FTDC) and the Center
for Research and Development in Nutrition (CRDN) were completed and
formally opened in December 1980. Consultants and equipment for these
centers are arriving, but further FTDC procurement has been held up due to
procedural complications in the Ministry of Education.  New staff posts have
been created and fellowships awarded, although both at a slower rate than
foreseen at appraisal. Research projects are underway, but for CRDN a long-
term research program remains to be formulated. Field activities of the
Nutrition Intervention Pilot Project (NIPP) are underway in some 90
villages, but operations are hampered by lack of special equipment.
Evaluations of NIPP process and impact are planned for late 1980. Their
results will largely determine the extent of NIPP modification needed and
the scope for (and pace of) NIPP expansion given the Government's current
commitment for a massive extension of a simpler community nutrition program
delivered through the National Family Planning Coordinating Board (BKKBN)
and the Ministries of Health, Religion and Agriculture to cover 41,000
villages by early 1984 awith assistance from 'JNICEF and USAID. Anemia
Control activities in plantations in East Java, North Sumatra and South
Sulawesi are progressing as scheduled, and productivity resurveys are
planned for September/October 1980. The home and village garden program
exceeded the target coverage (by 72) of 108 villages, and will be expanded
on the basis of a master plan currently under preparation. Nutrition
communication materials are ready for reproduction and distribution; their
effectiveness will be evaluated in mid-1981.  Considerable savings are
expected under the project; the Government has prepared a package of
proposals in line with existing component objectives and activities. These
proposals will be reviewed during the next mission.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 451 Fourth Technical Assistance: $5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Progress under the project is satisfactory.
Credit No. 898 Fifth Technical Assistance: $10 Million Credit of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: September 5, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Progress under this project is satisfactory.



- 49
ANNFX II
Page 22 of 26 pages
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping:  $13 Million Loan
of February 5, 1976; Effective Date:  April 2, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The National Coordinating Agency for Surveys and Mapping
(BAKOSURTANAL) complex at Cibinong is completed, and most of the cartographic,
photographic processing, and printing equipment required to produce maps is
installed. Resource evaluation activities, including the compilation of data
for Southern Sumatra and a study for the Directorate-General of Estates of
coconut lands to be replanted in Sulawesi and Lombok, are also proceeding in
the new complex. Recruitment and training of new staff, particularly junior
operatives, has accelerated. The new photography financed under the
parallel Canadian project will shortly be available, by which time
BAKOSURTANAL hopes to have installed color photo processing equipment and to
have fully trained specialized teams of operatives in the various map
production fields.
TRANSPORTATION
Highways
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Assuming the Directorate General of Highways (DGH) takes the agreed
actions to deal with design changes, the only problem remaining is that some
DGH payments to contractors are beginning to be in arrears due to underesti-
mates of fiscal year requirements; this may again affect physical progress
after a dramatic improvement since December last year. A recent mission dis-
cussed the issue again with GOI, and requested a solution. Overall, the
project is 76% complete (July 1980) compared to 55% (December 1979). Project
completion is still about 24 months behind due to initial start-up delays,
poor performance by a few road contractors (contracts cancelled and awarded
to second lowest bidders), and GOI will need to request a two-year extension
of the Loan's Closing Date to December 31, 1982. According to cost estimates
available, there may be a surplus of about $8-14 million in the loan, which
could be used as follows: (a) adding justified works to existing contracts
(logical extensions) where contractors are performing well, designs are
available and the works can be completed in about 1-1/2 years, within the new
closing date; and/or (b) increasing the disbursement rate for construction but
not to exceed the total foreign exchange cost. DGH is now updating the
project cost estimate, together with proposals for utilization of any loan
balance.



- 50 -                      ANNEX II
Page 23 of 26 pages
Loan No. 1696   Fifth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: August 28, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project is still about one year behind in implementation which
cannot be regained. Nine road betterment contracts, totalling 531 km out of
the 800 km planned, were awarded. The balance is soon to be proposed for
tendering. The bridge replacement program is more than a year behind schedule
but the Directorate General of Highways (DGHl) has agreed on steps to initiate
it. DGH is evaluating equipment tenders for the eight Provincial Public Works
Department (DPUP) programs, with delivery expected in March/April 1981, but
recent developments regarding the content of civil works in these programs
raise some issues. Consultants are in place for construction supervision,
project monitoring, management assistance, a study of the construction
industry and one of three consultancies supervised by the Ministry of
Communications. Terms of reference and short lists of firms have been agreed
and invitations are soon to be issued for consultancies to assist road
contractors and consulting firms, and the implementation of the eight DPUP
programs. Little action has been taken by DGH on other consultancies, e.g.,
remaining feasibility studies and detailed designs of additional road better-
ments, urban planning, and equipment management, but DGH will soon submit
proposals to the Bank for review.
Marine Transport
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping:  $54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project is part of the first phase of the Government-s Inter-
Island Fleet Development Program and is designed to modernize, expand and
improve the efficiency of the inter-island fleet. Demand for general cargo
ships in the Regular Liner Service (RLS) expected at appraisal was slow in
materializing due to (i) slow scrapping of obsolete ships with consequent
reduced replacement demand; and (ii) effects of the rupiah devaluation on the
price of replacement ships. Conditions considerably improved in 1979 and 80%
of the loan has now been committed. The project entity, P.T. PANN, is
reasonably well managed; the operation and maintenance of its ships is being
regularly monitored and no major financial problems exist in its Bank-financed
operations. P.T. PELNI, the state-owned shipping line, accounting for about
half of the RLS, continues to incur substantial losses. On January 27, 1981,
Motor Vessel Tampomas operated by P.T. PELNI caught fire and sank while
carrying passengers from Jakarta to Sulawesi. The purchase of this ship was
financed in part from the proceeds of this loan. The circumstances of the
accident are the subject of an ongoing GOI Court-of Inquiry.



- 51 -
ANNEX I[
Page 24 of 26 pages
Ports
Loan No. 1337   Tanjung Priok Port Project:  $32 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Slow progress on the construction of Government-financed works has
delayed construction of the first component, but progress is being made.  The
Government-financed works in Basin III, delayed due to the impact of the 1978
Rupiah devaluation, are 98% completed, and the Basin III civil works finance
by the Bank loan, also delayed due to the devaluation, are 65% completed.
Civil works financed by the Bank loan in the Regional Harbor, are 37%
completed. The work is now three months in arrears and a revised construction
schedule is being prepared. These delays will probably postpone overall
completion of the project to mid-1981 but it is too early to estimate the full
effect of delays on project cost.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479 Bali Tourism: $16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
With the exception of the amenity core and the telephone network,
infrastructure at Nusa Dua is complete. The hotel school and the practice
hotel are operating. Final designs for village improvements in Bualu and for
the new road from Bualu to Benoa are finished. The access road to Nusa Dua
from the airport is finished and the Denpasar by-pass road is scheduled for
completion shortly. The market for tourism to Bali has held up well in 1980;
hotel occupancy in international standard hotels exceeds 75%. The final
designs and tender documents for the first hotel at Nusa Dua to be built by
the national airline (Garuda) are complete, and construction is scheduled to
start shortly. The Bali Tourism Development Board (BTDB) is evaluating
additional minor infrastructure investments at Nusa Dua and possible
participation in several hotel projects to utilize the uncommitted portion of
the Credit.
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1336   Second Urban Development:  $52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project consists of provision of basic infrastructural
facilities including footpaths, drainage, water supply and human waste
disposal to about 3,000 ha of densely populated areas in Jakarta and 374 ha
in Surabaya. Community health workers are to be trained under a pilot



52 -
ANNEX II
Page 25 of 26 pages
program in both cities. Fxcept for small carryover itens (filter plant,
deep wells and health clinics) and the conduct of a proposed urban
transport study for Jakarta under the technical assistance component, the
project progress is essentially complete. Upgrading costs for the program
have been within the appraisal estimates. About 3,435 ha of kampungs in
Jakarta and 441 ha of kampungs in Surabaya have been covered so far,
benefitting a total population of about 1.4 million. About 180 community
health workers in Jakarta and 88 in Surabaya have been trained and are
working in the improved kampungs.
Loan Nio. 1653   Third Urban Development:  $54 Million Loan of January 31,
1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project provides basic infrastructural facilities including
roads, footpaths, water supply, and sanitation to impoverished, low-income
kampungs (neighborhoods) in the cities of Jakarta (750 ha), Surabaya (580 ha)
Ujung Pandang (375 ha), Semerang (310 ha) and Surakarta (170 ha), benefitting
a total population of about 2.25 million. A comprehensive solid waste
management program is also included in Jakarta and Surabaya, together with a
drainage program in Surabaya. About 775 community health workers are to be
trained in the above two cities to work in the improved kampungs. The loan
became effective on September 26, 1979. The kampung improvement is
proceeding satisfactorily in Jakarta and Surabaya but start-up delays of
eight to ten months had been evidenced in the implementation of solid waste
management and drainage programs. In the secondary cities, the kampung
improvement program is now proceeding smoothly following a six to eight
months start-up delay during the first year implementation period (April 1,
1979-March 31, 1980).
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1049   Five Cities Water Supply:  $14.5 Million Loan
of October 31, 1974; Effective Date: May 21, 1975
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Due to administrative and managerial problems the project is now
running 24 months behind schedule and the Closing Date has been extended by
eighteen months. All equipment supply and all major civil works contracts,
with the exception of pipe laying contracts (delayed because of slow
procurement of pipe), are under execution. A cost overrun of about 30%,
caused by increases in local costs due to project delays and devaluation, is
expected. The reorganization of the Directorate of Sanitary Engineering has
been completed, and the establishment and development of local water
enterprises is proceeding satisfactorily. Also, disbursements are expected to
accelerate now that contracts are signed and equipment and supplies are being
delivered.



- 53 -
ANNFEX I[
Page 26 of 26 pages
Loan No. 1709   Second Water Supply:  $36 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: February 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
This loan was declared effective on February 29, 1930, five months
behind schedule. The main project is about six months behind schedule.
Design work is proceeding and procurement documents are being processed.
Tenders were called for an initial purchase of pipe and fittings and these
were opened in June 1980. Some other scheduled tenders may have to be
postponed because the Directorate of Sanitary Engineering (DSE) failed
to request sufficient government funds in the current fiscal year ending
March 31, 1981.  DSE is exploring an alternative funding source to
circumvent this problem. DSE is overextended because of the extensive
water supply activity in Indonesia and the numerous aid offers and foreign
participation in the sector. It is at present in the process of increasing
its staff by 160 persons and also recruiting the services of a Resident
Management Specialist. It is to be hoped these two steps may help improve
its internal efficiency.



- 54 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1 page
INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:  April 1980 to October 1980
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:  Bank Indonesia
(c) Date of the first Bank mission
to consider the project               April 1980
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission   : October 1980
(e)  Negotiations completed                May 1981
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness    : August 1981
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) BI will introduce an improved monitoring system of KIK/KMKP
operations and a medium-term planning system and implement them in
accordance with the timetable agreed with the Bank (para. 44);
(b)  MOI will submit the design and detailed program for the major
elements of the support services component as a condition of loan
disbursement (para. 49); and
(c) BI and GOI will sign a Subsidiary Loan Agreement as a condition
of loan effectiveness (para. 56).



-m                             obt    -oz                                                                                                                                                                                  SW,, Ss 14L
ft'mw
41 Q
yo%
10A"
VANI
080,00
ot
-01
9z
)w
VISAVIV
'S.SN maw-w -M,o-mqu                                                                                                                                                           VI    v
SgNlddtllHd:
,lAfOU INMd(n3AgG 3SIMMN3 31V:>S- 11VWS ONONS
VIONOONr
'OFt  :                                                                3            ":`Z  -          -    i
193i CIM



