Document of                     F E
The World Bank                        FLE Copy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3386-IND
INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
May 8, 1981
East Asia & Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Before November 15, 1978
US$1.0o        =  Rp 415
Rp 1.00        =  US$0.0024
Rp 1 million  =  US$2,410
After November 15, 1978
US$1.00        =  Rp 625
Pp 1.00        =  US$0.0016
Rp 1 million  =  US$1,600
ABBREVIATIONS
P.T. ASKRINDO    - Indonesian Credit Insurance Corporation
BAPINDO           - Development Bank of Indonesia
BI                - Bank Indonesia
BIPIK               Guidance and Development of Small-Scale Industries
BNI 46            - Bank Negara Indonesia 1946
BRI               - Bark Rakyat Indonesia
CPMU              - Central Project Management Unit
DG-SSI (MOI)        Directorate General of Small-Scale Industries (Min. of
Industry)
DKK               - Desk for Small Credits
DPPK              - Desk for Small Enterprise Development
KELAYAKAN KREDIT - Feasibility Based Credit Program
KIB               - General Investment Credit
KIK               - Small Investment Credit
KInKP               Small Permanent Working Capital Credit
LPPI                Institution for the Development of Banking in
Indonesia
PUPN              - State Committee for Settlement of Credit Claims
RCP               - Rural Credit Project
RDB                 Regional Development Bank
RPMU                Regional Project Management Unit
SEDP                Small Enterprise Development Project
SKK                 Section for Small Credits
SPPK                Section for Small Enterprise Development
SSE                 Small-Scale Enterprises
SSI               - Cottage and Small Industries
UNIDO             - United Nations Industrial Development Organization
UPPINDO (IDFC)      Indonesian Development Finance Company
FISCAL YEAR
Government          April 1 to March 31
Ba-'k Indonesia  -  April 1 to March 31
State Banks      -  January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
1. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Ovrve . . .1
Overview   .  .    .    .  .    .  .  .    .  .  .    .  .    .  .    .    .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  1
Structure of the Manufacturing Sector  . . . . . . . . . . .                2
E'olicy Issues and Considerations . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               4
2. THE SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE SECTOR
Characteriistics of Small-Scale Enterprises . . . . . . . . .               5
Constraints on SSE Growth. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                6
Need for SSE Development . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                6
SSE Sector Issues and Policy Considerations   . . . . . . . .               6
The Bank's Involvement in the SSE Sector . . . . . . . . .                  9
3. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
Financial Institutions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                9
Financial Policies and Industry  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               12
Bank's Lending Strategy for the Industrial Sector. . . . . .               15
4. THE KIK/KMKP Program
Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               16
Scope and Terms of Lending ...  .         .  .  .    ....  .  .  .  .  .    .  16
Interest Rates and Margins ...  .         .  .  .    .....  .  .  .  .    .  18
Organizational Arrangements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               18
Lending Procedures ....  .          .  .  .  .    .....  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  19
Amount and Distribution of Lending . . . . . . . . . . . . .               21
Collection Performance and Arrears . . . . . . . . . . . . .               23
Growth Prospects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               24
SEDP I and KIK/KMKP Program. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               24
This report was prepared by a Bank mission which visited Indonesia in November
1980 consisting of Messrs. R.G. David (mission leader), T.N. Dinh (mission
advisor), H. Lesshafft, J. Levitsky, E. Su and W. Ward. Mr. V. K. Goel, who
was on the preappraisal mission, also contributed in preparing this report.
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



2-
Page No.
5. THE PROJECT (SEDP II)
Project Objectives and Scope . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    29
Project Components . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    30
Studies  .    .    .   .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .    .   .  .    .   .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  33
Training of Handling Bank's Staff  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    33
Regional Development Bank's Upgrading  . . . . . . . . . . .    35
SSE Support Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    36
Project Cost and Financing . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    37
Disbursement   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  41
Procurement  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  41
Accounts and Audit ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  41
Monitoring and Reporting Requirements  . . . . . . . . . . .    41
Project Benefits and Risks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    42
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED DURING NEGOTIATIONS . . . . . . . . . . . .    44
ANNEXES
1. Policy and Strategy for the Development of the KIK/KMKP Program
2. Reporting Requirements
3. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
4. Estimated Project Execution Schedule
5. Medium-term Investment Credits
6.  Consolidated Balance Sheet of Monetary Authorities, 1976 - May 31, 1980
7. Functional Balance Sheet of Bank Indonesia, 1976 - May 31, 1980
8. The KIK/KMKP Program
9  The Indonesian Credit Insurance Corporation (P.T. ASKRINDO)
10. The Regional Development Bank's Upgrading Program
11. Training Component
12. Draft Terms of Reference of the Staff Development Expert - LPPI
13. Draft Terms of Reference of the BI Staff Development Advisor
14. Economic Impact of KIK/KMKP Loans on a Sample of SSE Clients
15. Organizational Structure of the Credit Department of BI
16. Statements of Expenditures



-3-
CHARTS
1. Bank Indones;ia Credit Department
lesk for Small Cre.dits
Organizational Chart
2. Bank Indonesia Credit Department
Desk for the Development of Small Business
Organizational Chart
3. Bank Indonesia Regional Branch (Central Java)
Organizational Chart
4. Bank Indonesia
Organizational Chart
MAP:  Indonesia and RPMU Areas
DATA IN PROJECT FILE
1. Overview of Manufacturing Sector by Scale of Operation, 1974/75
2. Value-Added (Current Market Prices) in Large and Medium Firms, 1971
and 1974-78
3. Regional Distribution: Output, Value-Added, Energy Use and Average
Year of Establishment
4. Structure of Employment by Ownership Groups, 1974/75
5. Draft Terms of Reference of the Staff Development Experts BAPINDO
and UPPINDO
6. Draft Terms of Reference of the Staff Development Experts - BRI,
BNI 46
7. Original Terms of Reference of the (BI) Credit Department's Small
Credit Desk
8. RDB Upgrading Program Cost Calculations
9. Other Technical Assistance Cost Calculations






1. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Overview
1.01      The rapid increase in oil earnings beginning in the mid-'70s pro-
vided Indonesia the resources needed to undertake a high level of development
expenditures over the last half decade. The level of gross domestic
investments rose from less than 20% of GDP in 1974 to 25% in 1979, as real GDP
grew at 6.5% p.a. during the period. The Government invested a good portion
of its oil income in large, capital-intensive industries (cement, steel,
fertilizer, petrochemaicals), augmenting the inflow of similar investments in
the private sector which had been attracted by the Government's incentives
policies. Much of the recent economic growth has come from the industrial
sector value-added which grew at 8.4% p.a. in real terms and made up for the
sluggish growth of the agricultural sector. Agriculture, nevertheless, still
provides the main source of employment and income for the majority of the
population; its share in GDP is 32%. At the end of 1978, the industrial
sector (comprising mining, manufacturing, construction, power, water and gas)
as a whole contributed about 33% of GDP (in nominal terms), with the
manufacturing sector accounting for 9% of GDP, followed by mining at 11%, and
construction 6%. Manufacturing production grew in excess of 12.4% p.a. in
real terms during 1970-78, however, the rate of growth has been declining
since 1976.  In 1979 the growth of manufacturing was only 9% p.a..
1.02      Indonesia is still behind other neighboring Asian countries in terms
of industrialization./l M4uch of recent manufacturing sector expansion took
place from a small base equivalent to less than 10% of GDP in 1974 and has
been confined to the modern large-scale industries. The Government's emphasis
on import substitution has further influenced the direction of investments
towards the production of consumer goods for the domestic market, thereby
impeding the growth of manufactured exports. Over 50% of manufacturing output
is produced by food, beverages, tobacco and textile industries; and only 10%
of manufactured output is actually exported.
1.03      The small-scale enterprise (SSE) /2 sector which accounts for 99%
of manufacturing establish.ments and employs 87% of manufacturing workers has
/1 In 1978, compared to the 9% share in Indonesia the GDP share of manufac-
turing in the Philippines was 25%; in Sri Lanka 23%; in Thailand 18%; in
India 17%; in Malaysia 16%; and in Pakistan 16%.
/2 The Central Bureau of Statistics and the Ministry of Industry use an
employment-based definition of industries: cottage industries (CI) are
defined as units employing 1-4 workers; small-scale industries (SI), 5-19
workers; medium-scale industries (MI), 20-99 workers; and large-scale
industries (LI), 100 or more workers. The banking system, on the other
hand, defines small-scale enterprises on the basis of borrowers' assets
and sectors, i.e., industrial and construction activities with a net worth
of up to Rp 100 million ($160,000) and all other productive activities
including services with a net worth of up to Rp 40 million ($64,000).



- 2 -
until quite recently been relatively neglected.  Its rate of growth over the
period averaged 5% p.a. or less than half that of the modern sector. Since
the burden of providing employment for a growing labor force is likely to
fall more on this traditional, labor-intensive sector rather than on the much
smaller modern sector, it is important that an appropriate strategy be
developed that could fully tap the potentials of this sector in contributing
to future growth and employment.
Structure of the Manufacturing Sector
1.04      Size and Sectoral Distribution.  The dualistic structure of this
sector can be shown by the dominance of a small number of modern enterprises
in terms of output, value-added and wages.
Table 1.1: STRUCTURE OF THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR
BY SCALE OF OPERATION, 1974
% of Manufacturing Sector
Total        Cottage    Small   Medium   Large
absolute        Ind.       Ind.    Ind.       Ind.
level          (CI)       (SI)    (MI)       (LI)
No. of establishments          1,289,800         95.7      3.7      0.5       0.1
- using power                    4,649         nil       7.3    68.6      24.1
No. of persons engaged         4,904,800         79.5       7.0     4.2       9.3
- unpaid                     3,802,800        97.8       2.0      0.2       -
- paid                       1,102,000        16.1      24.4    18.2       41.3
Gross output      (Rp bln.)         1,653        12.2       9.5    12.3      66.0
Value-added           "               613        13.5      8.6    15.9       62.0
Wages & salaries      "               120         8.4      13.6    15.9      62.1
Source:  Indonesia - Cottage and Small Industry in the National Economy,
Report No. 2490-IND, dated November 9, 1979.
As the above figures show, the modern sector comprising less than 1% of the
number of manufacturing firms, accounts for 78% of value-added and output but
only 13% of employment, whereas the smaller scale traditional sector consist-
ing of over a million enterprises, contributes about 22% of output and employs
nearly 90% of manufacturing workers. A Bank industrial sector mission /1
/1 The following discussion is based on the draft mission's report
entitled:  "Selected Issues of Industrial Development and Strategy,"
Report No. 3182-IND, dated December 15, 1980.



- 3 -
which examined this structure observed other characteristics that distinguish
the modern segment of industry from the more traditional small-scale sectors
(SSI).  At the extreme, average productivity (value-added per worker) in the
modern sector was almost 40 times higher than in the cottage industries
sector. While the modern sector has been able to import modern technology
along with machinery from abroad, SSIs continue to use traditional methods of
production, relying principally on manual labor rather than electric power.
Large and medium industries consume about 80% of total industrial energy use,
to produce goods that are closely similar to but of better quality and often
cheaper than those of SSI. This sometimes results in the displacement of the
latter. Over 40% of the value-added in the modern sector is concentrated in
food, beverages and tobacco, followed by chemicals (18%), and textiles (12%).
Between 1974 and 1978 there has been some product diversification as the share
of basic metals, nonmetal products, and fabricated metals, all relative
newcomers to Indonesia, has been increasing.
1.05      Employment.  The diversification process can also be seen in terms
of industrial employment. Employment in the newer segments of industry has
grown more than twice as fast as growth of overall industrial employment
estimated at 8.6% p.a. during the period 1974-78, while employment in the
food and textile sectors nas grown at a slower rate than this average. As a
whole, the manufacturing sector has a very small employment base accounting
for about 11% of the Indonesian labor force, as compared with the
agricultural sector of 60% and services sector of 29%.
1.06      Export Orientation.  With the growing importance of oil exports
be!ginning in 1974, the value of manufactured exports which has grown rapidly
in absolute terms remains relatively small at about 2% of total exports
receipts and about 10% of manufactured output. Significant increases in the
export of cement, fertilizer, cotton fabrics, and wooden products, which
resulted in part frormi the 1978 devaluation of the Rupiah, took place from a
small base. Overall trade policy and the incentive structure are generally
biased towards production for the domestic rmarket. Besides, administrative
bottlenecks related to customs procedures, shipping and clearing through the
ports continue to hinder export growth. Recent efforts to improve the trade
regime and stimulate export production in commodities where Indonesia has
comparative advantage are steps in the right direction (para. 1.10).
1.07      Geographic Distribution.  Java which contains 65% of population
also accounts for nearly 82% of industrial output, 85% of value-added, and
85% of employment. This is not surprising since this main island also has
relatively better transport facilities, power supply, and is the seat of
Government agencies.  Foreign and domestic investment incentives which offer
additional tax holidays and concessions to firms locating in other islands
have yet to make their impact on the geographic distribution of industries.
Industrial congestion and environmental pollution seem to be reaching critical
stages particularly in main cities like Jakarta, Semarang and Surabaya.



- 4-
Policy Issues and Considerations
1.08      The Government specifies its industrial policy objectives and
development targets in its Five-Year Plan (REPELITA) documents. For the
period 1979-83, the REPELITA III envisages a growth rate for the manufacturing
sector of 11% p.a., which would raise the sector's GDP share from 9.3% to
12.6% (in real terms) at the end of the plan period. The plan also envisages
the creation of 1.1 million new jobs, including 434,000 in the small-scale
sector.
1.09      The policy objectives of the REPELITA III include the promotion of
indigenous (pribumi) entrepreneurs,/l the generation of employment
opportunities, and the development of labor-intensive and manufactured
exports. The Bank Industrial Sector mission, which visited Indonesia in
February/March 1980, at the request of the Government, identified the major
issues facing the Government in realizing these objectives.  These are,
inter alia, issues related to the industrial incentives system and trade
regime, the regulatory environment, the financing of industrial investments
and policies towards private foreign investment. The mission-s report is
being discussed with the Government. This report stresses the need for the
creation of a proper policy environment that is designed to stimulate
labor-intensive industries in the private sector and develop an efficient
industrial base with an appropriate mix of labor- and capital-intensive
sectors that capitalize on Indonesia's resources (labor and natural
resources). Its main policy recommendation is to correct the present bias
of industrial incentive towards domestic production and to free the private
sector from the grips of a stringent regulatory system.
1.10      Industrial Incentives and Trade Regime.  The dualistic nature of
industry can perhaps be traced directly to the structure of incentives
governing the sector. The incentive system is complex and its application
uneven. While average level of effective protection is moderate (about 30%
in 1975) there is a wide variation among various industries ranging from the
highest (over 1,000%) for the tire industry to the lowest (-35%) for the
batik industry. The weighted average rate of effective protection for the
import-competing sector is 61%, while that for the exportable sector is -6.4%.
Although adjustments have been introduced from time to time, the system is
still biased heavily towards production for domestic markets and import-
substitution. In the long run there is a need to correct this bias and
create a more open international trade regime that gives approximately equal
incentives to manufacturers to produce for the domestic and the foreign
markets. This would involve the gradual reduction of effective protection
levels, coupled with measures to help affected industries to adjust to an
/1  An enterprise or business is classified as pribumi if:  (a) at least 75%
of the capital is owned by indigenous persons, or (b) at least 50% of the
capital is owned by indigenous peTsons avid, the maaority of the directors
are indigenous. The term "indigenous" excludes Indonesian citizens of
European descent, Chinese and other Oriental descent.



increasing competitive environment, and the adoption of more effective
export promotion incentives. The Government is taking important steps to
address these issues, including a major reform of the tariff structure.
1.11      Licensing and Administrative Controls.  The expansion of the
private sector is severely constrained by an extensive system of regulations,
licensing requirements and administrative controls. Due to the licensing
system-s complexity, some private business investments have been retarded
and there have been difficulties in applying the various measures in a
consistent fashion. Licenses are required for almost all forms and sizes of
productive activities, some obtainable only at the central and others at the
local government levels. Despite attempts to simplify the licensing
requirements, most recently in 1979, more remains to be done, particularly
in respect of manufacturing and services ventures, trade activities,
domestic investments, and customs regulations. This involves a major
simplification, fewer controls, which should result in lower cost of entry
to entrepreneurs. This is especially critical to the entry of new small
firms and the advancement of existing ones (para. 2.05).
2. THE SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE (SSE) SECTOR /1
Characteristics of the Small-Scale Enterprises
2.01      The SSI. sector includes all small-scale enterprises engaged in
productive activities including agriculture, industry, transport, trade and
services. However, except for industry, very little data is available on the
structure of these subsectors. Therefore, this section of the report will
concentrate on the characteristics of the cottage and small industries (SSI).
About 96% of these firms are very small (unorganized and informal) industrial
units employing, in total, approximately 4 million persons, or about 80% of
all manufacturing workers. Average wages reflecting productivity are also
generally low, equivalent to about 40% of the average wage levels of larger
firms. Population/labor force surveys reveal that most family workers engaged
in SSI operations work mainly to supplement their incomes from other sources,
such as agriculture. Although the 1.3 million SSI firms /2 (including about
48,000 SI) are scattered all over the country: roughly 70-77% of them are
located in Java and another 10% in the three provinces of South Sulawesi,
North Sumatra, and South Sumatra. Central Java appears to have a high
concentration of SSIs (42% of the total in terms of both employment and
value-added). The SSI product range is concentrated in essentially consumer
goods destined for domestic markets; exports produced by SSIs are negligible.
/1 This discussion draws on the Bank's recent SSI Sector Report entitled
"Indonesia: Cottage and Small Industry in the National Economy," dated
November 9, 1979, and is supplemented by the findings of the Appraisal
Mission.
/2 Current informal estimates, however, put this number at 2.5 million.



-6-
Constraints on SSE Growth
2.02      In general, the development of the SSE sector has lagged behind
the rest of the manufacturing sector for a variety of reasons. Establish-
ments are extremely small in size; they use mostly traditional technology;
their product lines are limited and market demand is often stagnant or
sluggish; and they generate very little "surplus" for reinvestment or expan-
sion of activities. Consequently, their access to institutional financial
assistance is also restricted. Development linkages between SSE and the
modern sectors are few. Moreover, the system of Government financial and
technical support has not really helped the growth of SSEs as the larger
firms generally have better access to these facilities.
Need for SSE Development
2.03      Given the limited labor absorption capacity of the Indonesian
agriculture, there will be a growing dependence on the nonagricultural
sectors for employment. The existing large base of SSEs, coupled with
their low capital/labor ratio /1 and low skills requirements, make SSEs
suitable for absorbing a significant portion of the new entrants to the
labor force. In addition, SSEs could provide an important element of
industrial flexibility; produce many specialized and artistic products in
small quantities; provide for local needs and services quickly and cheaply;
and have advantages in lower overhead and investment needs. SSE growth would
also help nurture entrepreneurship, improve technical skills, and reduce
urban/rural income differentials and migration to the large cities.
Sector Issues and Policy Considerations
2.04      Target Groups.  Target groups of assistance efforts in the SSE
sector are not well defined, and the Government tries to channel this
assistance through various agencies in all parts of the country. As a
result, considerable overlapping exists and the overall assistance policy
framework is spread out thinly and is poorly coordinated. Since the SSE
sector consists of a large number of small and diverse units that are
difficult to reach, there is a need to focus assistance efforts to make it
more manageable and cost effective. This would require defining, on a
regionally specific basis, in what subsectors SSEs enjoy a comparative
advantage /2 and potential for expansion, and determining the critical
/1  During REPELITA II, the average capital/labor ratio was $250,000 for
large industries; $15,000 for medium industries; and less than
$1,000 for small industries.
/2  The SSI Sector Report mentioned above indicated a number of such
subsectors: foodstuffs (preserved and processed fish, bakery products,
canned goods, etc.), batik clothing and garments, leather footwear and
construction materials (clay tiles, bricks, nails, etc.).



factors necessary to foster their further development. The studies
envisaged under this project would aid in defining a more specific target
group and strategies for alleviating the growth constraints on SSE
development.
2.05      The Regulatory System.  The existing regulatory system tends to
have a more adverse effect on the operation of smaller firms than larger
ones. In Indonesia, the inability of loan applicants to obtain business
licenses and operating permits required by banks has been identified as a
major cause of loan rejection for SSEs. Moreover, certain permits such as
residential permits, designed to curb rural/urban migration, may have also
prevented migrant SSEs and craftsmen from operating in close proximity to
potential markets. Under the proposed project attempts will be made through
the Regional Project Management Units (RPMUs) to identify concrete cases
which show the impact of the regulations on SSEs access to institutional
benefits so that efforts could be made to rectify the problems.
2.06      Marketing.  SSEs generally serve localized markets and lack direct
access to markets outside their immediate vicinity. Recognizing market
constraints as a major growth impediment the Government is addressing the
problem on a number of fronts. A Government decree (Keppres No. 14) was
issued in 1979 to reserve a comprehensive list of items for public procure-
ment from only SSEs. Both the Ministries of Industry and Trade are promoting
exports of SSE products through subcontracting arrangements with trading
companies, trade exhibits, overseas sales campaigns, etc. However,
marketing assistance efforts are poorly coordinated and lack direction. The
studies proposed to be undertaken under this project would analyze marketing
constraints of SSEs and find ways of dealing with them.
2.07      Financial Assistance.  The main financial assistance program for
SSEs is the KIK/KMKP scheme /1 which was introduced in 1974. (See Chapter 4
for details about the program.) So far, credit to SSEs through this channel
by end-1979 constituted only a small fraction (less than 5%) of all institu-
tional credit and was extended to about 10% of known SSE establishments
throughout the country. However, this credit program has grown very rapidly
and is expected to continue to grow at a fast pace. To facilitate this
rapid expansion, there is a need to strengthen the capacity of participating
banks to implement SSE lending effectively. The strengthening of the
banking system must: be accompanied by a number of other steps, including,
inter alia: (a) development of group loans to clusters of SSEs which are
supported by financial and technical assistance, marketing help and advisory
services; (b) further simplifying banking institutions appraisal procedures
/1 KIK (Kredit Investasi Kecil) credits finance fixed assets and services
required for expansion or development purposes and KMKP (Kredit Modal
Kerja Permanen) finance small permanent working capital up to a maximum
limit of Rp 15 million ($24,000) under each type of credit (Annex 8).



and reducing their heavy reliance on collateral requirements; and (c) develop-
ing hire-purchase schemes for simple industrial equipment and machinery for
SSEs. The proposed project is designed to address most of the above issues
(para. 4.36).
2.08      Technical Assistance.  The impetus for institutional technical
assistance to SSEs has come mainly from the public sector and publicly funded
agencies. Private sector initiatives have been limited to the provision of
marketing and procurement assistance, usually for specific groups of SSEs.  In
recent years, as the Government put greater emphasis on the proraotion of small
enterprises, local chambers of commerce, trade associations, and voluntary
organizations also began to shift their assistance to focus on smaller
labor-intensive enterprises, but their limited financial and manpower
resources have kept these efforts to the minimum. The potential target group
that needs assistance is large and scattered throughout the country. Its
problems are also varied and require specialized approaches. Given the number
and diversity of agencies, approaches, and target groups, present official and
private assistance efforts lack central direction and focus. With these
prevailing conditions, the SSI sector report recommended a selective limited
approach, where organized technical and financial assistance should be
concentrated on the more dynamic segments of the sector. Many SSEs are so
small and widely dispersed that the most effective way of helping their growth
is through the creation of a suitable policy environnent. While the rationale
of this selective approach is accepted in principle, present assistance is
still directed at broad sectoral groups, with little discrimination as to
firms' sizes and needs.
2.09      Technical assistance to SSEs is carried out by nearly all government
-departments at both central and regional levels and target groups are broadly
defined along sectoral lines. The Ministry of Industry (MOI), through the
Directorate General of Small-Scale Industries (DG-SSI), provides industrial
extension services to individuals and groups or 'clusters' of SSIs engaged in
manufacturing, but does not provide any assistance to other small enterprises
engaged in retail trade, transport and services industries. In addition,
there are over 100 research and development institutes (14 are under the
Ministry of Industry) /1 that provide limited technical support to SSEs. The
majority of these institutes lack resources and are still developing their
extension services, and on the whole, have not yet succeeded in developing the
technology suitable for SSEs. The DG-SSI is relatively new, is short of
extension staff, and lacks experience in industrial extension work. A total
/1 Consisting of seven major industrial research institutes (Batik and
Handicrafts, Ceramics, Chemicals, Leather, M4aterials, Pulp and Paper, and
Textiles), and six small regional ones mostly chemical research institutes
engaged in testing, quality control, and advisory services.  In addition,
an annually funded project (the Mietal Industries Development Center in
Bandung) also comes under the control of the Department of Industry.



- 9 -
of about 400 full- or part-time extension workers are operating in the
country. At this stage, the DG-SSI does not have an adequate and effective
network of support services to help SSIs.
2.10      In view of the number of agencies involved in providing technical
support to SSEs, in addition to the numerous banks that extend credit
assistance, the most pressing need is to foster closer coordination of
assistance programs and policies, at the same time as efforts are taken to
strengthen the capacity of individual agencies. As a first step in this
long-term goal, grassroots collaboration on a subsectoral and regional
level, similar to the arrangements used on the so-called Working Group
projects being developed jointly by the DG-SSI, BI and the banks, may be
explored further. The need and practicality of creating a central authority
that could provide policy guidance and coordinate overall assistance to SSEs
also deserve further consideration. Under this project, attempts would be
made to assist the DG-SSI in the early stages of developing an effective
support services progra-m (para. 5.24).
The Bank's Involvement in the SSE Sector
2.11      The Bank's involvement in developing this sector consists
essentially of direct financial and technical assistance to the SSE sector
and to government institutions.  An IDA Credit of $40 million (Credit
785-IND) was approved in FY78 for the first Small Enterprise Development
Project (SEDP I), which was designed to strengthen the Governmaent's
principal term lending program (KIK/KKMKP) for SSEs, while laying the
groundwork for and stimulating closer ties between the banking system and
other technical agencies. The Rural Credit Project (RCP) of $30 million
(Credit 827-IND) supplemented SEDP I by concentrating on small agricultural
production lending under KIK/KIKP while focussing its technical assistance
component on strengthening the term lending capability of Bank Rakyat
Indonesia which is the intermediary under this Credit.
3. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
Financial Institutions
3.01      The Indonesian financial sector consists of a commercial banking
system dominated by six state-owned banks (including the state development
bank BAPINDO), Bank Indonesia, the central bank, 79 private domestic banks,
10 foreign banks, three development finance companies, and 26 Regional
Development Banks (RDBs). As of end-1979, there were 144 commercial and
development banks (excluding rural banks) with a total of 1,150 branch
offices. The monetary system consisting of Bank Indonesia and deposit money
banks accounted for 96% of the total gross assets of financial institutions



- 10 -
(Annex 6)./l The state banks which accounted for almost 80% of the assets
of all deposit money banks and 85% of outstanding credit were the major
lenders to the industrial sector (Annex 5). The balance of total banking
assets is held by private and foreign banks, 26 RDBs and BAPINDO. Currently
the assets structure of the financial system is characterized by a dearth of
long-term credits; short-term credits, of less than one year maturity,
account for approximately 77% of total manufacturing credits. This lack of
long-term instruments has led to the rollover of short-term credits; between
70% and 90% of all short-term credits are rolled over. Since almost 60% of
all long-term credit is allocated to large government-sponsored projects,
short-term credits have become an important source of financing investments
in the private sector. The roles of the major financial institutions are
described below.
3.02      Bank Indonesia.  In addition to its central banking functions
Bank Indonesia (BI) also directs credit to certain priority economic sectors
through the banking system. As of May 31, 1980, Bank Indonesia's total
outstanding credits (excluding advances to the Government and credits
provided to Pertamina to service its external debt) amounted to Rp 1,785
trillion ($2.9 billion), of which 83% represented credits to state banks
(Annex 6). These banks have access to BI-s rediscount facilities to finance
their general working capital operations, as well as special investment
credit programs (KIB, KELAYAKAN and KIK/KMKP) and loans made to development
projects undertaken by government agencies or government-owned corporations.
BI has also participated, on a joint venture basis, in the establishment of
various financial institutions, including two development finance companies
(the Indonesian Development Finance Company-IDFC and the Private Development
Finance Company of Indonesia-PDFCI), a credit insurance company (P.T.
ASKRINDO) and a venture capital company (P.T. BAHANA).
3.03      BI operates under the supervision of the Monetary Board, a
Government advisory body comprising representatives of the Minister of
Finance and the Minister for Economic Affairs, BI-s Governor and its
Managing Directors. The Governor of BI and the Managing Directors are
appointed by the President for five-year terms. The seven managing
directors report to the Governor and supervise the work of its 15 departments
each headed by a general manager. Each managing director holds primary
responsibility for two departments and secondary responsibility for a third.
These assignments are rotated on a regular basis. The Loan Department and
the Credit Supervision Department are, inter alia, primarily responsible for
the KIK/KMKP program, although other departments are also involved in
various aspects of the program (para. 4.07). BI has 37 regional and branch
offices throughout Indonesia; the organizational structure at the regional
offices closely follows that of the head office (Chart No. 3).
1l Bank Indonesia alone accounted for 59.2% and the state commercial banks
for another 28.6%.



- 11 -
3.04      State Commercial Banks.  The five state commercial banks /1 are
the dominant commercial financial institutions.  As of March 31, 1979, they
had 79% of the assets of all deposit money banks, 76% of all deposits and
made 81% of all loans outstanding. As of the same date, they had a network
of 687 branches throughout the country. The overall level of their lending
both for working capital and investment funds as well as lending priorities
are determined by the Government. They are the major channels of official
development credit programs. Each of the banks is permitted to conduct
foreign exchange transactions and has been assigned by BI one or two
particular economic sectors in which to specialize. In practice, however,
the individual state commercial banks have not adhered rigidly to their
assigned sectors of specialization.
3.05      Regional Development Banks.  There are 26 Regional Development Banks
(RDBs) in Indonesia. These banks are owned by the provincial Government in
which they are based and, while they were originally created to act as
development banks, they have in the past mainly concentrated on providing:
(a) commercial banking services; and (b) treasury type functions for the
central and provincial governments. In the past few years, some of these
banks have taken an active interest in developing their long-term lending
business, both for small-scale and medium-scale industry. As of end-1979,
their share of the gross assets of the financial system was extremely small
only 1.1% - and their KIK/KMKP lending amounted to about 5% of the total
lending. Their capital base remains narrow and most RDBs suffer from a
variety of management problems and lack of experienced and trained staff.
Under the proposed project, BI will undertake a program to upgrade the
operations of these banks (para. 5.21).
3.06      BAPINDO. Bank Pembangunan Indonesia (BAPINDO) is the state-owned
development bank. While it accepts deposits and makes some short-term
loans, it is principally engaged in granting medium- and long-term credit
and equity participation. BAPINDO was established in 1960 and was re-
organized in 1970 with the Bank Group assistance with a view to making it the
predominant source of medium- and long-term finance for industry. As of
end-1979, its share of the gross assets of the financial system was 1.4%.
3.07      P.T. ASKRINDO.  P.T. ASKRINDO, a credit insurance agency owned by
the Government and BI, was established in 1971 by the Government. P.T.
ASKRIND0 insures loans made by Indonesian-owned financial institutions to
indigenous small- and medium-sized enterprises against nonrepayment due to
normal commercial factors. Coverage in some cases is automatic when a loan
is made or else it is negotiated on a case-by-case basis. As of end-1979,
P.T. ASKRINDO insured loans to about one million borrowers with a total
amount covered of Rp 618 billion. All loans granted under the KIK/KMKP
program are insured by P.T. ASKRINDO (para. 4.12).
/1 Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI), Bank Bumi Daya (BBD), Bank Negara Indonesia
1946 (BNI 46), Bank Dagang Negara (BDN), and Bank Ekspor-Impor Indonesia
(BEII).



- 12 -
3.08      Other Financial Institutions.  There are three nonbank financial
institutions that are principally engaged in granting medium- and long-term
credit and taking equity participations - the IDFC, PDFCI, and P.T. BAHANA.
There are eight investment type institutions which deal mainly in commercia-
paper and promissory notes and provide services of a merchant banking
nature. In addition, there are four private savings banks, one state-owned
savings bank, 3,543 village banks, 2,143 paddy banks and 152 market banks.
These secondary banks are distributed throughout Indonesia; their role in
the country's financial sector is quite small due to their limited
resources.
Financial Policies and Industry
3.09      Financial policies in Indonesia have been aimed at promoting over-
all economic development. The four major objectives of these policies are
to increase the use of financial resources for overall development while
maintaining price stability; allocate credit to priority sectors including
industry; promote pribumi entrepreneurs; and create an institutional
environment to increase the range of financial services. The major
instruments used by the Government to regulate monetary expansion have been
the budget, a mandated interest rate structure, credit ceilings and the
reserve requirement. The rapid increase in foreign exchange resources and
the resulting increase in Government spending in 1972-79 has made the budget
the most important of these instruments. After the oil and commodities
price rise of 1974, the Government was able to accelerate its development
expenditures, enabling it to undertake important industrial and other
investments, but the resultant inflationary impact could not be contained.
This prompted the Government in 1974 to impose overall credit ceilings and
other monetary policies not only to control the rate of credit expansion,
but also to direct it towards officially determined priority sectors and
economic groups. Consequently, these policies resulted in a larger
allocation of credit to the public sector relative to the private sector, as
can be seen by the rapid expansion of large-scale, state-owned industrial
projects and the relative neglect of smaller, private sector projects.
3.10      Credit Policies and Interest Rates.  The current interest rate
structure (Annex 8, Table 1) is characterized by an interlinked network of
loan, deposit and rediscount rates that are set by the Government and BI.
In addition to the interest rate system, the Government allocates resources
to priority sectors through the rediscount mechanism, which applies to all
state-owned and private commercial banks. The rediscount instrument is used
by BI to direct resources at certain segments of society, at indigenous
firms of varying sizes and certain priority activities. The general
investment credit scheme (Kredit Investasi Biasa, KIB) which caters mainly
to medium- and large-scale industries, the "feasibility-based" credits
(Kelayakan Kredit) and the KIK/KMKP credits are examples of schemes designed
to support the "economically weak" or pribumi segments of society; generally,
these credits are extended on the basis of project feasibility rather than
collateral.



- 13 -
3.11      Over the period 1975 to 1979, the level of interest rates has
consistently lagged behind domestic inflation, leading to negative or low
positive real interest rates for deposits and loans. In fact, since 1975,
real rates for short-term deposits have been negative and only marginally
positive for long-term deposits.  The interest rate regulation has not
succeeded in mobilizing private savings as can be seen from the slow growth
of savings deposits, 2.4% in 1978 and 0.2% in 1979. Indeed, BI's rediscount
facilities supply roughly 20% of state banks' resources and nearly all of
their term financing requirements. The fixing of on-lending rates, which is
rigidly enforced on state banks, has also tended to discourage issuance of
bonds which, in effect, impedes financial intermediation. In respect of the
manufacturing sector the subsidization of lending rates, coupled with the
selective access to funds from BI, has had other negative side effects. The
mandated interest rate structure for state banks has given rise to interest
rate differentials between the state and private commercial banking systems
which may have caused speculative activities by some borrowers. There is,
for instance, evidence that some form of credit arbitrage takes place, in
that loans obtained at below market rates from state banks and deposited in
private commercial banks, earn between 6 and 9 percentage points above the
borrowing rate. The above features of the present interest rate regulation
illustrate the need for policy reforms that the Government would have to
undertake in order to promote mobilization of resources effectively, develop
financial intermediation and ensure a proper allocation of capital.
3.12      Credit ceilings, coupled with BI's rediscount facilities and other
administratively-determined policy instruments, are now always based on
strictly economic and financial considerations. In combination with fixed
interest rates, credit ceilings appear to have led to an allocation of credits
based on preference of the banks for "prime" customers and on official
preferences for large, capital-intensive industries. Administration of bank
ceilings has necessitated greater bank supervision both by BI vis-a-vis the
banks and by banks vis-a-vis their clients - which increases banks
operational costs. Difficulties in supervision by BI and the banks of the
end-use of funds are well known to clients, some of whom have been known to
divert funds from the "high" priority activities to the "low" priority ones.
For these various instruments to work effectively would therefore require
substantial institutional and policy reform along with an overall strengthen-
ing of bank staff capability.
3.13      Financial Policy Reforms.  Recognizing these problems, Bank
Indonesia has, in the last few years, taken major steps to improve the
efficiency of state banks and, from time to time, introduces important
financial policy changes. BI provides state banks with direct financial and
technical assistance to strengthen their development banking skills to
identify, promote and supervise viable projects. Under the proposed project,
BI would finance the bulk of technical assistance designed to upgrade the
capability of Regional Development Banks and the training of state
commercial banks staff throughout the country.



- 14 -
3.14      However, in view of the changing development needs of the 1980s,
these efforts should be stepped up. In addition, as the size and importance
of the financial sector are expanding, there may also be a need for a broad
financial policy reform.. Such a reform should focus on, inter alia, the use
of appropriate instruments to control domestic inflation, the gradual
elimination of credit ceilings, the introduction of a more flexible and
market oriented interest rate policy, reform of the rediscount mechanism,
coupled with financial and nonfinancial assistance to pribumi entrepre-
neurs, and institutional-reforms. It should be pointed out, however, that
progress in implementing these reforms could only be achieved gradually, and
in some cases with difficulty; and there may be a need for further analysis
of some of the options open to the Government. During the discussion of the
Industrial Sector Report the Bank discussed these policy options and offered
its assistance to speed up their implementation.
3.15      In respect of the weaker economic groups of industry which are
predominantly small indigenous entrepreneurs, the Government has a number
of alternative options that are consistent with the above recommendations.
To further the Government-s objectives to promote equity among the different
economic segments of society, it is suggested that subsidies be granted
directly from the budget by earmarking a fixed amount on an annual basis
rather than through the rediscount window. Thus, long- and short-term
credit to the economically weak firms should be continued at subsidized
rates; they should, however, be financed by direct subsidies to all banks,
not only to state banks. Attractive returns to loans made to economically
weak investors through this mechanism would encourage state as well as
private domestic and foreign banks to seek out such enterprises and provide
them with expertise and advice regarding financial management and exports.
The Government should also continue the present arrangements regarding the
KIK/KMKP credits targetted to the small entrepreneurs. Despite certain
weaknesses in these schemes, the amounts involved are small, and with time,
the benefits can be expected to exceed the costs. But it may be desirable
to encourage all banks to provide these credits by assuring them adequate
margins through the budget subsidy. An alternative approach to the budget
subsidy would be for Bank Indonesia to establish a special development fund
for the weaker economic group and subsidized credit to this group may then
be financed from this fund. As a distinctly second-best approach, the
rediscount system may be used to provide subsidies, but this should be
restricted only to investment and short-term credit designed to aid the
economically weak groups of society. The Government may also wish to permit
institutional equity funds to be treated as surrogate capital with the
intention that these shares could be later sold to individual economically
weak investors.
3.16      The state commercial and development banks can play an effective
role in this process and should be encouraged and strengthened to do so.
More effective support for small enterpreneurs may be provided by
toorcdinating the above credit schemes with other programs such as the
development of mini-industrial estates, cottage industry projects and the
development of industrial extension services throughout the country. The



- 15 -
possibilities here include assistance to weak entrepreneurs in completing
application forms and in obtaining licenses, advice on the appropriate
choice of technology, establishment of district industry centers where
assistance from bank officials and extension officers can be provided, and
the creation of provincial committees on which bank extension agencies and
local government officials would be represented. Under the proposed project
coordination of credit and technical assistance would be a major emphasis
(para. 5.01). To give increased exposure to efficient and modern business
techniques, the Government may also wish to consider providing tax
incentives to private foreign and domestic firms to employ and provide
training to the weaker economic groups. A graduated tax incentive system
could also be considered in order to encourage private domestic and foreign
firms to increase their share of management and ownership of firms by the
economically weak groups. Additional policies that may be undertaken
simultaneously to promote pribumi enterprises include Government support for
on-the-job training, special training facilities and business schools.
A major objective of the SSE Support Services component of this project is
to strengthen Government support to SSEs in upgrading their technical and
managerial capability (para. 5.22).
The Bank's Lending Strategy for the Industrial Sector
3.17      The Bank Group's involvement in the industrial sector so far has
been aimed at supporting the Government's investment program in key
industries such as fertilizer, textile and cement, and providing term
finance for investments in the private sector through DFC operations and the
small enterprise development project. This approach has gone a long way
towards helping the country achieve its development objectives in REPELITA
I and II (1969-78) which were focused on the rehabilitation and expansion of
productive capacity. Execution of Bank projects during the period has been
generally satisfactory. As the Government is placing more emphasis on
employment and income distribution objectives in its REPELITA III (1979-83),
the need for addressing policy issues related to these goals has become
critical. The Bank is, therefore, attempting to develop a policy-based
strategy that would address key industrial and financial sector issues, in
tandem with its involvement in specific project financing. The Bank's
Industrial Sector Mission identified some of these issues which are being
discussed with the Government. These are issues related to the industrial
incentive system and trade regime, the regulatory mechanism, financial
support for industrial investments and policies towards private foreign
investment. The proposed lending program includes an industrial financing
loan for FY83 which would try to address some institutional issues affecting
the Indonesian industrial sector, and an industrial exports loan for FY84,
which would address a number of trade-related issues. In addition, the Bank
would continue to support the Government's small- and medium-scale
enterprises programs with increasing emphasis on supporting services and
would also finance a limited number of larger resource-based projects in
which Indonesia has comparative advantage such as petrochemicals, fertilizer
and pulp and paper.



- 16 -
4. THE KIK/KMKP PROGRAM
Background
4.01      Recognizing the need for medium-term funds, particularly for
indigenous small-scale enterprises, the Government introduced in 1969 the
General Investment Credit scheme (Kredit Investasi Biasa - KIB). Funded
mainly by BI, through rediscount facilities, this scheme provides term credits
of up to 15 years, at 10.5% to 13.5% rates of interest depending on the size
of individual loans, but the percentage rediscounted by BI decreases as the
loan size increases. The minimum equity share of 25% of project costs and
feasibility reports required of KIB loan applicants, however, proved to be too
onerous for most SSEs. Despite the subsequent relaxation of lending terms and
conditions, KIB loans still accrued mostly to medium- and large-scale
enterprises and to enterprises (over 50%) in the public sector. The inability
of SSEs to qualify for KIB loans prompted the Government to introduce, in
1974, two programs of financial assistance specifically directed at SSEs: the
Small Investment Credit (Kredit Investasi Kecil - KIK) for fixed assets
financing, and the Small Permanent Working Capital Credit (Kredit Modal Kerja
Permanen - KMKP). The KIK/KMKP Policy and Strategy Statement (Annex 1), which
was approved on April 21, 1981 by BI, specifies that this program is aimed at
providing term-finance for the development of pribumi SSEs in all economic
sectors, to create employment opportunities, develop entrepreneurial skills,
and promote productive activities in all regions. To ease SSEs' access to the
program, eligibility requirements as well as terms and conditions of lending
would be adapted to the needs of small enterprises. For this reason, KIK/KMKP
loans could be given not only to creditworthy individuals, but also to group
("Massal") projects or groups of entrepreneurs who would otherwise not be
eligible for bank credits.
Scope and Terms of Lending
4.02      The KIK/KMKP program was instituted in 1974 primarily to promote
the development of labor-intensive indigenous SSEs who had difficulties in
gaining access to term finance in the past. To this end fairly lenient
qualifying conditions have been prescribed. The Government, through BI,
provides 75-80% of the funding for KIK/KMKP loans made by participating
banks which finance the balance out of their own funds. BI is responsible
for the program's central administration, monitoring and policy direction,
while its implementation is assigned to the five state commercial banks, a
number of national private banks, and the Regional Development Banks.
Together, these handling banks have a network of more than 1,000 bank
branches spread out in all twenty-seven regions of the country. Two state
commercial banks, Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) and Bank Negara Indonesia 1946
(BNI 46), account for nearly two-thirds of these branches and 70% of all
KIK/KMKP lending.



- 17 -
4.03       All productive activities in agriculture, industry, trade, trans-
port and services are eligible for KIK/KMKP financing, with the exception of
those ventures that may from time to time be declared by Government as
"saturated"./l  No equity contribution is required of borrowers, and project
feasibility rather than collateral is the main criterion of loan approvals.
Although collateral guidelines specify that the "project being financed is
the main collateral," additional collateral up to 50% of the loan amount may
be requested, but no customer should be turned down for lack of such
collateral. Maximum maturity for KIK loans is 10 years, including a grace
period of four years. KMKP loans have maturities of three years and are
usually granted as Lines of credit (which may be drawn at any time) to
finance working capital requirements. Present lending rates are 10.5% p.a.
for 'KIK and 12% p.a. for KMKP loans. Borrowers may obtain initially up to
Rp 10 million ($16,000) under each type of credit and subsequently another
Rp 5 million ($8,000) under each type provided their repayment records have
been satisfactory. Exceptions to both loan ceilings and maturity limits are
occasionally allowed if they are justified.
4.04       BI periodically reviews lending terms (lending rates, loan amounts,
duration) and adjusts them from time to time in response to domestic price
changes and business conditions. However, the program's lending rates have
only been adjusted once (in January 1978) when KIK and KMKP lending rates were
reduced from 12% to 10.5% p.a. and from 15% to 12% p.a., respectively. That
change was made partly in response to the downward trend of the inflation rate
from 20.1% in 1974/75 to 10.1% in 1977/78, and partly as a further move
towards easing the access of SSEs to the credit facilities. Since then the
inflation rate has been rising steadily (reaching 20% in 1979/80) and is
running at 20% again in 1980/81. Recent KIK/KMKP lending rates, therefore,
-have been negative in real terms. The Government, however, is committed to
subsidizing the interest rates on loans to small enterprises participating in
the program as part of its efforts to foster local indigenous entrepreneurship
and employment. Moreover, the KIK/KMKP interest rates are part of the overall
interest rate structure which is, in turn, determined on the basis of overall
financial policies and government priorities. As noted in para. 3.17, Bank
staff are currently discussing these issues with the Government in the context
of the Industrial Sector Report, but it is clear that appropriate solutions to
the interest rate issue can only be worked out over the longer-term. Within
the project context, however, a review of lending terms and conditions by BI
is provided for in the KIK/KMKP Policy and Strategy Statement (Annex 1) and
the agreed annual progress reporting system (Annex 2). The KIK/KMKP Policy
and Strategy Statement was agreed between BI and the Bank during negotiations
(Section 5.01(e) of the draft Loan Agreement).
/1 Qualified indigenous professionals in the fields of law, medicine,
dentistry, education and traditional culture may also obtain KIK/KMKP
credits to support or start their practice (BI Circulars No. SE 10/5/UPK,
dated June 1, 1977 and March 20, 1978). Since August 1979, KIK/KMKP
loans may also be used to refinance high interest loans obtained from
money lenders (the curb market).



- 18 -
Interest Rates and Margins
4.05      BI refinances 80% of KIK and 75% of KMKP subloans at 3% p.a.  and
4% p.a., respectively, requiring handling banks to finance the balance out
of their own funds. In addition, the Indonesian Credit Insurance
Corporation (P.T. ASKRINDO) insures handling banks against 75% of the credit
risk, for a one-time premium of 3%, payable half by BI and half by the
handling banks. With interest rates on KIK at 10.5% p.a. and on KMKP at 12%
p.a. and the cost of their own loanable funds at about 8% (according to a
study of Administrative and Financial Costs under SEDP I, para. 4.35),
handling banks earn a gross spread of 5.5% on KIK and 6.3% on KMKP,/l which
are adequate.
4.06      Although these spreads are sufficient to cover administrative
costs (estimated at about 5% of outstanding portfolio) and leave a small
margin of profit for the handling banks, BI holds the view that additional
incentives are still necessary in order to sustain their interest in the
program and enable them to administer it effectively. For this purpose, BI
grants state banks an interest moratorium on part of their central bank debt
under rediscount arrangements involving other credit schemes, so that they
could utilize the proceeds to recruit and train a sufficient number of staff
for small lending operations. In addition, 26 RDBs /2 are being provided
with management consultancy services which are financed on a cost-sharing
basis, whereby BI shoulders the bulk (80-85%) of the costs under SEDP II.
Organizational Arrangements
4.07      Bank Indonesia's Loan Department and Credit Planning and Super-
vision Department have been jointly responsible for managing the KIK/KMKP
Program and formulating its policies. Central administration of the Program
is carried out by the Small Credit Desk of the Loan Department, which,
inter alia, issues circulars to handling banks on KIK/KMKP procedures and
policies, examines their applications for rediscounting, monitors KIK/KMKP
credit targets, collects data nationwide, and supervises the sections in
BI's branches which screen KIK/KMKP rediscount applications. Program
/1 For KIK, the average cost of funds is 80% x 3% plus 20% x 8% = 4.0%;
for KMKP 75% x 4% plus 25% x 8% = 5.0%. The 1.5% flat fee to P.T.
ASKRINDO is equivalent to almost 1% annual charge (0.7%) for KIK loans
and a 0.6% annual charge for KMKP loans.
/2 Seventeen of the 26 RDBs indirectly participate in the program through
co-financing arrangements with BAPINDO; nine have direct access to KIK/
KMKP rediscount facilities after being accredited by BI. A number of
private banks still cofinance KIK/KMKP loans with state commercial banks.



- 19 -
planning and evaluation are the responsibility of the Credit Planning and
Supervision Department, whose Credit Planning Division allocates the annual
KIK/KMKP lending targets to the handling banks. Accreditation of financial
institutions for participation in the KIK/KMKP program is the responsibility
of the Bank Supervision Department which normally evaluates financial
institutions capabilities, audits their portfolios and monitors their
performance. These organizational arrangements have worked well in
practice, although there are still occasional problems of coordination and
overlaps within BI. BI proposes to remedy this situation by redefining
and clarifying the functions of units involved in KIK/KMKP and project
activities (para. 5.10).
4.08      Program Planning and Guidance.  As part of the credit allocation
mechanism, bankwide ceilings are prescribed by Bank Indonesia on an annual
basis, which are determined by Government priorities considering each bank's
actual lending operations in the preceding year. However, for KIK/KMKP
lending the handling banks were assigned lending targets which have been
very liberal so that practically only a few banks could meet them. To date
none of the handling banks are preparing KIK/KMKP lending programs beyond
one year, because of the annual targeting exercise and because their
planning capacity is either lacking or inadequate. As the program expands,
BI and the handling banks have increasingly realized the importance of such
factors as the potential demand for credit by sectors and regions, the
absorptive capacity of handling banks or future resource growth, in planning
their operations. In consultation with the Bank, BI is now planning to take
the necessary steps to extend the planning horizon from one to three years
so that annual targets and forecasts could be set more realistically.
During negotiations BI confirmed its intention to implement such a
medium-term planning system for the KIK/KMKP program by December 31, 1982
(Section 2.06 of the draft Project Agreement).
Lending Procedures
4.09      Appraisal and Supervision.  The mechanics of KIK/KMKP lending are
described in Annex 8. The small loan size (averaging about Rp 2.7 million
or $4,300 for KIK and Rp 2.1 million or $3,300 for KMKP loans), difficulties
in obtaining accurate information on the operation and performance of large
numbers of clients, and appraisal officers limited experience have caused
handling banks to adopt various appraisal approaches which often lack
uniformity. Undue reliance is still placed on the project sponsors
collateral and past performance. What is needed is a simplified appraisal
procedure that consists of a series of simple questions about the project's
viability which could aid in forming appraisal officers judgments quickly.
A number of such checklists have been developed on the basis of the standard
Application Form for KIK/KMKP loans, but no systematic procedure has yet
emerged on how to introduce and ensure the use of these simplified appraisal
methods by banks. Although a simplified appraisal format has been
developed, BI continues its search for an appropriate appraisal procedure
for small loans, but understandably development of new procedures requires
considerable experimentation and deliberate efforts given the uneven



- 20 -
appraisal skills of bank staff. Therefore, the mission has suggested that
the Small Enterprise Development Committee /1 should be used as a forum
where needed changes in procedures and policies affecting the lending
program could be dealt with. Other ways of introducing procedural changes
through circulars, directives, etc. from BI would also be used for this
purpose. An understanding of BI's plans to simplify appraisal procedures
and introduce them to the handling banks was reached at negotiations.
4.10      Regular supervision of individual KIK/KMKP clients by handling
banks is still not possible, nor perhaps realistic to expect given the large
number of small projects involved and the limited staff capacity. What is
needed is a more systematic supervision approach, based at least on
up-to-date monitoring of loans so that those projects which experience
difficulties would be more readily identified.  Supervision work is expected
nonetheless to improve in parallel with the banks' training efforts proposed
under the project (para. 5.16) and their success in recruiting talented and
motivated professionals. As in SEDP I, supervision practices of handling
banks would be closely monitored by BI.
4.11      Improved Monitoring System.  A consultant study undertaken under
SEDP I to improve the information on KIK/KMKP lending operations, recommended
the establishment of an improved monitoring and reporting system that could
provide better support to BI and the banks. Under this system, data on
subloan approvals and disbursements, data on the subprojects' economic and
financial profiles, as well as loan repayments data and arrears would be
reported by the banks to BI which would then computerize them. BI would
analyze the data and, on the basis of its analysis, formulate directives to
improve lending operations performance. The details of the monitoring system,
its timing and review process, however, had not been decided at the time of
the Appraisal Mission. Agreement was reached during negotiations that an
improved monitoring system for all KIK/KMKP lending operations be implemented
at the latest by December 31, 1982 (Section 2.07 of the draft Project Agree-
ment).
4.12      Credit Insurance (P.T. ASKRINDO).  The Indonesian Credit Insurance
Corporation, Ltd. (P.T. ASKRINDO), established by the Government and Bank
Indonesia in 1971, has been operating as the only credit insurance company
in Indonesia. Its primary objective is to assist the implementation of the
Government's credit policies by insuring bank credits to small- and medium-
size indigenous enterprises, particularly those with insufficient collateral
who normally would have limited access to institutional credit. P.T. ASKRINDO
insures all KIK/KMKP loans against 75% of losses. Insurance coverage is
/L This is a committee of senior handling banks officials who meet
regularly at BI head office to discuss policies, problems, and issues
affecting KIK/KMKP lending. It is chaired by a senior BI official.



- 21 -
automatic for individual KIK/KMKP loans; for other types of credits such as
"massal" loans, P.T. ASKRINDO evaluates each praogram before agreeing to
insure. A flat premium fee of 3%, payable half by BI and half by the
handling bank is charged for insuring individual KIK loans for five years
and KMKP loans for three years.
4.13      Annex 9 details P.T. ASKRINDO's financial position and activities
with respect to the KIK/KMKP Program. Over the last three years, credit
insurance coverage approved by the company has increased sharply from about
81,000 loans amounting to Rp 60 billion in 1977 to 211,000 loans amounting
to Rp 151 billion in 1979. As of June 30, 1980, total credit insurance
approved by the company amounted to about Rp 761 billion ($1.2 billion), of
which Rp 508 billion ($813 million), or 67%, represented KIK/KMKP credit
insurance. Payments on claims by banks also rose sharply during the period,
although P.T. ASKRINDO's present procedures do not permit a speedy repayment
on such claims. To strengthen its role in mitigating risks under the
KIK/KMKP program, these procedures need to be streamlined.
4.14      Recognizing this need, a consultant was hired to study its
organization, policies and procedures. The consultant's report, which was
completed in January 1980, recommended a number of measures to strengthen the
existing organizational structure and management, speed up claims procedures
of P.T. ASKRINDO, and rationalize, the premium rate structure. Since the con-
sultant report was completed, the Government, BI, P.T. ASKRINDO and the
handling banks have been reviewing its findings and recommendations and some
action has already been taken to improve tne procedures. Ilowever, in order
to assure that the credit insurance system will operate more effectively to
support the expanding program, it is recommended that the Bank ask the
Government and BI to present a statement on how they propose to improve the
claims procedures on credit insurance for KIK/KMKP loans by P.T. ASKRITNDO
during SEDP II. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that these
proposals would be presented to and reviewed by the Bank no later than
June 30, 1982 (Section 3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Amount and Distribution of Lending
4.15      Since program inception (1974), KIK/KMKP lending operations have
been growing rapidly, particularly in the last two years (Annex 8, Tables 10
and 11). KIK loan approvals which started from a small base of Rp 15.3 bil-
lion ($37 million) in 1974 increased at the rate of over 30% p.a. in nominal
terms through 1979, reaching a cumulative total of Rp 214 billion ($342 mil-
lion) by June 1980. KMKP loans for working capital, which require minimum
evaluation by handling banks, expanded even faster at the rate of over 50%
p.a. to a cumulative amount of Rp 312 billion ($499 million) over the period.
The rapid expansion of the program further accelerated during 1979 and
through the first half of 1980, resulting in nominal growth rates of over 80%
for KIK and 100% for KMKP loan approvals. However, amounts outstanding as of
June 1980 of Rp 142 billion ($227 million) and Rp 229 billion ($366 million)
for KIK and KMKP lending, respectively, including delinquent loans account



- 22 -
for less than 5% of the handling banks' outstanding loan portfolios.  Since
about 77,000 borrowers have obtained KIK financing and about 450,000 /1
received KMKP credits during this period, or roughly 10% of the estimated
number of SSEs throughout the country, there is still some scope for further
expansion. Sustained overall economic growth over the period, accompanied
by promotional efforts which were intensified beginning in mid-1979, appears
to be the underlying cause of the rapid expansion of the program in 1979 and
1980. Successive measures in 1978 and 1979 to further relax lending terms
such as reduction of lending rates, increase of maximum loan amounts and
expansion of maturities, have acted as catalyst in recent program expansion.
4.16      Sectoral Distribution.  KIK lending for investments in the indus-
trial sector has been declining steadily in favor of the services sectors
(transport, trade, others) from about 23% in 1974 to 15% in 1979, and to 14%
as of June 1980. Although this is not surprising given the structure of the
SSE sector in Indonesia, the time may be ripe for stimulating more lending to
SSEs engaged in the industrial sector. BI's evaluation of KIK/KMKP lending in
the three regions of Central Java, East Java and West Sumatra (para. 4.28)
suggests that lending to the services sector results in fewer job opportuni-
ties than that to the manufacturing and agro-industrial sectors. The 35,000
KIK/KMKP recipients engaged in manufacturing industries to date represent less
than 3% of the estimated 1.3 million small manufacturing firms in the country.
Bank Indonesia recognizes the importance of achieving the employment
objectives of the program and is considering a number of measures to achieve
them. The mission recommended that the studies to be conducted by RPMUs put
emphasis on identifying potential for further expansion of lending to the
manufacturing subsectors. During negotiations, the Bank and BI discussed
further other measures of promoting KIK/KMKP lending to the industrial and
agro-industrial sectors, including more active promotional measures,
strengthening of technical support services and strengthening of handling
banks.
4.17      Distribution by Size, Maturity and Purpose.  The characteristics
of KIK/KMKP loan approvals, shown in Annex 8, Table 13, indicate that the
majority of loans are concentrated at the lower end of the size spectrum.
Around 49% of the number of KIK loans are for less than the average size KIK
loan of Rp 2.7 million ($4,300) and about 70% of KMKP loans are for less
than the average size of Rp 2.1 million ($3,300). This is not surprising as
the maximum loan limit has been increased only recently. The average KIK
loan size based on cumulative data has grown at a nominal annual rate of
around 10% (12% for KMKP) from Rp 1.9 million to Rp 2.4 million during the
1976 to June 1980 period./2
/1 Over 300,000 of these loans were granted under the KIK/KMKP "Massal"
scheme which is administered jointly by BI and the technical ministries
concerned.
/2 For loans made during the first half of 1980, the average loan size
for KIK was Rp 4.1 million ($6,500) and for KMKP Rp 2.6 million ($4,000).



- 23 -
4.18      Similarly, the bulk (58%) of KIK loan approvals in both numbers
and amounts has been for maturities of less than 4 years, resulting in an
average duration of 3.4 years. This may not have reflected exactly the
projected earnings of the projects financed with those loans and may have
unduly burdened borrowers' cash flows in the past. HIowever, BI has recently
responded to this issue by extending the maximum loan duration from 5 to 10
years.
4.19      Most KIK/KMKP lending has gone to established entrepreneurs for
rehabilitation or expansion of their operations. This may be explained by
the handling banks' reluctance to deal with new entrepreneurs who have no
track records yet. Investment in equipment and machinery has absorbed
around 82% of total KIK lending while around 18% was used for buildings.
4.20      Distribution by Handling Banks.  Bank Rakyat Indonesia with its
large network of branches accounts for 46% and 64% of cumulative KIK and KMKP
approvals (Annex 8, Table 10). Bank Negara Indonesia 1946, a very active
participant with particular focus on the manufacturing sector, ranks second
with 15% of KIK and 12% of KMKP lending. The RDBs, partly under cofinancing
arrangements with BAPINDO, and the private banks together account for 8% of
total KIK lending and 5% of KMKP lending; the share of the former group, in
particular, is expected to increase over the next few years.
4.21      The sectoral specialization of state commercial banks has not been a
constraint on KIK lending as this is not observed rigidly in practice. Due to
its sheer size, BRI accounts for the major share (over 81%) of KIK lending to
agriculture according to its principal assignment, but also leads in lending
to other economic sectors. The other handling banks show a greater degree of
specialization and BNI 46s KIK/KMKP lending is concentrated in industry (over
36%), while transportation accounts for Bank Bumi Daya's major KIK/KI4KP lend-
ing activity. The question of developing specialized financial institutions
such as the Regional Development Banks to provide credit assistance to SSEs
has been debated extensively in local banking circles in the past and there
now seems to be a consensus of opinion in favor of such additional channels.
BI, in addition to supporting the existing channels, is consequently preparing
to expand RDBs' participation in the program. To accomplish this objective,
26 RDBs are being upgraded under SEDP II (para. 5.20).
Collection Performance and Arrears
4.22      While the KIK/KIfKP program has expanded rapidly, this does not
appear to have led to a growing collection problem. Arrears on KIK
principal amounts outstanding appear to have been declining from around 25%
in 1977 to 24% in 1978, 19% in 1979 and 19% through June 1980. Although
these arrears are high in absolute terms, they are not unusually so for
small-scale industry lending programs at similar stages of development.
4.23      The proper management and control of arrears is a major objective
of the project. Steps are being taken to lay the basis for arrears control



- 24 -
by improving the arrears monitoring and the procedures for handling bad
debts. Arrears recording by banks on KIK/KMKP lending activities is still
deficient, since it does not show interest payments in arrears, rescheduled
amounts and amounts written-off, nor does it classify arrears by age. This
should, however, be corrected if the improved management information system,
mentioned in para. 4.11, is implemented as planned. More detailed data on
arrears and collection performance by the banks should also pave the way for
a follow-up analysis of the causes of arrears so that appropriate remedial
measures could be taken. The Annual Progress reports to be submitted by BT
to the Bank for SEDP II would include a review of handling banks collection
performance and arrears on KIK/KMKP loans (Annex 2).
Growth Prospects
4.24      The rapid expansion of the program in both number and value terms
noted in para. 4.15 continues unabated through 1980. During the period
1981-84, nominal growth rates may decelerate somewhat from the 1974-80 growth
of over 30% p.a. for KIK and 50% p.a. for KMKP lending (about 12% p.a. and 32%
p.a. in real terms) as the program is increasingly directed towards the more
complex nonservices sectors, but the upward trend is likely to be sustained.
There is still a large segment of SSEs that are not yet reached by the program
which could, with improving technical assistance, qualify for KIK/KMKP loans
in the next few years. The Government puts high priority on these programs,
and resources would most likely be available for financing the program at
least during the period of REPELITA III which ends in 1983/84. Taking these
various factors into account, BI estimates that KIK loan approvals would grow
at an annual rate of 16% p.a. in real terms during 1980-84, reaching an
incremental lending volume of Rp 574 billion ($918 million) over the period.
SEDP I and the KIK/KMKP Program
4.25      Background.  As the program expanded, a number of institutional and
operational problems which threatened its effectiveness had begun to emerge.
Interest spreads on KIK/KMKP, although adequate, had not been perceived by
handling banks to be as attractive as spreads on their other lending
operations, largely because of the high administrative costs of small lending
activities and the bank staff inexperience in and physical difficulties of
administering small loans. Handling banks, moreover, had found their
operational procedures to be unsuitable to the needs of small borrowers who
often keep no records of their operations. There had been a need for new
operating guidelines, a need for additional staff who are trained for small
lending operations, and a need for effective support services (which banks
staff could not provide) in order to make the lending program effective.
Furthermore, the information on the characteristics of SSEs had been inade-
quate for operational purposes. Recognizing these problems, BI approached
the Bank for assistance in 1975. Subsequent discussions with BI and the
Government led to the first Small Enterprise Development Project, for which
a $40 million IDA credit (Credit 785-IND) was approved in March 1978.



- 25 -
4.26      Project Objectives and Components.  The objectives and components
of the first project, detailed in the SEDP I Staff Appraisal Report,/1 aimed
at improving both the volume and quality of KIK/KMKP lending in the regions
of Central Java, East Java and West Sumatra by: (a) strengthening program
management and supervision at BI's head office and its regional branches;
(b) improving loan administration by handling banks through the provision of
training; and (c) supplementing BI's rediscount resources with the proceeds
of the IDA credit. The project components consisted of a $71.0 million
credit component, of which the IDA Credit proceeds financed $33.8 million
and a $9.0 million technical assistance component,/2 of which the IDA Credit
financed $6.2 million. Project implementation was scheduled for two and a
half years for the credit component, and for most of the technical
assistance, three years. The Credit became effective on August 17, 1978.
4.27       SEDP 1 Credit Component.  KIK loan approvals in the three project
regions amounted to Rp 9.7 billion ($15 million) at the end of 1978, when the
project started, then rose sharply by 84% in 1979 to Rp 17.9 billion ($29
million), reaching a cumulative total of Rp 67.7 billion ($108 million) by
June 1980 or roughly 32% of the nationwide figure. KMKP lending for working
capital (not covered under the IDA Credit) expanded much faster reaching Rp
129 billion ($206 million) in the same period. No significant lags were
observed between loan approvals and disbursements. As of June 31, 1980,
around 28,000 KIK loans were approved in the project areas, or 36% of the
total recipients of KIK nationwide.
4.28      Quality of Lending in SEDP I.  The quality of KIK/KMKP subloans in
the project regions has been generally satisfactory. Initial findings of
the BI evaluation of KIK/KMIKP lending in the SEDP I regions, which account
for 36% of KIK and 41% of KMKP clients, concluded that without exception,
KIK/KMKP loans have accrued to enterprises classified as "small" under the
banks' definition (para. 1.03) and, based on a sample of subloans, most (82%
of the sample) of these loans were used for the stated purposes./3 The
remaining 18% of the loan proceeds appears to have been used for sideline
projects of the clients or for consumptive purposes. Over 64% of the
/1 Indonesia: Appraisal of a Small Enterprise Development Project,
Report No. 1614a-IND, dated March 6, 1978.
/2  Includes training, consultants'services, and studies of the developmen-
tal impact of KIK/KMKP lending, the handling banks' administrative
costs, credit insurance, lending procedures and management information
systems.
/3 The evaluation studies were divided into two parts, one to examine the
socio-economic impact of KIK/KMKP lending which was carried out by local
universities and the other, conducted by BI staff, to examine the
financial impact of the program.



- 26 -
borrowers sampled repaid their loans on time, 2% repaid in advance, and 34%
were late in their installment payments. The study also noted that the
primary cause of delinquency was business failure due to poor internal
management, marketing and production problems. As of June 1980, arrears as a
percentage of KIK principal amounts outstanding in the SEDP I project areas
were estimated at about 19% and there appears to be an increasing trend in
the collection rate of handling banks in those areas. The study disclosed
further that nearly 60% of loan recipients hired additional workers,
averaging 1 - 5 persons. per firm, and about 70% have more than doubled their
output as a result of expanded production and/or increased capacity
utilization facilitated by the KIK/KMKP credits. The observed incidence of
deviation of credit funds and the risk associated with such practices suggest
that there is a continuing need for better project evaluation and intensified
supervision efforts accompanied by adequate technical support after loan
approval.
4.29      Preliminary findings of the socio-economic study, carried out by
three local universities,/1 seem to confirm the general findings of the BI
study. To illustrate the employment and output impact of KIK/KMKP, a
representative sample of 64 clients, with the most complete information, was
selected (Annex 14). An Economic Rate of Return (ERR) analysis was further
attempted (with great difficulty for lack of consistent data) on 20 of these
very small firms. The analysis yielded mixed results partly due to data
problems and partly because this method of analysis does not lend itself
well to an analysis of small-scale enterprises, which for the most part do
not keep adequate records. The analysis showed that the median ERR of the
sample was 13%; the investment cost per job was Rp 2.1 million ($3,300)
compared to the national average of Rp 9.4 million ($15,000) for medium
industries and Rp 156 million ($250,000) for large-scale industries; that
output increased by an average of 62% as a result of the credits obtained;
and that the incremental labor creation was 2 workers per firm. The zero or
negative ERRs of some firms resulted from one or more of the following
factors: diversion of loan proceeds to unproductive uses, overinvestment in
relation to expected cash flow, incomplete data supplied by customers, and
methodological problems.
4.30      Technical Assistance Component.  Technical assistance under SEDP I
which focussed on the institutional strengthening of KIK/KMKP program
management and administration proved to be much more difficult to implement
than had been anticipated at appraisal. Clearly, there is a need to continue
and improve this institution-building process, a need for experimentation of
various approaches and evaluation of progress both under the KIK/KMKP program
and the project.
/1  University of Indonesia and the University of Andalas for West Sumatra,
Gadjah Mada University for Central Java, and the Brawijaya University for
East Java.



- 27 -
4.31      Strengthening Project Management.  SEDP I is managed by a separte
unit at BI-s Head Office, the Central Project Management Unit (CPMU),/l whose
manager and staff are a part of the Loan Department. At the regional level,
the Regional Project Management Units (RPMU) which are attached to BI1s
regional branches in Central Java, East Java and West Sumatra, carried the
main burden of project field work and served as the main contacts for project
administration between BI and the CPMU, on the one hand, and the branches of
handling banks and other local government agencies on the other. The CPMU and
RPMUs are supported by consultants./2
4.32      The CPMU has carried the main burden of central project management,
which included the monitoring of KIK lending and RPMU project activities in
the three project regions; while another unit, the Desk for Small Credits
(Desk Kredit Kecil - DKK) monitors and supervises rediscount facilities for
KIK/KMKP lending activities for all regions. These administrative
arrangements have at times resulted in some degree of overlap and internal
coordination problems at the Head Office which, in turn, tended to disrupt
communication flows between the CPMU and the RPMUs. In view of the expanded
coverage and scope of the proposed project, BI has been evaluating project
management and has been considering various plans to strengthen it. Details
of these plans which include redefining and clarifying functional
responsibilities, additional staffing and strengthening of coordination
between field and central project units, have been discussed with the
Appraisal Mission (para. 5.10).
4.33      The RPMUs in the three project regions, after some initial difficul-
ties in establishing their operations and rapport with branches of handling
banks and local government agencies, have generally succeeded in carrying out
their assigned tasks of training local BI and handling bank staff in actual
small lending operations, identifying feasible lending programs for the banks
(which took up nearly 70% of their time in 1979 and 1980), and otherwise
assisting handling banks administer the KIK/KMKP program. They have produced
a number of subsector reports (42 in Central Java, 35 in East Java and 38 in
West Sumatra) many of which have resulted in actual KIK/KMKP loans.
Consultants attached to RPMUs have also begun to influence the local branches
/1 In BI's Organizational Chart (Chart No. 4) the CPMU is referred to as the
Desk for Small Enterprise Development (Desk Pengembangan Pengusaha Kecil
or DPPK) under the Loan Department; while the RPMU is referred to as the
Section for Small Enterprise Development (Seksi Pengembangan Pengusaha
Kecil or SPPK) in the Branch Offices of BI.
/2 The CPMU is assisted by a Project Advisor, a Small Business Advisor, an
Agricultural Advisor and a number of professional BI staff; while the
RPMUs are assisted by five-man (four-man in West Sumatra) consultant
teams who are experts in development banking, SSE development, agricul-
ture, marketing and development economics.



- 28 -
of handling banks in developing better loan processing and supervision
procedures. To measure RPMUs' impact on the volume and quality of KIK/KMKP
lending, however, a systematic evaluation of their achievements, already
begun, is required. The revised Terms of Reference of RPMUs, presented
at negotiations, incorporate such a monitoring and evaluation process.
4.34      Training of Handling Bank Staff.  The classroom training under
SEDP I has encountered problems affecting the principal training units (BI's
Institute for the Development of Banking - LPPI - and the handling banks'
training units). There were problems in recruiting suitable trainers at LPPI
and developing training materials for the handling banks' training units.
Coordination between LPPI and these training units was lacking. Consequently,
during 1978-80 only 122 loan officers and 152 RPMU counterparts had been
trained as compared with the target of 500 loan officers, 200 credit
department supervisors, and 200 branch managers, and 50-70 Regional/Head
Office staff./l To reach a larger number of handling bank staff, the training
component under SEDP II would stress more active involvement of handling
banks' training institutes, development of self-directed training materials
and better coordination of training by both the CPMU and the LPPI.
4.35      Studies.  To improve the data base on SSEs' operational character-
stics with a view to formulating sound credit policies for KIK/KMKP, studies
(para. 4.26) were conducted under SEDP I by BI staff, local universities and
consultants. These studies had a twofold purpose of determining credit
impact, the banks' operational costs and profitability of KIK/KMKP lending,
and improving lending procedures, management information systems and the
credit insurance operation of P.T. ASKRINDO. Except for the credit impact
study on East Java, all studies have been completed and evaluated. The
studies yielded a wealth of information (paras. 4.28-4.29) on the development
impact of KIK/KMKP loans and characteristics of SSEs in the project areas.
Some of the recommendations are being implemented by BI. Improvements in the
design of the proposed project are based in part on the findings of these
studies. On the whole, the findings of the studies have been useful to BI and
the Bank in initiating improvements in KIK/KMKP program and project
administration.
4.36      The studies undertaken under SEDP I and Bank staff review of project
implementation also identified a number of problems that impeded the KIK/KMKP
program's effectiveness. Although BI's management of the credit program and
the project has been satisfactory, this could be reinforced further by
clarifying lines of responsibility among the various BI administrative units
that are involved with the program and the project. Some degree of
decentralization of control would also be helpful. To facilitate a better
evaluation of the development impact of the program, lending and project
activities, including policy and other constraints inhibiting the growth of
SSEs, should be monitored more closely. The studies and improved management
/1 One week orientation seminars, however, were given to 575 branch managers.



- 29 -
information system proposed under SEDP II, supported by BI s regular credit
and bank supervision reports, could supplement this important monitoring
process. With respect to the handling banks, there is a need for a better
focussed training of a practical nature to enhance their skills in term
lending to SSEs and increase their appreciation of SSEs- financial and
nonfinancial needs. This implies a need to work closely with technical
support services agencies and the strengthening of those agencies. Finally,
there is a need to improve, through better project identification and
preparation, the quality (so as to maximize economic benefits and reduce
arrears) of KIK/KMKP lending. To achieve the Bank's objectives in supporting
the Government's and BI-s efforts to develop the SSE sector, closer working
relations with BI, the executing agency, and the various projects units,
through more frequent exchanges of views on project progress and problems and
regular end-use review missions, would be necessary. The proposed project
is designed to address the problems mentioned above.
5. THE PROJECT (SEDP II)
Project Objectives and Scope
5.01      The build-up in resources resulting from rising oil revenues has led
to substantial liquidity in the banking system and permitted the rapid
increase in credit programs such as the KIK/KMKP program described above. The
strategy of the Government is to expand these programs as quickly as practi-
cally possible to direct resources to support productive investment by smaller
entrepreneurs throughout the country. Government and BI officials clearly
recognize that the success of this strategy is critically dependent on build-
ing up the capacity of the banking system to administer a program of this kind
and, in the longer term, improving the supporting services for small-scale
enterprises. Recognizing this long-term need, and the need to address prob-
lems currently faced by the program, the Government has asked the Bank to
provide finance in support of an SEDP II project with major emphasis on insti-
tutional support. The institution building program proposed under SEDP II
which is a time-slice of the Government's program to develop the SSE sector,
consists of the following elements: (a) strengthening program management in
BI both at the head office and regional branches; (b) expanding training of
handling banks staff and decentralizing training functions to bank training
institutes; (c) strengthening the planning mechanism and implementation of the
program both in BI and handling banks; (d) increasing the participation of
Regional Development Banks in KIK/KMKP lending by upgrading their operational
capability; and (e) improving the functional coordination of financial and
nonfinancial assistance to SSEs.
5.02      Project Area.  From the three regions covered under SEDP I, the
proposed project would be expanded to cover all 27 regions of Indonesia where
the KIK/KMKP program has been under implementation. To support this national



- 30 -
credit program, a nationwide training program would be implemented involving,
more actively than under SEDP I, the handling banks training units as primary
trainers with BI's own training institute (LPPI) supplying course materials
and training guidelines.. All the 1,000 some bank branches participating in
the program, including RDBs and a selected number of private banks are
qualified to send staff assigned to administer KIK/KMKP loans to these
training courses. Since on average each branch has 1 to 5 staff members
handling KIK/KMKP lending, this would not pose any serious replacement problem
while staff are undergoing training. Among the trainees completing the
prescribed courses a selected number would further receive a year of on-the-
job training under the guidance of RPMU consultants before returning to their
parent institutions. BI and the handling banks have gained sufficient project
experience over the last five years, particularly under SEDP I, to be able to
cope with this nationwide program. Proposals to further strengthen the
program-s management and organizational structure (para. 5.10) and its
training component appear reasonable and should enable BI to manage the
project adequately.
Project Components
5.03      The main project components are:
(a) credit to finance the KIK lending program for two-and-a-half years
in 27 regions (equivalent to $558.4 million);
(b) an SSE technical support services component ($8.3 million); and
(c) technical assistance to the banking system designed to:
(i)  strengthen the KIK/KMKP program management and project super-
vision at BI-s head office ($2.0 million) assisted by a number
of consultant advisors;
(ii) support the operations of 10 Regional Project Management
Units (RPMUs) each assisted by a team of 4-5 consultants (2-3
Indonesians and 2 expatriates) at BI's Regional Branches
($16.3 million);
(iii) develop and implement a training program for KIK/KMKP loan
officers and supervisors in LPPI and in the training insti-
tutes of three of the participating banks /1 ($14.0 million);
(iv) upgrade 26 RDBs and train selected RDB staff ($5.2 million)
and;
/1 Bank Rakyat Indonesia, Bank Negara Indonesia 1946, and the Indonesian
Development Finance Company (UPPINDO).



- 31 -
(v) conduct studies on the operational aspects and
economic/financial impact of the project ($1.2 million).
5.04      Credit Component.  The project would finance KIK lending by the
five state-owned commercial banks (excluding subprojects eligible for
financing under Rural Credit Projects in BRI), selected national private banks
and RDBs in all regions for two-and-a-half years beginning in about July
1981. As in SEDP I, KMKP loans for working capital would not be covered by
the Bank loan. It is estimated that about 70,000 KIK loans with average size
of about Rp 5 million ($8,000) would be made by some 1,000 bank branches
involved.  Indigenous SSEs in agricultural, manufacturing, trade and other
service production would be the beneficiaries of these loans.
5.05      Technical Assistance.  In 1980, more than 1,000 branches of
private and state banks and more than 5,000 staff were directly involved in
KIK/KMKP lending operations. The relative strengths and weaknesses of these
handling banks vary and few of their staff had any training or experience in
term lending to small enterprises. The dimensions of technical assistance
requirements are enormous and the time required to meet them fully would far
exceed the life span of the proposed SEDP II. As mentioned in para. 5.01
above, the technical assistance in this project should be seen as part of a
longer-term effort to upgrade handling banks capability in small lending
operations and strengthen industrial extension services to support SSE
development.
5.06      The technical assistance component of the project would address
the most critical of these needs as outlined in para. 4.36. It would
emphasize the establishment and strengthening of assistance delivery modes
involving the banking system and industrial extension services agencies under
the Ministry of Industry (MOI). It is envisaged that this approach could
benefit directly about 1,500 to 2,500 loan officers, or the majority of the
number of loan officers needing training, and an indeterminate number of SSEs
who would benefit from the proposed improvement of technical support services
included under the project.
5.07      Consultancy Requirements.  To support the technical assistance
program, 63 long-term consultants, including 36 Indonesians would be engaged
under the project in various advisory capacities./l Altogether 276 man-years
of long-term (3 years duration each) and 29 man-years of short-term (3-6
months duration) consultancy are provided under the project. Consultancy
services would consist of 18 man-years of long-term consultancy for BI s head
office, 144 man-years for the RPMUs, 30 man-years for the training institutes,
/1 In addition to 20 of the staff of BAPINDO and UPPINDO who would be
engaged to provide advisory services for the RDB Upgrading program
(para. 5.21), consultants on development banking, SSE development,
training, marketing and industrial extension services would be required
under the project.



- 32 -
74 man-years for the RDB uprgrading program, 10 man-years for MOI and about 29
man-years of short-term consultancy for the baseline surveys and other studie-
mentioned in para. 5.13. While this consultancy requirement is high, it
should be seen in the context of the size, geographic spread and needs of the
program. Of the total number of consultants required, 44 have been hired and
are in the field, 4 are in advanced stage of recruitment and 15 would still
need to be recruited. Average cost of expatriate consultancy per man-year,
in end-1980 prices, is estimated at about $100,000.
5.08      Given the large number of consultants required for the project,
consultant recruitment and administration (which consumed a substantial
portion of the CPMU's time under SEDP I) would need to be systematized to
ensure smooth project implementation. For this purpose, an improved
consultant performance evaluation system will be implemented by BI under the
proposed project. An understanding was reached at negotiations on the details
of this evaluation system and its implementation under SEDP II.
5.09      Duration of Project.  The commitment period for the credit compo-
nent will be two-and-a-half years, and for the technical assistance three
years commencing around July 1981. This is considered long enough for the
project to have a significant, measurable impact.
5.10      Project Management.  In view of the rapid growth of KIK/KMKP lending
in recent years and the expanded coverage and scope of the proposed project,
BI has decided to implement adjustments with respect to the functions of the
CPMU or the Desk for Small Enterprise Development and the Desk for Small
Credits under the Loan Department at the Head Office. Likewise BI is taking
similar measures at its Regional Branches with respect to the RPMUs and the
units /1 that are in charge of managing the KIK/KMKP program and project
activities. As a result, BI has recently issued circular letters which
redefine the main functions of the central and regional project management
units and clarify their operational relationships. Official English versions
of the above circulars were presented to the Bank (Section 2.08 of the draft
Project Agreement).
5.11      Ten RPMUs are now established in various parts of the country, and
operating on the same Terms of Reference that were approved by the Bank for
/1  These are the sections on Small Enterprise -development (SIVYK) and on Small
Credits (Seksi Kredit Kecil or SKK) that are an integral part of the
regional branches' organizational structure (Chart No. 3)



- 33 -
SEDP I. It is expected that all ten RPMUs would be operative when the project
starts around mid-1981./1
Studies
5.12      Information on the operational characteristics of SSEs has been
improving but is still generally poor and does not provide an adequate basis
for formulating longer-term assistance programs. The latest census of Small-
Sc:ale Industries was taken in 1974/75 and the next one is not scheduled
until 1984. Therefore one of the objectives of SEDP I was to build up the
data base with a number of operational and evaluation studies concerning
specific aspects of the KIK/KMKP lending program, viz., administrative costs
of handling banks, lending procedures, credit insurance, and management
information systems.
5. 13     Under SEDP II, the process of building up the information based on
SSEs and KIK/KMKP lending would continue. Baseline surveys of key project
regions would be conducted. Each RPMU would, as mentioned above, also spend
a good portion of- its time in conducting sectoral and subsectoral studies to
help handling banks identify viable projects and the demand for KIK/KMKP
credits in their vicinity. In addition, a follow-up study on handling banks'
administrative costs would be conducted. Evaluation of the KIK/KMKP economic
impact would be continued under the proposed project.
5.14      As in the first project, studies under SEDP II would be contracted
out to suitable local universities and consultants and supervised by BI
which would also provide staff to undertake some of the studies and surveys
required. It is envisaged that the CPMU Advisors would provide assistance
ona the formulation of Terms of Reference for the studies which would be
submitted to the Bank for review. A total of 216 man-months (including 33
man-months of short-term expatriate consultancy) is required to undertake
the studies. Draft Terms of Reference for a few of these studies have been
presented to the Bank for review and approval.
Training of Handling Bank's Staff
5.15      Through 1980, the shortage of suitably trained and qualified staff
to carry out the KIK/KMKP lending program had adversely affected lending.
/1 In addition to the three RPMUs established under SEDP I in Central Java,
East Java and West Sumatra, BI has established in 1979/80 seven new RPMUs
in Bali, South Sulawesi, South Kalimantan, West Java, Yogyakarta, Jakarta and
North Sumatra. The 10 RPMUs under SEDP II would cover the 12 major
regions accounting for about 80% of KIK/KMKP lending; while BI's Regional
Branches, assisted by the CPMU from time to time, would handle special
problems related to KIK/KMKP in the other regions whose volume of
lending is too small to justify the establishment of RPMUs.



- 34 -
Under SEDP I, training of handling bank staff was delegated primarily to LPPI,
and the project provided for two expatriates to assist LPPI in carrying out
the task. As mentioned in para. 4.34, training achievements fell short of
expectations. Recognizing that the task of training handling banks staff was
too large for LPPI to handle alone, LPPI in 1980 started to decentralize its
training function to those handling banks which had in-house training
capability. In consultation with the Appraisal Mission, an expanded training
program was formulated and agreed upon (Annex 11). With the more active
participation of handling banks' training institutes, it is envisaged that the
proposed program would be able to reach a larger target group commensurate
with expected program expansion.
5.16      Under this program, training would be expanded and decentralized to:
(a) the RPMUs for selected staff; (b) the training units of Bank Rakyat
Indonesia, Bank Negara Indonesia 1946, and UPPINDO who would provide in-house
and on-job training of approximately two-thirds of the staff to be trained
under the project; and (c) line managers and trained cohorts would be involved
in identifying training needs and staff development. Formal classroom train-
ing would be expanded and its emphasis reoriented towards: (a) active
involvement of line managers in identifying needs and staff in need of
training; (b) training of trainers at LPPI to carry out in-house training of
handling bank staff; and (c) development of skills required specifically for
improving KIK/KMKP lending performance will be continued. To assist in the
implementation and to provide for closer coordination of training in the
decentralized system, a Training Coordinator would be posted in the CPMU at
BIrs Head Office. He would be assisted by an internationally recruited Staff
Development Advisor. At the regional level training would be coordinated by
the CPMU working in consultation with LPPI, the RPMUs and the regional
managers of handling banks.
5.17      Training Targets and Staff Requirements.  Training targets cannot be
estimated precisely (and will be reviewed annually), since the multiplier
effects of the various elements of the proposed strategy are not known. It
is, however, envisaged that the proposed training/staff development strategy
would be able to train directly the majority of the 5,000 bank officers
involved in KIK/KMKP lending over the three-year period of SEDP II. The
principal objective of this approach is to lay the basis for a viable training
program that could later on be carried out by banks themselves with minimum
outside help.
5.18      The training units of the handling banks and the LPPI would be
strengthened by providing 7 training consultants in addition to the 2 assigned
to LPPI under SEDP I (BNI, UPPINDO and CPMU, one consultant each and LPPI, 4
consultants). Included among these consultants would be two Staff Development
experts to be posted at LPPI and the CPMU to advise the Training Coordinator.
It is expected that three of the above experts would be expatriates. Costs of
the training component are shown in Annex 11, Table 22. Of the total training
cost of $14.0 million, the Bank would finance the foreign costs of training
amounting to $2.8 million. The remainder would be financed by BI, the
handling banks and by bilateral aid donors. At negotiations the Bank obtained



- 35 -
a financing and execution plan for this component and confirmed the
appointment of the Staff Development Advisors at LPPI and BI as well as the
other key advisors mentioned above.
Regional Development Banks' Upgrading
5.19      The RDB system consists of 26 banks with head offices located in
the capitals of 26 of the regions of Indonesia, and with a network of 129
branches and seven cash offices. Established in the 1950s to serve as the
main channel for development financing in the regions, RDBs have an authorized
capital of Rp 34.9 billion ($56 million) of which Rp 20.4 billion ($33
million) is paid-in. Regional Governments own 100% of RDBs capital which is
derived mainly from the regional development budget and specifically from the
regional development tax revenues (IPEDA), 10% of which is earmarked to be
deposited with RDBs. Low collections on the tax in recent years have,
however, prevented the growth of their capital base resulting in severely
restricted term lending activities (equivalent to 2% of total bank lending)
and equity participation for most of these banks. As of December 31, 1980,
the RDBs' share in KIK/KMKP lending amounted to just over 5% of the total
KIK/KMKP loan approvals throughout the country. The bulk of their lending
operations is short-term. Historically, they function primarily as fiscal
agents for the regional governments.
5.20      BI, however, recognizes their potential for increased participation
in term lending operations such as the KIK/KMKP program, in view of their
regional government ties. Over the last several years, BI has been
assisting a selected number of RDBs by way of rediscount facilities on
priority investments and staff training.  These assistance efforts, however,
tended to benefit only the stronger RDBs, leaving the majority unaffected on
account of their limited absorptive capacity. Therefore, BI is proposing to
systematize and expand its assistance to RDBs both to enable them to live up
to their developmental functions and to increase their participation in the
KIK/KMKP lending program.
5.21      A survey conducted by BI, in cooperation with BAPINDO and UPPINDO,
found that apart from the constraints of a narrow capital base, RDBs have in
varying degrees weak management and organizational structures, lack uniform
operational guidelines, and are short of qualified staff. It, therefore,
recommended an upgrading program for 20 RDBs as a first start that is aimed at
addressing some of these problems. It is expected that by 1982 all 26 RDBs
would be included in the upgrading program. A total of 480 RDB staff and
managers have been identified as needing training on various aspects of
lending operations. Consultancy for this program had been contracted out to
BAPINDO and UPPINDO who would conduct on-the-spot training in the regions,
introduce the application of operational manuals and provide classroom
training to RDBs staff (Annex 10). The proposed RDB upgrading included under
the project would cover three years beginning in October 1980, at the end of
which, additional technical assistance required by RDBs would be determined.
Consultancy services costs of the component are estimated at around $5.2 mil-
lion. Supervision of the upgrading program would be handled by BI's Bank



- 36 -
Supervision Department. The CPMU would be kept informed of the RDB upgrading
progress which would be reported to the Bank as part of the reporting require-
ments (Annex 2). This understanding was reconfirmed during negotiations.
SSE Support Services
5.22      The need for improved support services to assist the SSE sector
in business management, marketing and technical problems has been recognized
for some time by both the Bank and by local banking and official circles.
SEDP I concentrated on providing technical assistance to BI and the handling
banks to improve the administration and management of the KIK/KMKP loan
program. Help to the individual SSE has been left mainly to the programs of
technical ministries, principally the Ministry of Industry, which was
receiving technical assistance from UNIDO/UNDP. Studies under SEDP I have
further reconfirmed the vital need to strengthen technical support services to
SSEs in order to support an expanding KIK/KMKP lending program.
5.23      The Government has allocated the equivalent of $300,000 out of the
Fifth Technical Assistance Project (Credit No. 898-IND) to finance consul-
tancy services to help the Directorate General of SSI (at MOI) in strengthen-
ing its industrial extension services and to determine the feasibility of a
large-scale program to support SSEs. The UNIDO/UNDP is currently implementing
a larger, follow-up technical assistance project as part of its ongoing aid
program to the DG of SSI. The Bank would collaborate with UNIDO/UNDP in the
selection and supervision of some of the consultancy requirements and the
review of overall progress in the implementation of this component.
5.24      To complement the above efforts and to strengthen nonfinancial
assistance to SSEs being provided by MOI, the Appraisal Mission proposed an
SSE support services component at a total cost of about $8.3 million to be
included in SEDP II. This component would involve IBRD funding of $6.0
million which the Government would pass on to the Ministry of Industry in the
form of a budgetary allocation. The Government would provide local counter-
part funding of about $2.3 million equivalent. Reconfirmation of the mode
of financing this component through the budget and its implementation and
assurances that adequate local counterpart funds are available were obtained
at negotiations (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
5.25      Funding for the foreign currency cost of this component would be
provided from the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan. About $5.0 million
equivalent would be used for the purchase of imported equipment needed to
support MOI's industrial extension services SEDP II. About $1.0 million would
be used for technical assistance to MOI to strengthen its advisory services to
SSEs on management, marketing and technological problems during SEDP II. The
proposed allocation of these funds for the hardware components MOI is as
follows:
(a)  $4.0 million for Common Service Centers (location to be decided
by MOI and agreed with the Bank) - to purchase machinery and
equipment needed for training and demonstration purposes;



- 37 -
(b) $0.8 million for Technological (R&D) Institutes under the MOI - to
purchase laboratory, testing and other scientific equipment,
related journals and reference materials and training of staff; and
(c) $0.2 million for Industrial Extension Services and Training - to
purchase training equipment/materials (e.g. audio-visual
equipment, copying machines, mobile workshop, office equipment).
The design and detailed program for implementing each component, accompanied
lists of items to be procured, would be subject to Bank approval prior to
disbursement (Schedule I, para. 4 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
5.26      Total project cost is estimated at $605.3 million (Rp 378 bil-
lion), of which foreign exchange costs would be $242.2 million, or 40% of
the total. Project costs are estimated as follows:
ESTIMATED PROJECT COST
Local      Foreign       Total
------- ($ million) --------
(a)  KIK Subloans (current prices) /a            335.0      223.4         558.4
(Equivalent in Rp. billion)             (209.4)    (139.6)        (349.0)
(b)  Technical Assistance (current prices)
CPMU consultants                           0.77        1.21          1.98
RPMU consultants                           7.83        8.43         16.26
Training                                  11.17        2.78         13.95
RDB upgrading                              5.17        -             5.17
Economic surveys                            0.76       -             0.76
Studies                                    0.13        0.36          0.49
Industrial extension services              0.80        1.00          1.80
Subtotal                                26.63       13.78         40.41
(c)  SSE Support Services (end-1980 prices)        1.00        4.00          5.00
Contingencies /b                           0.50        1.00          1.50
Subtotal (c)(current prices)             1.50        5.00          6.50
Total (current prices)                 363.13      242.18        605.31
/a Based on BI's projections for KIK lending for July 1981-December 1983.
/b Based on domestic price increases of 15% p.a. and foreign cost increases
of about 10% p.a.



- 38 -
The credit component is the projected KIK lending in 26 regions over two-
and-a-half years (July 1, 1981 - December 31, 1983), based on BI's projec-
tion of KIK lending (para. 4.24) during the period. The projected rate of
growth appears realistic, as no shortage of loan demand is anticipated.
Lending operations over the period would be further enhanced by the work of
RPMUs and other promotional measures by BI and the Government. The technical
assistance cost of the project, including the SSE Support Services component
is $46.9 million, or 7.7% of total project cost.
5.27      Relending Terms.  A Bank loan of $106.0 million to the Republic of
Indonesia is proposed. The loan would be made to the Government which would
pass on $100.0 million of the loan proceeds to BI for the credit component
under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement acceptable to the Bank. The signing of the
said agreement would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan
(Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). The balance of the loan proceeds
of $6.0 million would be passed on to the Ministry of Industry in the form of
a budgetary allocation for support services to SSE.
5.28      Under SEDP I, the IDA Credit (No. 785-IND) proceeds were pooled with
BI's own resources and were used to rediscount 80% of KIK subloans extended by
handling banks in the three project regions. Since IDA funding on conces-
sional terms is not available for SEDP II, the Government agreed to use Bank
funds and relend the proceeds of the proposed loan to handling banks on the
same terms as the Bank loan. However, BI proposes to modify financing
arrangements for KIK loans under SEDP II by rediscounting 80% of KIK lending
from its own resources at the going rate of 3% p.a. and use the Bank loan
proceeds to finance the remaining 20% on Bank terms. Assuming the Bank loan
at 10% p.a. interest rate, the combined cost of BI funding to handling banks
would then be about 4.4% after deducting a fee of around 1% p.a. /1 for credit
insurance by P.T. ASKRINDO. After resource and insurance cost, the handling
banks would be provided with a satisfactory spread of 5.1% which is not
significantly different from what they now earn (para. 4.05). KMKP financing
arrangements will be maintained as at present and will not be covered by the
Bank loan. Preliminary agreement was reached at negotiations on the relending
terms of the proposed loan proceeds, to be finalized as soon as the interest
rate for the Bank loan is determined.
5.29      As in previous DFC operations in Indonesia, the Government would
bear the foreign exchange risk of the proposed loan. It is proposed that this
loan be repaid according to a fixed schedule, on country terms, i.e., 20 years
maturity including five years of grace period. Since the average maturity of
KIK subloans during the project period would be about five years, this would
mean that a significant amount of funds would be repaid to BI before the Bank
loan is due to be repaid. As in SEDP I, BI would relend ("roll over") these
funds to provide further support for the KIK program.
/1 The flat fee to P.T. ASKRINDO of 1.5% is equivalent to almost 1% p.a.
(0.7%) on KIX loatns on the basis of their present average duration pattern
(para. 4.05).



- 39 -
5.30      BI would finance the bulk (82%) of the credit component while the
balance would be funded from the proceeds of the proposed loan ($100 million).
For the financing of technical assistance costs, the Government has decided to
use only "soft" funds. Hence, BI has arranged funds from bilateral sources
and, on its request, the Association has agreed to reallocate and rephase the
use of the undisbursed balance of Credit 785-IND, amounting to about $9.5
million, during the period of SEDP II. During negotiations agreement was
reached to amend the SEDP I (Credit 785-IND) legal documents to enable BI to
use the remaining balance of the Credit for financing technical assistance
initiated under SEDP I and continuing through SEDP II. Both projects are
time-slices of the Government's long-term assistance to the small-scale
sector. BI presented the following project financing plan which is
satisfactory to the Bank.
PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
Local       Foreign          Total        Share
----------- ($ million) ---------           (%)
Credit
BI                           335.00         123.40        458.40          82
IBRD                           -            100.00        100.00          18
Subtotal                  335.00          223.40       558.40          100
SSE Support Services             1.50           5.00          6.50         100
TBRD                                          5.00          5.00          77
GOI                            1.50           -             1.50          23
Technical Assistance
BI                            14.62           1.32         15.94          39
GOI                            0.80           -             0.80           2
IDA (SEDP I) /a                3.62           5.85          9.47          24
IBRD                           -              1.00          1.00           3
Handling banks                 4.62           -             4.62          11
Other aid donors               2.97           5.61          8.58          21
Subtotal                    26.63          13.78         40.41         100
Total Project Cost
BI                           349.62         124.72        474.34          78
GOI                            2.30           -             2.30           -
IBRD/IDA                       3.62         111.85        115.47          19
Handling banks                 4.62           -             4.62           1
Other aid donors               2.97           5.61          8.58           2
Total                      363.13         242.18        605.31         100
la Undisbursed balance of Credit 785-IND to be utilized during SEDP 1I.



- 40 -
Disbursement
5.31      Withdrawal applications would be submitted by the CPMU for the
proposed loan's share ($100 million) of the credit component and for the
technical assistance costs covered by Credit 785-IND (SEDP I). For the SSE
Support Services component which is financed by a portion ($6.0 million) of
the proposed loan, the Directorate General of SSI (MOI) would be responsible
for submitting withdrawal applications to the Bank, and disbursements would
be made on 100% of the total expenditures of consultants to MOI; 100% of the
foreign cost of directly imported items; 95% of the ex-factory cost of
locally produced items, and 65% of foreign produced off-the-shelf items.
For the portion of the IBRD loan to be channelled through BI for the credit
component, disbursements would be made by the Bank covering 20% of amounts
disbursed by BI to handling banks for eligible KIK lending under the project.
As in SEDP I, withdrawal applications would be supported by statements of
expenditures, prepared by BI, certifying that equivalent amounts had been
disbursed to subborrowers. The loan-by-loan documentation for the statements
of expenditure would be retained by the handling banks for review by the
Bank (Annex 16).  Disbursement of the reallocated portion of SEDP I funds
(Credit 785-IND) for consultants to BI and its affiliates would be made in
accordance with the following procedures, i.e., (a) 100% of total expendi-
tures for all project consultants; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures for
staff training, both evidenced by official invoices, receipts, or other
payments documents. The estimated schedule of disbursements (Annex 3) is
based on the experience under SEDP I which is in line with Bank experience
on DFC loans to Indonesia.
Procurement
5.32      Given the small size, great variety and wide geographic spread of
KIK/KMKP loans, bulking for the purposes of carrying out competitive bidding
would not be feasible. However, to ensure that goods and services financed
under such loans are procured at competitive prices, BI's regulations
stipulate that for any large purchases, borrowers should obtain and submit
to the handling bank three price quotations from suppliers/contractors.
These procedures are acceptable to the Bank. BI monitors handling bank
procurement practices, taking into consideration cost, quality and services,
so as to be able to ensure that goods and services financed under KIK/KMKP
loans are procured at competitive prices. Consultants to be financed by
Bank funds would be recruited in accordance with normal Bank Group proce-
dures. Terms of Reference of these consultants would be subject to Bank
approval.
5.33      A total of $5.0 million worth of machinery, equipment and materi-
als needed for industrial extension services would be procured by MOI on the
basis of a list of items subject to approval by the Bank. Normal government
procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank would be applied, since
items to 'be procurea unaer this component ate many, smaAl in valne and cf



- 41 -
great variety which cannot be grouped in sufficiently large quantities to
attract international bidders./l
Accounts and Audit
5.34      Under SEDP I, two types of audit reports were required, namely, a
general audit of handling banks' accounts and financial statements and a
specific audit of their KIK lending operations in the three project provinces.
BI has met some difficulties in fulfilling these requirements mainly because
the reporting system on KIK lending was in the process of being developed and
data from handling banks branches and those recorded at BI are difficult to
reconcile. The audit reports of the State Accountancy Directorate, which are
in the Indonesian language, are usually delayed; BI has also not been able to
comply with this reporting requirement on time.
.5.35     For SEDP II, therefore, the reporting requirement should be revised
so that the Bank can realistically expect to receive information regularly
from the borrower concerning the utilization of Bank funds as well as the
overall operations under the KIK/KMKP Program. Accordingly, BI and the
handling banks would have their accounts and financial statements for each
fiscal year audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank (the State
Accountancy Directorate in the case of BI, state-owned and regional develop-
ment banks). B:[ would send certified copies in English of its audited
statements and the auditors' report no later than nine months after the end of
the fiscal year.  In addition, BI would furnish information concerning its
accounts and financial statements, including its KIK liquidity credit accounts
(unaudited) which would be sent to the Bank every quarter (Section 3.02 of the
draft Project Agreement). Handling banks would submit audited accounts and
financial statements with supporting information no later than 12 months after
each fiscal year (Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Monitoring and Reporting Requirements
5.36      The revised project monitoring and reporting requirements are
shown in Annex 2. BI would submit to the Bank quarterly and annual progress
reports in English; the latter would form the basis of joint annual reviews
of the project by BI and the Bank in the course of project supervision.  In
addition, each handling bank branch would maintain up-to-date files, maps,
and statistics of its project subloans which would be available for review
by the Bank. Similarly the Directorate General of SSI would submit annual
progress reports in English as provided in Annex 2.
/1 In 1980, the new Government procurement procedures were implemented which
include various provisions to strengthen small local firms operating in
project areas. These procedures should ensure efficient procurement at
reasonable prices.



- 42 -
Project Benefits and Risks
5.37      The project would provide needed technical and financial assistance
to make KIK/KMKP program a more effective and efficient system for channelling
development finance to small enterprises. Project lending nationwide on KIK
loans for fixed investments is expected to create additional employment for
some 140,000 workers at an investment cost per job of about $4,000 in the
small-scale enterprise sector (compared to $15,000 and $250,000 for mediumand
large-scale industry). Through the promotional efforts and sectoral studies
provided under the project, it is expected that the proportion of KIK loans
going to the labor-intensive, agro-industrial and manufacturing sectors
(presently 15% of total) will increase significantly./l As illustrated in
Annex 14 most of these beneficiaries would be small producers of
agro-industrial products, consumer goods, small traders, transport operators
and other services entrepreneurs. More than 50% of these SSEs would be in
small towns and rural areas.
5.38      The extensive technical assistance envisaged under the project is
designed to improve overall banking capability to plan and carry out term
lending operations nationwide. The training component is expected to improve
development banking skills of the handling banks and increase their awareness
of the financial and nonfinancial problems of small borrowers. In addition,
by providing financial and technical assistance to MOI to strengthen its
industrial support services, the project lays the groundwork for a practical
coordination and development of nonfinancial support in the long-run.
5.39      The success of the KIK/KMKP lending program depends on its cost
effectiveness and the timely delivery of adequate support services to SSE
clients. The project addresses only the most crucial of these factors during
its three-year life span and provides a framework for dealing with others
that require a longer time frame. The major risk to the project is the level
of arrears which if uncontrolled could defeat the program's effectiveness and
its developmental impact. The project takes specific steps to reduce the
level of arrears by: (a) implementing an improved monitoring and evaluation
system; (b) strengthening project appraisal and supervision capability of
handling banks staff; and (c) by keeping the costs and benefits of the
program as well as its developmental impact under review.
5.40      A crucial factor to project success is the effectiveness of BI s
management of the nationwide program. BI proposes to address this risk by
strengthening the program's management structure at its head office and
regional branches and by implementing an expanded training program that is
aimed at all participating banks. A related risk is the ability of the credit
insurance company (P.T. ASKRINDO) to mitigate the risks normally associated
/1 Present data do not permit the setting or projection of sectoral targets
for KIK/KMKP. However, the improved monitoring system provided under the
project (para. 4.11) should correct this problem during SEDP II.



- 43 -
with small lending operations. As mentioned above the Government and BI
would take measures to speed up claims procedures under P.T. ASKRINDO. The
operation of the various project units, including P.T. ASKRINDO, would be
closely monitored during project implementation.
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, agreements (reflected in the loan and project
documents) were reached on the following:
(a) With Bank Indonesia, on:
(i) adoption by BI's Board of Directors of the policy and strategy
statement (Annex 1) (para. 4.04);
(ii)  the implementation and timing of a medium-term planning
system for KIK/KMKP lending (para. 4.08);
(iii) the implementation of the improved monitoring system
(para. 4.11);
(iv)  presentation to the Bank of management circulars issued by
BI to improve project management (para. 5.10);
(v) signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Government and BI, as a condition of loan effectiveness
(para. 5.27);
(vi)  the details of audit requirements (para. 5.35);
(b)  With MOF, on:
(i) the implementation of measures to improve the claims
procedures of P.T. ASKRINDO, the state credit insurance
company (para. 4.14);
(ii)  the Government's commitment to provide the necessary
counterpart Rupiah funds for the SSE Support Services
component of the proposed project (para. 5.24); and
(c)  With MOI:  Bank approval of the design and detailed program for the
major elements of the SSE Support Services program as a condition of
loan disbursement (para. 5.25).



- 44 -
6.02      An understanding was reached with BI on the following:
(a) BI's proposals for simplifying banking procedures and introducing
procedural reforms to handling banks (para. 4.09);
(b) implementation of the proposed consultant evaluation system
(para. 5.08);
(c) BI's supervision and review of the RDB upgrading program and
submission of progress reports to the Bank (para. 5.21); and
(d) confirmation of the financing plan for the technical assistance
component (para. 5.30).
Recommendation
6.03      On the basis of agreement/understanding with the Government, BI and
MOI on the points listed above, a Bank loan of $106 million, on country
terms, is recommended.



- 45 -                         ANNE.Y
Page 1 of 3
INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMIENT PROJECT
Bank Indonesia
Policy and Strategy for the Development of the KIK/KMKP Program _1
1.        This statement specifies the main objectives of the KIK/KMKP
Program (hereinafter the Program) and the directions to which the Government
and Bank Indonesia (BI) expect it to develop. The primary emphasis of the
Program is on the expansion of lending volumes and the improvement of the
quality of loan portfolios. Both volume and quality of subprojects financed
under the Program will be monitored, evaluated and any necessary actions to
be taken will be decided upon from time to time. For that purpose, advice
will be sought from all organizations and operating units involved in the
Program based on their experience.
General Objective and Strategy
2.        The main objective of the Program is to finance the development of
small-scale enterprises (SSE) in virtually all economic sectors. Specific
program objectives are the creation and sustenance of employment, geographic
dispersion of productive investment, development of entrepreneurial opportu-
nities and technical skills, provision of markets for local SSE products and
raw materials, and in general, the promotion of productive economic activity
in all regions. To achieve this objective, it is recognized that a compre-
hensive development strategy, involving both financial and nonfinancial
assistance agencies, would need to be developed in the long run. BI and the
handling banks (HB) will continue to explore practical ways of facilitating
credit as well as the required technical assistance to SSE clients.
3.        It is intended that an SSE development strategy based on experience
under SEDP I would be pursued under SEDP II. It would consist of, inter
alia, the following elements:
(a) improvement of lending operations by HB staff through classroom
and on-the-job training on the various aspects of project identi-
fication, appraisal, loan processing and supervision;
(b) strengthening of the planning machinery and staff capabilities
within BI and HBs to support their longer-term development and
promotion of KIK/KMKP loans to SSEs;
(c) providing adequate incentives to HBs and encouraging their continued
participation in the program; and
(d) continuing assistance and operational guidelines to HIBs in prepar-
ing sound lending programs with emphasis on:



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 3
- 46 -
(i) sectoral and subsectoral, labor-intensive projects in the
various regions;
(ii) lending for specific village industries in accordance with
existing village development schemes;
(iii) projects related to hire-purchase and subcontracting arrange-
ments; and
(iv) "Special Projects" involving grassroots collaboration between
banks and nonbank technical assistance agencies.
4.        It is expected that the RPMUs would take initiatives and assist HBs
in identifying potential clients for KIK/KMKP loans and means of developing
program lending based on program feasibility. Cost-effectiveness in develping
project- and program-type loans will be a major consideration.
5.        In preparing development lending programs, active collaboration,
to the extent possible, with other Government assistance agencies/programs
such as the industrial and agricultural extension services, technological
institutes, BAPPEDAs, local universities and training institutes would be
promoted.
Lending Procedures
6.        KIK/KMKP procedures will be improved from time to time in response
to changing circumstances. Project viability rather than collateral will
continue to be stressed in loan processing by HBs. BI will see to it that
HB staff comply with accepted development banking techniques in loan adminis-
tration and, whenever necessary and feasible, assist clients in gaining
access to technical and other nonfinancial assistance.
Terms and Conditions of Lending
7.        For the present, KIK/KMKP loans wil be made to subborrowers at
10.5% p.a. and 12% p.a. interest rates, respectively, for a maximum maturity
period for KIK loans of 10 years (including four years' grace period) and of
3 years for KMKP loans. Maximum ceilings under each loan will be maintained
at Rp 10 million in general, and for borrowers who have demonstrated a good
repayment performance this ceiling may be raised, at HBs' discretion, to
Rp 15 million. Further exceptions to both size and maturity limits will be
made on project consideration provided that these exceptions do not lead to
a redirection of the program in favor of larger enterprises. Lending rates
will be reviewed and adjusted as needed.
Strengthening the Handling Banks' KIK/KMKP Capability
8.        Training of bank staff will be extended to loan officers, project
counterparts, the middle management, branch managers and regional office man-
agers. To reach a greater portion of the officials handling and processing



ANNEX 1
-47-                                Page 3 of 3
the loans, the scope and the number of courses will be increased. To achieve
this, the training will be decentralized from LPPI to those handling banks
which have or can develop in-house training capabilities. Trainers will be
trained by LPPI for this task. In addition to this, a self-directed train-
ing program will be initiated to reach more loan officers than is possible
through classroom training and to involve their supervisors in training res-
ponsibility. To handle the variety of training programs and to reach greater
efficiency, strong effort in the coordination of all training activities
will be made. Simultaneously the concept of staff development will be
introduced into the training and personnel management of the handling banks
to improve their training capacity and efficiency in a permanent and self-
sufficient way.
Collections Performance of and Incentives to HBs
9.        Terms and conditions of KIK/KMKP are set so as to provide HBs with
adequate interest spreads. Additional incentives designed to stimulate
continued participation in the Program include technical and financial
assistance to HBs by BI for staff recruitment, training and development.
This assistance should enable HBs to build up their capability to supervise
projects adequately, achieve satisfactory collection rates, and keep arrears
within manageable limits.
Data Collection and Evaluation
10.       Under SEDP II an improved monitoring and reporting system will be
implemented, allowing BI and HBs to obtain timely and accurate information
for management use, particularly on loan approvals, disbursements and repay-
ments. HB reporting requirements on KIK/KMKP will be standardized and sim-
plified. A Credit Data System Analyst attached to DPPK would assist BI and,
if requested, the HBs in implementing this system.
11.       The evaluation of the KIK/KMKP program, to determine its financial
and socioeconomic impact, will continue under SEDP II.
/1 Adopted by the BI Board of Directors on April 21, 1981.
AEP Projects Department
March 26, 1981



- 48 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Reporting Requirements
(a) For Bank Indonesia
1.        Consolidated Quarterly Progress Reports.  Bank Indonesia will send
to IBRD after each quarter a progress report in English containing a summary
of the most recent basic operational data on the progress of KIK/KMKP lending
and a summary of activities related to major components of the SEDP project
including:
(i) official translations of circulating letters (Surat Edaran),
decision letters (Surat Keputusan) and major telexes involving
significant changes in KIK/KMKP regulations or procedures;
(ii) a list of RPMU papers, surveys and proposals relating to
lending projects or pilot programs;
(iii) the courses taught, number of people trained, training
materials developed, and training costs under the training
component of the project;
(iv) terms of reference, executing agencies and costs of special
studies and surveys, and the summary and conclusions of such
reports when completed;
(v) any support services to KIK/KMKP clients which may take place
within the project; and
(vi) summary of withdrawals (disbursements) of IBRD funding.
2.        Annual Review.  After the end of each project year BI will send to
IBRD an Annual Review evaluating the accomplishments of the project during
the preceding 12 months. This Review will include:
(i) analysis of any specific problems and constraints impeding
the smooth progress of the various project components, along
with a statement of actions or plans to deal with such
impediments;



- 49 -                       ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
(ii) a statement of progress in coordinating the project activities
with nonbank agencies such as BIPIK and other technical
agencies, both in the field and at the BI head office;
(iii)  report on KIK collections performance per HB and province,
indicating age and type of arrears as well as the affected
outstanding portfolio;
(iv) the distribution of project lending by province, bank, sector,
maturity and size, with comments;
(v) a report on RPMU observations of public policies that directly
or indirectly affect the development of small-scale enter-
prises; an analysis of the adequacy of KIK/KMKP lending terms
and conditions; and
(vi) the work program of consultants participating in the RDB
upgrading program, and progress on implementation of the RDB
upgrading program.
3.        Financial Reports.  Bank Indonesia will provide to the IBRD copies
of Annual Reports and Audit Reports of the KIK/KMKP handling banks. (The
section of the Audit Reports and any commentary and tables dealing with the
KIK/KHKP lending operations and portfolio will be translated into English by
BI and sent to IBRD along with copies of the full Audit Reports.)
(b) For the Directorate General of SSI
4.        An annual report on project progress would be submitted by the
DG-SSI, highlighting project implementation of the various components covered
under the project. This report to be submitted in English should be brief,
analytical and factual, touching upon progress as well as problems encountered
in implementing the SSE Support Services component. Supporting statistical
data on procurement, utilization of machinery, equipment, number and types of
end-users, and other economic benefits would be provided.
AEP Projects Department
March 26, 1981



ANNEX 3
-50 -
INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD             SEDP I          IBRD
IBRD fiscal year         Credit           Tech.asst.  SSE support    Cumulative
and quarters           component        component    component    disbursement
----------------- ($ million) ------------------------
FY1982
I    (Jul-Sep 81)            8.8             0.8            -                9.6
II   (Oct-Dec 81)            9.1             0.8            0.1             19.6
III  (Jan-Mar 82)           9.4              0.9            0.2            30.1
IV   (Apr-Jun 82)            9.6             0.8            0.4            40.9
Subtotal              36.9              3.3           0.7
FY1983
I    (Jul-Sep 82)            9.9             0.9            0.5            52.2
II   (Oct-Dec 82)           10.1             0.9            0.6            63.8
III  (Jan-Mar 83)           10.4             0.9            0.7            75.8
IV   (Apr-Jun 83)           10.6             0.9            0.7            88.0
Subtotal              41.0              3.6           2.5
FY1984
I    (Jul-Sep 83)           11.1             0.7            0.7           100.5
II   (Oct-Dec 83)          11.0              0.7            0.7           112.9
III  (Jan-Mar 84)           -                0.6            0.7           114.2
IV   (Apr-Jun 84)           -                0.6            0.7           115.5
Subtotal              22.1              2.6           2.8
Total                100.0              9.5           6.0            115.5
AEP Projects Department
March 26, 1981



- 51 -                         ANNEX 4
INDONESIA
SECOND SAULL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Project Execution Schedule
Calendar year                1980         1981         1982         19P3        1984
quarter                1 2  3 4   1 2 34   1 2 34   1 2 3 4  1  2 34
!          I1 II                           11                -I
Project Activities                      I I          I I          I I          II
I                I  I         I  I         II11      
KIK sublending               I           I       x   II            I           II
I          I  I         I  !          I    1      1    
Consultancy to BI Head Office!          I I          I I          I I          II
Project Advisor            I          I I      x   I I          I I          II
SSE Dev. Advisor           I          I I      X   I !          II           I I_I
Staff Dev./Training Adv.   I                                                  I - I  I I   I
Development Banking Adv.                                             - -    I II  I
Agricultural Advisor                                                         I _   _  __ I I  I I 
iManagement Infor. Expert                      x _  I I  i I      |          | | I
Consultancy to RPMlUs        I     _    I I      x   I I          I I          II          I
I        =1  1          1   1        1   1        11    
Training consultancy
LPPI                            I       II     X
BRI and BNI 46                        I              I
Bapindo and Uppindo        |          t I      __Il   _
I          I I     -1   1----I F   I       1
RDB upgrading                          X _X  I   x   I I          I I _
I             I -III
Baseline surveys             I          I I      v
I          I  1         1  1         1 I          111
Evaluation studies           I          I I      x   I I          I I          II          !
I          I  I          I     I       1  -       1   
SSE support services         I          I I          I I          I I          II
procurement                           I I       - I              I          II
I          I      I -     I 1---    1I----         -I
=  Solid lines represent ongoing activities carried over from SEDP I.
= Broken lines represent activities introduced in SEDP II.
X     = Starting point of SEDP II activity.
AEP Projects Department
February 2, 1981



ANNEX 5
-52 -
INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Medium-term Investment Credits
March 31                 Jun. 30  Sep. 30  Dec. 31   Mar. 31
1975     1976      1977      1978      1978      1978      1978      1979
Credit Outstanding            126,098  168,829  221,550  224,897  229,955  228,084  257,283  264,426
1. By economic sectors
- Agriculture               9,545   16,338   18,966   21,303   23,744   20,187   20,605   19,990
- Mining                      147    5,143    4,273    3,277    3,276    3,276    3,276    3,276
- Manufacturing            61,404   67,740   79,254   83,505   85,524   85,933   86,191   90,954
- Service industry         46,672   70,346  110,608  106,545  103,112  104,242  132,574  135,420
- Others                    8,330    9,262    8,444   10,267   14,299   14,446   14,637   14,786
2. By source of funds
- Bank Indonesia           61,454   81,368   92,337  105,281  102,399   99,425  115,161  118,711
- State banks              60,696   83,628  126,065  118,759  126,699  127,202  141,266  144,859
- Government Budget/b       3,948    3,833    3,148         857       857       857       856       856
Approved by Banks              177,071  224,825  290,829  284,993  303,008  309,548  345,226  356,078
1. By economic sectors
- Agriculture              12,139   17,955   20,421   28,160   31,134   28,258   29,290   26,208
- Mining                       221    5,154    5,296    5,296    5,296    5,296    5,296    5,296
- Manufacturing            86,837   84,430  114,081  108,898  120,637  127,197  134,054  145,114
- Service industry         65,916  103,741  137,156  126,969  127,597  129,722  156,752  158,841
- Others                   11,958   13,545   13,875   15,670   18,344   19,075   19,834   20,619
2. By source of funds
- Bank Indonesia          111,827  138,416  184,848  183,623  196,224  200,259  224,600  231,778
- State banks              59,485   81,305  101,804   98,948  104,642  107,147  118,484  122,158
- Government Budget/b       5,759    5,104    5,177    2,422    2,142    2,142    2,142    2,142
/a  Based on Announcement of the Board of Directors of Bank Indonesia No. Peng I/DIR/1969,
March 7, 1969.
Excludes foreign exchange component and rupiah financing of project aid.
/b  Since 1971 the Government Budget no longer provides rupiah financing for investment credits.
Source: Bank Indonesia "Annual Report for the Financial year, 1978/79."
AEP Projects Department
February 2, 1981



- 53-                                     ANNEX 6
INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Consolidated Balance Sheet of Monetary Authorities, 1976-May 31, 1980
(Rp billion)
May 31,
1976     1977    1978 /a   1979        1980
Assets
Foreign assets                                  628.1  1,056.8  1,651.7  2,625.6  3,670.4
Claims on public sector
Central government                            239.0    312.3    509.2    579.8    559.4
Claims on official entities and
public enterprises                       1,208.8  1,225.1  1,925.0  2,142.7  2,063.8
Claims on private enterprises and
individuals
Loans                                           2.8       4.2      9.9      20.4      20.3
Other claims                                   13.9      16.6     22.6      24.4      27.1
Claims on deposit money banks                   640.4    681.5    846.4  1,129.3  1,484.6
Other assets                                     68.6       4.1      37.3    113.4    125.9
Total Assets                              2,801.6  3,300.6  5,002.1  6,635.6  7,951.5
Liabilities
Reserve money                                1,332.9  1,670.0  1,847.1  2,421.5  3,041.3
Currency outside banks and government         781.0    979.1  1,239.9  1,545.4  2,187.8
Currency held by banks                         79.9     94.5    112.8    146.8    163.8
Bankers' deposits                            442.7    528.0    438.7    632.8    647.1
Private sector demand deposits                 29.3     68.4      55.7      96.5      42.6
Foreign currency and other deposits /b            3.1       1 4       3.2     27.0    106.2
Bankers' restricted and FX deposits              48.7      49.8      38.2     56.2      73.8
Import deposits                                  50.9    102.4    105.1    125.9    103.7
Foreign liabilities                             227.9    112.2    189.9       27.6      30.9
Government deposits
Current account                               421.6    677.2  1,094.1  1,762.2  2,359.7
Blocked account                               466.4    399.1    476.0    391.2    391.2
Aid counterpart funds                          62.1      78.0      76.4    208.2    206.9
Capital accounts                                182.3    190.1  1,133.3  1,393.0  1,049.0
Other liabilities                                 5.7      20.4      38.8    222.8    588.8
Total Liabilities                         2,801.6  3,300.6  5,002.1  6,635.6  7,951.5.
/a  Includes changes resulting from exchange rate adjustment on November 15, 1978 from
Rp 415 to Rp 625 per US dollar, amounting to Rp 561.2 billion in foreign assets,
Rp 62.0 billion in claims on government, Rp 481.1 billion in claims on official
entities and public enterprises, Rp 1.5 billion in other assets, Rp 0.6 billion in
foreign currency and other deposits, Rp 24.8 billion in bankers restricted and FX
deposits, Rp 23.1 billion in imports deposits, Rp 15.3 billion in foreign liabili-
ties, Rp 15.8 billion in current account, Rp 164,1 billion in blocked account,
Rp 809.7 billion in capital accounts and Rp 52.4 billion in other liabilities, res-
pectively.
/b Includes revaluation of foreign exchange deposits amounting to Rp 16.7 billion.
AEP Projects Department
February 2, 1981



-54-                                   ANNEX 7
INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Functional Balance Sheet of Bank Indonesia, 1976-May 31, 1980
(Rp billion)
May 31,
1976     1977    1978 /a   1979        1980
Assets
Foreign assets
Gold and foreign exchange                     619.9  1,049.2  1,647.6  2,622.1  3,491.8
Other foreign assets                           34.9       3.3       7.8      14.0    178.5
Claims on public sector and central
government
Advance to government                          60.0      60.0      60.0      60.0      60.0
DICS promissory notes                          27.8       0.1       0.5       1.8       2.3
Other claims                                  224.8    327.9    555.1    674.4    649.1
Claims on official entities and
public enterprises
Official entities                             167.1    175.7    238.4    247.9    253.3
Public enterprises                          1,072.5  1,051.5  1,698.8  1,894.8  1,810.5
Claims on private enterprises and
individuals
Loans                                           2.8       4.2       9.9      20.4      20.4
Other claims                                   13.9      15.6      22.6      24.5      27.1
Claims on deposit money banks                   640.4    681.5    846.4  1,129.3  1,484.6
Other assets                                    139.0    167.6    281.5    361.1    259.3
Total Assets                              3,003.1  3,537.6  5,368.6  7,050.3  8,236.9
Liabilities
Monetary liabilities
Currency in circulation                       876.5  1,095.6'  1,386.2  1,743.2  2,091.0
Bankers' deposits                             442.7    528.0    438.7    632.8    647.1
Private sector demand deposits                 29.3      68.4      55.7      96.5     42.6
Foreign currency and other deposits /b           34.0       3.5      15.5      27.0    106.2
Bankers' restricted and FX deposits             -48.7      49.8      38.2      56.2      73.8
Import deposits
Government                                     45.1      74.1      99.2      94.2    102.1
BULOG                                          50.9    102.4    105.1    125.9    103.7
Foreign liabilities
Foreign exchange liabilities                  111.3      29.2     45.4        1.4      2.7
Other foreign liabilities                      34.9       3.3       7.8     14.0      28.2
Government deposits
Current account                               374.7    597.8    919.6  1,642.2  2,518.2
Blocked account                               466.4    399.1    476.0    391.2    391.2
Counterpart funds                             121.9    136.9    224.7    339.5    358.9
- Proceeds of Gov't bond issues                (-)       (-)      (63.7)  (100.4)   (96.2)
- Foreign aid                                (121.9)  (136.9)  (161.0)  (239.1)  (262.7)
Capital and reserve                              65.5      76.6    103.2    124.3    248.9
Other liabilities                               301.2    372.9  1,453.3  1,761.9  1,522.3
Total Liabilities                         3,003.I  3,537.6  5,368.6  7,050.3  8,236.9
/a  Includes changes resulting from exchange rate adjustment on November 15, 1978 from
Rp 415 to Rp 625 per US dollar.
/b  Includes foreign exchange deposits of public enterprises (Pertamina).
AEP Projects Department -
February 2, 1981



ANNEX 8
- 55 -                      Page 1 of 14
The KIK/KMKP PROGRAM
Background
1.        Small-scale enterprises (SSEs) are a relatively unsophisticated
target group compared to their larger counterparts and generally face serious
difficulties in obtaining institutional credit due to problems in complying
with bank requirements. The Indonesian Government had started responding to
these constraints as early as 1969 by introducing the "Kredit Investasi
Biasa" (KIB) or medium-term investment credit scheme, administered by Bank
Indonesia (BI) and operated by all State commercial banks, BAPINDO and
selected development banks. Although this program was intended to provide
term loans for fixed assets and working capital purposes at varying interest
rates to virtually all sectors of the economy, most lending went to larger
projects in urban areas and the SSE coverage was disappointing. Although the
program was subsequently refocussed to increase the participation of small
indigenous enterprises it failed to reach this objective for the following
reasons:
(a) Participating Banks. They preferred larger projects and were
reluctant to accept the greater risk and higher cost of SSE
lending; furthermore lending procedures were not suited to SSE
lending and SSEs could also not provide the data required for
project appraisal.
(b) Program Features. Most SSEs were not able to comply with the
minimum equity requirements of 25%; furthermore credit insurance
was not incorporated in the program features and the program terms
favored large loans.
(c) Borrowers. On the whole SSEs needed working capital financing
even more urgently than investment loans and could not engage in
any investment project without concurrent working capital
financing and without the necessary technical support.
Main Features of the KIK/KMKP Program
2.        Given the constraints of the KIB program and its limited SSE
coverage, GOI has introduced a new program, specifically designed for the
financial assistance of SSEs. It comprises the Kredit Investasi Kecil
(KIK), financing of fixed assets and services to rehabilitate, modernize,
expand projects as well as to establish new businesses and Kredit Modal
Kerja Permanen (KMKP) for permanent working capital. Better access of
labor-intensive indigenous SSEs with limited access to institutional term



ANNEX 8
- 56 -                      Page 2 of  4
financing has been the principal objective of the new program./l All produc-
tive activities /2 in industry, trade, services and agriculture are eligible
for financing, except certain industries that may from time to time be declar-
ed saturated. The KIK/KMKP program incorporates the lessons learned from the
KIB program, modifying its features and eliminating previous constraints. To
compensate banks for some of the high cost and difficulties associated with
SSE lending, BI has introduced highly subsidized rediscount facilities for the
handling banks (HBs) and permitted the use of simplified credit procedures.
The greater risk of SSE financing has been partly offset by P.T. ASKRINDO's
automatic credit insurance, which coveres 75% of the loan amount. Fairly
lenient qualifying conditions have also been introduced. Finally minimum
equity requirements have been abolished at least for the first tranche of
Rp 10 million.
3.        Eligibility Criteria.  Original size eligibility criteria /3 had
been rather restrictive, limiting KIK lending to enterprises at the lower end
of the SSE spectrum. To accommodate also larger and frequently more progres-
sive SSEs and to offset the effects of inflation on asset values, BI has
raised the ceilings on eligibility criteria. They now require that the
borrowers' net worth /4 does not exceed Rp 100 million (US$160,000) and
Rp 40 million (US$64,000) for industrial activities including construction,
and all other activities such as trade and transportation, respectively.
4.        Loan Limits.  BI has adjusted individual loan ceilings of KIK and
KMKP loans from the original Rp 10 /5 to RP 15 million each and thus responded
to the inflationary development during the past few years and to the devalua-
tion of the Rupiah, which resulted in substantially higher prices for most of
the investment items. The new loan limits appear to be more realistic and
/1 Since August 1979, SSEs can also obtain KIK/KMKP financing to repay
high interest loans from the "curb" market; however, only successful
operations qualify.
/2 Indigenous professionals, originally excluded, have also become
eligible according to BIs circulars No. SE10/5/UPK dated June 1, 1977
and March 20, 1978 (KIK/KMKP Profesi).
/3 Original eligibility criteria were as follows: The net worth was not to
exceed Rp 20 milion and net current assets Rp 10 million.
/4 Defined as total assets minus total liabilities irrespective of size,
excluding private homes and land, however.
/5 Comprising two tranches of 5 million.



ANNEX 8
- 57 -                      Page 3 of 14
should also encourge the HBs to consider the financing of SSEs with more
comprehensive investment requirements. Now, the KIK/KMKP program provides
loans for fixed assets and working capital purposes up to a maximum amount of
Rp 15 million (US$24,000) under each type of credit. This maximum amount,
however, can be obtained only by borrowers who have a good repayment record on
previous loans./l To qualify, borrowers also have to contribute at least 10%
from their own resources. Given these ceilings, SSEs can obtain a maximum of
Rp 30 million or $48,000./2
5.        Program Responsibility.  While BI has been responsible for policy
and program development, administration and monitoring, the five state com-
mercial banks, 30 private commercial banks and 26 regional development banks
(RDBs) with a countrywide network of around 1,000 branches have been assigned
responsibility for the implementation of the program. Some of the private
banks and RDBs have not yet reached the stage where they can implement the
program independently and consequently participate under cofinancing arrange-
ments with the state commercial banks and BAPINDO respectively. Nine RDBs
have already "graduated" from the cofinancing arrangement and have started
extending KIK/KMKP loans directly. Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) is the single
largest handling bank accounting for around one third of all branches and
providing some 50% of total KIK/KMKP lending. The aggregate share of all
private and regional development banks on the other hand, has so far been
limited to not more than around 7% of total KIK/KMKP approvals but their
involvement is expected to increase over the next few years. A program,/3
specifically designed to upgrade the RDB group (Annex 37), is expected to
result in this group's intensified involvement in SSE term financing. BI has
allocated sectoral responsibilities to the various HBs for KIK/KMKP lending
operations according to their priority assignments to make best use of each
handling bank's specific expertise. However, this specialization appears not
to be very rigid, as all state commercial banks cater for more than one sector
and exceptions from the rule of sector assignment and financing responsibility
are foreseen for existing long-time (over one year) clients who want to
venture into other than the assigned sector of a particular bank, or for new
clients if the responsible blank explicitly approves the exception in writing.
/1 Indicated by a satisfactory loan repayment performance for at least
36 months (24 months for KMKP loans) after loan agreement.
/2 These limits are also applicable if borrowers obtain several KIK loans
for more than one business activity.
/3 To be implemented by BAPINDO and UPPINDO but steered and monitored by BI.



ANNEX 8
-58 -                         Page 4 of 14
Lending Term and Conditions
6.         Loan Maturity.  Currently applicable terms and conditions for
KIK/KMKP borrowers are shown in Annex 8, Table 2. The maximum KIK loan
duration of originally 5 years was not adequate for financing investment items
with long life spans such as buildings and machinery. As a consequence, the
HBs would either compress repayment periods, overburdening the borrower's cash
flow, or reject such cases which inevitably leads to a discrimination against
certain sectors, such as industries. BI has responded to this issue and
lengthened the maximum duration for KIK loans to 10 years and the grace period
from 2 to 4 years./l The maximum duration of 3 years /2 for KMKP loans for
working capital purposes, has remained unchanged.  Such loans are operated as
overdraft facilities and do not require any grace period.
7.        Lending Rates.  KIK and KMKP carry mandated lending rates of 10.5%
and 12% p.a., which have remained unchanged since January 1978./3   Since then
the inflation rate has been rising steadily, reaching 20% in 1979/80 and is
running at 20% again in 1980/81. KIK/KMKP lending rates, therefore, have been
negative in real terms and have been so in all years except in 1977/78. Since
the program to date accounts for less than 5% of total bank credits, and the
proportion of KIK/KMKP credits going to the small-scale industrial sector is
even smaller (about 2% of total industrial lending), whatever misallocation of
resources has taken place due to the negative lending rates has probably been
marginal. Besides, being a high priority credit program, KIK/KMKP lending is
closely monitored as to its end-use and clientele. For this reason, the
present level of interest rates could be accepted, especially when taken as
part of a package of incentives designed to ease SSE access to term finance.
The required capital contribution and collateral on other medium term credit
schemes are still beyond the reach of most SSEs.
8.         The mission, nevertheless, noted the possibility of a more serious
misallocation of resources if lending rates are kept at a negative level for
any length of time particularly in view of the expansion of the program
and recommends an adjustment. BI considers it politically inexpedient, how-
ever, to change the KIK/KMKP lending in the context of SEDP II. The Govern-
ment views the present level of interest rates as still consistent with its
policy to subsidize credit for small indigenous entrepreneurs which also aims
at social objectives in addition to economic and financial ones. Moreover,
it was pointed out that the KIK/KMKP interest rates are linked with the over-
all interest rate structure which is, in turn, determined on the basis of
/1 The grace period, which normally applies to principal repayments, may also
be extended to interest repayment obligations.
/2 KIMKP loans can be "rolled over" for up to three years each time if the
borrower's business develops satisfactorily.
/3 At that time they were reduced from 12% and 15% to 10.5 and 12% for KIK
and KMKP respectively.



ANNEX 8
- 59 -                      Page 5 of 14
overall financial policies and government priorities. Therefore, it would be
inappropriate to deal with these rates in isolation. While this may be the
case, the mission recommends that BI subjects also the KIK/KMKP lending rates
to its periodic reviews in order to keep them in line with longer term price
movements.
9.        Refinancing Terms and Arrangements.  Under SEDP I, the Credit
proceeds were pooled with BI-s own resources to rediscount 80% of KIK loan
amounts at an interest rate of 3% p.a. /1, while the HBs financed the balance
of 20% from their own resources. Under the proposed loan, BI intends to
continue to rediscount 80% of KIK lending from its own resources at 3% p.a.
but relend the proceeds of the proposed IBRD loan to the HBs for the remaining
20% on the same terms as the Bank loan. Thus, BI would refinance 100% of KIK
lending at a weighted average rediscount rate of about 4.3% p.a.,/2 thereby
relieving the HBs of their 20% financial share.
10.       One possible drawback of the proposed formula is that the HBs would
be required to make no financial contribution to KIK lending under SEDP II.
While this might reduce the HBs' incentives to implement the KIK/KMKP program
somewhat, it would not affect their obligation to enforce repayment of
subloans, since they would continue to administer the loans and would still be
accountable to BI for full repayment. As in SEDP I, BI will continue to
supervise all HBs closely. The mission believes, however, that the HBs should
be encouraged in the long run to mobilize as much of their own resources for
term financing (such as the KIK/KMKP program) as possible, to reduce their
dependence on BI funding, but does not consider this a critical issue at this
time.
I1.       Given the present lending rate of 10.5%, the proposed refinancing
arrangement will provide HBs with a 6.1% interest spread which should be
adequate although it constitutes a slight reduction when compared to the
SEDP I /3 arrangement. BAPINDO and the RDBs have worked out separate income
and cost sharing arrangements which are shown in Annex 8, Table 2.
/1 BI rediscounts 75% of KIKP lending at 4%.
/2 Assuming an IBRD lending rate of 9.6% p.a.
/3 The spread for KIK lending under SEDP I has been between 6.1-6.5%,
depending on the assumption of the resource base and its cost,
from which HBs finance their 20% share (savings, time and demand
deposits, or a deposit mix). Average resource costs of 8% as identified
by a study of Administrative and Finance Cost, would result in a 6.5%
gross spread under the current arrangement.



ANNEX 8
- 60 -                      Page 6 of  4
12.       Collateral Requirements and Credit Insurance.  Rigid collateral
requirements originally called for a 100% coverage of all KIK loans and have
constituted a significant impediment for faster growth during the initial
years of the program and have been identified as a major reason for the rejec-
tion of loan applications. Moreover, lenders appeared to be preoccupied with
collateral considerations owing to their loan officers' lack of appraisal
experience. Recently lenders have started realizing that their attempts to
fully secure SSE loans by collateral are not successful, particularly in view
of the difficulties of liquidating it and the cultural stigma associated with
foreclosure procedures./1 In the light of this new perspective, BI has
responded to the collateral issue and advised HBs to focus on the viability of
projects rather than collateral and not to reject viable cases simply because
of insufficient collateral. Normally, the loan-financed assets figure as the
principal collateral and, if their values prove insufficient, the borrower can
be requested to pledge additional collateral (except his private home and
land) but only up to the maximum of 50% of the loan amount. Since this is
only a guideline, and owing to the absence of standardized valuation proce-
dures, the HBs have still some scope to manipulate collateral requirements.
.The mission observed in its discussions with the HBs that the relaxation of
the collateral requirements was welcome by most of the HBs, and that colla-
teral considerations ha e started losing their significance in constraining
KIK lending.          /
13.       Over and above, HBs are required to secure a credit guarantee from
P.T. ASKRINDO (para. 2) covering 75% of KIK lending /2 against a 3% one-time
fee, of which 1.5% is borne by BI and 1.5% by the HBs. For loans with a
duration of more than five years P.T. ASKRINDO charges a 5% fee, to be absorb-
ed by BI and the HBs in the proportion of 2:1. Liquidated collateral in the
case of nonpayment by the borrower is shared in the proportion of 3:1 between
P.T. ASKRINDO and the HBs.
Lending Approach
14.       Individual vs. Program Lending.  General ("umum") lending consists
of KIK/KMKP loans given on a case-by-case basis while special ("khusus") or
mass ("massal") lending operates on the basis of specially designed credit
programs for several borrowers with similar production needs and capital
requirements. Such programs, developed by type of activity or subsector,
/1 The HBs do not directly foreclose delinquent loans but transfer them to
PUPN, the Government's quasi-judicial collection agency. In compliance
with the recommendations of the Government, PUPN tries to work out a
lenient settlement compromise and considers foreclosure as a measure of
last resort. As a result, the HBs are often faced with a protracted
settlement period which constitutes a disincentive for their intensified
involvement.
/2 Individual losses are granted automatic cover, while program loans to
a group of borrowers require P.T. ASKRINDO's prior evaluation.



ANNEX 8
- 61 -                      Page 7 of 14
require at least 50 borrowers with financing requirements not exceeding
Rp 200 million. Financing is either extended to each individual in such a
group or to the group as a whole (e.g., cooperative), but the creditworthiness
of individual borrowers is appraised notwithtanding the collective nature of
massal arrangements. Specific lending programs under the massal approach are
identified and prepared jointly by the Government, HBs and technical agencies
in accordance witn official priorities. After program identification and
formulation by the Department of Agriculture, for instance, BRI reviews the
proposal, suggests appropriate financing arrangements within the standard
KIK/KMKP terms, and forwards the package to BI for final review and approval.
The "massal" approach, while most suitable for agricultural lending, requires
extensive subsectoral analysis (to determine markets, input supplies, choice
of technology) prior to lending and permits extension services to be provided
more efficiently. It also reduces the HBs' administrative costs. A list of
all current KIK/KMKP massal programs is shown in Table 3.
15.       Allocation of Credit Ceilings.  The overall ceiling for the expan-
sion of all bank credits and fixed assets is determined on the basis of an
overall assessment of the economy which takes into account factors such as the
money demand and supply situation, inflation expectations, and budget and
balance of payment considerations. Individual bank ceilings, on the other
hand, set by BI for the fiscal year from April to March, are allocated on the
basis of the individual institution's growth record and performance with
particular regard to its plans for financing priority. In the light of
the importance GOI and BI attaches to this program, KIK/KMKP allocations
function as targets rather than ceilings and are consequently set high enough
so as not to constrain the handling banks in their lending activities. BI
disaggregates KIK/KMKP ceilings for state commercial banks and allocates them
by regional (BRI, BNI 46) or even branch office levels. Interregional branch
office transfers of unused allocations of a particular HB require BI's permis-
sion, while intraregional transfers do not.
16.       Program Guidance.  BI uses circulars to instruct and guide partici-
pating HBs on matters such as procedural changes and program innovations.
Over the years the number of guidelines has increased, however, and some HBs
face difficulties in keeping track of them; they may consequently apply some
outdated procedures which are out of line with BI's latest recommendations.
Thus, BI may want to furnish the HBs with a complete set of its currently
applicable circulars and improve the updating system to ensure that this set
be kept current.
Appraisal and Supervision
17.       The small loan size, difficulties in obtaining accurate information
on the operation and performance of clients, and their appraisal officers'
limited experience have caused HBs to adopt a sometimes too practical
appraisal approach. This has resulted in undue reliance on the project
sponsors' collateral and past performance, thus nurturing reluctance in
appraisal officers to deal with newly established ventures. In cooperation



ANNEX 8
-62 -                       Page 8 of 14
with the HBs, BI has recently introduced a standardized appraisal format,
which draws its vital information from a standardized application form,
supplemented by data from the appraisal officer's interviews and field visits.
However, the new appraisal approach, which is expected to yield a speedier and
more uniform appraisal work, is only a first step towards a more efficient and
conducive instrument for SSE appraisal. The mission has thus encouraged BI to
search for such a more efficient SSE appraisal method together with the
handling banks, which can fall back on their intensive KIK/KMKP appraisal
experience.
19.       Decentralization of functions related to KIK/KMKP operation and
increased delegation of approval authority to the regional and branch office
levels have resulted in speedier loan processing and approval. However, this
development was not supported by a more regular supervision exercise owing to
the rapid increase in the number of borrowers. Cognizant of these shortcom-
ings, the HBs tried at least to single out those projects for regular super-
vision which would otherwise collapse or default with their repayment obliga-
tions. Generally, the HBs accept their supervision responsiblility and have
recognized its importance for the success of the program. They expect that
intensified supervision efforts would eventually result in better loan
collection, lower default rates and also provide their loan officers with
first-hand experience of problems commonly faced in SSE term lending.
However, a quick solution is not imminent and the HBs should refine their
selective supervision approach and back it up with an up-to-date monitoring
system. Supervision work is, nonetheless, expected to improve in parallel
with the HBs' training efforts and their success in recruiting talented and
motivated young professionals.
20.       Procurement and Disbursement Procedures.  Basically, a credit can
only be considered for the purchase of new capital goods. Exceptions are
possible, however, for the purchase of secondhand capital goods, if it can
be proved that the prices of those goods are reasonable, that they are still
in good condition, and their technical condition and economic life will last
longer than the duration of the loan.
21.       According to BI's directive the choice of suppliers should be
determined jointly by the HBs and borrowers, who are requested to submit
three price quotations whenever possible, to assist borrowers in the
selection process, taking into consideration cost, quality and services;
these regulations are generally adhered to.
22.       Diversion of loan funds has been grossly reduced by BI's disburse-
ment regulations on KIK/KMKP loans which require that payments are directly
made to suppliers/contractors whenever possible; they are principally
adhered to.  For such cases as construction of buildings or boats, the HBs
are advised to release the loan in tranches after project inspection to
ensure that the loan proceeds are utilized in accordance with the agreed
project purpose and plan.



ANNEX 8
- 63 -                      Page 9 of 14
23.       Rediscount Procedures.  In response to complaints in the past, BI
has devised very expedient rediscounting procedures which allow immediate
withdrawal of the funds upon application by virtue of giro transfer forms
attached to the application form. So obtained funds will immediately be
debited again if the application later turns out not to conform with the
existing regulations. Subborrowers have to withdraw their subloans within a
given period if HBs are to escape BI-s additional 4% p.a. interest charge./l
BI allows for an alternative procedure, if the HBs prefer to apply first for
the liquidity credit and await its approval, eventually drawing it down in
parallel with the subborrower requirements. The HBs face cancellation of
the liquidity credit in such instances unless it is withdrawn within a time
period of six months.
24.       The HBs' rediscount requests are reviewed at BI's branch office
level to detect subborrowers blacklisted for uncovered checks and transfer
notes. In a second step, BI ensures that borrowers qualify under its
definition of "small" indigenous enterpreneurs. Beyond these checks, BI does
not get involved, however, nor does it review the HBs' appraisal work.
Lending Scale
25.       The pace of growth since inception of the program (1974) has been
impressive and overall KIK approvals have increased at a nominal rate of 30%
p.a. to a cumulative total of about Rp 223.9 billion ($358.2 million) as of
June 30, 1980. Almost 77,000 borrowers have received KIK financing during
this period. KMKP approvals have grown at an even faster rate (at some
50%), supplying almost 143,000 individual and more than 300,000 massal
borrowers with KMKP loans (the latter mainly within the context of agricul-
tural program lending), amounting to Rp 415.4 billion ($664.6 million) as
of June 30, 1980. The rapid growth of KIK loan approvals has accelerated
during 1979 and the first six months of 1980, quarter by quarter from
Rp 9.0 billion (I. Quarter 1979) to Rp 26.5 billion (II. Quarter 1980),
resulting in rates of over 80%. During the same period, the rate of
rejected applications was reduced from 27% to 17% (by amount). In the three
project regions, partly financed from the IDA credit, KIK lending expanded
accordingly to a cumulative total of around Rp 68 billion ($109
million), reaching some 28,000 small borrowers, or around 36% of all KIK
recipients. The program's outstanding performance in terms of growth is
also reflected in the rapid increase in the aggregate KIK and KMKP
portfolios of all HBs, amounting to Rp 142.3 and Rp 228.5 as of June 30,
1980. Sustained overall economic growth, accompanied by promotional efforts
which were intensified in mid-1979, appear to be the underlying causes of
this performance. The further relaxation of lending terms in early 1978 and
again in July 1979 may have been an added catalyst in recent program
expansion.
/1 They can also redeposit the liquidity credit amount instead.



ANNEX 8
- 64 -                      Page 10 of 14
Lending Characteristics
26.       Sectoral and Regional Distribution.  Out of overall KIK approvals of
Rp 213.8 billion,/l 30.3% has been lent for transportation, 28.4% for trade
and services, 16.9% for agriculture, 14.0% for manufacturing and 10.4% for
other purposes. As of June 30, 1980, transportation accounted for the largest
share of total cumulative KIK loan approvals while the trade sector was second
with 28.4% but with continuously increasing annual shares (from around 24% in
1974/75). The annual shar>) of agricultural KIK lending, on the other hand,
has declined, but its total approvals still account for 17% of total KIK
lending. Industrial KIK lending, however, has developed disappointingly,
declining steadily from virtually 23% in 1974/75 to around 14% during the
1976-78 period and eventually to 12% in 1979. The declining trend has been
even more pronounced for working capital lending (KMKP) to manufacturing
industries, which has slipped from originally 34% to 13.4%. Recent approval
levels do not indicate any reversal of this development and suggest that the
share of industrial KIK/KMKP lending is likely, at best, to be sustained,
unless some promotional efforts are undertaken (para. 2). Total industrial
KIK/KMKP loan approvals accounted for less than 5% of outstanding credit to
this sector, despite the importance of small and cottage industries in
Indonesia,/l which provides an estimated 87% of all manufacturing employment
in the country.  Hence, this sector's financing requirements have not
adequately been covered yet by KIK/KMKP lending, probably affecting employment
creation efforts. BI intends to stress labor-intensive sectors by intensified
promotional efforts through HBs assisted by RPMUs. These units undertake a
host of studies to identify potential growth industries and to solicit HBs
into financing them. The intended strengthening of MOI's extension service
system is also expected to increase the share of industrial KIK lending.
Overall, only about 77,000 borrowers have obtained KIK financing and about
470,000 /2 received KMKP loans, or roughly 10% of the estimated number of SSEs
throughout the country, there is still scope for further expansion.
27.       Data in Annex 8, Tables 6 and 7 indicate that the objective of dis-
persing investment away from Java and from the major urban centers has been
achieved. Jakarta, for instance, accounted for only 7.2% and 4.2% of total
KIK and KMKP approvals, while KIK lending to projects in the outer islands
accounted for about 46% (42% for KMKP lending) and thus exceeded the propor-
tion of populace in these islands (about 36%). By and large, distribution of
KIK/KMKP lending in the various islands and even at provincial levels corre-
sponds fairly well with the population distribution pattern in these areas.
/1 Based on approval form ("Form A").
/2 Report No. 2490-IND "Cottage and Small Industrial in the National
Economy" dated November 9, 1979.
/3 Almost 330,000 of these loans were granted under the KIK/KMKP "massal"
scheme.



ANNEX 8
- 65 -                      Page 11 of 14
28.       Distribution by Size, Maturity and Purpose.  The characteristics of
KIK/KMKP loan approvals, shown in Annex 8, Tables 9 and 13 indicate that the
majority of both KIK and KMKP loans are at the lower end of the size spectrum.
Around 49% and 68% of all KIK and KMKP loans (by number) are for Rp 2 million
and less, while on:Ly a small portion of around 8% (5.2% for KMKP) has been
extended to borrowers in the Rp 5-10 million bracket. This is not surprising
as the maximum loan limit has been increased only recently. The average KIK
loan size has grown at an annual rate of around 10% from Rp 1.9 million to Rp
2.8 million during the 1976 to June 1980 period, indicating a slight decline
in real terms.
31.       Around 49,300 or 65% of total loans amounting to Rp 123 billion,
accounting for 58% of total KIK lending, have been approved with maturities of
less than 4 years resulting in an average duration of 3.4 years when weighted
by number of loans (Annex 8, Table 9). This may not exactly have reflected
the life span of the assets financed with those loans and may have unduly
burdened borrowers cash flows in the past. However, BI has eventually
responded to this issue and extended the maximum loan duration from 5 to 10
years, but the adjustment was too recent to have a substantial impact on the
duration distribution pattern. Consequently, only around 3.5% of total KIK
loans has been extended with maturities between 5 and 10 years. BI's proce-
dures also provide for loan rescheduling if necessary and recommended by HBs
for successful project implementation. BI has not yet collected data on the
extent of such reschedulings except for the 3 project provinces, where
rescheduling remained marginal.
29.       Most KIK/KMKP lending has gone to established entrepreneurs for
rehabilitation or expansion of their operations (Annex 8, Table 9), and new
project development accounts for only 11.4 and 3.5 of all KIK and KMKP loans.
Investment in equipment has absorbed around 67% of total KIK lending while
around 18.4% was used for factory buildings.
30.       Distribution by Handling Bank.  BRI plays a dominant role in SSE
financing, accounting for 45.9% and 64.4% of total cumulative KIK and KMKP
approvals (Annex 8, Tables 4 and 5). It also accounts for around one third of
all bank branches so far involved in the lending program. Bank Negara Indo-
nesia 1946, a very active participant with particular focus on the manufac-
turing sector, ranks second with around 15.3% and 12.3% of KIK and KMKP lend-
ing although it has recently been overtaken by Bank Bumi Daya in KIK lending
(16.7%). The RDBs', partly in cooperation with Bapindo, and the private banks
together account for 8.1% of total KIK lending (4.5% of KMKP lending); the
share of the former group, in particular, is expected to increase over the
next few years (Annex 37).
31.       Sectorial specialization of the HBs has not been a constraint on KIK
lending as indicated by Annex 8, Table 10. BRI accounts for the major share
(81.4%) of KIK lending to agriculture according to its principal assignment,
but also leads in lending to (agrobased) industries (37.4%), trade (36.5%) and



ANNEX 8
- 66 -                      Page 12 of 14
transportation (43.7%) due to its sheer size.  The other HBs show a greater
degree of specialization and BNI 46's KIK/KMKP lending is concentrated in
industry (36.1%), while transportation accounts for Bank Bumi Daya's major
lending activity.
Demand Prospects and Forecast
32.       Since inception of the program in 1974 through 1979, overall KIK
lending has grown at an annual rate of 30%, amounting to about Rp 224 billion
($358 million) to almost 76,500 borrowers. The pace of growth has been
particularly fast in 1979 and preliminary data for 1980 do not indicate any
reversal of this development. For its projections BI has relied on a multiple
regression model based on the following assumptions:
(i) annual real growth rate of GDP of 6.5% according to REPELITA III
projections; and
(ii) average inflation rate for 1980-84 period of 9.2%.
33.       Under these assumptions, BI's projections show KIK loan approvals
growing at an annual real rate of 16% during the 1980-84 period and reaching a
total incremental lending volume of about Rp 673 billion (over $1 billion).
These targets appear achievable in the light of the high priority Government
places on the KIK/KMKP program, the present economic environment and the
conservative assumptions used for the projection model.
34.       The econometric model used to determine future KIK lending incorpo-
rates also some demand factors such as the real growth prospects of the econo-
my (GDP) on a regional level as well as price expectations, both significant
determinants /1 of the lending volume. Results should be compared with
empirical observations of the individual handling banks, which have direct
field experience with KIK/KMKP lending at the regional/branch office level.
However, such a integrated planning mechanism exists only in a very rudimen-
tary form and with one year time horizon in some of the handling banks. When
introduced, a medium-term planning mechanism is expected to yield not only the
desired information on KIK demand (as well as total finance requirements
perhaps at a later stage), but also to serve as a suitable management tool.
As a consequence, the mission recommended and BI and some of the HBs concurred
that such an integrated mechanism be introduced. An understanding to this
affect should be reached between the Bank and BI during negotiations.
/1 The model indicated that a 1% increase in the economic growth
performance or inflation would result in the growth of KIK lending of
0.64% and 2.04% respectively.



ANNEX 8
- 67 -                        Page 13 of 14
Collection Performance and Arrearage
35.        Loan collection and arrears cannot be determined with accuracy under
the present reporting system. Cognizant of these constraints, BI had commis-
sioned a study (SGV) on the Management Information and Reporting System for
KIK lending, whose findings and recommendations are currently discussed and
under consideration for implementation. This and other BI reports are expect-
ed to provide a satisfactory basis for the monitoring of arrears. Nonethe-
less, assurance should be obtained during negotiations that regular informa-
tion will be collected on the following:/l (a) principal and interest in
arrears by bank; (b) principal and interest in arrears by age; (c) reschedu-
lings by bank; (d) claims to P.T. ASKRINDO by bank and settlements; (e) pro-
visions for doubtful accounts by bank; and (f) write-offs by bank.
36.        Currently applicable arrears criteria for KIK lending are based on
judgemental aspects and would best be complemented with a more neutral record-
ing system which records arrears by types and age. It is expected to yield a
clearer picture on categories and extent of arrears as well as to signal more
conspicously optional managerial steps such as: which loans to write-off
(without relaxing collection efforts), whether to enforce repayment more
vigorously /2 and whether or not to resort to loan rescheduling. In this
context, BI may also want to guide HBs more comprehensively on all aspects of
loan rescheduling and write-offs through the issue of its usual circulars for
the benefit of a more consistent and uniform approach. However, whether
procedural adjustments, additional efforts in providing supervision and exten-
sion services, more rigid collection efforts or other appropriate actions are
required, can eventually only be determined by comprehensive and systematic
analysis of the causes of arrears.
37.        Overall KIK arrears, excluding interest in arrears in the absence
of sufficient information, are high but not alarmingly so. Partial data
show (Annex 8, Table 15) that principal in arrears has been declining from
25.1% in 1977 of total KIK portfolio outstanding to 23.5% and 18.5% in 1978
and 1979, but has slightly increased during the first six months of 1980
(19.0%). BI supplied the mission with more comprehensive information on the
portfolio quality in the three project provinces; however, this information is
neither fully consistent nor necessarily representative for the country as a
whole and should consequently be used with caution. On the basis of this
survey, principal and interest in arrears, reschedulings and write-offs
accounted for 26% of the total aggregate portfolio in these provinces. Around
81% and 61% of the arrears have been overdue for more than 6 months and 12
months respectively, affecting some 41% of the HBs total portfolio.
/1 Perhaps to be implemented in stages within a reasonable time frame.
/2   A penalty interest rate of 3% is levied on all interest and principal
installments in default for more than 90 days.



ANNEX 8
- 68 -                      Page 14 of i4
38.       KIK loan collection data confirm the trend of declining arrears as
indicated by the aggregate collection rate of the 5 state commercial banks
which has improved from 44.4% in 1977 to 53.5% and 54.1 in 1978 and 1979
(Annex 8, Table 15). This indicator incorporates also accumulated arrears and
is somewhat limited in its present form, particularly as a management tool for
monitoring collection efforts. It should be complemented by a simple annual
collection ratio, relating collected to due amounts, which could comfortably
be used to set annual collection targets for the individual HBs on the basis
of their past performance but incorporating gradual improvements.
Growth Prospects and Constraints
39.       The rapid expansion of the program in both number and value terms
continues unabated through 1980 but may decelerate somewhat from its current
level of over 30% p.a. for KIK and 50% p.a. for KMKP lending. Despite its
impressive growth performance to date, there is still a large segment of SSEs
not yet reached by the program particularly in the industrial sector, whose
share has been declining in relative terms. However, improved project prep-
aration facilities in banks as well as more effective technical assistance now
being developed under REPELITA III could enable many new clients to qualify
for KIK/KMKP loans in the next few years. Since the Government puts high
priority on the KIK/KMKP program, resources would at least be made available
for the period of REPELIA III which ends in 1984. BI has also responded with
speed and efficiency to previous program constraints by the recent adjustment
measures such as increasing loan ceilings, lengthening loan duration and
de-emphasizing collateral requirements. Moreover, the SSE credit demand is
most reponsive to the overall economic conditions (GDP) which are not antici-
pated to deteriorate in view of expectedly sustainable oil revenues and
investment demand. On the basis of these considerations, BI projects that KIK
loan approvals would grow at an annual rate of 11% during 1981-84. Although
this forecast appears conservative, judging from the current momentum of the
program, there are, nevertheless, some uncertainties about potential supply
constraints which may slow down program expansion.
AEP Projects Department
April 24, 1981



- 69 -
ANNEX 8
Table 1
INDONESIA                              Page 1 of 3
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rediscount, Lending and Deposit Terms of BI and State Banks
(In %)
BI's        BI's
rediscount rediscount Lending
share       rate       rates
I. Loans
A. Short-Term
Group I
1. Working capital for BUUD/KUD for
procurement and distribution of
rice and maize                        100            3         9
Group II
1.  BIMAS/INMAS rice and secondary
crops                                 100            3        12
2.  BUUD/KUD/P.N. Garam for collection
and distribution of salt and
working capital for P.N. Garam         75            4         12
3.  Working capital for flour mills          75            4         12
4.  Export and exporting producers           75            4         12
5. Production, import and distribu-
tion of fertilizers                    75            4        12
6.  Import and distribution of nonfood
items under foreign aid                75            4        12
7.  Working capital for BUUD/KUD and
cooperatives for collection and
distribution of agricultural
products, livestock and fish           75            4         12
8. Working capital for smallholder
agriculture and cottage handi-
crafts                                 75            4        12
9. Working capital for livestock,
poultry and fisheries                  75            4         12
Group III
1. Working capital for rice mills/
hullers, sugar, coconut oil,
textiles, agricultural equip-
ment, paper, cement, public
transportation, printing and
publishing and tourism                 70            6         13.5
2. Working capital for other produc-
tion                                   70            6        13.5



- 70-                               AN4NEX o
Table 1
Page 2 of 3
BI's         BI's
rediscount rediscount Lending
share        rate      rates
3. Import and distribution of con-
trolled goods                           70            6         13.5
4.  Sugar stock financing                     70            6         13-5
5.  Domestic (inc. interinsular trade)        70            6         13.5
6. W4orking capital for contractors
for DIP/INPRES projects financed
out of regional governments'
budgets and for low-cost housing        70            6         13.5
Group IV
1. Working capital for contractors
for projects other than those
specified in III.6                     60             6        15
Group V
.  Import and distribution of
imported goods not covered in
II.5, II.6 and III.3                    40            6         18
Group VI
1.  All other short-term credits              25            6         21
B. Medium/Long-Term
Fixed assets financing:
Up to Rp 75 million                         80            3         10.5
Rp  75 - 200 million                        75            4         12
Rp 200 - 500 million                        70            4         13.5
Above Rp 500 million                        65            4         13.5
Working capital financing:
Up to Rp 300 million                        70           4-6      12-18/a
Above Rp 300 million                        65           4-6      12-187a
C. Loans to Small Enterprises
Fixed asset financing (KIK)                   80            3         10.5
Permanent working capital financing
(KMKP)                                      75            4         12
D. Foreign Aid Project Financing
Foreign currency requirements                100           4-6      12-15/b
Domestic currency requirements              90-100         4-6      12-157



- 71 -
ANNEX 8
Table 1
Page 3 of 3
Interest rate
Deposit   subsidy on
rate     deposits
II. Deposits
Time Deposits
24 months for the first Rp 2.5 million                 15           4.5
On balance exceeding Rp 2.5 million                    12           1.5
12 months                                               9
6 months                                                6
Demand Deposits
Up to Rp 1 million to banks                        Determined
by banks
(3.0-9.0)
More than Rp 1 million to Rp 50 million                 3.0
On balance exceeding Rp 50 million                      6.0
Call Money                                             9.0-15.5
Tabanas (National Development Saving Scheme
For the first Rp 200,000 deposited                     15
On balance exceeding Rp 200,000                         6
Certificate of Deposit
1 month                                             3.0-14.75
3 months                                            4.0-15.25
6 months                                            6.0-15.25
9 months                                               7.0
12 months                                            8.0-14.75
/a Depending on the economic sector concerned.
/b 12% up to Rp 100 million; 15% above Rp 100 million.
Source: Bank Indonesia.
AEP Projects Department
February 2, 1981



- 72 -
ANNEX 8
Table 2
INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Current Terms of KIK/KMKP Lending
KIK                     KMKP
Direct Loans
For Borrower
Maximum loan amount               Rp 10 million            Rp 10 million
Maximum amount including
supplementary loan             Rp 15 million             Rp 15 million
Interest rate                     10.5% p.a.               12% p.a.
Maximum duration                  10 years                 3 years
Maximum grace period              4 years                  /a
Collateral requirements           Assets financed by loan and, if required,
additional collateral up to 50% of loan
amount
Borrower's financial contri-
bution                          ----------------- None /b ------------------
For Handling Bank
Rediscount rate                   3% p.a.                  4% p.a.
Rediscount share                  80%                      75%
Credit insurance fee (front-
end charge)
Up to 5-year duration           3% /c                    3% /c
Over 5-year duration            5%                       -
Risk exposure                     25%                      25%
Co-Financing Arrangements
Co-Financing Share
RDBs                              10%                      10%
BAPINDO                           10%                      15%
BI                                80%                      75%
Interest Income Share
RDBs                              50%                      33-1/3%
BAPINDO                           27%                      33-1/3%
BI                                23%                      33-1/3%
Risk Exposure
RDBs                                  10% x 30% =  3% of the loan amount
BAPINDO                               90% x 30% = 27% of the loan amount
/a Loan is normally extended as an overdraft facility.
/b Supplementary KIK credit above Rp 10 million requires 10% self-financing.
7- To be absorbed by BI and HBs in equal shares.
AEP Projects Department
February 2, 1981



- 73 -                           ANNEX 8
Table 3
INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Program ("Massal") Lending by Handling Bank
KIK                           KMKP
Bank Rakyat Indonesia    Pepper                          Cattle fattening
Poultry                        Sugarcane
Coffee pruning                 Poultry
Cooperatives/transmigration   Cloves
Storage space & drying         Pepper
floors                       Fish pond development
Fisheries                      Coffee pruning
Water pumping systems          Fishing boat motorization
Marketing                      Cooperatives
Cattle insemination            Fisheries
Rice field development         Trausmigration
Fishing boat motorization
Dairy farming
Bank Bumi Daya            Marketing                      Marketing
Transportation                 Tobacco
Tobacco
Market stalls
Bank Dagang Negara        Marketing
Transportation
Shopping center units
Bank Ekspor Impor                                        Tobacco
Indonesia
Bank Negara               Marketing                      Marketing
Indonesia 1946
BAPINDO                   Marketing
City transportation
Regional development      Marketing                       Tobacco
banks                                                  Taxi
AEP Projects Department
February 2, 1981



INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KIK Lending by Bank, 1974-80 (June 30)
(Rp million)
1980 (as of
1974            1975             1976             1977            1978             1979             June 30)       Cumulative total
Amount    X    Amount    X    Amount    X    Amount    X    Amount    X    Amount    %               Amount       %      Amount       X
Approvals
BRI                         7,249   47.5   8,111   63.2  12,255   57.0  12,619   51.3  13,978   44.2  23,925   41.7   24,646    40.5  102,783                    45.9
BBD                         2,505   16.4   1,459   11.4   3,280   15.2   3,372   13.7   4,851   15.3  10,140   17.7   11,750    19.3   37,357                    16.7
BDN                         2,182   14.3       587    4.6   1,189    5.5         832    3.4   2,361    7.5   6,511   11.4    9,091          15.0   22,753        10.1
BETI                        1,198    7.8       288    2.2       817    3.8       870    3.5      986    3.1   2,125    3.7    2,388          3.9    8,672         3.9
BNI 1946                    1,676   11.0   1,126    8.8   2,304   10.7   4,255   17.3   6,137   19.4  10,387   18.1    8,373    13.8   34,258                    15.3
BAPINDO                       443    3.0   1,267    9.8   1,666    7.8   2,635   10.8   2,468    7.9   1,309    2.3                 998       1.6   10,786        4.8
RDBs                             -    -          -    -           -    -           -    -        835    2.6   2,867    5.0    2,920          4.8    6,622         3.0
Private banks                    -    -                   -          -       -        -       -       -            45    0.1        640       1.1       685       0.3
Total                   15,253  100.0  12,838  100.0  21,511  100.0  24,583  100.0  31,616  100.0  57,309  100.0   60,806   100.0  223,916    100.0
Outstanding
BRI                         6,032   46.3  12,057   55.7  20,703   57.4  28,158   55.8  33,745   52.1  48,188   48.5   65,833    46.3
BBD                         2,178   16.7   2,929   13.5   5,320   14.7   6,849   13.6   9,007   13.9  15,430   15.5   23,903    16.8
BDN                         1,981   15.2   1,930    8.9   2,227    6.2   2,762    5.5   4,098    6.3   8,761    8.8   15,816    11.1
BEII                        1,029    7.9   1,164    5.4   1,664    4.6   2,202    4.4   2,640    4.1   3,762    3.8    5,542                 3.9
BNI 1946                    1,452   11.1   2,142    9.9   3,468    9.6   6,136   12.1   9,107   14.1  15,488   15.6   21,276    14.9
BAPINDO                       367    2.8   1,423    6.6   2,704    7.5   4,356    8.6   5,456    8.5   4,599    4.6    4,419                 3.1
RDBEs                              -        -       -       -          -           -    -        659    1.0   2,996    3.0    4,963          3.5
Private banks                    -       -    -           -          -             -    -          -    -         155    0.2        582      0.4
Total ~~sta~13,039  100.0  21,645  100.0  36,086  100.0  50,463  100.0  64,712  100.0  99,379  100.0  142,334   100.0
Note:  KIK approval (Telex) data comprise individual and mass#l lending as well as loans fully financed from handling banks' own resources and do not
tally with those in other tables (based on approval form "A--).
Source:  Bank Indonesia.
AEP ProJects Department
February 19, 1981
J-. 0a



INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KMKP Lending by Bank, 1974-80 (June 30)
(Rp million)
1980 (as of
1974             1975             1976             1977             1978               1979             June 30)       Cumulative total
Amount    Z    Amount             Amount    x    Amount    X    Amount    t            Amount      X      Amount       1     Amount         x
Approvals
BRI                          7,425   47.9   6,893   52.3  27,766   72.3  34,773   72.6  38,286   61.5   85,123   67.7   67,118                   59.7  267,384        64.4
BBD                          1,731    11.2   1,046    7.9   1,988    5.2   2,623    5.5   5,730    9.2   10,552                8.4     9,931       8.8   33,601         8.1
BDN                          1,829   11.8       957    7.3   1,537    4.0   2,052    4.3   3,495            5.6    8,732       6.9   10,903        9.7   29,505         7.1
BEII                         1,768   11.4        861     6.5   1,439    3.7   1,947    4.1   1,971          3.2      3,831     3.1     3,177       2.8   14,994         3.6
BNI 1946                     2,329   15.0   2,186   16.6   4,021    10.5   4,487           9.4   9,787    15.7    13,712    10.9   14,565         13.0   51,087        12.3
BAPINDO                        420    2.7   1,244   .9.4   1,641          4.3   1,936    4.0   1,475        2.4      1,153    0.9      1,036       0.9    8,905         2.1
RDO8                              -    -           -    -           -    -          93    0.2   1,503    2.4         2,601     2.1    2.377        2.1    6,574         1.6
Private banks                     -    -           -    -           -    -           -    -            -    -            -    -        3,348       3.0    3,348         0.8
Total Approva]s          15,502  100.0  13,187  100.0  38,392  100.0  47,911  100.0  62,247  100.0  105,704  lO0.0  112,455   100.0  415,398                       100.0
OOtatanding
BRI                          5,776   46.1   9,646   50.2  25,681   62.0  39,824   64.4  50,591   60.4   94,330   61.1  138,899                    60.8                           1
BBD                          1,408   11.3   1,857    9.6   3,130          7.6   4,322      7.0   7,371      8.8   13,991       9.1   21,118        9.2                          -4
BDR                          1,428   11.4   1,497    7.8   2,128    5.1   2,829    4.6   4,231               5.0   11,187      7.3   17,661        7.7                          tn
BElI                         1,581   12.6   1,881        9.8   2,716    6.5   3,727    6.0   4,829           5.8    6,615      4.3     9,303       4.1
BNI 1946                     1,988   15.9   3,016   15.7   5,591   13.5   7,941    12.9  12,246    14.6   21,009    13.6   30,918                 13.5
BAPINDO                         332    2.7   1,336    6.9   2,200    5.3   3,111           5.0   3,165       3.8    2,910      1.9      2,994      1.3
RDOB                              -    -           -    -           _               84    0.1    1,315       1.6     3,149     2.0      5,158      2.3
Private banks                        -       -        -             -    -           -    -            -    -        1,125    0.7      2,492       1.1
Total Outstanding        12,513  100.0  19,233  100.0  41,446  100.0  61,838  100.0  83,748  100.0  154,316  100.0  228,543   100.0
Note.  KIK approval (Telex) data comprise individual and massal lending -as well as loans fully financed from handling banks  own resources and do not
tally with those in other tables (based on approval form 'A").
Sourte.  Bank Indonesia.
AEP Projects Department
FebrWary 24, 1981                                                                                                                                                              LAo



- 76 -                               ANNEX 8
Table 6
INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cumulative KIK/KMKP Lending by Province as of June 30, 1980
(Rp million)
Provincial
population
as Z of national  KIK loan approvals      KMKP loan approvals
Provinces           population     No.    Amount    %       No.     Amount    %
Sumatra
Aceh                   1.7      2,127    7,511    3.5    4,576   10,238   3.3
North Sumatra          5.6      4,118   13,376    6.3    8,219   21,205   6.8
West Sumatra           2.4      1,559    5,625    2.6    2,512    8,507   2.7
Riau                   1.4      1,095    4,736    2.2    1,514    5,524   1.7
Jambi                  1.0        532    1,930    0.9    1,200    3,427   1.1
South Sumatra          2.9      1,651    6,031    2.8    3,705   11,472   3.7
Bengkulu               0.4        693    1,322    0.6       873    2,575   0.8
Lampung                2.3        951    3,476    1.7    1,490    4,964   1.6
Subtotal           17.7     12,726   44,007   20.6   24,089   67,912  21.7
Java
West Java             18.3     11,059   33,369   15.6   13,892   37,134  11.9
Jakarta                3.8      4,781   15,461    7.2    3,303   13,030   4.2
Central Java          18.5      9,581   24,441   11.4   27,936   56,468  18.1
Yogyakarta             2.1      2,539    5,373    2.5    4,810    9,127   2.9
East Java             21.5     16,738   37,607   17.7   42,534   64,004  20.5
Subtotal           64.2    44,698  116,251   54.4   92,475  179,763  57.6
Kalimantan
West Kalimantan        1.7      1,141    3,876    1.8    1,567    3,499   1.1
South Kalimantan       1.4      1,122    3,996    1.9    1,660    4,680   1.5
Central Kalimantan     0.6        355    1,166    0.5       651    1,724   0.6
East Kalimantan        0.6        975    3,204    1.5       943    3,459   1.1
Subtotal            4.3      3,593   12,242    5.7    4,821   13,362   4.3
Sulawesi
North Sulawesi         1.5      1,507    4,672    2.2    2,551    6,863   2.2
Central Sulawesi       0.7      1,392    3,731    1.7    1,996    5,104   1.7
South Sulawesi         4.4      5,108   15,062    7.1    5,905   15,605   5.0
Southeast Sulawesi     0.6        635    1,738    0.8    1,075    2,603   0.8
Subtotal            7.2      8,642   25,203   11.8   11,527   30,175   9.7
Other Provinces
Maluku                 0.9        556    1,332    0.6       596    1,174    0.4
Irian Jaya             0.1        453    1,490    0.7       580    2,170    0.7
West Nusa Tenggara     1.9        602    1,281    0.6    1,093    1,524    0.5
East Nusa Tenggara     1.9      1,894    4,743    2.2    2,602    4,533    1.5
Bali                   1.8      3,148    7,177    3.4    4,965   11,382    3.6
East Timor             -           12       80    -          13       64    -
Subtotal            6.6      6,665   16,103    7.5    9,849   20,847    6.7
Total Approvals   100.0     76,324  213,806  100.0  142,761  312,059  100.0
Source: Bank Indonesia
AEP Projects Department
February 24, 1981



- 77 -
ANNEX 8
Table 7
Page 1 of 4
INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cumulative KIK/KMKP Lending by Sector and Province as of June 30, 1980
(Rp million)
KIK loan approvals       KMKP loan approvals
No.   Amount    %        No.     Amount    %
Three Project Provinces
(RPMU-covered)
West Sumatra
Agriculture                        157      547    9.7         62      125    1.5
Industry                           340   1,115   19.8        316       944   11.1
Trade                              506   1,543   27.5    1,998    6,832   80.3
Transportation                     422   1,869   33.2          25      104    1.2
Other                              134      552    9.8        111      503    5.9
Subtotal                        1,559   5,626  100.0    2,512    8,508  100.0
Central Java
Agriculture                      3,433   4,788   19.6    3,217    4,528    8.0
Industry                         1,585   4,448   18.2    5,814   12,337   21.8
Trade                            2,108   7,404   30.3   18,032   37,022   65.6
Transportation                   1,942   5,987   24.5         107      269    0.5
Other                              513   1,815    7.4         766    2,311    4.1
Subtotal                        9,581  24,442  100.0   27,936   56,467  100.0
East Java
Agriculture                      5,398   7,560   20.1   11,588    9,333   14.6
Industry                         2,204   6,029   16.0    6,857   11,610   18.2
Trade                            6,168  13,442   35.8   22,676   38,681   60.4
Transportation                   2,073   7,155   19.0         332      845    1.3
Other                               895   3,422    9.1    1,081    3,535    5.5
Subtotal                       16,738  37,608  100.0   42,534   64,004  100.0
Total Three Provinces
Agriculture                      8,988  12,895   19.1   14,867   13,986   10.9
Industry                         4,129  11,592   17.1   12,987   24,891   19.3
Trade                            8,782  22,389   33.1   42,706   82,535   64.0
Transportation                   4,437  15,011   22.2         464    1,218    0.9
Other                            1,542   5,789    8.5    1,958    6,349    4.9
Total                          27,878  67,676  100.0   72,982  128,979  100.0



- 78 -
ANNEX 8
Table 7
Page 2 of 4
KIK loans                 KMKP loans
No.   Amount    %        No.      Amount    %
Additional Nine Provinces (Also
RPMU-covered)
Jakarta
Agriculture                         276   1,297    8.4         85       343    2.6
Industry                            423   1,827   11.8        577    2,323   17.8
Trade                            2,994   6,612   42.8    1,852    7,825   60.1
Transportation                      471   2,250   14.5         65       304    2.3
Other                               617   3,475   22.5        724    2,236   17.2
Subtotal                        4,781  15,461  100.0    3,303   13,031  100.0
West Java
Agriculture                      2,518   4,969   14.9    1,528    2,515    6.8
Industry                         1,316   4,612   13.8    3,415    8,366   22.5
Trade                             3,928  10,839   32.5    8,232   23,156   62.4
Transportation                    2,714  10,368   31.1        105       331    0.9
Other                               583   2,582    7.7        611    2,763    7.4
Subtotal                       11,059  33,370  100.0   13,891   37,131  100.0
Yogyakarta
Agriculture                      1,032      604   11.2        254       368    4.0
Industry                            529   1,306   24.3    1,391    2,878   31.6
Trade                               504   1,507   28.1    2,954    5,238   57.4
Transportation                      246   1,052   19.6         29        65    0.7
Other                               228     904   16.8        182       577    6.3
Subtotal                        2,539   5,373  100.0    4,810    9,126  100.0
North Sumatra
Agriculture                         799   2,206   16.5        722    1,100    5.2
Industry                            462   1,519   11.3    1,027    2,667   12.6
Trade                             1,112   2,791   20.9    5,823   14,630   69.0
Transportation                   1,370   4,998   37.4         103       441    2.1
Other                               375   1,861   13.9        544    2,367   11.1
Subtotal                        4,118  13,375  100.0    8,219   21,205  100.0



- 79 -
ANNEX 8
Table 7
Page 3 of 4
KIK loans                 KMKP loans
No.   Amount    %        No.      Amount    %
South Kalimantan
Agriculture                         248      756   18.9         46       155    3.3
Industry                            151      516   12.9        305       721   15.4
Trade                               138      544   13.6    1,182    3,438   73.4
Transportation                      520   1,970   49.3          36        87    1.9
Other                                64      209    5.3         91       279    6.0
Sttbtotal                        1,121   3,995  100.0    1,660    4,680  100.0
Central Kalimantan
Agriculture                         101      268   23.0          8        16    0.9
Industry                             94      366   31.4        104       307   17.8
Trade                                76      211   18.1        498    1,253   72.7
Transportation                       61      228   19.6          5        17    1.0
Other                                23       92    7.9         36       132    7.6
Subtotal                           355   1,165  100.0         651    1,725  100.0
South Sulawesi
Agriculture                       2,000   4,885   32.4         808    2,103   13.5
Tndustry                            531   1,350    9.0         800    1,578   10.1
Trade                             1,133   3,708   24.6    3,977   10,730   68.8
Transportation                    1,231   4,173   27.7          48       145    0.9
Other                               213      946    6.3        272    1,049    6.7
Subtotal                         5,108  15,062  100.0    5,905   15,605  100.0
Bali
Agriculture                       1,701   2,072   28.9         655       885    7.8
Industry                            464   1,184   16.5    1,069    2,282   20.0
Trade                               509   1,949   27.2    3,050    7,727   67.9
Transportation                      317   1,360   18.9          25        81    0.7
Other                               157      612    8.5        166       406    3.6
Subtotal                         3,148   7,177  100.0    4,965   11,381  100.0



- 80 -
ANNEX 8
Table 7
Page 4 of 4
KIK loans                 KMKP loans
No.   Amount    %        No.     Amount    %
West Nusa Tenggara
Agriculture                         667     780   16.4        338       660   14.5
Industry                           271      774   16.3        357      476   10.5
Trade                               288     706   14.9    1,728    3,048   66.9
Transportation                      580   2,237   47.2         17        28    0.6
Other                                88     246    5.2        162       340    7.5
Subtotal                        1,894   4,743  100.0    2,602    4,552  100.0
Total Nine Provinces
Agriculture                      9,342  17,837   17.9    4,444    8,145    6.9
Industry                         4,241  13,454   13.5    9,045   21,598   18.2
Trade                           10,682  28,867   28.9   29,296   77,045   65.0
Transportation                   7,510  28,636   28.7         433    1,499    1.3
Other                            2,348  10,927   11.0    2,788   10,149    8.6
Total                          34,123  99,721  100.0   46,006  118,436  100.0
Provinces Without RPMU Coverage
Agriculture                        3,060   5,312   11.5    1,272    2,129    3.3
Industry                            1,607   5,013   10.8    2,679    6,460   10.0
Trade                               2,627   9,429   20.3   17,595   46,943   72.6
Transportation                      5,818  21,123   45.5        469    1,352    2.1
Other                               1,211   5,532   11.9    1,758    7,760   12.0
Total                          14,323  46,409  100.0   23,773   64,644  100.0
Whole of Indonesia (26 Provinces)
Agriculture                        21,390  36,044   16.9   20,583   24,260    7.8
Industry                            9,977  30,059   14.0   24,711   52,949   17.0
Trade                              22,092  60,685   28.4   89,597  206,523   66.2
Transportation                    17,765  64,770   30.3    1,366    4,069    1.3
Other                               5,100  22,248   10.4    6,504   24,257    7.7
GRAND TOTAL                    76,324 213,806  100.0  142,761  312,059  100.0
Source: Bank Indonesia. Computer output based on Form A.
AEP Projects Department
February 24, 1981



-  81                                     ANNEX 8
Table 8
INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cumulative KIK and KMKP Lending by Subsector as of June 30, 1980
(Rp million)
KIK loans                    KMKP loans
No.     Amount    %          No.   Amount       %
Agriculture
Farming                       10.458   17.474    8.2    11.567   14.022    4.5
Livestock                      3.728    6.186    2.9        4.042    5.763    1.9
Forestry                            8       37    -            11        49    -
Fisheries                      6.718   11.168    5.2        4.855    4.220    1.4
Other                            478    1.179    0.5          108       206    0.1
Subtotal                   21.390   36.044   16.8    20.583   24.260    7.9
Industry
Food, beverages & tobacco    3.863   10.319    4.8          6.119   11.979    3.9
(of which: rice milling)  (1.542)  (3.563)  (1.7)          (746)  (1.350)  (0.4)
Textiles, garments &
leather                      1.422    3.947    1.9       6.060   13.145    4.2
Wood, wood products &
furniture                    1.317    4.703    2.2       5.082   11.680    3.7
Paper, paper products,
printing & publishing          492    2.018    0.9          745    2.287    0.7
Chemicals & chemical
products                       160       546    0.3         381       963    0.3
Nonmetallic minerals           1.836    5.840    2.7        3.660    6.901    2.2
Basic metals                       40      142    0.1         172       366    0.1
Machinery, tools & other
metal products                 724    2.221    1.0        1.895    4.088    1.3
Other                             143      323    0.2         597    1.540    0.5
Subtotal                    9.997   30.059   14.1    24.711   52.949   16.9
Trade and Services
Construction                     841    4.486    2.1        3.348   16.420    5.3
Wholesale trade                 6.314   23.962   11.2    39.775   95.213   30.5
Retail trade                  14.453   31.257   14.6    48.600  108.385   34.7
Hotels, restaurants             1.322    5.448    2.6       1.189    2.854    0.9
Subtotal                   22.930   65.153   30.5    92.912  222.872   71.4
Transportation
Transportation                17.674   64.492   30.2        1.352    4.044    1.3
Storage                           89       275    0.1          11        18    -
Subtotal                   17.763   64.767   30.3       1.363    4.062    1.3
Other                             4.244   17.783    8.3       3.192    7.916    2.5
TOTAL                      76.324  213.806  100.0   142.761  312.059  100.0
Source: Bank Indonesia
AEP Project Department
February 24. 1981



ANNEX 8
- 82 -                                    Table 9
INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOP1JENT PROJECT
Characteristics of Cumulative KIK and KPIKP Lending as of June 30, 1980
(Rp million)
KIK loan approvals               KMKP loan approvals
No.       %     Amount    %        No.       %      Amount    %
Distribution by Amount
Less than 1 million       21,302   27.9   11,518    5.4   53,586   37.5   33,560   10.7
1 - 2 million             16,033   21.0   27,884   13.1   43,653   30.6   74,814   24.0
2 - 3 million             12,108   15.9   32,359   15.1   17,347   12.2   47,819   15.3
3 - 4 million              8,282   10.9   30,144   14.1    9,266    6.5   35,261   11.3
4 - 5 million             12,512   16.4   60,959   28.5   11,422    8.0   56,340   18.1
5 - 10 million          }  6,087    7.9   50,942   23.8    7,487    5.2   64,265   20.6
Over 10 million         }
Total                  76,324  100.0  213,806  100.0  142,761  100.0  312,059  100.0
Distribution by Maturity
Less than 1 year           1,432    1.9    1,242    0.5    7,648    5.4   11,509    3.7
1 - 2 years                5,394    7.1    8,467    4.0   31,752   22.2   51,749   16.6
2 - 3 years               28,847   37.8   68,962   32.3  103,361/a 72.4  248,801/a 79.7
3 - 4 years               13,585   17.8   44,336   20.7            -    -            -    -
4 - 5 years               24,374   31.9   77,625   36.3            -    -            -    -
5 - 10 years               2,692    3.5   13,174    6.2            -    -            -    -
Total                  76,324  100.0  213,806  100.0  142,761  100.0  312,059  100.0
Purpose of Financing
Buildings                 16,696   21.9   37,627   17.6
Equipment                 47,278   61.9  144,705   67.7
Other                     12,350   16.2   31,474   14.7
Total                  76,324  100.0  213,806  100.0
Type of Project
Expansion                 58,885   77.2  178,206   83.4
Nlodernization             9,273   12.1   16,897    7.9
New development            8,166   10.7   18,703    8.7
Total                  76,324  100.0  213,806  100.0
Existing project                                               138,016   96.7  304,488   97.6
New project                                                      4,745    3.3    7,571    2.4
Total                                                    142,761  100.0  312,059  100.0
/a Including extensions.
Source: Bank Indonesia.
AEP Projects Department
February 24, 1981



- 83 -
4P4t( S_
sab1e 10
oINr>>  
!     "    ow r-g  oj 
I  , _  _          ,~~~~s-
i 4,, ii
!       0        r,0.:r 0 l o 
0s e      N 0.0. r         0 i       jo  
13   3_     cx.. 
!         ... I.. = 00 O@ ,NO   
i    i 000 r0o  .. .. 0 
1s-                          I
I ]I _      =o'.t0                 01uooo     
o       ji   !    r^^  o<               < 
I   I       20'0' 1
0.O                NP-    0 I   ro   rCl0oO    i
I   4 l  -i  r                   C  wvjo_ g
j         044,.  (.4l         r _ 
00N.-0000  fi  oD  
c .00000,400 r.>         '01 
(.4N o -r,  0Oor .       r4-
0N.(- !O 0t!<<^               i
I          .4,4      .00r.    n  Z0t       CI 
4,    (.. Yi0..  N
r.nioor..    o .   _     r
0'           IC I
A  lII                i * dcr Xv   
F d    l        H      g     b4r0     _ 
31  =1    1   zX       . 0.4Z 
tx ~ ~     ~     ~    . :1 I        _4  r o N .             0 .   . 
_; : y _ O o 044,r0444a   j4 
v!(c 13=oj  w4,  o
a: ~ ~   ~     ~     ~     44: v.4                      4,  4,44 o      >oNr    



- 84 -
ANNEX 8
Table 11
INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Annual KIK Loan Approvals by Province and Sector
(Rp million)
1980
1974/75  1976    1977    1978    1979   Qtr. 1  Qtr. 2   Total
By Province
Central Java           4,636   2,636   2,090   2,790   6,617   2,989   2,690   24,441
East Java              4,714   3,195   4,741   6,250   9,875   4,116   4,710   37,607
West Sumatra           1,043      773     301     675   1,419      693     731    5,625
Subtotal           10,393   6,604   7,132   9,715  17,911   7,798   8,131   67,673
South Kalimantan         568      630     964     738     839      261       -    3,996
Central Kalimantan       271      209     154     164     294       72       -    1,166
South Sulawesi         1,815   1,800   1,264   2,430   4,484   1,492   1,785   15,062
Bali                   1,338      913   1,029     914   1,454      629     919    7,177
North Sumatra          1,671   1,463   2,942   1,934   2,584   1,229   1,577   13,376
West Java              4,007   3,024   2,654   4,980  10,065   4,370   4,284   33,369
West Nusa Tenggara       466      429     471     523   1,486      511     873    4,743
Yogyakarta               776      630     611     792   1,566      505     512    5,373
Jakarta                2,710      897   1,691   2,153   4,380   1,808   1,860   15,461
Other                  4,482   3,702   5,720   7,194  12,738   5,905   6,517   46,410
Subtotal           18,104  13,697  17,500  21,822  39,890  16,782  18,327  146,133
Total              28,497  20,301  24,632  31,537  57,801  24,580  26,458  213,806
By Sector
Agriculture            6.471   4.932   3.625   4.731   9.774   3.099   3.412   36,044
Industry               6.604   2.884   3.441   4.465   6.800   2.968   2.897   30,059
Trade                  6.725   4.721   5.947   8.868  19.017   7.725   7.682   60,685
Transportation         7.457   6.949   9.914   9.021  15.240   7.120   9.069   64,770
Other                  1.241      815   1.704   4.452   6.970   3.667   3.399   22,248
Total              28.497  20.301  24.632  31.537  57.801  24.580  26.458  213,806
Source: Bank Indonesia.
AEP Projects Department
February 2, 1981



- 85 -
ANNEX 8
Table 12
INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Annual KMKP Loan Approvals by Province and Sector
(Rp million)
1980
1974/75  1976    1977    1978       1979   Qtr. 1  Qtr. 2   Total
By Province
Central Java           5,451   4,405   4,669   8,221   18,299   7,645   7,819   56,468
East Java               6,165   4,975   6,797  11,180   21,397   6,793   6,712   64,004
West Sumatra            1,022     843      583   1,179    2,388   1,172   1,346    8,507
Subtotal           12,638  10,223  12,049  20,580   42,084  15,610  15,870  128,979
South Kalimantan         415      514      563   1,013    1,749       448        -    4,680
Central Kalimantan        152     229      199      369      640      156        -    1,724
South Sulawesi         1,011   1,010   1,056   2,912    5,600   1,720   2,328   15,605
Bali                    1,354   1,389   1,449   1,474    2,629   1,176   1,365   11,382
North Sumatra          2,242   1,953   2,338   2,686    6,769   2,248   2,985   21,205
West Java               2,884   2,692   3,229   5,762   12,793   5,565   4,239   37,134
West Nusa Tenggara        357     356      459      647    1,544      475      724    4,553
Yogyakarta              1,269   1,163   1,380   1,227    2,247        836   1,004    9,127
Jakarta                 1,303   1,015      865   2,375    3,980   1,788   1,772   13,030
Other                  4,559   3,628   6,930   9,939   22,237   8,662   8,955   64,643
Subtotal           15,546  13,949  18,468  28,404   60,188  23,074  23,372  183,083
Total              28,184  24,172  30,517  48,984  102,272  38,684  39,249  312,062
By Sector
Agriculture             3.839   1.974   2.255   3.927    7.716   2.304   2.245   24,260
Industry               9.521   5.534   6.054   8.642   13.704   4.653   4.841   52,949
Trade                  12.621  14.660  19.850  32.196   71.172  27.522  28.502  206,523
Transportation            742     405      464      676       941     433      408    4,069
Other                   1.457   1.601   1.892   3.543    8.740   3.772   3.252   24,257
Total              28.184  24.172  30.517  48.984  102.272  38.684  39.249  312,062
Source: Bank Indonesia.
AEP Projects Department
February 2, 1981



INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Characteristics of Annual RIK and KMKP Lending 1974-1979 and 1980 (6 months)
(Rp million)
1980
1974/75          1976             1977             1978              1979           Qtr. I           Qtr. 2            Total
Amt.      %     Amt.      Y      Ant.      X      Amt.      X       Amt.      X     Amt.      x      Amt.      Z      Amt.       X
A. KIK Loan Approvals
Distribution by Amount
Less than I million       3,443   12.1   1,472    7.3   1,961    8.0   1,680    5.3    1,635    2.8              563    2.3       764    2.9   11,518    5.4
I - 2 million             5,448   19.1   3,678   18.1   4,316   17.5   5,324   16.9    5,522    9.6   2,166    8.8   1,430    5.4   27,884   13.0
2 - 3 million             6,077   21.3   5,530   27.2   4,610   18.7   5,242   16.6    6,636   11.5   2,060    8.4   2,204    8.3   32,359   15.1
3 - 4 million             3,206   11.3   3,072   15.1   4,504   18.3   4,990   15.8    8,624   14.9   2,555   10.4   3,193   12.1   30,144   14.1
4 - 5 million            10,239   35.9   6,083   30.0   8,025   32.6   9,767   31.0   16,515   28.6   5,153   21.0   5,177   19.6   60,959   28.5
5 - 10 million       }        84    0.3      466    2.3   1,215    4.9   4,534   14.4   18,870   32.6  12,084   49.1  13,689   51.7   50,942   23.9
Over 10 million    }
Total                 28,497  100.0  20,301  100.0  24,632  100.0  31,537  100.0   57,801  100.0  24,580  100.0  26,458  100.0  213,806  100.0
Distribution by
Duration
Less than 1 year             675    2.4        57    0.3       82    0.3        90    0.3        168    0.3       83    0.3        87    0.3      1,242    0.6
1 - 2 years               1,454    5.1       801    3.9   1,450    5.9   1,258    4.0    1,984    3.4            779    3.2       741    2.8    8,467    4.0            1
2 - 3 years               9,766   34.3   6,455   31.8   9,224   37.4  11,884   37.7   16,320   28.3   7,523   30.6   7,790   29.4   68,962   32.3
3 - 4 years               5,936   20.8   4,565   22.5   5,948   24.1   6,846   21.7   11,451   19.8   4,513   18.4   5,077   19.1   44,336   20.7                      OD
4 - 5 years              10,454   36.7   7,827   38.6   7,171   29.2  10,239   32.5   21,845   37.8   9,409   38.3  10,680   40.4   77,625   36.2
5 - 10 ye4rs                213    0.7       596    2.9       757    3.1   1,218    3.8    6,034   10.4   2,273    9.2   2,082    8.0   13,173    6.2
Total                 28,497  100.0  20,301  100.0  24,632  100.0  31,537  100.0   57,801  100.0  24,580  100.0  26,458  100.0  213,806  100.0
B. KRKP Loan Approvals
Distribution by Amount
Less than I million       6,208   22.0   3,982   16.5   4,183   13.7   4,752    9.7    8,191    8.0   3,531    9.1   2,713    6.9   33,560   10.8
1 - 2 million             8,435   29.9   7,358   30.4   8,561   28.1   1,998   24.5   21,909   21.4   9,413   24.3   7,140   18.1   74,814   24.0
2 - 3 million             4,906   17.4   5,046   20.9   5,608   18.4   7,662   15.6   14,180   13.9   4,721   12.2   5,696   14.5   47,819   15.3
3 - 4 million             3,060   10.9   2,846   11.8   4,015   13.2   6,019   12.3   11,224   11.0   3,580    9.3   4,517   11.5   35,261   11.3
4 - 5 million             5,549   19.7   4,606   19.1   6,136   20.1   9,742   19.9   17,449   17.1   6,103   15.8   6,755   17.2   56,340   18.1
5 - 10 million       }        26    0.1      334    1.3   2,014    6.5   8,811   18.0   29,320   28.6  11,337   29.3  12,423   31.8   64,265   20.5
Over 10 million
Total                 28,184  100.0  24,172  100.0  30,517  100.0  48,984  100.0  102,272  100.0  38,684  100.0  39,246  100.0  312,059  100.0
Distribution by
Duration
Less than 1 year          1,599    5.7   1,034    4.3   1,247    4.1   1,453    3.0    2,921    2.9   1,402    3.6   1,853    4.7   11,509    3.7
1 - 2 years               6,167   21.9   5,244   21.7   6,643   21.8   8,754   17.9   13,681   13.4   5,618   14.5   5,642   14.4   51,749   16.6
2 - 3 years              20,418   72.4  17,894   74.0  22,626   74.1  38,778   74.1   85,670   83.7  31,664   81.9  31,751   80.9  248,801   79.7                     H  .
Total                 28,184  100.0  24,172  100.0  30,517  100.0  48,984  100.0  102,272  100.0  38,684  100.0  39,246  100.0  312,059  100.0
Source:  Bank Indonesia.
AEP Projects Department
February 19, 1981



INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rediscount Obligations to 81 by Handling Bank as of
December 31, 1974-1979 and 1980 (as of June 30)
(Rp million)
1974       1975       1976       1977                  1978                             1979                   1980 (as of June 30)
Out-       Out-       Out-       Out-    Disburse-  Repay-    Out-    Disburse-  Repay-    Out-    Disburse-  Repay-    Out-
Bank            standing  standing  standing  standing    ments           ments  standing    ments        ments  standing    ments         meats  standing
RRI                      4,407      8,849    13,431    16,138    43,370    23,907   19,463    62,510    35,600   26,910    82,226    46,275   35,951
BBD                      1,585      2,081      3,417      4,436    12,374       6,469    5,905    20,486         9,073   11,413    29,886       12,368   17,518
BDN                      1,553      1,307      1,374      1,610      5,721      3,155    2,566      10,930       4,277    6,653    18,202        5,791   12,411
BEI                       797        827      1,102      1,333      3,326      1,616    1,710        5,026      2,428    2,598       6,937       3,067    3,870
NNI 46                   1,088      1,472      2,411      4,112    12,398       6,188    6,210    20,708         8,574   12,134    27,406        11,357   16,049
BAPINDO                    219      1,018      1,978      2,734      6,783      2,613    4,170        7,698      4,879    2,819       8,630       5,909    2,721
RDBs                         -          -          -           -       668         134       534      2,962        797    2,165       5,298       1,836    3,462
Private banks                           -          -          -           -               -             169         48       121         548         61       487
Total               9,649    15,554    23,713    30,363    84,640    44,082   40,558   130,489    65,676   64,813   179,133    86,664   92,469
Source: Bank Indonesia.
AEP Projects Department
February 19, 1981
41



-88 -                                 ANNEX 8
Table 15
INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KIK Loan Collections and Arrears of the Five State Commercial Banks
1974-1979 and 1980 (June 30)
(Rp million)
1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980
(Jan-Jun)
Outstanding portfolio /a
(beginning of year)          -  12,672  20,222  33,381  46,107  58,597   91,629
Disbursements during
year                    14,810  11,571  19,845  21,949  28,313  53,088   56,247
Repayments due during year
Arrears (beginning
of year) /b              -      885   2,051   6,212  11,570  13,776   16,993
New repayments due    3,023   5,187  10,847  14,581  18,029  23,273   23,635
Total Due             3,023   6,072  12,898  20,793  29,599  37,049   40,628
Collections during year   2,138   4,021   6,686   9,223  15,823  20,056   15,506
Collections Rate (Z)         70.7    66.2    51.8    44.4    53.5    54.1        38.2
Arrears (end of year) /b    885   2,051   6,212  11,570  13,776  16,993   25,122
Portfolio
(end of year) /a        12,672  20,222  33,381  46,107  58,597  91,629  132,370
Arrears as % of Out-
standing Portfolio         7.0    10.1    18.6    25.1    23.5    18.5         19.0
/a Data do not tally with Annex 4, Table 1 as they do not contain private
banks' and BAPINDO/RDBs' portfolios.
/b Principal arrears only.
Source: Bank Indonesia.
AEP Projects Department
February 19, 1981



- 89 -                                  ANNEX 8
Table 16
INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KIK Arrears as Percentage of Outstanding Portfolio by Bank,
1974-79 and 1980 (as of June 30)
1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979           1980
(as of 06/30)
BRI                 8.7       8.3    18.9    28.4    27.9    30.2           31.7
BBD                 9.0      11.2    19.7    19.0    18.0       7.5          8.4
BDN                 2.0      15.3    22.9    27.2    21.7       5.1          1.9
BEII                3.2      11.1    17.2    24.3    19.0    13.7           12.7
BNI 1946            6.3      14.1    13.1    16.2    14.8       2.1          5.7
Total          7.0     10.1    18.6    25.1    23.5    18.5            19.0
Source:  Bank Indonesia.
AEP Projects Department
February 19, 1981



- 90 -                                ANNEX 8
Table 17
INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KIK and KMKP Program (Massal) Loans Outstanding by Bank
(Rp million)
1979                        1980
Bank                                  (as of Dec. 31)              (as of June 30)
A. Total KIK Loans Outstanding
Bank Rakyat Indonesia                    6,489.6                      6,739.9
Bank Bumi Daya                           1,036.2                        524.2
Bank Dagang Negara                         489.5                        492.4
Bank Ekspor Impor Indonesia                  -                            -
Bank Negara Indonesia 1946                  84.8                        106.3
BAPINDO                                    578.0                        468.6
RDBs                                       186.7                        325.3
Private Banks                                 -                          30.3
Total                               8,864.8                      8,687.0
B. Total KMKP Loans Outstanding
Bank Rakyat Indonesia                   31,188.5                     24,016.9
Bank Bumi Daya                             637.5                        174.7
Bank Dagang Negara                           -                            -
Bank Ekspor Impor Indonesia                332.6                        537.6
Bank Negara Indonesia 1946                 103.8                         53.2
BAPINDO                                      -                            -
RDBs                                        18.4                         40.2
Private Banks                                -                           68.2
Total                              32,280.8                    24,890.8
Source: Bank Indonesia.
AEP Projects Department
February 24, 1981



- 91 -                                  ANNEX 8
Table 18
INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Current Terms of KIK/KMKP Lending
KIK                      KMKP
Direct Loans
For Borrower
Maximum loan amount               Rp 10 million             Rp 10 million
Maximum amount including
supplementary loan              Rp 15 million             Rp 15 million
Interest rate                     10.5% p.a.                12% p.a.
Maximum duration                  10 years                  3 years
Maximum grace period              4 years                   /a
Collateral requirements           Assets financed by loan and, if required,
additional collateral up to 50% of loan
amount
Borrower's financial contri-
bution                          ----------------- None /b ------------------
For Handling Bank
Rediscount rate                   3% p.a.                   4% p.a.
Rediscount share                  80%                       75%
Credit insurance fee (front-
end charge)
Up to 5-year duration           3% /c                     3% /c
Over 5-year duration            5%                        -
Risk exposure                     25%                       25%
Co-Financing Arrangements
Co-Financing Share
RDBs                              10%                       10%
BAPINDO                           10%                       15%
BI                                80%                       75%
Interest Income Share
RDBs                              50%                       33-1/3%
BAPINDO                           27%.                      33-1/3%
BI                                23%                       33-1/3%
Risk Exposure
RDBs                                  10% x 30% =  3% of the loan amount
BAPINDO                               90% x 30% = 27% of the loan amount
/a  Loan is normally extended as an overdraft facility.
/b  Supplementary KIK credit above Rp 10 million requires 10% self-financing.
7_  To be absorbed by BI and HBs in equal shares.
AEP Projects Department
February 2, 1981



- 92 -                         ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 6
INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Indonesian Credit Insurance Corporation (P.T. ASKRINDO)
1.        The Indonesian Credit Insurance Corporation (P.T. Asuransi Kredit
Indonesia, or P.T. ASKRINDO) was established in 1971 primarily to encourage
lending to small- and medium-size enterprises by insuring the banks against
most of the default risk of loans to such enterprises. P.T. ASKRINDO operates
as an autonomous commercial enterprise with capital stock owned by the Govern-
ment and Bank Indonesia. A two-man Supervisory Board consisting of the repre-
sentatives of the Governor of Bank Indonesia and the Minister of Finance sets
general policies and supervises the Board of Managing Directors comaposed of
the President and two full-time Directors. It has ten departments (Research
and Development, Underwriting, Insurance Credit Claims, Reinsurance, Insured
Credit Control, Administration and Finance, Internal Audit, Personnel, Secre-
tariat and Public Relations and Statistics). The total staff is about 210.
2.        P.T. ASKRINDO engages in insurance of the small enterprise credit
programs including the Small Investment Credit (KIK) and the Small Permanent
Working Capital Credit (KMKP) and small short-term general commercial credit
(KEB - Kredit Exploitasi Biasa). While the cumulative number of KEB loans
insured is slightly higher than the KIK/KMKP loans, the insured value of
KIK/KMKP loans is about twice that of KEB loans (Table 1). P.T. ASKRINDO also
engages in reinsurance (of fire, transport, marine, engineering, aviation
and miscellaneous insurance).
3.        P.T. ASKRINDO insures 75% of KIK/KMKP loans.  For individual
KIK/KMKP loans, the 75% insurance cover is automatic. For KIK/KMKP "massal"
programs, P.T. ASKRINDO evaluates each program before agreeing to insure. In
some cases, such as KIK fishing boat loans and KMKP cattle fattening loans,
P.T. ASKRINDO has required "extended coverage," i.e., the borrower's boats or
cattle must be insured with P.T. ASKRINDO as a condition of P.T. ASKRINDO pro-
viding credit insurance. (The net effect is simply a higher insurance fee for
the risky operations, with the borrowers themselves paying a portion of it.)
4.        For KMKP loans which have a maximum repayment period of three years
and KIK loans up to five years, P.T. ASKRINDO's fee is 3%, of which 1.5% is
paid by BI and 1.5% by the handling bank. For KIK loans of longer than 5
years, the fee is 5%, of which two-thirds is paid by BI and onethird by the
handling bank.
5.        Credit insurance for KIK/KMKP approved by P.T. ASKRINDO has
increased sharply during the past three years, from 80,707 loans amounting to



- 93 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 6
Rp 59 9 billion in 1977 to 2114198 loans amounting to Rp 151.3 billion in
1979. The upward trend continued in the first half of 1980 when the amount
approved by ASKRINDO reached Rp 106.2 billion, although the number of loans
dropped to 81,729 (Table 1). This is attributable to the increase of the
maximum size of KIK or KMKP loans from Rp 5 million to Rp 10 million,
effective as of April 1979. Total credit insurance approved by P.T. ASKRINDO
amounted to Rp 760.6 billion as of June 30, 1980. Trade and agriculture are
the dominant sectors receiving 42.6% and 25.8% of the total respectively,
followed by services (16%), industry (8%) and others (7.6%).
6.        Payment: of claims also rose sharply, from Rp 1.4 billion in 1977 to
Rp 4.3 billion in 1979 and to Rp 3.4 billion in the first half of 1980.
Amounts recovered by P.T. ASKRINDO during the 3-1/2 year period (January 1977
to June 1980) totalling Rp 2.6 billion constituted only 22% of the total
claims (Rp 11.5 billion) processed during the same period (Tables 2 and 4).
7.        However, P T. ASKRINDO's overall operations are still profitable.
Based on its existing system of accounting (40% of premiums written is
allocated to "Unearned Premium Reserves"), P.T. ASKRINDO has been incurring
losses on small credit insurance which has been more than offset by its
income on reinsurance and interest income on its liquid funds. Its net
income amounting to Rp 382 million in 1977 dropped slightly to Rp 365
million in 1978 but went up to Rp 974 million in 1979. This profitability
level was maintained in the first half of 1980 (Table 4).  Its total assets
have increased from Rp 13.1 billion at the end of 1977 to Rp 24.9 billion as
of June 30, 1980 (Table 3).
8.        P.T. ASKRINDO's authorized share capital amounts to Rp 5 billion,
of which Rp 3.7 billion has been paid in. It had accumulated a further
Rp 11.7 billion of contingency and other reserves as of June 30, 1980. On
the other hand, its contingent liabilities for KIK/KMKP alone could have
reached Rp 60-75 billion, assuming that around 20-25% of the handling banks'
KIK/KMKP portfolio would become uncollectable. It is clear that instead of
spreading the risk, the system concentrates the risk of high KIK/KMKP default
on a relatively small institution (P.T. ASKRINDO) which is much more vulner-
able to insolvency than the handling banks themselves. While the Government
has agreed to guarantee any payments due from P.T. ASKRINDO, the recourse to
this last resort should by all means be avoided since it would mean that the
institution cannot operate on a commercial basis and the system has failed
to be self-sustaining. A relevant question raised is whether the fee paid
to P.T. ASKRINDO is adequate to cover the risk which is great for such
small-enterprise financing plus the fact that foreclosing a collateral is
extremely difficult in Indonesia.
9.        P.T. ASKRINDO insures against commercial risks (not political or
war risks) which make the borrower unable to repay. A bank may claim for
compensation from P.T. ASKRINDO three months after the final maturity date
of the loan, or after the borrower is in default on his repayments. In the
latter case, the bank has to demonstrate to P.T. ASKRINDO-s satisfaction



ANNEX 9
- 94 -                            Page 3 of 6
that there is little prospect of any further repayments, so that the entire
loan has to be called in. The system has functioned smoothly for short-term
KMKP loans, but has created difficulties with the longer term KIK loans.
P.T. ASKRINDO does not wish to honor the claims when the bank still stands a
good chance of collecting. To minimize such cases, P.T. ASKRINDO has
established drawn-out procedures for settling claims, with the unfortunate
side effect of delaying the settlements considerably. The completeness of
information to justify the claims is essential but oftentimes the banks
challenge the need for additional information required by P.T. ASKRINDO.
10.       The slow pace of settling claims by P.T. ASKRINDO has become a pub-
lic issue in the banking community. There is a great need for P.T. ASKRINDO
to strengthen its organizational set-up and staff in order to increase the
level of its operational efficiency and open branches in strategic locations
to provide efficient services to its clients.
11.       As agreed upon between the Government and the Bank during negotia-
tions for the last IDA Credit, a major review of the credit insurance system
for KIK/KMKP was undertaken by SGV and Co. in 1978. The study was financed
by BI and a full report entitled, "Credit Insurance Study P.T. ASKRINDO" was
issued in January 1980.
12.       In the course of a preliminary study, it has been found that
P.T. ASKRINDOs existing management structure and systems are inadequate to
cope with the anticipated expanding activities. Already, signs of shortcom-
ings and problem areas are evident in such aspects as responsibilities-
delineation, workload distribution, staff development, cash forecasting,
internal control and financial reporting. To enable P.T. ASKRINDO to streng-
then itself along these lines, SGV and Co. suggested the following programs:
(a) organizational improvement; (b) operations upgrading; (c) financial
reporting system improvement; and (d) finance and accounting systems
improvement.
13.       Further work followed which includes a thorough evaluation of the
financial position and prospects of P.T. ASKRINDO and the need for improve-
ments in underwriting operations, financial systems, training, and alterna-
tive credit insurance arrangements.
14.       SGV and Co.-s main conclusions and recommendations are summarized
below:
(a) Financial Aspects
(i)  P.T. ASKRINDO's Equity Position Needs to be Improved.  The
liabilities are increasing more rapidly than the equity. In
view of the high risk related to the insurance of KIK/KMKP
loans, P.T. ASKRINDO should have a strong capital and
retai-ned earnings base to meet unpredictable future large
claims. This would require P.T. ASKRINDO's shareholders



ANNEX 9
- 95 -                          Page 4 of 6
to provide additional share capital and other funds for
P.T. ASKRINDO to invest.
(ii) The Premium Rates Need to be Revised. The 3% rate (5% for
loans longer than 5 years) was based on the estimated
ability of the handling banks to pay rather than on the
premium income need of P.T. ASKRINDO to ensure its solvency.
That this rate is inadequate has become increasingly evident
given the exposure of P.T. ASKRINDO, the inherent high risk of
small enterprise financing, and the difficulties of fore-
closing on collateral. P.T. ASKRINDO's contingent liabilities
have grown considerably, and although payment of claims has
reached significant levels, recoveries have been very modest.
Determination of an adequate premium rate is therefore the
most pressing problem in P.T. ASKRINDO's credit insurance
operations). The proposed approach in developing the new
rates was an upward adjustment of the existing rates with some
amount of "external assistance". A premium rate set at 80% of
the self-supporting level was selected with the remaining 20%
to be made up by investment income, for which purpose
P.T. ASKRINDO's investible funds would have to be increased.
On this basis, an overall increase of 50% over present premium
rates is recommended.
(b)  Organizational Aspects.  After reviewing the information on
P.T. ASKRINDO's organization, the SGV Consulting Team has identified
and evaluated problem areas and their causes. To strengthen the
existing organization structure and management, and consequently,
the operating efficiency of P.T. ASKRINDO, SGV Team recommended that
branches be established and departments be regrouped according to
functional relationship to attain effective coordination. It is
also suggested that: (i) top management try to delegate authority to
those who are capable; (ii) the operating departments have
relatively more staff than the support departments to strengthen the
operational capability of P.T. ASKRINDO; and (c) formulate a
training and development program to upgrade personnel capabilities.
SGV Team has also made detailed recommendations for the improvement of
P.T. ASKRINDO's underwriting and claims procedures, financial reporting
system, general accounting systems and budgetary control system. Various
manuals have also been prepared.
(c)  Alternative Credit Insurance Arrangements.  The present system
has been subjected to the following criticism. First, the
rather liberal risk coverage on small loans tends to be a
negative incentive to loan supervision and collection efforts
of handling banks, since they can always expect to recover 75%
of losses from P.T. ASKRINDO for defaulted loans. Second, the



ANNEX 9
- 96 -                          Page 5 of 6
system tends to concentrate credit risks on one institution,
P.T. ASKRINDO, rather than distribute the risks among the handling
banks themselves. The consultant firm has looked into and commented
upon the following alternative arrangements under which the
objective of the present credit insurance system may be better
achieved.
(i) Self-insurance by Handling of Banks. One alternative to
spread the risk of lending to small enterprises is for the
handling banks to set aside their own reserves to insure
against all bad debts. This would have the effect of
spreading the risk over the handling banks instead of
concentrating it all in P.T. ASKRINDO. Under this system,
however, the handling banks will want to be assured of higher
interest spread before they will make such loans. A thorough
assessment of the effect of higher interest rates on the
small enterprise development program would be necessary.
Since it will take away the main function of P.T. ASKRINDO,
as a centralized organization, its role toward building up a
good credit insurance system will be greatly curtailed.
(ii) Co-insurance by Handling Banks. This would decrease the
coverage by P.T. ASKRINDO from its present 75% of the loan
amount. While it may motivate the handling banks to apply
tighter lending procedures and more effective loan super-
vision, the size of the interest spread will again be a
problem.
(iii)  Limits on Coverage.  One way to reduce P.T. ASKRINDO-s over-
exposure is to set maximum limits of coverage by program,
economic sector and region. Consideration may also be given
to establishing minimum loan amounts that could be insured,
say Rp 500,000. Any amounts lower than this could be covered
by others such as rural cooperative societies.
(iv) Reinsurance. To reduce the concentration of risk on KIK/KMKP
loans that P.T. ASKRINDO is assuming, certain reinsurance
arrangements could be worked out. The Government, for
example, could ask other state-owned insurance companies to
accept quota share reinsurance on these loans. In this
manner, the state-owned insurance companies would be able to
discharge their social responsibility and assist in the
implementation of the high-priority small enterprise
development program.
(v) P.T. ASKRINDO as a Party to the Loan Agreement. P.T.
ASKRINDO would be in a position to play a more active role
in implementing the small enterprise development if it is



97                            ANNEX 9
Page 6 of 6
officially made a party to the loan agreement. If this is
done, P.T. ASKRINDO can directly intervene in supervising
loans and prevent the arrearages from accumulating. It can
also directly assist the banks in enforcing collections on
claims paid to improve the percentage of recoveries.
14.       Since the SGV and Co.'s report was completed in early 1980, the
Government and BI have been reviewing its conclusions and recommendations.
Given the fact that the recommendations relate to all aspects of P.T. ASKRINDO
and the overall policies of the Government in connection with the credit
insurance system, it understandably would take some time for the relevant
Government agencies to reach agreement on the steps that are necessary to
implement the acceptable recommendations, especially those related to policy
changes. In August 1980, the Ministry of Finance has commented on such items
as alternative insurance schemes, the calculation of unearned premium reserve,
the calculation of the premium rate without subsidy, underwriting procedures,
claims procedures, and organizational and procedural changes needed to streng-
then P.T. ASKRINDO. These comments are still under review by BI and P.T.
ASKRINDO. In the meantime, an ad hoc committee has been formed by BI to study
ways to improve the underwriting and claims procedures. After a few meetings
artended by representatives of BI, the handling banks, and P.T. ASKRINDO
during August-November 1980, agreement has been reached to simplify the
application forms for underwriting and claims. Since this Committee's terms
of reference are limited, it has not been able to deal with policy matters.
In order to assure that the credit insurance system will operate more effec-
tively to support the expanding KIK/KMKP Program, it is recommended that the
Bank ask the Government and BI to prepare a Program of Action to strengthen
P.T. ASKRINDO and a timetable for its implementation and present them to the
Bank for review during the forthcoming loan negotiations.
AEP Projects Department
February 2, 1981



- 98 -                               .M"NEX 9
- 98 -                    ~~~~~~Table 1
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit Insurance Approved by P.T. ASKR.iD0
Calendar           Number of debtors                    Loan amount approved /a
year        T1IK/KMKP  KEB !b      Total        KIK/KMIKP    KEB /b          Total
1971               -        61          61            -            12.9         12.9
1972               -       589         589            -           216.6        216.6
1973               -    4,660        4,660             -       1,388.3       1,388.3
1974          15,175   74,392       89,567       23,659.7     12,622.2    36,281.9
1975          34,483   73,459      112,942       23,693.3    20,215.2    43,908.5
1976          74,362   64,665    139,027         56,948.7     13,767.4    70,716.1
1977          80,707   78,736    159,443         59,925.7    34,523.4    94,449.1
1973         109,282  126,794    236,076         86,208.0    61,220.7   147,428.7
1979         211,198  140,570    351,768        151,332.6    72,790.6   224,123.2
1980          81,729   66,889    148,618        106,236.3    35,831.6   142,067.9
(Jan.-June)
Total    606,936  635,815  1,242,751         508,004.3   252,588.9   760,593.2
/a P.T. ASKRINDO's liability is limited to 75% of the loan amounts approved.
lb Kredit Exploitasi Biasa (general commercial credit).
Source:  P.T. ASKRILiDO.
AEP Projects Departmaent
February 2, 1981



- 99 -                              ANNEX 9
Table 2
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Outstanding Insurance Claims and Amounts Recovered
by P.T. ASKRINDO, 1973 - June 1980
(Rp million)
KIK/KMKP                    KEB                       Total
Outstanding             Outstanding               Outstanding
claims    Recoveries      claims    Recoveries      claims    Recoveries
1973         -          -            10.8         1.0          10.8         1.0
1974         -          -            18.7         1.0          18.7         1.0
1975         5.2        -            34.1         3.5          39.3         3.5
1976        92.9        3.2         175.7        24.8         268.6        28.0
1977       844.1       75.5         425.6        77.6       1,269.7       153.1
1978     2,222.9      253.7         957.1       202.2       3,180.0       455.9
1979     4,224.5      624.3       1,760.0       371.9       5,984.5       996.2
1980     4,750.4      412.8       1,904.1       254.6       6,654.5       667.4
(June)
1,369.5                    936.6                    2,306.1
Source: P.T. ASKRINDO.
AEP Projects Department
February 2, 1981



- 100 -                               ANNEX 9
Table 3
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summarized Balance Sheets of P.T. ASKRINDO as of
December 31, 1977-79 and June 30, 1980
(Rp million)
Dec. 31,   Dec. 31,   Dec. 31,   June 30,
1977        1978        1979        1980
Assets
Cash on hand in banks                     1,047.4       927.2    1,330.0    1,264.7
Term deposits                             8,910.0   10,798.5   14,299.0   16,844.0
Marketable securities                         -            -          78.8       128.8
Premiums receivable - credit
insurance                                 555.6    1,068.4    1,094.4    2,016.3
Due from reinsurance                        937.6    1,264.4       1,957.3    2,547.0
Accounts receivable/other                   417.6       507.3        575.9       507.7
Fixed assets (net)                        1,189.7    1,154.0    1,148.5        1,533.7
Intangible assets (net)                      50.7        39.5         28.5        17.8
Total assets                       13,108.6   15,759.3   20,512.4   24,860.0
Liabilities and Stockholders Equity
Claims payable - credit insurance           420.6     1,324.5    2,187.1    3,720.3
Claims payable - reinsurance                633.0       300.2        284.9    1,187.0
Technical reserves                        2,962.5    3,085.8    4,470.0    3,587.1
Reserves for employees welfare              109.7       111.3         48.9        49.6
Changes in foreign exchange values            -         207.4        195.8       195.7
Tax liabilities                             269.1       269.1        269.1       269.1
Other                                       522.5       444.3       418.4        420.3
Total liabilities                   4,917.4    5,742.6    7,874.2    9,429.1
Paid-in capital                           2,959.0    2,959.0    3,209.0    3,709.0
General reserves                            572.0    1,548.2       1,621.2    1,621.2
Special reserves                            572.0       648.2        721.2       721.2
Contingency reserve for claims -
credit insurance                        3,706.2    4,496.1    6,112.7    7,910.0
Profit                                      382.0       365.3        974.1    1,469.5
Total stockholders equity           8,191.0   10,016.8   12,638.2   15,430.9
Total liabilities and
stockholders equity              13,108.4   15,759.4   20,512.4   24,860.0
Source:  P.T. ASKRINDO.
AEP Projects Department
February 2, 1981



- 101 -                               ANNEX 9
Table 4
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summarized Income Statement of P.T. ASKRINDO
for 1977, 1978, 1979 and Jan.-June 1980
(Rp million)
Jan-June
1977       1978        1979        1980
Income
Credit Insurance:
Premiums                             2,129.0    3,185.1    5,264.0    3,594.5
Recoveries                             153.1       455.9    1,172.1        803.8
Claims paid                         (1,372.1)  (2,408.6)  (4,311.2)  (3,439.7)
Allocation to statutory reserves  (1,064.4)  (1,592.5)  (1,543.5)  (1,797.3)
Allocation to technical reserves    (793.0)    (459.7)  (1,025.6)          389.4
Net credit insurance income    (947.4)    (819.8)    (444.2)    (449.3)
Reinsurance:
Premiums, commissions and
claims, earned                     3,637.2    7,021.6    9,893.1    5,967.3
Premiums, commissions and
claims, paid                      (3,179.9)  (6,607.2)  (9,090.4)  (6,041.3)
Allocation to technical reserves    (224.4)    (234.3)    (358.5)          493.5
Net reinsurance income                 232.9       180.1       444.2       419.5
Underwriting result credit
insurance and reinsurance           (714.5)    (639.7)         0.0       (29.8)
Other income:
Interest on deposits                 1,689.8    1,674.4    1,617.6         807.7
Miscellaneous                            -           -          40.0       154.4
Gross income                    1,423.8    1,674.4    1,577.6        653.3
Expenses                                    593.3      669.4       683.5       436.9
Income before tax                           382.0      365.3       974.1       495.5
Corporate tax
Net income after tax              382.0       365.3       974.1      495.5
Source: P.T. ASKRINDO.
AE-P Pro jects DeparIqnt
February 2, 1981



- 102 -                                ANNEX 9
Table 5
INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Status of P.T. ASKRINDO's KIK/KMKP Credit Insurance,
1974-1979 and 1980 (as of June 30)
(Rp million)
KIK/KMKP loans insured         Settlement of        Recoveries
Number            Amount         HBs claims       by P.T. ASKRINDO
1974                15,175          23,659.7               -
1975                34,483          23,693.3               5.2                 -
1976                74,362          56,948.7              87.7                 3.2
1977                80,707          59,925.7             751.2                75.5
1978               109,282          86,208.0           1,378.8               253.7
1979               211,198         151,332.6           2,001.6               624.2
1980                81,729          106,236.3            525.9               412.8
Total            606,936         508,004.3           4,750.4             1,369.4
Source: P.T. ASKRINDO.
AEP Projects Department
February 2, 1981



- 103 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 11
INDONESIA
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
The Regional Development Bank's Upgrading Program
The RDBs' Special Characteristics
1.        The regional development bank system, whose history dates back to
the 1950s, was originally introduced to serve as channel of finance for the
implementation of the overall National Development Plan at the regional
level./l In the light of this objective and given the regional governments'
regulatory and supervisory authority, the RDBs differ from their commercial
counterparts in a number of ways. They are fully government-controlled,
function as the regions' fiscal agents, and are required to give priority
to: (a) financing of development activities in their respective regions and
municipalities; (b) lending to the "economically-weak" group within regions;
(c) financing of regional infrastructure projects; (d) developing regional
entrepreneurs- managerial and technical skills; and (e) providing temporary
equity financing. In practice, however, the RDBs have mainly rendered
commercial banking services, and have failed to carry out developmental
functions. The RDB system comprises 26 individual institutions, one in each
province, which altogether operate 129 branches, and 7 cash offices covering
the whole of Indonesia.
The Legal Framework
2.        The legal framework governing RDBs is complex and is characterized
by several layers of control from both the regional and central governmental
levels. Attempts to adjust it to the requirements of a modern and efficient
development banking system have not been successful. A much needed reform
of the RDB legislation, already initiated in 1975, has not yet brought about
any tangible results; finalization and enactment are still pending and
should be pursued further. RDBs obtain their operating licenses from the
Ministry of Finance, but their establishment and operation are governed
by provincial regulations based on the stipulations of the principal RDB
legislation./2 While the assignment of certain functions such as the
authority to operate as the regional government-s treasurer is the
Governor's prerogative, BI decides if and when RDBs should be authorized to
operate the Tabanas/Taksa Savings schemes. BI eventually exercises
/1 Law 13/1962.
/2 Acts No. 13/1962, 14/1967, and 5/1974.



- 104 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 11
technical control (Law 13/1962). In addition, various operational aspects
of RDBs are governed by the Department Dalam Negeri (Ministry of the
Interior) through the Director-General of the Department of General
Administration and Regional Autonomy (Pemerintahan Urusan dan Otomi Daerah
(PUOD) and the Sub-Directorate Ownership of RDBs Urusan Pemilikan Bank
Pembangunan Daerah.
Ownership, Capital Requirements and Profit Distribution
3.        Provinces, regencies and municipalities are shareholders of the
RDBs, whose authorized capital stood at Rp 34.9 billion (paid-in capital:
Rp 20.4 billion) at end-1980. According to instructions of the Ministries
of Finance and Interior their capital bases should be broadened every year
by allocations from the provincial budgets and a 10% regional development
tax (IPEDA). Individual minimum capital requirements of currently Rp 20
million must be considered as totally inadequate in the light of the expanded
role the RDBs are expected to play; an increase to Rp 500 million is
envisaged in conjunction with the proposed revision of the RDB legislation.
Current RDB legislation requires that net profits after depreciation and
provisions for bad debts be allocated as follows: (a) 15% for the
Development Fund of the Province; (b) 40% for distribution to shareholders;
(c) 25% for the general reserve account and (d) the remaining 20% for staff
pension funds and similar benefits in accordance with the Articles of
Association.
Supervisory Authority and Management
4.        The Governor, as head of the Province, is the customary chairman
of the Shareholders Meetings as well as Supervisory Board. Shareholders'
Meetings must make their decisions unanimously, but if unanimity cannot be
achieved, the Governor may decide for the shareholders, after consulation with
the Board of Supervisors. The Board of Supervisors /1 determines the broad
management outlines (to be approved by the Governor) and exercises control
over the company. A Management Board, comprising up to three directors
including the President Director, takes charge of the RDBs daily affairs
within the framework of these outlines; the President Director is appointed by
the Governor.
Sources of Funds
5.        Besides equity funds (Rp 41.3 billion at end 1980) and deposits, the
RDBs  major resource requirements have been provided by BI.  Its rediscount
facilities are available for the following purposes:
/1 The Board of Supervisors comprises between three (minimum) and five
(maximum) members, appointed by the Governor for a period of three years.



- 105 -
ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 11
(a) KIK/KMKP lending at rediscount rates of 3% p.a. and 4% p.a
respectively;
(b) short-term lending at a rediscount rate of 7.5% p.a.; and
(c) special purpose lending such as construction loans for head
offices of enterprises (Central Java, Bengkulu, West Sumatra,
Lampung, South Sumatra and Bali) at a rediscount rate of 6% p.a.
Basically, RDBs have access to BI's General Investment Credit
rediscounting facilities, however, no RDBs utilize these facilities so far,
due to lack of term resources from their own parts.
6.        Lack of term resources, has specifically restricted the RDBs in
their term lending operations and BI has so far authorized only 8 of them to
accept savings under the Tabanas/Taska schemes for which they compete, over
and above, with the state banks. The RDBs were less constrained, on the other
hand, in their short-term lending operations due to the availability of
government budgetary deposits, and time and demand deposits, notwithstanding
BI's ceilings for the acceptance of' the latter category.
Lending Operations and Equity Participation
7.        In addition to their role as the regional governments' fiscal
agents, the RDBs have mainly operated as commercial banks, mainly supplying
businesses in their regions with the required short-term financing. Their
role has been limited to around 2.4% of total hank lending as of end-1980 and
loans with a duration of up to one year and three years accounted for 61%
and 39% of their total lending. The system-s bias towards short-term
lending is even more pronounced for loans to the manufacturing sector of
which 98% had short durations. More recently they have become more actively
involved in the KIK/KMNP lending program mostly through cofinancing
arrangements with BAPINDO. Ten of them have already "graduated" from this
arrangement and have gained direct access to BI's KIK/KMKP rediscount
facilities.
8.        With regard to KIK loans, both direct and cofinanced loans
outstanding totalled Rp 9.76 billion and Rp 4.53 billion, respectively,
accounting for 4.7% and 2.2% of total KIK lending as of December 31, 1980.
The corresponding KMKP shares were 3.2% and 1.0%.  Since the inception of
the program, the RDB system has achieved a combined share of 3.1% of total
cumulative KIK/KMKP lending. As expected, KIK lending of those RDBs having
direct access to BI rediscount facilities has increased from 2.3% in 1979 to



- 106 -                           ANNEX 10
Page 4 of 11
3.7% in 1980 while, on the other hand, the share of cofinanced KIK loans has
declined from 5.9% in 1979 to 3.8% in 1980. This trend is also confirmed by
the outstanding amounts of direct KIK loans, which have increased from 3% in
1979 to 4.7% in 1980. KMKP lending operations show a comparable trend.
Transportation, trade, agricultural and industrial sectors have absorbed about
35%, 29%, 15% and 11%, of total KIK lending, while the trade and industrial
sector accounted for almost 64% and 22% of KMKP lending. Notwithstanding its
still rather small KIK exposure, the RDB system is expected to play a more
active role in the future, bringing to bear the shift from commercial to
development banking as envisaged by the upgrading efforts.
9.        However, some of the RDBs (Central Java, West and North Sumatra)
have started playing a remarkable role in industrial development by virtue of
their enlightened management, supported by equally enlightened provincial
government officials, engaging in KIK/KMKP lending, project financing in
cooperation with UPPINDO, supplying of equity funds and extension services.
They have accepted the responsibility for specialized programs such as budget
investment credits in support of the Regional Five-Year Development Plan
(e.g., the RDB in Central Java), with durations between 10-15 years. Loans
totalling Rp 1.35 billion have so far been disbursed, funded by the Provincial
Administration of Central Java, which is also responsible for the loan
approval decision. The same institution has also been entrusted with a
special working capital credit program (Badan Kredit Kecamatan - BKK) for
agricultural trade and handicraft purposes, aiming at the improvement of the
situation of small businesses. Credit is extended through 486 small finance
units, which have so far (March 1979) extended 270,000 loans totalling Rp 422
million with an average size /1 of Rp 5,300. The RDB in Central Java has also
concluded a cofinancing arrangement with UPPINDO (since September 1977) to
extend term loans for "graduated" KIK clients up to an aggregate total of Rp
750 million; individual loans for amounts between Rp 30-110 million carry
interest rate between 10-12%.
10.       Only a few RDBs have so far been assisting projects by temporarily
participating in their equity. At the end of 1980, the amount of such
participations has totalled some Rp 389 million.
11.       In comparison with their commercial counterparts, the RDBs did not
fare too badly in their financial performance, considering that they had less
access to term resources from the Government and have not had the benefit of
participating in BI's technical assistance programs. As indicated by the
consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 1980 /2 the RDB system's
/1 Ranging from Rp 3,000-35,000.
/2 In compliance with BI's requirements, the RDBs must publish their
financial statements four times a year in at least one local newspaper.



- 107 -                          ANNEX 10
Page 5 of 11
system's growth performance, financial structure and performance were satis-
factory by Indonesian standards. The aggregated current, total debt/equity
and long-term debt/equity ratios stood at 13.2:1, 13.9:1 and 0.6:1, respec-
tively. Net income before tax accounted for a reasonable 42.1% of total
equity and for 2.8 of total assets.
12.       In accordance with BI's scoring system which is based on the HBs'
financial position, quality of assets and administrative ability, accounting
for 50%,/l 30% and 20% respectively, 16 RDBs were considered sound, 8 fairly
sound, and only 2 not fully sound at the end of 1980.
13.       Data on loan for nine sample RDBs representing about 56% of the
total portfolio of all 26 RDBs indicate that the quality of the portfolio of
the RDB system as a whole can also be considered satisfactory within the
Indonesian context. Arrears account for about 17%, while 83% of the portfolio
is considered free from arrears, i.e., with not more than one installment
overdue, not exceeding six months. The sample RDBs expect to recover 90% of
their lending.
Rationale for RDB Upgrading
14.       Given their knowledge of the local business scenario, their
provincial government ties, their stated local orientation and development
focus, the RDBs have a tremendous development potential, if their efforts can
be redirected and their capabilities upgraded. However, being beset with a
variety of problems ranging from weak organizational procedures, insufficient
capitalization to inadequate staff in quantity and quality, most of the RDBs
could not comply with their original objective and could thus not realize
their development potential. The serious lack of financial resources
particularly for term lending and the frequent absence of a strategy for
industrial developnent has further aggravated this development. The upgrading
concept per se probably came as a result of a Bank mission in 1978 which had
focussed on the RDB system with the view of its potential as a suitable
intermediary for the Apex loan. Since then BI has started embarking on a
strengthening and upgrading program, specifically aimed at an improvement of
the system's operational standards, using BAPINDO and UPPINDO as its executing
agencies. A technical assistance program accompanied by intensified training
has been designed to raise the technical expertise specifically in term
lending and development banking in the participating bank officers. These
efforts are expected to enable the RDBs to refocus their business activities,
emphasizing development-oriented long-term lending and de-emphasizing their
one-sided short-term activities.
/1 Made up by: liquidity, profitability and solvency, accounting for 20%,
16% and 14% respectively.



- 108 -                           ANNEX 10
Page 6 of 11
Survey Results
15.       With the support of a team of BAPINDO and UPPINDO staff, BI conduc-
ted a survey of 20 RDBs that were classified as sound or fairly sound by BI's
criteria.  The findings were jointly reviewed and constituted the basis for
specific Action Programs for each individual RDB.
16.       According to the survey results, most participating RDBs are faced
with a similar set of problems; some of them have, nevertheless, emerged to be
critical for the RDBs' future role, such as weaknesses both in staff quantity
and quality, over-dependence on government resources, insufficient funds for
term lending operations partly owing to inadequate capital formation, and a
perfunctory knowledge and experience in term lending and development banking.
Last but not least, the RDB system was initially not very successful in
establishing a competent image and thus could not sufficiently solicit the
Ministry of Finance's and BI's support.
17. As compared with its commercial counterparts, the RDB system, neverthe-
less,largely appears to operate reasonably efficient, but is not yet geared up
to venture into term/KIK lending on a large scale. In summary the following
problems have emerged from the survey which will be tackled during the
strengthening and upgrading exercise;
(a) Organization: general organizational weaknesses, manifested by
a lack of job descriptions for most major desks and the absence of
special development banking units to accommodate term lending;
(b) Management: unclear general policy framework, communication
difficulties between Boards and Governments and lack well thought
out work priority orders of Management Boards;
(c) Personnel: uneven staff reallocation and recruitment decisions,
absence of merit-oriented rating and wage systems, inadequate
training programs and staff selection procedures for these
programs;
(d) Research and Planning: lack of consistent procedures and compre-
hensive manuals for lending operations, systematic budgeting, data
collection and project identification;
(e)  Funds Management:  inadequate policies and programs to increase
and manage resource base;
(f) Lending Operations: overemphasis on commercial operations at the
expense of more development-oriented term lending commensurate
with the development objective; absence of project promotion and



- 109 -
ANNEX 10
Page 7 of 11
lack of experience in preparing manuals covering project
appraisal, supervision, loan administration, collection, and bad
debts management;
(g) Accounting: uneven posting and accounting procedures, inadequate
record keeping and flow of document practices;
(h) Reports: unsatisfactory management reporting and information
systems; and
(i) Auditing: inadequate auditing procedures.
BI's Measures to Strengthen the RDB System
18.       In parallel with the upgrading program, BI has initiated several
policy adjustments which were intended to strengthen the RDB system as a
whole. To alleviate their resource constraints, for instance, BI has
progressively opened its rediscount window for both KIK/KMKP and investment
loans either on an individual basis' or via co-financing arrangements with
BAPPINDO. BI has also introduced an additional credit facility to strengthen
the system's capital basis. So advanced funds are expected to be repaid
from either IPEDA tax collections, budget allocations or net income.
Furthermore, to smoothen the impact of the withdrawal of government deposits
on the RDBs liquidity position, BI has introduced a new rediscount facility
for their clients' promissory notes. BI-s training subsidies, absorbing 507
of the cost of LPPI courses for RDB managers and similar high level staff, is
yet another means of facilitating the RDB reorientation process.
The Proposed Upgrading Program
19.       Purpose, Coverage and Duration.  The upgrading program has been
developed with the above-mentioned problems (paras. 15-16) in mind. Its
main purpose is to enable the RDBs to function as channels for development
financing in their regions in line with their original develoment objectives.
20.       Detailed action programs have been developed for each of the 20 RDBs
on the basis of the survey results. Technical assistance will be rendered by
BAPINDO and UPPINDO, whose selected staff have visited the RDBs for various
lengths of time depending on individual requirements. In support of the
technical assistance efforts, intensified training will also be provided,
conducted by BAPINDO, UPPINDO and LPPI. A total of 480 staff and managers
have been identified as requiring training on various aspects of banking
operations. The proposed RDB upgrading program covering three years beginning
in October 1980, constitutes a SEDP II component. According to schedule,
the remaining six RDBs will also be included in the upgrading program. After
the initial upgrading phase has yielded some results, it will be determined
whether additional technical assistance is required.



- 110 -
ANNEX 10
Page 8 of 11
21.       Organizational Framework.  The individual action programs contain,
inter alia, the terms of reference, objectives, organizational framework,
responsibilities, and type and course of action. They were eventually
approved by BI after detailed review by the respective RDB management. At
this juncture, the RDBs were also requested to appoint the responsible
personnel for the Steering Committees (Senior Managing Director and Project
Officer), and to identify suitable counterparts for BAPINDO's and UPPINDO's
staff. Consultancy agreements between BAPINDO, UPPINDO and the respective
RDBs were eventually concluded (15 had been concluded at appraisal).
22.       The technical assistance given by BAPINDO and UPPINDO is limited to
areas where those institutions have sufficient expertise specifically in the
areas of term financing and development banking. For subjects beyond their
capabilities, outside consultants will be used. BAPINDO and UPPINDO have
decided to share the upgrading work commensurate with their capabilities and
staff resources, assuming responsibility for the upgrading of 15 and 5 RDBs,
respectively. Meanwhile BAPINDO is preparing to assume responsibility for
upgrading the 6 remaining RDBs starting in 1982.
23.       Almost all RDBs assigned to UPPINDO for upgrading appear to
require a less intensive approach than those assigned to BAPINDO by virtue
of their advanced organizational systems and term lending experience,
however limited. UPPINDO as well as BAPINDO have decided to use staff from
their own ranks for the technical assistance to be rendered. However,
UPPINDO's officers will only work on a part-time basis on this program,
which is expected to absorb between 40-60% of their time. The work program
is coordinated by a steering committee, comprising, inter alia, the Project
Officers from UPPINDO and the respective RDB. The program is managed at
UPPINDOs level by its Project Officer, who is supported by a team of eight
UPPINDO officers from its management personnel (three deputy managing
directors and three department heads) and two outside consultants. In its
daily work, UPPINDO's team is guided by a supervising officer who is
supported by territorial and sectoral staff. The UPPINDO team cooperates
with the corrresponding Project Officer at the RDB level, normally the most
senior person, and the counterparts recruited from those divisions which are
undergoing upgrading.
24.       All 12 officers of the BAPINDO team are expected to work full time
on their special assignments. This is particularly required in the light of
the fact that most of BAPINDO's RDB clients require more intensive attention
than UPPINDO's. In view of this, the mission and BAPINDO have also
agreed to lengthen the duration of its staff visits to between 1-6 months
depending on individual requirements. BAPINDO's officer in charge of the
administration, monitoring and evaluation of the program (Project Officer)
is supported by a Chief Consultant, a consultant specialist and three teams
comprising three consultants each including the supervisor. Each team will
be assigned five RDBs for upgrading. Besides these pecularities, BAPINDO-s
approach of the upgrading assignment does not differ from UPPINDO's.



ANNEX 10
- lll -                          Page 9 of 11
Program Implementation
25.       Work Organization.  The RDB upgrading program would be carried out
under the direction of 10 UPPINDO and 12 BAPINDO staff who would work directly
with the RDBs as advisors/consultants. By the time BAPINDO has to assist 21
RDBs starting from 1982, the number of its consultants should be increased to
16. Technical assistance would focus on strengthening the RDB's organization,
management, personnel administration, planning, research, funds mobilization,
lending operations, accounting systems, management reporting systems,
supervision and auditing. Having no available expertise in the fields of
personnel administration and accounting systems, UPPINDO plans to subcontract
these tasks to outside experts; similarly, BAPINDO would subcontract to a
local accounting firm and/or university its technical assistance obligation on
accounting and management reporting systems. It is worth noting that the
implementation program from beginning to end directly involves the
participation of a cross-section of RDB senior and middle management staff,
while the UPPINDO/BAPINDO staff and outside consultants would merely function
as advisors.
26.       Modus Operandi.  UPPINDO and BAPINDO plan to send their experts to
each RDB. Frequency and duration of these visits, however, will depend on
each individual RDB's requirements. Coverage of individual RDBs is, neverthe-
less, quite intensive by virtue of the close sequence of visits by consultants
of various backgrounds although the average individual visit may normally not
exceed one week, but may be longer if special circumstances so require. The
visiting experts are expected to explain the implementation of the program,
introduce the use of manuals for lending, accounting, reporting etc., and
oversee their utilization by RDB staff. During these visits in-house lectures
would selectively be given to RDB staff and managers and additional training
requiremnents would be identified. UJnder the proposed action plan each RDB
would be visited a number of times, in close succession, by varying experts
who would also continously review the progress of implementation. A total of
240 man-months of consultancy over the period Mlarch 1981 to October 1982 would
be devoted to these visits by UPPINDO/BAPINDO staff. In addition, four
outside consultants would provide specialized advice on accounting procedures,
personnel administration and management reporting systems.
27.       Both UPPINDO and BAPINDO consider it unnecessary (and unduly costly)
to place "resident advisors" in the RDBs' premises, although several RDBs
visited by the mission were willing to accommodate such advisors. The
mission, nevertheless, took the view that more intensive advisory services,
bordering short-term attachments, are required particularly by those 15 RDBs
assigned to BAPINDO for upgrading. Accordingly, BAPINDO has agreed to
lengthen the visit: duration of its staff to between 1-6 months, but would be
unable to place long-term advisors in any of the RDBs under its wing owing to
staff shortages.



- 112 -
ANNEX 10
Page 10 of 11
Training
28.       Training is an integral part of the upgrading program, which will
be conducted by BAPINDO, UPPINDO and LPPI. For this purpose, training
advisors will be assigned to BAPINDO's and UPPINDO's training institutions
both to identify training needs and elaborate appropriate programs. The cost
of these advisors will be contained in the training component of SEDP II.
UPPINDO has prepared its training program and has been implementing it since
January 1981; while BAPINDO is expected to start its training program by mid-
June 1981. The training will focus on term financing and development banking
including project appraisal, supervision, follow-up and promotion. It is
intended to subject around 10% of the RDB staff to such courses with an
average duration of 50 days each. During the upgrading period of initially
two years, UPPINDO and BAPINDO plan to absorb 180 and 120 officers for formal
classroom training at an estimated total cost of $918,000 and $784,000,
respectively, while another 180 RDB officers are expected to attend LPPI
courses, costing $747,000. The cost for formal classroom training of around
480 RDB staff is expected to amount to $2.4 million equivalent and will
thus absorb around 32% of the entire budget for the three-year upgrading
program.
Program Monitoring
29.       BAPINDO and UPPINDO as the executing agencies for the upgrading
program monitor its progress, evaluate their officers' achievements and
report to BI on a quarterly basis in compliance with their terms of
reference. However, BI's Savings and Rural Bank Supervision Division, which
is part of its Bank Supervision Department, handles overall program monitor-
ing and reports the results to the CPMU on a regular basis. This unit,
which coordinates SEDP, will thus be enabled to gauge whether special
guidance of the RDB System is required particularly with respect to its
KIK/KMKP lending operations.
Projected Cost and Financing
30.       The appraisal mission believes that the upgrading program would
actively encourage the RDB system to expand significantly its share in KIK
lending and thus realize its tremendous development potential. Hence, SEDP II
would include a technical assistance component for the upgrading of the
RDB system-s operational capabilities. Consultancy contracts with UPPINDO
and BAPINDO will initially cover a period of two years, starting October
1980. Given the scope of the program, however, it appears unlikely that
desired results can be reached within a two-year period. The two-year
period should consequently be considered as a time slice of an ongoing
program, which might realistically stretch over a four to five year period.



- 113 -
ANNEX 10
Page ll of 11
31.       Total costs of the upgrading ($5.2 milion) and training program
($2.4 million) for the three-year period are estimated to amount to the
equivalent of $7.6 million equivalent. Except for 50% of the training cost
and between 10% and 25% of the advisors' per diems which will be borne by the
RDBs, the cost of this program would be borne by BI./1
Evaluation of the Proposed Upgrading Program
32.       Although the RDB strengthening and upgrading program appears to
be well focussed and steered by BI, UPPINDO's and BAPINDO's performance
records as bank advisors and training experts have yet to be established.
Furthermore, given the scope of the program, it appears unlikely that the
desired results can be reached within a two-year period, particularly in the
light of the Bank's experience with similar programs in Indonesia (e.g.,
BAPINDO and PDFCI), which show the need for continuous sustained efforts
spanning many years before tangible results can be realized. BI concedes that
the first two years could be considered as a first phase of development
efforts with a much longer time horizon and agreed to review the need for
further technical assistance at the end of the two-year period, i.e., around
October 1982. However, the upgrading program is but one aspect of the
overall strengthening plan for the RDB system, which should include a
comprehensive review and evaluation of its legal framework. BI should take a
leading role in this process and may encourage finalization and enactment of
the still pending legislative work. An understanding to this effect should
also be reached during negotiations.
/1 Further details and cost specifications are contained in the project
file.
AEP Projects Department
April 24, 1981



- 114 -                       ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 8
INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Training Component
1.        In 1980, more than 1,000 branches of private and state banks were
involved in SEDP lending in Indonesia (Table 1), and in excess of 5,000 staff
were directly involved in processing these loans. It is expected that during
the period 1981-84, a substantial increase in the number of branches and an
even greater increase in the number of staff occupied in processing SEDP loans
will take place. Through 1980, a shortage of suitably trained and qualified
staff to carry out the SEDP lending program hindered the program in terms of
both volume of lending and the quality of loans actually made. The GOI has
indicated a firm commitment to develop the staff required to carry out
KIK/1KMP lending to meet its quantitative and qualitative targets for the
program.
2.        Tinder SEDP I, training of handling bank staff was delegated
primarily to Institute for the Development of Banking (LPPI), and the project
provided for two expatriates to assist LPPI in carrying out the task. The
consultants' time was largely occupied in directing the six courses per year
which were required to prepare each new cycle of counterparts before sending
them to the RPMUs for ten months of on-job training. Nevertheless, with the
assistance of other staff of LPPI, the consultants provided classroom training
to approximately 120 loan officers and gave one-week SEDP orientation seminars
for 575 branch managers of handling banks during 1978-80. Recognizing that
the task of training handling bank staff was too large for LPPI to handle
alone, LPPI and its consultants started in 1980 to prepare a plan for
decentralizing part of the training function to those handling banks which had
in-house training capability.
3.        During appraisal, a training plan for 1981-84 for SEDP lending was
agreed between the Mission, LPPI, and CPMU. The Plan includes the following
major elements:
(a) decentralizing part of formal training responsibilities to those
handling banks which have in-house training programs (BRI, BNI,
BAPINDO and UPPINDO);
(b) promoting staff development as a line management function
in which the manager must take part of the responsibility for
training his own staff;
(c) targeting training to areas of largest effect to economize on
scarce training resources;
Cd)  deje1opient of a focused ap-proach so that training deals -with
specific problems  hlich hamper achievement of lending objectives;



- 115 -                             ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 8
(e) assisting line managers in meeting their staff development
responsibilities and motivate them to carry out this function
and providing self-directed training materials for staff;
(f) development of materials to assist managers, trainers, and trained
cohorts in directing the in-house training of other staff;
(g) increase the frequency of present types of courses and introduce
additional courses to reach new target groups; and
(h) major additions of training resources to help carry out the
above.
Decentralizing Training
4.        The decentralization of training would take place in two ways: (a)
the primary responsibility for training BRI, BNI, and regional development
bank staff would be given to the Training Divisions of BRI, BNI and to
BAPINDO and UPPINDO; and (b) a further spread of responsibility for training
would be realized by introducing staff development and self-directed
materials through which managers and trained cohorts could assist in the
in-house training of other staff.
5.        LPPI would have the responsibility for training staff from the
participating private banks and from the state banks not covered by other
training units. In addition, LPPI would continue to train counterpart staff
for the RPMUs and run training courses for trainers from all participating
banks and in cooperation with CPMU and RPMUs would run short seminars for
branch managers. LPPI would also take a lead role in the preparation of
self-directed training materials for use in on-job training in all handling
banks. Expressed by number of branches for which each training unit would
have training responsibility this would come to:
LPPI      approximately 430 branches
BRI       approximately 300 branches
BNI       approximately 250 branches
BAPINDO   approximately 90 branches of RDBs
UPPINDO   approximately 40 branches of RDBs
Targeting of Training
6.        Training resources are scarce and costly.  Thus, training must
be targeted to achieve maximum impact on SEDP lending objectives in terms
of volume and quality of loans. Targeting would occur in two ways:
(a) by selecting and continuously adapting training content and topics
for which training is deemed productive; and



- 116 -
ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 8
(b) by directing and training target groups and individuals where the
impact is expected to be greatest.
Targeting training effectively requires efficient feedback from students,
superiors, the handling banks and other project units and also that training
be viewed by managerment as one of the tools available to deal with specific
problems within the lending system. Managers throughout the system have to
participate in identifying staff for training and in the identification of
training needs. A formal system to reach this participation will include the
following:
(a) continuous consultation between training staff and managers
at all levels within the handling banks. Local travel and
subsistence for training staff to visit regional and branch
staff and managers periodically would be provided;
(b) feedback would be obtained during short seminars for branch
managers and through the built-in feedback of the self-directed
training program;
(c) RPMUs would provide the Training Coordinator and LPPI with infor-
mation on performance problems, training needs and appraisal
reports on a regular basis, as well as through the
annual workshops with LPPI staff; and
(d) the Management Information System being installed in CPMU
should eventually provide performance data from which follow-up
by management would provide input into training program
planning. This process would be strengthened by the presence
in CPMU of the Training Coordinator and the Staff Development
Advisor (para. 14).
Improving In-House Training
7.        Two compelling reasons exist for seeking to train staff in-house
and on the job:
(a) it is more cost effective; and
(b) giving managers the responsibility and the ability to train their
own staff has proven through experience over time to be one of
the most effective ways to improve system performance.
Strengthening the abilities of the handling banks to carry out formal and
on-job training would be provided for through the following:
(a) provision of fellowship assistance for overseas training of
13 staff in training units of handling banks and LPPI;



- 117 -                            ANNEX 11
Page 4 of 8
(b) assistance by LPPI in training of trainers for handling banks;
(c) training by BRI of a corps of trainers to train mantris on the
job;
(d) preparation of training materials by LPPI and by training staff of
handling banks; and
(e) phased introduction of staff development modules in branch manager
seminars and in other courses taught by LPPI and the handling
banks.
8.        It is envisaged to systematically develop the personnel management
and on-job training skills of line managers to enable them to carry out the
staff development/training function. Materials on these topics would be
developed by LPPI and by the handling bank training units. Where such
materials already exist, consultants would work with trainers to improve the
content and method of presentation. In addition, training of staff to carry
out the in-house training of mantris and related support staff would be
expanded (e.g., BRI has trained 28 trainers in 10-day courses to train
mantris in 11 regions for carrying out expanded KIK/KMKP lending).
Development of Self-Directed Training Materials
9.        As a further means of training the handling bank's staff, self-
directed training materials would be developed by LPPI and by the staff of
the handling bank training units. Overall direction of this effort would be
the responsibility of LPPI, while training units of the handling banks would
be responsible for developing specialized training materials for their
respective banks and work with LPPI staff to develop general training
materials which can be used in a large number of handling banks. Of the
four additional consultants and staff to be provided to LPPI, one would be
an expert on developing self-directed training materials.
10.       Resources would be provided for the purchase of books, materials
developed by others and copyrights to such material for translation into
Bahasa Indonesia. In addition, funds would be provided for art work,
translation services, printing and distribution of training materials to the
handling banks. Equipment for printing, collating and binding of training
materials would be provided for LPPI, BRI, and BNI 46 (Tables 11 and 12).
Training of Counterparts
11.       During the period of SEDP I, the training of counterparts to a
large extent occupied the two consultants provided to LPPI under the
project. The training program for counterparts consists of two weeks of



- 118 -                           ANNEX 11
Page 5 of 8
language training, followed by four weeks of intensive class work at LPPI,
after which the counterparts are assigned to RPMUs. Under the first
project, the number of RPMUs for which counterparts had to be trained each
year increased from three to nine. During SEDP II, the total number of
counterpart courses at LPPI would go up from six to eight per year. Part of
the additional resources to be provided to LPPI by SEDP II will go toward
meeting the expanded counterpart training requirements.
12.       Careful selection of counterparts ensures that the quality of
participants in the counterpart training courses at LPPI is higher than that
of participants in the loan officers- courses. Thus, though the content of
the courses is substantially the same, the depth of coverage of topics in
the counterpart courses is greater. During the period of SEDP I, most
counterparts selected had not previously participated in courses for loan
officers, and there was no problem of duplication of training. However, in
the future, it is likely that counterparts increasingly will be selected
from loan officers who have previously participated in other training
programs, and measures will be taken to prevent duplication and wastage of
training resources. LPPI is working on plans to deal with this problem
while assuring that the depth of training the counterparts is not sacrificed.
13.       Except for the possible changes implied by the preceding paragraph,
no substantive change in the training of counterparts were contemplated at
appraisal. However, the training plan for the period of SEDP II would
include a closer monitoring of the counterpart training program and the
Training Coordinator and the Staff Development Advisor in CPMU would be
responsible for recommending improvements in the program for training
counterparts. Feedback on the effectiveness and recommendations for improv-
ing the training of counterparts would be achieved through the following:
(a) each year a workshop of three days attended by SEDP staff
of LPPI and two staff members from CPMU, RPMU s and representatives
of the training units- of the handling banks would be held for the
purpose of exchanging information, ideas, and materials and for
planning the content and approach of counterpart training for the
following year; the workshop would be chaired by the Training
Coordinator;
(b)  regular visits between LPPI staff and RPMU staff would be carried
out, including broader use of RPMU staff and consultants as
lecturers in LPPI courses; and
(c) the Training Coordinator would develop a formal system for
monitoring the feedback of information on counterpart training from
LPPI, the RPMUs and from the graduated counterparts and their
supervisors.



- 119 -                            ANNEX 11
Page 6 of 8
Integrating Training with Management Information
14.       One of the approaches to be followed during SEDP II involves
linking the training program with the "management information system"
currently being developed by CPMU. Under this approach, attention is paid
largely to those units which are not performing satisfactorily, and
resources would be directed to improve those units. Training would be one
of the tools available to management in dealing with performance problems.
However, using training in this way requires continuous interplay between
management information and direction of training. To facilitate this
interaction, a Training Coordinator and Staff Development Advisor will be
posted in the CPMU. The Training Coordinator and the Staff Development
Advisor will be responsible for:
(a) coordinating the training activities at LPPI and in training units
of the handling banks (BRI, BNI 46, UPPINDO and BAPINDO);
(b) continuous monitoring of the effects of training activities in terms
of lending program objectives; and
(c) working closely with senior management of the project and the
banks in helping identify problems in lending system performance
and where staff development/training options can be utilized to
correct those problems (as well as where they do not provide the
best options).
The Training Coordinator would be assisted by a senior expert with extensive
operational experience in staff development and in introducing change in
large organizations. Posting the Training Coordinator and his advisor in
CPMU would facilitate coordinating the training program and would give the
Project Manager ready access to advice in dealing with staff development
issues in CPMU and in the RPMUs as well.
Training Role of RPMUs
15.       Notwithstanding the other operational responsibilities of the
RPMUYs, one of the tasks of RPMUs would be training the counterparts
on-the-job with the objective to provide a core of banking staff trained in
greater depth. The RPMUs will be involved in the feedback of both the
counterpart program and the general SEDP training program along the lines of
the feedback system.
16.       The role of the RPMUs, as regards training and staff development
of handling banks, should include the following:
(a) continue to carry out on-job training of counterparts;
(b) assist in identifying training needs and target groups;



- 120 -                            ANNEX 11
Page 7 of 8
(c) assist LPPI and handling banks in developing case materials;
(d) participate in regional training activities, including:
(i) advice on curricula;
(ii) assistance in conducting sessions;
(iii)  assistance in preparing and selecting training materials;
and
(iv) help in organizing and implementing training programs;
and
(e)  assist in evaluating staff development and training programs.
Strengthening of Training Units
17.       To assist in decentralizing training, one Training Specialist will
be placed in each of the following handling banks: BRI, BNI 46 and UPPINDO.
A Training Coordinator and a Staff Development Expert will be placed in the
C PMU.
18.       Because LPPI would retain responsibility for training staff
of the remaining state banks and the participating private banks,
additional strengthening of LPPI would be required. In addition to the
two existing SEDP consultants, the following experts would be provided
for LPPI:
(a) one Staff Development Expert; and
(b) three Material Development Experts for Development Banking/Credit
Analysis.
19.       The Staff Development experts should be highly skilled and experi-
enced people. Academic credentials are not as important as successful
experience in performing a similar task elsewhere.
Annual Trainers Workshop
20.       An annual workshop for the trainers involved in SEDP training
at LPPI and in the training units of the handling banks would be held. The
objectives of the workshop would be:
(a) to discuss and coordinate further improvements of training and
staff development;



- 121 -                             ANNEX 11
Page 8 of 8
(b) to plan and coordinate the training programs of the
training units and LPPI for the following year;
(c) to plan and coordinate the preparation of training materials
for the following year; and
(d) to exchange materials and ideas between trainers and to
assist in maintaining communication between individuals
and institutions.
The Training Coordinator would be responsible for scheduling, calling and
chairing the workshop.
Language Instruction
21.       Because of the nature of the tasks to be performed by the training
consultants, ability to converse in Bahasa Indonesia is essential. Inter-
nationally recruited consultants for these posts would undergo two months of
intensive language instruction in the country before beginning work. They
will have no additional obligations other than orienting themselves to the
local environment and learning the language during this period. The
language training would include the two expatriate consultants at LPPI who
did not undergo intensive language training during SEDP I.
AEP Projects Department
March 26, 1981



- 122 -
ANNEX 11
Table 1
INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Approximate Number of Bank Branch Offices /a (Including Head Offices), 1980
State banks and BPDs             Private banks
Other   Total
state   state
banks   banks  KIK/KMKP   Other    Total   Bank
BNI         incl.    and    private  private  private  Indo-
46  BRI  BAPINDO   BPDs    banks    banks    banks   nesia  Total
D.I. Aceh                8   11       11      30        0           1         1       2        33
Sumatra Utara           14   15      34       63        0         30         30       3       96
Sumatra Barat            7   10      16       33        0           6         6       1       40
Riau                     8   10       14      32        0           0         0       1        33
Jambi                    3    4        6      13        0           1         1       1        15
Bengkulu                 1    3        4       8        0           0         0       1         9
Sumatra Selatan          8   11      12       31        0           7         7       1       40
Lampung                  3    4       11      18        0           4         4       1        22
Jakarta Raya            27    9       84     120         9         88        97       1       218
Jawa Barat              32   29       58     119         9         14        23       3       145
Jawa Tengah             24   39      41      104        3          31        34       4      142
Jogyakarta               4    7        4      15        2           1         3       1        19
Jawa Timur              23   34      36       93        5          46        51       4      148
Bali                     4    9       21      34         1          4         5       1       40
Nusa Tenggara Barat    4    5         13      22        0           1         1       1       24
Nusa Tenggara Timur    1   13          5      19        0           0         0       1       20
Kalimantan Barat         7    4       16      27         0          3         3       1       31
Kalimantan Tengah        4    6        7      17        0           0         0      0        17
Kalimantan Selatan       5   11        5      21        1           2         3       1       25
Kalimantan Timur         5    6       18      29        0           1         1       2       32
Sulawesi Utara           7    7       8       22        2           3         5      1        28
Sulawesi Tengah          5    4       5       14        0          2          2      1        17
Sulawesi Selatan        10   23      20       53        2         11         13       1       67
Sulawesi Tenggara        2    3       4        9        0           1         1      1        11
Maluku                   2    6        5      13        0           0         0       2        15
Irian Jaya               0    0      11       11        0           0         0       1       12
Timor Timur              0    0       1        1        0          0         0       0         1
Total            218  283    470        971       34        257       291      38    1,300
/a  Excluding branches at hotels and joint venture banks.
Source: Financial Directory of Indonesia 1980 and Statistik Perkembangan IJsaha
Perbankan di Indonesia, March 1980.
AEP Projects Department
March 26, 1981



- 123 -
ANNEX 11
Table 2
INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Approximate Distribution of Loan Officers to be Trained for KIK/KMKP
(1980 figures)
Low count /c                                  High count /d
Other                                           Other
state    Private                                state    Private
BRI  BNI  BPD  banks /a  banks /b  Total   BRI   BNI  BPD  banks /a   banks   Total
D.I. Aceh               22   16    7        6          0         51      44   32   13      12          0       101
Sumatra Utara           30   28    2       18          0         78     60   56    4       36          0       156
Sumatra Barat           20   14   25        4          0         63     40   28   49        8          0       125
Riau                    20   16    5       16          0         57      40   32    9      32          0       113
Jambi                    8    6    3       10          0         27     16   12    5       20          0        53
Bengkulu                 6    2    7        2          0         17     12    4   13        4          0        53
Sumatra Selatan         22   16    7       13          0         58     44   32   13       26          0       115
Lampung                  8    6    5        9          0         28      16   12    9      1.8         0        55
Jakarta Raya            19   55   18       80         18        190     37  109   34    156           27       363
Jawa Barat              58   64   41       26         18        207    116  128   81       52         27       404
Jawa Tengah             78   48   21       29          6        182    156   96   41       58          9       360
Yogyakarta              14    8    3        0          4         29     28   16    5        0          6        55
Jawa Timur              68   46   17       33         10        174    132   92   33       70         15       342
Bali                    18    8   21        8          2         57     36   16   41       16          3       112
Nusa Tenggara Barat   10    8   14          5          0         37     20   16   27       10          0        73
Nusa Tenggara Timur   26    2    9          0          0         37      52    4   17       0          0        73
Kalimantan Barat         8   14   21        8          0         51      16   28   41      16          0       101
Kalimantan Tengah       12    8    7        7          0         34      24   16   13      14          0        67
Kalimantan Selatan    22   10    3          4          2         41     44   20    5        8          3        80
Kalimantan Timur        12   10    5       22          0         49     24   20    9       44          0        97
Sulawesi Utara          14    8.   3       17          4         46     28   16    5       34          6        89
Sulawesi Tengah          8    0    3       24          0         35     16    0    5       48          0        69
Sulawesi Selatan        46   20   25        8          4        103     92   40   49       16          6       203
Sulawesi Tenggara        6   20    5        0          0         31     12   40    9        0          0        61
Maluku                  12    4    5        4          0         25      24    8    9       8           0       49
Irian Jaya               0    0    5       16          0         21       0    0    9      32          0        41
Timor Timur              0    0    0        2          0          2       0    0    0       4           0        4
Total            567  437  287    371           68      1,730  1,129  873  548    742           102    3,394
/a Including BAPINDO.
Th Banks involved in KIK/KMKP. Low count 2, high count 3 loan officers for all branch types.
/c Low count - 3 loan officers per head office, 2 loan officers per branch office, 1 loan officer per
subbranch should be trained.
/d High count - 5 loan officers per head office, 3 loan officers per branch office, 2 loan officers per
subbranch should be trained. Excluding joint venture banks.
AEP Projects Department
March 26, 1981



- 124 -
ANNEX 11
Table 3
INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Dormitory Facilities Available for All Training /a
by Handling Banks and LPPI, 1981-84
Dormitory beds
1981           1982           1983          1984
LPPI /b                             95             56            160              230
BRI Regional Centers /c
Surabaya                          75             75             75              150
Semarang                          75             75             75              150
Bandung                           60             60             60              120
3 new centers                      -              -              -              180
BNI Regional Centers /d
Jakarta                            -              -            200              200
Yogyakarta                         -              -             50               50
Ujung Pandang                      -              -             50               50
Medan                              -              -             50               50
Total                        305            266            720            1,180
/a Of which KIK/KMKP training is only a part.
/b Beds decrease to 56 in 1982/82 as old domitory is demolished to make room
for a new one.
/c Plan $14.1 million project to double capacity of existing centers and con-
struct three new ones, available 1984.
/d Expect four regional centers to be ready within three years.
AEP Projects Department
March 26, 1981



INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Manpower Requirements at LPPI, and its Distribution by Man-Month or Session
1981         1982          1983         1984          Total
Type       No.                  Activity                            For.  Tnd.  For.  Ind.  For.  Ind.  For.  Ind.  For.  Ind.
---------------------- (man-months) ----------------------
Managtr      1   Chief coordinator of LPPI, SEDP activities            -     6      -    12       -    12      -      6      -      36
1   Manager for self-directed training program           -      6      -    12       -    12      -      6      -      36
Faculty      2   Assistant for self-directed training program    -    12            -    24       -    24      -    12       -      72
1   Trainers training                                    -      6      -    12      -    12       -      6      -      36 ~
3   Lecturers on current program                         -    18       -    36       -    36      -    18       -    108   >
Consul-      2   On current program                                   12     -    24       -    24      -    12       -    72        -
tants        3   Material developers                                   6    12    12    24    12    24         6    12    36        72
2   Training needs researchers                           4      4      -      -      -     -      -      -      4       4
18   Specialized short-term consultants                   -      2      4      4      4     4      -      -      8      10
1   Staff developer                                      -      6      -    12      -    12       -      6      -      36
Guest        -   Branch managers seminars }                            -   264      -   330       -   330      -   264       -  1,188
lectuters   -   Trainers training course } Sessions                    -    66      -   198       -   198      -    66       -    528
-   Remaining SEDP training  }                            -   106      -   251       -   344      -   172       -    873
Clerks       1   Secretary of chief coordinator                        -     6      -    12       -    12      -      6      -      36
3   Clerks for self-directed training program             -    18      -    36       -    36      -    18       -    108
1   Secretary for trainers training manager              -      6      -    12      -    12       -      6      -      36
1   Secretary for material development staff             -      6      -    12      -    12       -      6      -      36
>
AEP Projects Department
March 26, 1981
I-.'



INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Manpower Requirements Outside LPPI
(Distributed by man-month)
1981         1982          1983         1984         Total
Type       No.               Position                        For.  Ind.  For.  Ind.  For.  Ind.  For.  Ind.  For.  Ind.
Consultant    1   CPIIU Coordinator and Staff Developer          6      -      12    -      12    -       6            36
Consultant    1   BNI '46 Development  Banker                    6      -     12    _       12    -       6            36
Consultant    1   UPPINDO                                        6      -     12    _       12    -       6            36    -
Consultant    1   BRI Training Expert                            --------------- Not budgeted --------------------
Coordinator   1   CPMU Training Coordinator                      --------------------  Not hudgeted ------------- ------
AEP Projects Department
Marclh 26, 1981
1F3 M
(D >X



- 127 -
ANNEX 11
Table 6
INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Contract for Long-Term Consultants
1981   I   1982   1   1983   f   1984   I
I   aI      I          I           I     I   /a
I/a                                             /a
Foreign Consultants            I    I    I            i
LPPI
Current program consultant |
Current program consultant |
Material developer          II -                  I _________I___-_-
CPMU                        
Assistant to coordinator
and staff developer
I     I    I*          1     -     1   1    1  I
BNI '46
Training expert            I    j
I    I  _ F           1-          1     I     I
UPPINDO                      I     I     I          I           I     I
Training expert            j
*        1---~~~          ~     ~     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~1  1  I  II I
Local Consultants              I           I          I           I    I    I
LPPI                         i
Material developer         |
Material developer         I    i
Staff developer
I    I    I          'I           I     II
/a Budget time limiter.
AEP Projects Department
March 26, 1981



- 128 -
ANNEX 11
Table 7
INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost of Long-Term Consultancy
($'000)
1981             1982              1983             1984             Total
Foreign Local Foreign Local Foreign Local Foreign Local Foreign Local
Foreign Consultants /a
CPMU
Billing costs           54.0     -      108.0      -     108.0      -       54.0      -       324.0    -
Nonsalary costs          7.7    15.9    10.5    26.6    10.5    26.6         7.7    13.4       36.4   82.5
LPP I
Billing costs         162.0      -      324.0      -     324.0      -      162.0      -       972.0    -
Nonsalary costs         18.1    47.4    31.5    79.8    31.5    79.8    22.7    39.9    103.8  246.9
BNI
Billing costs           54.0     -      108.0      -      108.0     -       54.0      -       324.0    -
Nonsalary costs          7.7    15.9    10.5    26.6    10.5    26.6         7.7    13.4       36.4   82.5
UPPINDO
Billing costs           54.0     -      108.0      -      108.0     -       54.0      -       324.0    -
Nonsalary costs          5.3    15.9    10.5    26.6    10.5    26.6         7.7    13.4       34.0   82.5
Subtotal
Billing costs      324.0      -      648.0      -     648.0      -      324.0      -    1,944.0    -
Nonsalary costs    38.8    95.1    63.0   159.6    63.0    159.6    45.8    80.1    210.6  494.4
Local Consultants /b
LPPI
Billing costs           -       36.0      -       72.0     -       72.0      -       36.0      -    216.0
Nonsalary costs          -      43.5      -       79.9      -      79.9      -       43.5       -    246.8
Total
Billing costs      324.0    36.0   648.0    72.0   648.0    72.0   324.0    36.0  1,944.0  216.0
Nonsalary costs    38.8   138.6    63.0   239.5    63.0   239.5    45.8   123.6    210.6  741.2
/a  Billing costs at $9,000 per man-month.  Nonsalary costs from Table 8.
/b  Billing costs at $2,000 per man-month.  Nonsalary costs from Table 9.
AEP Projects Department
March 26, 1981



- 129 -
ANNEX 11
Table 8
INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Nonsalary Associated Costs for Long-Term Foreign Consultants
(US$)
1981     1982      1983     1984
Relocation and resettlement ($4,700) /a            7,050         -        -   14,100
Housing allowance (@ $1,300/mo) /b                46,800   93,600   93,600   46,800
Transportation allowance (@ $560/mo) /c           20,160   40,320   10,320   20,160
International travel (@ $3,000 return) /d         31,500   63,000   63,000   31,500
Local travel per diem (@ $50/day) /e               7,500   15,000   15,000    7,500
Out-of-station travel (air fares) /f               5,400   10,800   10,800    5,400
Language training for expatriates ($2,500)        15,000        -         -         _
Total                                      133,410  222,720  222,720  125,460
/a  $2,350 transfer to Jakarta and $2,350 return home.
/b  Assuming three foreign consultants already in Jakarta, one for CPMU, one for
LPPI and one for BNI -46, all arriving July 1981.
Ic  Assuming starting dates as in /b.
/d  Assuming families of 3.5 persons, including the consultant.
/e  Assuming 50 days/year per consultant.}
} Travel cost for LPPI courses in the
/f  Assuming 12 trips per year and         } provinces separately.
consultant at $150 each.               }
AEP Projects Department
March 26, 1981



- 130 -
ANNEX 11
Table 9
INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Nonsalary Associated Costs for Long-Term Indonesian Consultants /a
(US$)
1981      1982       1983       1984
Relocation and resettlement ($2,350) /b         3,525          -         -      3,525
Housing allowance ($1,300/mo)                  23,400    46,800    46,800    23,400
Transportation allowance ($560/mo)             10,080    20,160    20,160    10,080
Local travel per diem ($50/day) /c              3,750     7,500      7,500      3,750
Out-of-station travel (air fares) /d            2,700     5,400      5,400      2,700
Total                                    43,455    79,860    79,860    43,455
/a  Assuming three Indonesian consultants starting July 1981.
/b  $1,175 for relocation to Jakarta and $1,175 at the end of the contract to
return home.
/c Assuming 50 days/year per consultant.
/d Assuming 12 trips per year at $150 each per consultant.
AEP Projects Department
March 26, 1981



- 131 -
ANNEX 11
Table 10
INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost of Short-Term Consultants, 1981-84
(US$)
1981            1982           1983           1984
Foreign Consultants /a             4 MM            4 MM            4 MM            -
Fees at $9,000/mm             36,000          36,000          36,000             -
Return air fare /b              3,000         12,000          12,000            -
Local subsistence Ic            9,000          9,000           9,000            -
Domestic travel /d                600           1,200           1,200           -
Local Consultants /e               6 MM            4 MM            4 MM            -
Fees at $2,000/mm              12,000          8,000           8,000             -
Travel per diem /f             1,200           1,600           1,600            -
Domestic travel  g                900           1,200           1,200            -
Total                      62,700          69,000          69,000            -
/a  1981 - one consultant for 4 months for training needs research.
1982 - 4 consultants, 1 month each.
1983 - 4 consultants, 1 month each.
/b  Return air fare at $3,000 each, foreign consultant.
/c  At $2,250 each, foreign consultant.
/d  1981 - 4 trips, 1982 - 8 trips, 1983 - 8 trips at $150 return air fare.
/e  1981 - one consultant for 4 months for training needs research, 2 months
open.
/f  1981 - 6 trips, 1982 - 8 trips, 1983 - 8 trips at 4 days each with $50 per
diem.
/g  $150 per return ticket and trip.
AEP Projects Department
March 26, 1981



- 132 -
ANNEX 11
Table 11
INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Training Aids and Equipment
(US$)
1981       1982/a       1983/a       1984/a
Training aids and equipment /b
LPPI                                  79,840         -            -
BRI                                   80,000         -            -
BNI 1946                              45,824         -            -
Total                             205,664         -            -
/a  Purchases of training aids and equipment may spill into the following
year(s).
/b From Table 12.
AEP Projects Department
March 26, 1981



- 133 -                               ANNEX 11
Table 12
INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Printing Equipment/Training Aids
Rp            $
LPPI
1 Printing camera                                            9,000,000
I Paper cutter                                               2,000,000
3 Binders or staplers                                        1,200,000
2 Sorting machines                                           4,000,000
1 Minicomputer with word processor and other software    22,000,000
1 Episcope A4                                                1,600,000
1 Slide producing equipment                                    700,000
1 Hole drill                                                   250,000
1 Electric lettering machine                                 1,500,000
3 Overhead projectors                                        1,750,000
5 Screens for lecture rooms                                  1,500,000
2 Transparency makers                                        1,400,000
Miscellaneous equipment like video accessories, etc.    3,000,000
Subtotal                                            49,900,000      79,840
BRI
1 Set of offset printing equipment                          14,000,000
1 Sorting machine                                            4,000,000
1 Binder or stapler                                            400,000
10 Overhead projectors                                        5,500,000
10 Transparency makers                                        7,000,000
1 Video equipment and accessories                           .4,000,000
1 Slide producing equipment                                    700,000
5 Slide projectors                                           3,750,000
1 Episcope A4                                                1,600,000
10 Projector screens                                          2,800,000
Miscellaneous                                              6,250,000
Subtotal                                            50,000,000      80,000
BNI 1946
1 Set of offset printing equipment                          14,000,000
1 Sorting machine                                            4,000,000
1 Binder or stapler                                            400,000
3 Overhead projectors                                        1,750,000
3 Transparency makers                                        2,100,000
3 Projector screens                                            840,000
1 Episcope A4                                                1,600,000
1 Slide producing equipment                                    700,000
3 Slide projectors                                           2,250,000
Miscellaneous                                              1,000,000
Subtotal                                            28,640,000      45,824
Total                                              128,540,000    205,664
Note: These items may be replaced by more convenient equipment for audiovisual
lecturing.
AEP Projects Department
March 26, 1981



- 134 -
ANNEX 11
Table 13
INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Overseas Training of Indonesian Teaching Staff /a
(US$)
1981             1982             1983            1984
LPPI (5 staff)                12,000           36,000            12,000
BRI (3 staff)                 12,000           12,000           12,000
BNI (3 staff)                 12,000           12,000            12,000
UPPINDO (1 staff)             12,000                 -                -
BAPINDO (1 staff)             12,000                -                 -
Total                   60,000            60,000           36,000
/a Based on eight-week courses, plus two weeks for travel, at $1,000-per-week
fees and subsistence and per diem. Return air fare of $3,000.
AEP Projects Department
March 26, 1981



- 135 -
ANNEX 11
Table 14
INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost of Annual Three-Day CPMU-LPPI Workshop for Training Program Planning /a
(U S$)
1981            1982           1983           1984
Staff travel ($150)               5,400           6,000           6,600            -
Per diem (4 days at $50)          7,200           8,000           8,800            -
Miscellaneous costs               4,000           4,000           4,000            -
Total                      16,600          18,000          19,400            -
/a Assuming 36 participants in 1981,
40 participants in 1982, and
44 participants in 1983.
AEP Projects Department
March 26, 1981



- 136 -
ANNEX 11
Table 15
INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost of Regional Seminars for Branch Managers - LPPI, 1981-84
(US$)
1981        1982         1983         1984
Staff travel /a                         16,200       20,250       20,250       16,200
Staff per diem ($50/day) /b             21,600       27,000       27,000       21,600
Trainee per diem ($40/day) /c           84,000      105,000      105,000       84,000
Materials and shipment /d                  720          900          900          720
Equipment rental and services /e         1,920        2,400        2,400        1,920
LPPI guest lecturer fees /f              1,008        1,260        1,260        1,008
Other guest lecturer fees /g             1,155        1,440        1,440        1,155
Total                             126,603      158,250      158,250     126,603
/a  Based on 5 LPPI faculty members per seminar plus 4 CPMU staff members per
seminar. Includes guest lecturers.
/b  Based on 4 days per LPPI and CPMU staff per seminar.
/c Based on 25 participants per seminar and 7 days per diem.
/d Rp 1,500 per participant.
/e Rp 100,000 per seminar as an overall average.
/f Based on a team of LPPI guest lecturers who teach 50% of the seminars (14
sessions each) at Rp 7,500 per session.
/g  Eight sessions of CPMU or BI guest lecturers per seminar at Rp 7,500 per
session.
Note:  Based on:  1981 - 12 one-week seminars, starting August 1981,
1982 - 15 one-week seminars,
1983 - 15 one-week seminars, and
1984 - 12 one-week seminars.
AEP Projects Department
March 26, 1981



- 137 -
ANNEX 11
Table 16
INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost of SEDP Courses Conducted at LPPI
(US$)
1981     1982      1983      1984
Food and lodging ($24/participant day) /a        129,000  301,200  370,200  172,200
Travel of participants ($150/participant) /b   18,750   45,000   56,250   26,250
Language training for counterparts /c              7,000   12,250   14,000    7,000
Guest lecturer's fee /d                            3,432    8,976   10,824    4,752
Course materials for participants /e               8,125   19,500   24,375   11,375
Follow-up material /f                              3,125    7,500    9,375    4,375
Classroom supplies 79                              3,325    7,980    9,975    4,655
Miscellaneous costs                                5,000    5,000    5,000    5,000
Iotal                                       177,757  407,406  499,999  235,607
/a  1981 - 4 counterpart courses, I trainers training course;
1982 - 7 counterpart courses, 3 trainers training courses,
1 loan officers course, 1 middle management course;
1983 - 8 counterpart courses, 3 trainers training courses,
2 loan officers course, 1 middle management course,
1 regional head office course; and
1984 - 4 counterpart courses, 1 trainers training course,
1 loan officers course, 1 middle management course.
Each course for 25 participants for 6 weeks (43 days) at $24 per day. Only
the middle management and the regional head office course will last 4 weeks
(29 days).
The calculations include two days for travel to the LPPI and for returning
home.
/b  1981 = 125, 1982 = 300, 1983 = 375 and 1984 = 175 participants.
/c  At $1,750 per course; 4 courses in 1981, 7 in 1982, 8 in 1983 and 4 in 1984.
/d  At Rp 12,500 or $20 per session.
7e  $65 per participant.
/f  $25 per participant.
/g  $665 per course.
AEP Projects Department
March 26, 1981



- 138 -
ANNEX 11
Table 17
INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Self-Directed Training Materials
(US$)
1981            1982             1983            1984
Equipment                   6,750
Office supplies               400             800              800             400
Materials /a               14,400          28,800           28,800          14,400
Personnel lb               9,696           19,392           19,392           9,696
Overheads, 10              2,400           4,800            4,800           2,400
Incentives                  1,600           3,200            3,200           1,600
Total                35,246           56,992           56,992          28,496
/a Assuming 1,500 participants.
/b Assuming 1 program director, 2 junior assistants, 1 typist and 2 clerks.
AEP Projects Department
March 26, 1981



- 139 -
ANNEX 11
Table 18
INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BRI - Cost of Training for Term Lending and Training Officers, N.E.I., 1981-84
(US$)
Courses                   1981             1982            1983            1984
Branch managers                15,200                                                -
Deputy branch managers         34,200               -               -                -
Credit analysts                38,000         114,000         114,000          38,000
Credit officers                26,600          68,400          19,000          19,000
Penilik                        22,800          76,000          68,400          22,800
Mantri                        182,400         547,200         547,200         182,400
Total                   319,200          805,600         748,600         262,200
AEP Projects Department
March 26, 1981



- 140 -
ANNEX 11
Table 19
INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BNI 1946 - Direct Training Costs, N.E.I., 1981-84 /a
(US$)
1981              1982              1983            1984
Loan officers              54,252            73,854             73,359            /b
Credit analysts           201,203           271,843           273,218             /b
Clerks                     22,968            36,531             40,491            /b
Total                278,423           382,228           387,068            /b
/a Comprises fees to guest lecturers, material reproduction, rental of facili-
ties, testing and selecting, per diem and travel costs.
/b Depending on the definite training schedule, program and disbursement funds
may spill into 1984.
-^%-  AEP Projects Department
March 26, 1981



- 141 -
ANNEX 11
Table 20
INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan Officers Training Courses - BAPINDO Regional Development Banks, 1981-84
(US$)
1981       1982       1983       1984
Participants' travel ($175 per trip)        8,750      12,250     12,250      4,375
Daily allowance and accommodation         100,000    140,000    140,000    50,000
Material preparation                       29,120           -     29,120         /a
Classroom rentals                           4,800       7,200      7,200      3,400
Lecturers  fees                            13,440      20,160     20,160      6,720
Plant visits                               13,440      20,160     20,160      6,720
Miscellaneous                               8,395      12,595     12,595      4,198
Contingencies                              17,670      21,060     29,970      7,540
Total                                195,615    233,425    271,455    82,953
/a  1981:  2 courses, 50 participants, 50 days.
1982:  3 courses, 70 participants, 50 days.
1983:  3 courses, 70 participants, 50 days.
1984:  1 course,  25 participants, 50 days.
AEP Projects Department
March 26, 1981



- 142 -
ANNEX 11
Table 21
INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan Officers Training Courses - UPPINDO Regional Development Banks, 1981-84
(US$)
1981        1982         1983        1984
Participants' travel ($175 per trip)       11,915       25,200       11,915       /a
Daily allowance and accommodation         103,880      169,400      103,880       /a
Course fee                                 52,430      110,213       52,430       /a
Upgrading courses                          35,440       35,440       35,440       /a
Miscellaneous                              56,680       57,043       56,680       /a
Total                                260,345      397,296      260,345       /a
/a Depending on the definite training schedule, programs and disbursement of
the funds may spill into 1984.
AEP Projects Department
March 26, 1981



- 143 -
ANNEX 11
Table 22
INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Total Costs of Training Component, 1981-84
($')
1981              1982              1983               1984              Total
Foreign  Local   Foreign  Local   Foreign  Local   Foreign  Local   Foreign   Local
Costs of long-term consultancy
Billing costs                           324.0     36.0   648.0       72.0   648.0      72.0   324.0       36.0  1,944.0    216.0
Nonsalary costs /a                       38.8    138.6    63.0    239.5    63.0    239.5    45.8    123.6    210.6    741.2
CPMU
Billing costs                            54.0      -      108.0       -     108.0       -       54.0       -       324.0      -
Nonsalary costs /a                        7.7      15.9    10.5      26.6    10.5      26.6      7.7      13.4      36.4      82.5
LPPI
Billing costs                           162.0     36.0   324.0       72.0   324.0      72.0   162.0       36.0    972.0    216.0
Nonsalary costs /a                       18.1     90.9    31.5    159.7    31.5    159.7    22.7          83.4    103.8    493.7
BNI
Billing costs                            54.0      -      108.0       -      108.0      -       54.0       -       324.0      -
Nonsalary costs /a                        7.7      15.9    10.5      26.6    10.5      26.6      7.7      13.4      36.4      82.5
UPPINDO
Billing costs                            54.0      -      108.0       -     108.0       -       54.0       -      324.0       -
Nonsalary costs /a                        5.3      15.9    10.5      26.6    10.5      26.6      7.7      13.4      34.0      82.5
Short-term consultancy /b                  39.0      23.7    48.0      21.0    48.0      21.0      -         -       135.0      65.7
Incremental support staffs tc               -        33.8     -        67.6      -        67.6     -        33.8       -       202.8
Overseas training of trainers /d           60.0       -      60.0       -       36.0       -       -         -       156.0       -
Self-directed training material /e          -        18.8     -        37.6      -        37.6     -        18.8       -       112.8
CPMU-LPPI planning workshops /f             -        16.6     -        18.0      -        19.4     -         -         -        54.0
Training aids and equipment IT              -       205.7     -         -        -         -       -         -         -       205.7
Other direct training costs
LPPI /h                                   -      304.2      -       565.7      -      658.2      -       362.2       -    1,890.3
BRI /1                                    -      319.2      -       805.6      -      748.6      -       262.2       -    2,135.6
BNI /i                                    -      278.4      -       382.2      -      387.1      -        /m         -    1,047.7
Subtotal pure SEDP training         461.8  1,375.0   819.0  2,209.2   795.0  2,251.0   369.8    836.6  2,445.6  6,671.8
BAPINDO /k                                -      195.6      -       233.4      -      271.5      -        83.0       -       783.5
uPPINDO 7T                                -       260.3     -       397.3      -      260.3      -        /m         -       917.9
Provision for additional programs         -         -       -       186.8      -      373.5      -       186.8       -       747.1
Total Costs - Training               461.8  1,830.9   819.0  3,026.7   795.0  3,156.3   369.8  1,106.4  2,445.6  9,120.3
(in constant prices)
/a  From Table 7.
/b  From Table 10.
7T  From Table 4 and personnel item for Table 17.
/d  From Table 13.
7e  From Table 17, excluding personnel and equipment.
7f  From Table 14.
From Table 11
lh  From Tables 15 and 16.
Ti  From Table 18.
f   From Table 19.
1k  From Table 20.
71  From Table 21.
Tm  Depending on definite training schedule, programs and funds from previous
years may spill into 1984.
AEP Projects Department
March 26, 1981



- 144 -                               ANNEX 12
Page I of 2
INDONESIA
SECOND S21ALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference of the Staff Development Expert - LPPI
1.        The LPPI staff development expert would report directly to the
Director of LPPI. He/she would be an internationally-recruited expert with
five or more years experience in training and staff development in large
organizations, at least two years of which should be in training LDC
nationals. Direct experience would be more important than formal education,
though training in staff development, adult education, or business/banking
administration would be a useful addition to required experience. The expert
should be at least 35 years old and should have demonstrated the ability and
interest to learn a second language. In addition to the above requirements,
training or experience in publishing or in preparing self-directed training
materials would be a definite plus. If not already fluent in Bahasa
Indonesia, the expert would undergo two months of intensive language training
at the beginning of the appointment.
3.        The expert would work with the Director and staff of LPPI to pre-
pare annual plans for the training of handling banks staff for which LPPI
has training responsibility (i.e., those not being trained by BRI, BNI 46,
BAPINDO and UPPINDO). In carrying out this function, the expert and other
training staff would consult with line nanagers and staff of handling banks
and would seek their input in determining content, focus, and approaches to
be followed in training handling bank staff. With the Director and other
staff of LPPI, and the staff of handling bank training units, the expert
would participate in preparing annual programs for the training of handling
bank staff from all participating banks, and in determining the role to be
played by LPPI for the training program for that year.
4.        The expert would prepare course modules and teaching materials on
personnel management and staff development to be used in courses for line
managers held by LPPI and other training units. The purpose of these modules
and materials would be to facilitate the development of improved on-job
training skills required to meet the training needs of KIK/KMKP lending.
5.        The expert would assist other LPPI staff in developing self-directed
learning materials to be used in on-job training of handling bank staff.
The self-directed materials should be sufficiently well-developed and
focussed that line managers of handling banks could use them with limited
tutorial input to develop the knowledge and skills of their staff to carry
out the functions required for KIK/KMKP lending. The materials should not
be unduly general or abstract in nature, should be focussed on specific
training needs of bank staff, and should draw upon directly-related experi-
ence for examples. All such materials would be developed in or translated
into Bahasa Indonesia.



- 145 -
ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 2
6.        The expert would assist in developing and carrying out training
programs for trainers from handling banks and from training units of those
banks, as required. He would provide advice and assistance to other
trainers in developing their training skills, upon request.
AEP Projects Department
February 2, 1981



- 146 -
ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference of the BI Staff Development Advisor
1.        The Staff Development Advisor would be assigned to the CPMU and
would report directly to the Staff Development Team Leader. The Advisor
would be internationally recruited and would have extensive experience in
staff development in a large and complex organization. The Advisor should
be at least 35 years of age and should have worked for at least two years
in a developing country environment. In addition to experience in the
areas of staff development/training, the Advisor should have training and/or
experience in organizational development and management information systems
(MIS). The advisor should have demonstrated a capability and interest to
learn a second language. If not already fluent in Bahasa Indonesia, the
expert would undergo two months of intensive language training at the
beginning of the appointment.
2.        The Advisor would be appointed initially for a period of two years
with the possibility of extension for a third year by mutual agreement. The
terms and conditions of his appointment would be according to prevailing
GOI policies regarding the employment of consultants.
3.        The Advisor would work closely with the Staff Development Team
Leader in planning and coordinating the training of handling bank staff for
KIK/KMKP lending. Under the direction of the Team Leader, the Advisor would
develop procedures for monitoring training needs and performance and for
providing information feedback to aid in redesigning/redirecting training
to meet program needs. Parameters relevant to the assessment of needs and
performance of training would be integrated into the MIS, and procedures
for following up on the information feed back would be developed.
4.        Working with the Team Leader, the Advisor would maintain close
liaison between handling bank management and SEDP trainers to assure that
training continues to be pragmatically focussed and concentrated on areas
considered by management to be the major impediments to improved lending
program performance. The Advisor would provide advice and guidance to
training unit staff in developing training content, materials and procedures
required to meet the needs indicated by handling bank management.
5.        The Advisor would work with the Team Leader and with the Workshop
Planning Committee to plan the Annual Trainers Workshop. He would assist
in preparing the agenda for the workshop and in drafting the annual training
plan working paper which would serve as the basis for discussions for the
annual training plan to be developed by the Workshop participants. Because
ultimate responsibility for getting plan approval from handling bank manage-



- 147 -
ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 2
ment would rest with representatives of training units of the handling banks,
the Team Leader and Advisor would work closely with handling bank management
and training units in drawing up the Workshop agenda and the draft annual
training plan working paper.
AEP Projects Department
February 2, 1981



- 148 -
ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Impact of KIK/KMKP Loans on a Sample of SSE Clients /a
Capital/Labor/d   Economic/e
Rural(R)/              Output/b        Employment /c        (Rp  000)          rate of
Urban(U)    Book-    increase         Before   After   Before        After    return
Sector/Product                     Location   keeping        (x)         -- KIK/IMKP           KIX/KMP ---          (%)
Agricultural
Chickens                            U          yes          62           4         6         33       1,200       30
Cattle raising                      R          no          200           1         4      1,000       1,250        -
Apples/vegetables                   R          no          -22          20        26        300         475        -
Rice farming                        R          no           17          15        15      3,000       3,900       <0
Poultry/eggs                        U          no          212           1         2        380         425        -
Onions, rice, sweet potatoes        R          no           16          21        26        465         390       54
Coconut                             U          no         -15            1         1        750         750        -
Eggs                                R          yes         150           3         4         10         175         -
Coastal fishing                     U          no          150           3         3      1,633       1,667       50
Industrial
Badminton rackets                   U          yes          67          20        76        128         188       42
Printer                             U          no           40           4         5        158         431        -
Soya bean cakes                     R          no            0           2         2          9         257        -
Ceramic handicrafts                 R           yes          0           9        25        n.a.        n.a.       -
Kitchen utensils                                no          92           4         8        455         270      n.a.
Krupuk maker (food)                 U           yes         33           2         2        110       2,023       <0
Woven mats                          R          no          144          10        35         85           55       -
Wood & floor tiles                  R          yes         100          10        24        280       1,000        -
Fruit beverages                     U          yes         337           5        17        102       3,685       41
Bricks                              R          yes   New business       '0        11          -         593       24
Medicine                            U          yes           0          11        11      2,391       3,109        -
Ground pepper mill                  U          no           25           4         4      1,500       2,275        -
Krupuk maker (food)                 U          no          450          12        32        260         307        -
Coconut oil/cakes                   R          yes          11          14        16        675         812        -
Rice hulling                        R          yes          40           3         3        412       1,775        -
Floor tiles                         U          yes   New business        6        25       2,142      1,461        -
Trade Sector Enterprise
Banana vendor                       U          no          121           1         1         65         325        -
Wood trader                         U          yes          34           3         3    11,800       19,300       19
Beef vender                         U          no           23           1         1        130         591
Mattress shop                       U          yes         500           4         6        132       4,600        -
Window glass shop                   U          no           14           4         6      1,600       4,000        -
Garment store                       U          yes   New business        0         4          -       5,400        -
Fried chicken warung                U          yes          67          10        10        560         704        -
Grain dealer                        R          no           10          10        10      1,300       1,500        -
Furniture store                     U          yes         14            3         3        730       2,600        -
Kerosene agent                      U          yes          18           5         7      1,579       2,100       13
Grain, kerosene & sundries          U          yes          35           6         6      4,000       5,800        -
Sundries store                      U          no            0           2         5      2,700       2,840       <0
Textiles shop                       R          no         n.a.           3         5      3,067       3,220       17
Garments, personal item shop        R          no           70           2         4      1,175         763        -
General store                       U          no           23           4         4      1,625       2,925        -
Kitchenware dealer                  U          yes          19           2         4      1,022       2,519       <0
Photo supply store                  U          yes        260            6         8      3,650      12,312        -
Food store                          U          no           13           1         1      3,100      11,000        -
Industrial materials dealer         U          yes          11           5         8        578       2,000        -
Radio/TV store                      U          no           40           3         6         75       1,158         -
Sporting goods store                U          no    New business        0         1          -       5,542        -
Antique/souvenir shop               U           yes         26          15         5        800       5,300         -
Mattress dealer                     U           no    New business       0         3          -       2,347        <0
Hulled rice dealer                  U           no          25           9        11      1,490       2,182        <0
Floor mat and sundry dealer         R           yes         25           2         2      1,758       2,517         -



- 149 -
ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 2
Capital/Labor/d   Economic/e
Rural(R)/              Output/b        Employment /c        (Rp '000)          rate of
Urban(U)    Book-    increase         Before   After   Before        After    return
Sector/Product                     Location   keeping        (X)         -- KIK/K P            KI/-K/MP ---         (7)
Transport/Service Enterprise
Interisland freight expediter
& earth mover                     R          yes        161            3         6     2,000       3,700        13
Trucking                            R          yes   New business        0         2          -       2,400        -
Small bus                           U          no         100            2         4        425       1,100        -
Bus                                 R          no           79           5        14        815       1,214        -
Mini bus                            R          yes   New business        0         2          -       2,475        -
Oplet taxi                          U          yes        150            3         5      1,033       1,320       20
Oplet & taxi                        U          yes      1,100            1         3      1,700       1,667        -
Truck                               R          no    New business        0         3          -       1,067       <0
Truck                               R          no          100           3         5      1,050       1,350        -
Vehicle repair                      U          no            0           8         8        591       1,922        -
Tailor                              U          no           22          11        11        977       1,954        -
Inn                                 U          yes          57           5         7      1,800       2,500        -
Beauty shop                         U          yes         25            4         4      2,961       5,682       (0
Contractor                          U          yes        100            2         7      6,000       3,357        -
/a  Subsample of selected questionnaires from socioeconomic impact studies for East Java and West Sumatera.
From this information median performance characteristics were calculated for each province in order to
serve as a guide to selection of final customers for detailed economic analysis. The customers ultimately
evaluated are those for which information appears in the last column, labelled "Economic Rate of Return."
lb  Wherever possible increases in real volume were estimated.  However in some cases nominal values are used
for lack of sufficient information to estimate real magnitudes. Where possible pre-credit trends were
also taken into account in calculating the post-credit increase in output. Obviously, the increase in out-
put following the credit cannot always be attributed to the credit itself.
Jc  All workers reported in the questionnaires are counted equally, whether paid or unpaid, family or nonfamily.
/d  Includes fixed capital plus working capital stocks, not corrected for inflation.  Generally, the assets
data on the questionnaires is of low quality due to incompleteness, ambiguity about inflation effects, and
inadequate information on timing. Thus, the data recorded here is crude at best.
/e  Economic rate of return calculations were attempted only for the final 20 customers selected for careful
analysis. These final 20 were selected on the basis of this Table to reflect representative performance
by sector and by province. For a more complete explanation, see accompanying text.
AEP Projects Department
February 2, 1981



- 150 -
ANNEX 15
Page 1 of 6
INDONESIA
SECOND SM4ALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organizational Structure of the Credit Department - Bank Indonesia /
1.        The organizational structure of the Credit Department and clarifi-
cation of the principal tasks of the Desk for Small Enterprise Development
and Desk for Small Credit are presented below.
Article 1
2.        The working units within the Credit Department are as follows:
(a) Credit Administration Division
(b) Investment Credit Division
(c) Commercial Credit Division
(d) Production Credit Division
(e) Desk for Project Aid
(f) Desk for Small Enterprise Development
(g) Desk for Small Credit
Article 2
3.        The Desk for Small Enterprise Development mentioned in Article 1 (f)
above has the following principal tasks:
(a) formulate policies to promote the development of small
enterprises/entrepreneurs through technical assistance to the
handling banks;
(b) improve the approach of the banking system in promoting the
extension of credit to small enterprises/entrepreneurs, especially
KIK/KMKP;
(c) manage and monitor technical assistance activities to the handling
banks to promote the development of small enterprises/entrepreneurs;
and
(d) handle matters related to foreign assistance.
/1 Based on BI Board of Directors' Decision No. 14/5/KEP/DIR/UAO. dated
April 18, 1981 and BI Circular No. 14/1, April 18, 1981.



- 151 -                             ANNE X 15
Page 2 of 6
Article 3
4.        The Desk for Small Credit mentioned in Article 1 (g) above has
the following principal tasks:
(a) formulate policies to promote small enterprises/entrepreneurs
through extension of credits by the handling banks;
(b) formulate stipulations concerning credits to small enterprises/
entrepreneurs, especially KIK/KMKP, and stipulations relating to
credits based on feasibility with light collateral and light
self-finance from the customers;
(c) study and develop credit schemes especially for priority projects,
including implementation of required surveys;
(d) monitor and analyze the growth of credits to small enterprises/
entrepreneurs;
(e) implement and administer liquidity credits required by the handling
banks; and
(f) deal with matters related to credit insurance.
5.        Circular NO. 14/1 - Miscellaneous dated April 18, 1981, regarding
the organization of Bank Indonesia (clarifying the principal tasks of the Desk
for Small Enterprise Development and the Desk for Small Credit, Credit
Department) stipulates that:
The Desk for Small Enterprise Development
6.        The detailed tasks of the Desk for Small Enterprise Development
are as follows:
(a) Prepare and submit suggestions to the Board of Directors regarding
policies to promote the development of small enterprises/entrepre-
neurs through technical assistance to the handling banks.
(b) Improve the approach of the banking system in promoting the
extension of credit to small enterprises/entrepreneurs,
especially KIK/KMKP, through:
(i) project identification, studies and surveys;
(ii) education, training and seminars; and
(iii) pilot projects.



- 152 -
ANNEX 15
Page 3 of 6
(c) Manage and monitor technical assistance activities to the handling
banks to promote development of small enterprises/entrepreneurs,
especially by:
(i) studying the needs, monitoring the development and
coordinating the activities of the Sections for Small
Enterprise Development (SPPKs);
(ii) recruiting, organizing and supervising the activities of
advisors, experts and consultants and Bank staff attached
to the Sections for Small Enterprise Development; and
(iii) preparing project budget estimates.
(d) Handle matters related to foreign assistance, especially by:
(i) carrying out correspondence and preparing documents as
required for discussions and negotiations with foreign
assistance institutions, including necessary follow-up
activities;
(ii) managing, administering and implementing foreign
assistance; and
(iii) preparing required reports.
7.        In the above context, Sections for Small Enterprise Development have
been established at the following BI branch offices: Surabaya covering East
Java Province; Semarang covering Central Java Province; Padang covering West
Sumatra Province; Ujung Pandang covering South Sulawesi Province; Denpasar
covering Bali Province and Lombok Island Region in West Musa Tenggara
Province; Banjarmasin covering South Kalimantan and Central Kalimantan
Provinces; Bandung covering West Java Province not including Bogor, Tangerang
and Bekasi Regencies; Medan covering North Sumatra Province; and Yogyakarta
covering the special region of Yogyakarta. Sections for Small Enterprise
Development have the following tasks:
(a) Improve the approach of the banking system in their work
regions in promoting the extension of credit to the small
enterprises/entrepreneurs, especially KIK/KMKP, through:
(i) project identification and field surveys; and
(ii) study, investigation and preparation of pilot projects.
(b) Assisting in the implementation of education, training and
seminar programs and staff development in their work regions,
in the form of:



- 153 -
ANNEX. 15
Page 4 of 6
(i) on-the-job training of Bank staff attached to the section
for Small Enterprise Development as well as
(ii) studying the education/training needs of the region, and
monitoring implementation.
(c) Monitoring implementation of projects mentioned in point (a)
above.
(d) Reporting its activities to the Head Office, including
recommendations as necessary.
8.        The head of the Section for Small Enterprise Development at the
branch offices is directly responsible to the head of the local Bank Indonesia
branch.
9.        To facilitate the implementation of its tasks, this section is
assisted by consultants/experts and by Bank staff seconded from the handling
banks.
10.       To serve the above mentioned functions in the special capital
district of Greater Jakarta and in Bogor, Tangerang and Bekasi Regencies
(i.e., in the Jabotabek Region), there has been established at the Desk for
Small Enterprise Development, Credit Department in the Head Office, a
special section called: "Jabotabek Section for Small Enterprise
Development." The detailed tasks of this section are similar to the
detailed tasks of the sections for Small Enterprise Development of the
branch offices. The head of the Jabotabek section for Small Enterprise
Development is directly responsible to the head of the Desk for Small
Enterprise Development. As in the case of the branch offices, the Jabotabek
Section for Small Enterprise Development is assisted by consultant/experts
and by Bank staff seconded from the handling banks.
The Desk for Small Credit
11.       The detailed tasks of the Desk for Small Credit are as follows:
(a) Prepare and submit suggestions to the Board of Directors
regarding policies to promote the development of small
enterprises/entrepreneurs through extension of credit by the
handling banks, especially KIK/KMKP and credit based on
feasibility, light collateral and light self-finance from
the customers.
(b) Formulate stipulations concerning credits to small enterprises/
entrepreneurs, especially KIK/KMKP and credits based on



- 154 -
ANNEX 15
Page 5 of 6
feasibility, light collateral and light self-finance from the
customers.
(c) Study the development credit schemes especially for priority
projects, including implementation of required surveys.
(d) Monitor and analyze the growth of credits to small
enterprises/entrepreneurs.
(e) Implement and administer liquidity credits required by
the handling banks.
(f) Deal with matters related to credit insurance.
(g) Study and evaluate applications for and administer extension of
liquidity credits for KIK/KMKP and for credits
based on feasibility, light collateral and light self-finance
from the customers, as submitted by the handling banks in the
special capital district of Greater Jakarta, and in Serang,
Pandeglang, Lebak, Tangerang, Bogor, Karawang and Bekasi
Regencies.
12.       As for the section for credit or Section for Small Credit at the
branch offices involved in the extension of credit to small enterprises/
entrepreneurs, especially KIK/KMKP and credit based on feasibility, light
collateral and light customer self-finance, the tasks are as follows:
(a) Monitor implementation and make suggestions to the head
office concerning credit stipulations for small enterprise/
entrepreneurs.
(b) Monitor and resolve problems which arise in relation to
the extension of credit to small enterprise/entrepreneurs.
(c) Study, make proposals and arrange the implementation of
credit schemes especially for the purpose of priority projects,
including implementation of required surveys.
(d) Monitor and analyze the growth of credit to small enterprises/
entrepreneurs.
(e) Implement and administer liquidity credits required by the handling
banks.
13.       In the above context, correspondence from the branch offices
mentioned to the head office will be carried out as follows:



-155 -                                 ANNEX 15
Page 6 of 6
- Correspondence concerning the Small Enterprise Development
Project is addressed to the Desk for Small Enterprise Development
with copy to the Desk for Small Credit.
- Correspondence concerning implementation of KIK/KMKP and
feasibility credit is addressed to the desk for Small Credit
with copy to the Desk for Small Enterprise Development.
AEP Projects Department
April 27, 1981



- 156 -                 ANNEX 16
INDONESIA
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Statements of Expenditures
1.        As in SEDP I, statements of expenditures would form the basis
for disbursing the IBRD loan proceeds under SEDP II. The Desk for Small
Enterprise Development at BI would prepare the statements and disburse-
ments would be made by the Bank covering 20% of amounts disbursed by BI
to handling banks for eligible KIK lending under the project.
2.        Loan-by-loan documentation on which statements would be based
consist of, inter alia, documents indicating individual handling banks'
KIK loan approvals by branches, disbursements, official invoices, credit
agreements with subborrowers (Surat Perjanjian Kredit or SPK) and other
related documents showing that equivalent amounts had been disbursed to
subborrowers.
3.        Documents mentioned in para. 2 above would be prepared and
maintained at the concerned branches of handling banks and would be made
available for review by the Bank.
AEP Projects Department
May 5, 1981



- 157 -                                                   CHART NO. I
INDONESIA
BANK INDONESIA CREDIT DEPARTMENT
DESK FOR SMALL CREDITS
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
T.
Credit Analysis  |      N on-AgriculItu ral         Agricultu ral          R DBS-KlI KN/KeMtKi P        Liquidity                   Special
and Development,           rdt'asl                  Credi, 'Massal            and Insurance                Cei                        rjc
Section                  Section                  Section                   Section                  for OKI                    Section
j   Cooperatives  l  l    Trade and   l        |   Tobacco                    National                Applications              Smallholder
Mini Credit                Markets                  Products                  Private                 from BR I,                  Export
Mini Credit  Markets            Products                 ~~~Banks                BNI 46, BBD                Commodity
Statistical Date              Land                                             Regional                 Applications                Rurai
Transport       ~~Agro-industries          Development                 from BEll.Crdi
|    An alysis    q     Transport          _  AgrBanks                                              BDN, Bapindo                Project
Data           ~~~Motor Boats             Agricultural             PT AskrindoBugtLn
SEDP, EEC                  'Trawl                  Poultry andComrilSealBn
Project      Fishing               ~~~Small Animal           BomanBrachealSSpecialatC ank
LivestockBakBaceScatrt
Construction              PUTP/PUSP
Materials and   I            PUTB                                                                       'Kelayakan' 
Other Products              Livestock                                                                    Credit
l I        l       |    ~~~~~~Projects J                                                                          I
IrFood, Textile,         
and Leather             Transmigration
Products
Metal and                Sugarcane
Ll Chemical                  P Sgrojcane
Products     l     1     Poet 
AEP Projects Department
February 23, 1981                                                                                                                   World Bank- 22342



- 158 -
CHART Nc. 2
INDONESIA
BANK INDONESIA CREDIT DEPARTMENT
DESK FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF SMALL BUSINESS
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
0eek Che.f
Deeptt  Chief DK 
1  ooty Chief                                                D.ep.  Chief                                                            DepuV Chief
n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U                                                                                      S    i.    .        . 
Coordi nati on     Adm i nistration      Coord in ation      Coordi natiogn      Adm i nitration      Adtni n ietrati on   Coord ination         Pla nn ing          Coo rdi nati on      Processing
5)  2)              131                  151                  171                t2Sf                  151                 t                    (3)                 14)
AEP Prolont- Depotment
Fnbroar 2. 1931                                                                                                                                                                                           WPodd Bank - 22344



- 159 -
CHART NO. 3
INDONESIA
BANK INDONESIA REGIONAL BRANCH (CENTRAL JAVA)
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
Reio-al B-rch M n..er 
C-odinrton a-or    J-
.nd Jogi.k.,t.
R.P. Soed-m
.                                _            Deputr aranc~~~~'h ManaWr 
|   eptv Branc  M ...g., 11
|M. Kurdi
M.T. N         Mibiho
M.T. Neibeho       R         Bolwr        S    r    iec       t      Mrr. Loekmneoa          MrrLpr,kmono .     .      .. R Slmroen          R.E. Necoro,,            M. Siahaan               W. Sudarto             W. Sudarto|
AEP Prolocta DePartorent
Febuaerp 2. t9B1
WVorld Bank - 22345t






- 160 -
INDONESIA
BANK INDONESIA ORGANIZATIONAL CHART                                                                                                                                             ARN.4
CHART .NO. 4
G: .                                                     ssNORCa
l   l      CREDIT                                                                                                 o l   l   l   l  l   |    r   t  s ADMINISC- ATION
LOA                    PNNING                   E         L             REIGN                                       -N.  PER                   AN                INTERNAL                 .UD ET               ECONOMICS               PE RONNEL              GENERL                  O     E                   N    AND
m   L  {t.   =  1Oun  X  Lx  ::  Lw   Le  X  X  < X] <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CAIALLEA
DEFADTMENT             AND CREDIT           DEFUOTMENT                FO-NE                  -C E      VT SCEORGANIZATICN                                         CONTOTOL               DEPARTMENT            AN-OAOCNTICS            DEPARTM ENT                                     THERC.A..
,UE-IS ON G                                  -DEARTME NT               D TM T                EPATMENT               DEATENT                                                               - -                                             P M  -GT DEPA ET     DEPARTMN  T  DA          A     E 
DEPA-TMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DPRMN
gF-iUm                                                                                                                                                                                           RDIR,0R_,
CO.RERiR                                                 0 ,EDRO7 O-R
PROROROCO  CodE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    RONARE                  00,10~~~~~~~~~OR
_    DmnOsrR               dDOR             r oooOa                      OR,ARR                OOAO _s   DlvlJ0I0R suOerO,s,En           |PAPE                                                                                                                                                                                          00TllDonDvao  1 O
Dso                                           Rgton                                          Asstts r  -  -  -  -                                                                                                                    F PR-cesin- hn
Ck'OR                             t L                                                                                  F P     -  -  -
Desf-  I-nliTc I                                                                                                                     LA  G.n
L                      prl                                                                                                                    De.u_____2 Xmnto  |Dvso  
-.11~O E-,       I        O                  -- 0100                  opoR000000000RION00COIO 
-`G- ~        ~         ~          ok r ror  ---                                                     | .lin          lr~-_
r  -  -  -  -                                                                                                                                                                                                   r --O------ntl    FS f
Smalt~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~,EO                                                                        COedOt                 ROA                                          GEbI                                                                    DOInO                                        O  C O DI AN  ORlp
AEP P,.i-.                                                                                                                                          __ePnENT- v E QPFF Cl
Febru-2 1981                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               odBn-?4



I



'F  e ',   . .         : .,        ,  ,   
-    > _
uoo 
2,   ~         <  
! ~~~~~;                                           ( g2    =:                    -ft e %, D  < 1 
-1
;;  :    t )   ,         ;  ,\     X L- i> D; 2    <        ->      -/
: X, ~tOl                               :                                   Eit  F  z    !   
,t , D ; --,  A _ .  0    0<             Z                      '  
0          '- .'                                                  8  4,,,,2  >
gis 0                                   SI  9                    0i >S
o   o  Bt                 o'K.             Jo     if 
I                -    Z
_    ,        j              otC    _
T~~~~~
,W~~~~~~9 
770) 4                                   ~~~~~~~~
fAPL, NEWG -AE



