CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 548 EGT
Development Credit
Agreement
(Telecommunication Project)
BETWEEN
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 16, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 548 EGT
Development Credit
Agreement
(Telecommunication Project)
BETWEEN
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 16, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 16, 1975, between the ARAB REPUBLIC OF
EGYPT (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Borrower has undertaken to make arrangements for obtaining
additional financing from other sources in an amount equivalent to thirty-six million
five hundred thousand dollars ($36,500,000) to meet the foreign exchange cost
of the Project;
(C)   The Project will be carried out by the Arab Republic of Egypt
Telecommunication Organization (hereinafter called ARETO) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
ARETO the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(D)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and ARETO;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:


﻿4
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and ARETO of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ARETO pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(c)   "Egyptian Pounds" or the sign and letter "ZE" mean pounds in the
currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE H
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty million dollars ($30,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts for
the purchase of goods or for the carrying out of works or services for the Project
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be awarded in accordance
with the provisions set forth or referred to in Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1978 or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05.. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 15 and
October 15 in each year.


﻿5
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing
October 15, 1985 and ending April 15, 2025, each installment to and including
the installment payable on April 15, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principai amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Chairman of the Board of ARETO is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the piovisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement
and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Cre.lt Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
ARETO to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement
and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take
and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable ARETO to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to ARETO under
a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and ARETO
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, such terms and conditions shall
include the following:
(i)        the principal amount of the loan repayable by ARETO shall
be the equivalent in Egyptian Pounds (determined as of the date,
or the respective dates, of repayment) of the value of the
currency or currencies withdrawn from the Credit Account
expressed in terms of United States dollars at the time of
withdrawal;
(ii)       the loan will be repaid by ARETO to the Borrower in thirty-four
semi-annual installments over twenty years (including three years
of grace); and


﻿6
(iii)      interest shall be charged at the rate of seven per cent (7%) per
annum plus a Ministry of Finance charge of one and one-half
per cent (1-1/2%) per annum on the outstanding balance of the
loan.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section
3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall make available to the Egyptian
Telephone Company such amounts in foreign exchange as shall be required for
the importation of manufacturing equipment and tools, raw materials and
components and other items required to increase said Company's production to
such a level as shall meet the requirements of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall take and cause to be taken from time to time all necessary measures (including
but not limited to adjustments of the tariffs of the telecommunication services
of ARETO) as shall be required to enable ARETO: (i) to comply with the provisions
of Section 4.03 of the Project Agreement; and (ii) to increase its revenues per
exchange line pursuant to Section 4.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all measures
necessary for the settlement and payment of all outstanding debts owed to ARETO
up to December 31, 1974, by the ministries, departments and agencies of the
Borrower, for past services rendered. To that end the Borrower: (i) shall, in
conjunction with ARETO, complete not later than June 30, 1976, or such other
date as shall be agreed with the Association, the identification of all such debts;
and (ii) shall pay, or cause to be paid, to ARETO, not later than December 31,
1977, or such other date as shall be agreed with the Association, the deb4s so
identified.
(b)   The Borrower shall pay, and shall cause each of its ministries,
departments and agencies to pay, all their future debts to ARETO for services
rendered or to be rendered within three months after the date of billing.


﻿7
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   ARETO shall have failed to perform   any covenant, agreement or
obligation of ARETO under the Project Agreement.
(b)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that ARETO will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(c)   Presidential Decree No. 709 of the Year 1957 of the Borrower shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as
to, in the judgment of the Association, materially and adversely affect the ability
of ARETO to carry out the covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in
the Project Agreement.
(d)   1.   Subject to subparagraph (2) of this paragraph:
(A)   The right of the Borrower or ARETO to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan made to the Borrower or
ARETO for the financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing therefor,
or
(B)   Any such loan shall have become due and payable prior
to the agreed maturity thereof.
2.    Subparagraph (1) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower or ARETO to perform
any of its obligations under such agreement, and (B) adcquate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower, or ARETO
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement and of
ARETO under the Project Agreement.


﻿8
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)  the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and ARETO; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraph (c) and paragraph (d)1.(B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)  the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
ARETO have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action;
(b)   the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and ARETO, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action; and
(c)  the Borrower or ARETO shall have obtained financing in an amount
equivalent to thirty-six million five hundred thousand dollars ($36,500,000), to
meet the foreign exchange cost of the Project, under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Association.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, ARETO, and is legally binding upon
ARETO in accordance with its terms; and
(b)  That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and ARETO,
and is legally binding upon the Borrower and ARETO in accordance with its terms.


﻿9
Section 6.03. The date August 14, 1975 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12 04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01 and
4.02(b) of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraph (c) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement and those of paragraphs (b) of Section 5.02 of this Agreement
shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Chairman of the Government Agency for Arab and
International Economic Cooperation of the Borrower is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Government Agency for Arab and
International Economic Cooperation
Abbasiah Square
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address:                              Telex:
Government Agency for Arab and              348
International Economic                 GAFEC
Cooperation
Abbasiah Square
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿10
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By /s / Ashraf A. Ghorbal
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATTON
By /s / Munir P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of imported items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and the allocation of amounts of the Credit
to each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                        Dollar Equivalent)
(1)   Telephone cables                                     20,500,000
(2)   Gas pressurization and                                1,000,000
other cable equipment
(3)   Telex exchanges                                       3,500,000
(4)   Unallocated                                           5,000,000
TOTAL         30,0000
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods or services
supplied from, the territory of the Borrower;
(b)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(c)   payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower
on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof.
3.    Notwithstanding the allocation of ar amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be


﻿12
insufficient to finance all expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by
notice to the Borrower, reallocate to such Category to the extent required to meet
such estimated shortfall proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another
Category and which in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet
other expenditures.
4.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is a part of ARETO's 1975-1977 telecommunications program,
described in the Annex to this Schedule, for phased replacement of old worn-out
local exchange equipment and defective cables, and expansion of local and long
distance telecommunication facilities. The Project consists of the following parts:
(A)   Installation of 118,200 lines of local automatic exchange equipment
and 5,800 lines of manual exchange equipment together with subscriber
and inter-exchange telephone cables for connection of 108,000 direct
exchange lines.
(B)   Replacement of 14,000 lines of automatic exchange equipment, 22,500
lines of manual exchange equipment (by automatic exchanges) and
defective telephone cables.
(C)   Installation of 160,000 telephone instruments and other subscriber
facilities including Private Manual and Automatic Branch Exchanges
(PBXs and PABXs).
(D)  Installation of 3,440 lines of telex exchanges and 2,500 teleprinters.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 1977.


﻿14
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Telecommunications Program
1975-1977
A.   LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE
1.   Installation of 118,200 lines of local automatic exchange equipment
and 5,800 lines of manual exchange equipment together with subscriber
and inter-exchange telephone cables for connection of 108,000 direct
exchange lines.
2.   Replacement of 14,000 lines of automatic exchange equipment, 22,500
lines of manual exchange equipment (by automatic exchanges) and
defective telephone cables.
3.   Installation of 160,000 telephone instruments and other subscriber
facilities including Private Manual and Automatic Branch Exchanges
(PBXs and PABXs).
B. TELEX SER VICE
Installation of 3,440 lines of telex exchanges and 2,500 teleprinters.
C. NATIONAL LONG-DISTANCE SER VICE
1.   Installation of the following coaxial cable systems:
(a)  Cairo-Alexandria, standard 6-tube;
(b)  Cairo-Suez, small 4-tube;
(c)  Damyat-Mansura, small 2-tube; and
(d)  Port Said - Ismailia-Suez, small 4-tube.
2.   Installation of 20 open-wire carrier systems.
3.   Installation of 4,600 lines of trunk automatic exchange equipment in
12 exchanges.
4.   Installation of 320 manual trunk boards.


﻿15
5.   Installation of 1,500 long-distance public call offices.
D. INTERNATIONAL SER VICE
1.   Installation of an earth station for 72 direct circuits and 24 "spade"
circuits.
2.   Installation of 800 lines of international telephone exchange.
3.    Installation of 320 lines of international telex exchange.
E.   MISCELLANEOUS ITEMS
1.   Vehicles.
2.    Air-conditioning Equipment and Lifts.
3.    Training and consultancy.


