CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 548 EGT
Project Agreement
(Telecommunication Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT TELECOMMUNICATION ORGANIZATION
DATED MAY 16, 1975


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 16, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and ARAB
REPUBLIC OF EGYPT TELECOMMUNICATION ORGANIZATION (hereinafter
called ARETO).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between the Arab Republic of Egypt (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty million dollars ($30,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that ARETO agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and ARETO, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to ARETO on the terms
and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS ARETO, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ARETO shall carry out the Project described in Schedule 2
to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices.


﻿4
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts for
the purchase of goods or for the carrying out of works or services for the Project
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be awarded in accordance
with the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) ARETO undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit relent to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
ARETO to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, ARETO shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by
the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) ARETO shall furnish to the Association promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   ARETO: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress
of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower, and to
disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the
provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the Association's representatives
to visit the facilities included in the Project, and to examine the goods financed
out of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish
to the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so relent
to it and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c)   ARETO shall afford all reasonable opportunity for representatives and
the Association to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property
and equipment of ARETO and any relevant records and documents for purposes
related to the Credit.
Section 2.05. ARETO shall duly perform all its obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
ARETO shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.


﻿5
Section 2.06. (a) ARETO shall, at the request of the Association, exchange
views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   ARETO shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes or threatens to it.*erfere with, the progress of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by ARETO
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ARETO
Section 3.01. (a) ARETO shall at all times manage its affairs, maintain its
financial position, plan its future expansion and carry out its operation, all in
accordance with sound administrative, financial and public utility practices and
under the supervision of experienced and competent management.
(b)   Without limiting the generality of Sub-section (a) of this Section, and
in order to ensure the formulation of optimum development plans within its
resources, ARETO shall take measures satisfactory to the Association to strengthen
its Planning Department and to improye the coordination of activities among all
the units of said Department.
Section 3.02. ARETO shall operate and maintain its plants, equipment and
property and from time to time make all necessary renewals and repairs thereof,
all in accordance with appropriate engineering standards.
Section 3.03. ARETO shall prepare in consultation with the Association,
not later than March 31, 1976 or such other date as shall be agreed with the
Association, and thereafter carry out, a plan for the advanced training of its senior
accounting staff.
Section 3.04. ARETO shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. ARETO shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.


﻿6
Section 4.02. ARETO shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information o, -ering the accounts
and financial statements of ARETO and the audit thereof as 's Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall othct    agree, ARETO
shall take such measures, within its powers, as shall be necessay. or appropriate
(including but not limited to adjustments of its tariffs) to enable T: (A) to cover
its operating costs including depreciation; (B) to meet interest on, and to amortize,
its debt; (C) to maintain adequate working capital; (D) to establish and maintain
reserves adequate to meet contingencies; and (E) to finance a reasonable portion
of its capital expenditures, including the replacement of assets.
(b)   To meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this Section, ARETO
shall take all measures necessary, on its part, to ensure that it shall earn an annual
rate of return of not less than 11% on the value of ARETO's net fixed assets
in operation properly valued in accordance with methods satisfactory to the
Association.
(c)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         the annual rate of return shall be calculated in respect of each
fiscal year by relating net income for that year to the average
of the net value of fixed assets in operation at the beginning
and at the end of that year;
(ii)         the term  "net income" means all telecommunications revenues
less all operating expenses;
(iii)       the term "operating expenses" includes direct cost of operation,
administration, overhead and adequate maintenance expenses;
straight-line depreciation based on the useful life of the assets;
taxes (if any), but does not include interest and other charges
on debt; and


﻿7
(iv)        the term "net value of fixed assets in operation" means the gross
value of fixed assets in operation less the accumulated
depreciation, all determined in accordance with methods of
valuation and revaluation acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.04. In order to ensure the adequacy of its revenues per exchange
line, ARETO shall: (i) review its tariff structure and subscribers' regulation and
furnish to the Association not later than June 30, 1976 or such other date as
shall be agreed with the Association, the findings of said review; (ii) prepare, on
the basis of said findings and in consultation with the Association, proposals in
respect of the level of revenues per exchange line; and (iii) thereafter, take all
measures, within its power, as shall be necessary to maintain su;h revenues at the
proposed level.
Section 4.05. ARETO shall, not later than December 31, 1976, or such other
date as shall be agreed with the Association: (i) complete the revaluation of its
fixed assets in accordance with sound valuation principles for telecommunication
operations satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) incorporate the results of said
revaluation in its accounts.
Section 4.06. ARETO shall take all action necessary on its part (i) to ensure
the completion, pursuant to Section 4.02(a) of the Development Credit Agreement,
of the identification of all debts owed to it by the ministries, departments and
agencies of the Borrower; and. (ii) to ensure that said ministries, departments and
agencies shall pay all their future debts to ARETO for services rendered or to
be rendered within three months after the billing date pursuant to Section 4.02(b)
of the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of ARETO thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or


﻿A
8
(ii)       a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify ARETO of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For ARETO:
Arab Republic of Egypt Telecommunication
Organization
Ramses Street, Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address:                                     Telex:
GENTEL                                             2100 RADMISR
CAIRO


﻿9
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of ARETO may be taken or executed by the Chairman of the Board of ARETO
or such other person or persons as the Chairman of the Board shall designate in
writing.
Section 6.03. ARETO shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of ARETO, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by ARETO pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Munir P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
TELECOMMUNICATION ORGANIZATION
By /s / Ashraf A. Ghorbal
Authorized Representative


﻿I
10
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.    Contracts shall be let under procedures consistent with those set forth in
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.    1. Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, ARETO shall furnish to the Association, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, ARETO shall, before a
final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the
bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the intended
award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review, a
detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendation for award and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
ARETO and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, ARETO shall furnish to the


﻿11
Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with
the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as
the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform ARETO and state the reasons for such determination.


