Report No. 1431a-MOR
Appraisal of Doukkala Il Irrigation
Project Kingdom of Morocco                                                               FILE COPY
April 12, 1977
Projects Department
Europe, Middfe East and North Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the Worid Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                    -   Dirham (DH)
DII 1                            -   US$0.227
DH 1,000                         -   US$227
DH 1,000,000                     -   US$227,273
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 millimeter (mm)                -   0.039 inches (in)
1 meter (m)                      -   39 inches (in)
i kilometer (km)                 -   0.62 miles (mi)
i hectare (ha)                   -   2.47 acres (ac)
i square meter (m2)              -   10.76 square feet (ft2)
1 cubic meter (m )               -   35.31 cubic feet (ft )
1 liter (1)                      -   0.264 US gallons (gal)
1 hectoliter (hl)                -   26.4 US gallons (gal)
1 kilogram (kg)                  -   2.205 nouinds (1b)
1 metric ton (ton)               -   2,205.00 pounds (lb)
1 bar                            -   14.666 pounds/square inch (psi)
GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FISCAL YEAR
JANUARY 1 - DECEMBER 31



FOR OFFIuIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
BNDE - National Development Bank
(Banque Nationale de. Développement Economique)
CLCA - Local Agricultural Credit Bank
(Caisse Locale de Crédit Agricole)
CMV - Development Center
(Centre de Mise en Valeur)
CNCA - National Agricultural Credit Bank
(Caisse Nationale de Crédit Agricole)
COMAGRI - Moroccan Agricultural Company
(Compagnie Marocaine d'Agriculture)
COMAPRA - Moroccan Company for Marketing of Agricultural Products
(Compagnie Marocaine de Commercialisation desProduits Agricoles)
CP - FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program
CRCA - Regional Agricultural Credit Bank
(Caisse Régionale de Crédit Agricole)
DRA - Directorate of Agricultural Research
(Direction de la Recherche Agronomique)
FERTIMA - Government Fertilizer Distribution Agency
(Société Marocaine des Fertilisants)
MARA - Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
(Ministère de l'Agriculture et de la Réforme Agraire)
MTPC - Ministry of Public Works and Communications
(Ministêre des Travaux Publics et des Communications)
OCE - Export Trade Company
(Office de Commercialisation et Exportation)
ONE - National Power Authority
(Office National de l'Electricité)
This document hm à rutr1ctd distribution and may be uwd by recipihnts only in the performance
of their ofcia dutie. 1c ontenu may not otherwlse be diacled without World Bnk authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS - Continued
ONICL - Grain and Pulses Marketing Agency
(Office National Interprofessionnel des Céréales et Légumineuses)
ORMVA - Regional Agricultural Development Office
(Office Régional de Mise en Valeur Agricole)
ORMVAD - Regional Agricultural Development Office Doukkala
(Office Régional de Mise en Valeur Agricole des Doukkala)
ORSTOM - Overseas Research Institute
(Office de Recherches Scientifiques et Techniques d'Outre-Mer)
SCAM - Moroccan Agricultural Marketing Society
(Société de Commercialisation Agricole Marocaine)
SCET International - Consulting Company
(Société Centrale pour l'Equipement du Territoire (International)



APPRAISAL OF
DOUKKALA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUIRfIARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ................................                 i - ii
I.    INTRODUCTION  ....... ................             ....................
II.    THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ................................
A.    Description .......................................1
B.    Bank Involvement in the Agricultural  Sector .......                      3
III.    PROJECT AREA AND NATIONAL INSTITUTIONS  .................                        4
A.    The Area ..........................................                       4
B.    Natural Resources  .................................                      5
C.    Water Demand,  Supply, and Quality ....               .............       5
D.    Land Tenure, Land Use and Agricultural Production .                       6
E.    Development Institutions in Agriculture ....               .......        6
IV.    THE PROJECT ............................................                        8
A.    Description .......................................                       8
B.    Construction Schedule and Status of Engineering   ...                     9
C.    Cost Estimates  ....................................                     10
D.   Financing .........................................                       10
E.    Procurement  .......................................                     12
F.    Disbursement  ......................................                     13
G.    Retroactive Financing  .............................                     13
H.    Environînental Impact  ..............................                   13
V.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .................................                       14
A.    Organization and Management  .......................                    14
B.    Operation and Maintenance  .........................                    15
C.    Services  ..........................................                    16
D.    Land Consolidation ................................                     18
E.    Recovery of Project Cost ..........................                     18
F.    Monitoring ........................................                     20
G.    Accounts and Audit ................................                     21



TABLE OF CONTEliTS (Continued)                                     Page No.
VI.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .............................     21
A.   Production   ..................  .......  *...... .....................  21
B.  Markets, Marketing and Prices .....................     22
C.  Farmers  Income  ....................................   23
D.   Economic  Benefits   .......................  ...........  24
VII.   AGREE-lENTS REACHED AlD RECOIMENDATIONS .............. ...  26
AINEXES
1  Results in Existing Irrigated Areas
Table 1  Average Yields Obtained
Table 2  Evolution of Yields and Cropping Pattern in
Response to Sprinkler Irrigation
Table 3  Yield and Cropping Pattern Build-up in a Gravity
Irrigated Area Mianaged by OP14VAD (2,700 ha)
Table 4  Full Development Yields and Economic Return
Table 5  Value of Net Incremental Production
2  Natural Resources
Table i  Climatic Data
3  Irrigation Wlater Requirements (Table)
4  Land Tenure
5  Agricultural Supporting Services and Crop Production
Table 1  Present Land Use in Area Managed by ORMIVAD
Table 2  Cultivated Area, Crop Yield, and Production
With and Without the Project
Table 3  Farm Inputs per Hectare With and Without the Project
6  Animal Production
Table 1  Feed Available for Livestock at Full Production per Farm
Table 2  Livestock - Projected Cattle Numbers, Technical
Coefficients, Production (10 farms of 4 ha)
Table 3  Livestock - Production Cost and Investment for 4 ha Farm
7  Markets, Marketing and Prices
Table 1  Markets
Table 2   1976 Economic and Financial Prices for Farm Output
Table 3  Economic and Financial Prices for Farm Inputs



ANNEXES (Continued)
8  Agricultural Credit
Table 1  Agricultural Loans Advanced in the Province of El Jadida
Table 2  Use of Agricultural Loans Advanced in Region of Project
Table 3  Medium-term Credit Requirements and Investment per Farm
Table 4   Total Incremental Agricultural Credit Requirements
9   Project Description
Table 1  Typical Cost of CMV and Village Center
Table 2  Road Improvement Program
10   Schedule of Activities (Chart #16886)
11  Cost Estimate (Table)
12   Schedule of Expenditures
13  Procurement
Table 1 Procurement
14  Disbursement Schedule (Table)
15  Table 1 Operating Costs/Salaries
Table 2 Operating Costs/Vehicles
Table 3 Maintenance, Replacement and Power Costs
16   Farm Models and Budgets
Table 1  Cropping Patterns and Cultivated Hectares
Table 2   Farm Budget, Crop Operating Costs and Returns
Table 3  Farm Budget, Livestock Operating Costs and Returns
Table 4   Farm Sources and Application of Funds - 1.6 ha Farm
Table 5  Farm Sources and Application of Funds - 4.0 ha Farn
Table 6   Farm Sources and Application of Funds - 12.0 ha Farm
Table 7  Farm Sources and Application of Funds - 24.0 ha Farm
17   Cost and Benefit Recovery
Table 1  Proposed Rent and Cost Recovery Indices
Table 2  Alternative Rent and Cost Recovery Indices
Table 3  Distribution of Project Benefits
18  Monitoring and Evaluation
19  Economic Analysis
Table 1  Project Econonic Benefits and Costs
Table 2   Value of Production Net of Farm Inputs
Table 3   Farmers Income
Table 4   Equivalence Between Economic Costs of Investnent and
Total Project Cost
20   Enploynent



CHARTS
16781   Organization of ILRA
16782   Organization of ORMVAD
16783   "Trame B" Irrigation Layout
MAPS
IBRD 12561R
IBRD 12791
l



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA Il IRRIGATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Morocco has an area of 51 million ha and a population of 16.7 mil-
lion which is increasing at a rate of 2.9% per year. Agriculture contributes
about 25% of GDP; about one-half of the labor force is employed in agricul-
ture, and agricultural exports account for 25% of the total. Agricultural
exports have declined while the value of agricultural imports has increased
during the 1973-1975 period, due to a combination of lagging production, poor
weather, sagging demand abroad, and higher prices for agricultural imports.
This has resulted in an agricultural trade deficit of US$123 million in 1975
following an average US$190 million agricultural trade surplus during the
period 1970-1974.
ii.       Morocco's Third Development Plan (1973-1977) emphasizes improvement
of the trade balance of agricultural products, increased agricultural produc-
tion and farm income, and reduction in income inequalities.  The plan aims to
accelerate expansion of areas farmed under irrigation and to intensify invest-
ment and services in rainfed areas. The proposed Doukkala II Irrigation
Project, along with the adjacent Doukkala I Project would contribute to the
realization of these objectives by producing export and import substitute
products in an area with considerable agricultural potential, but constrained
by lack of rainfall. Rainfed projects are planned for areas of Morocco which
have more plentiful rainfall. The Government of Morocco has requested
a Bank loan to help finance the project.
iii.      Bank Group lending to Morocco for agriculture started in 1965 and
consists of nine loans and one credit totalling US$272 millon. Problems in
the implementation of projects and disbursements thus far have been resolved
satisfactorily.
iv.       The project would provide sprinkler irrigation and supporting ser-
vices for 16,600 ha in the Doukkala perimeter. It would directly benefit a
farming population of 20,000 persons.  Water would be obtained from the Oum Er
R'Bia River in conformity with the Oum Er R'Bia Water Masterplan. To improve
quality of life and create an improved rural environment, the project would
also provide village infrastructure.
v.        The Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MARA) with the
assistance of other Government agencies would be responsible for project imple-
mentation. MARA's Regional Agricultural Development Office for the Doukkala
(ORMVAD) would be charged with planning, design, construction, operation and
maintenance, and agricultural services. The Ministry of Public Works would
be responsible for the implementation of the roads construction program.



- ji -
vi.       Total project costs are estimated at US$121.0 million with a foreign
exchange component of US$46.5 million. The proposed Bank loan (US$41 million)
would finance approximately 88% of the foreign exchange costs. The National
Agricultural Credit Bank (CNCA) would provide credit for farm development in
an amount equal to US$3.2 million, and the Government would finance the
remaining foreign and local costs (US$76.8 million). Construction would
start in 1977 and would be completed in 1982. Total value of the works and
equipment, including contingencies, that would be procured under international
competitive bidding amount to US$71.9 million. Goods and services financed
through the proposed Bank loan would be procured in accordance with Bank
Guidelines.
vii.      At full development, the project would increase annual production
of main crops as follows: Maize 16,550 tons, sugar beet 211,750 tons, vege-
tables 9,500 tons, cotton 2,450 tons, milk 13,600 tons, and beef 1,550 tons.
Incremental production would be for export or for import substitution. At
full development the annual net incremental production value would amount
to US$14.7 million. The average annual per capita income would increase
from the present low level of US$165 to US$390, compared to a present
absolute poverty level of US$195. The project would assist poor sections
of Morocco's rural population, although at full development average income
of beneficiaries would be below the average national per capita income,
estimated to reach about US$740 in 1990. The rate of return is estimated
at 11.6% which is higher than the opportunity cost of capital in Morocco.
viii.     The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan to the Kingdom of
Morocco. The loan would be repaid over a period of 30 years including 6 1/2
years of grace.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA Il IRRIGATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Kingdom of Morocco has requested a Bank
loan to help finance the foreign exchange component of the US$121.0 million
Doukkala Il Irrigation Project. The proposed project would provide for
development of intensive irrigation on 16,600 net ha in the Doukkala peri-
meter, and would improve living conditions through provision of basic village
infrastructure.
1.02      Development of land and water resources of the Oum Er R'Bia Basin
has been studied on various occasions since 1926 (Map IBRD 12791). At present
some 162,000 ha are irrigated by water from the basin, and the Beni Amir
scheme built in the 1930's is the oldest modern irrigation network. Scarcity
of water resources prompted Government to prepare "Water Resources Masterplans"
with a view to optimize the Oum Er R'Bia water allocation to the four main
consumers: agriculture, potable and industrial water supply, and power. The
latest master plan was prepared in 1973-74 by consultants (SCET International)
with the assistance of the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program. The plan proposed a
three phased construction program: (1) completion of all developments possible
with the existing hydraulic infrastructure; (2) development centered around
construction of the Al Massira Dam at Sidi Cheho, presently under construction
with Bank financing; and (3) development centered around the construction of
the Dechra el Oued Dam for which a feasibility study is underway under the
Doukkala I Loan (Map 12791). The masterplan indicated that the Doukkala I and
Il projects together with rehabilitation of the Beni Amir were the most eco-
nomical development alternatives to meet the Government's Third Plan (1973-77)
objectives listed in para 2.02. Rehabilitation of the Beni Amir perimeter is
now underway within the framework of a project partly financed by the Arab
Fund for Economic and Social Development on the basis of an appraisal report
prepared by the Bank. The proposed Doukkala Il project would be part of the
second phase of the master plan arnd would complete phase one by fully utiliz-
ing all existing irrigation infrastructure. No additional costs will be in-
curred in the construction and operation of the Al l4assira or Dechra el Oued
dams as a result of the Doukkala projects.
1.03      The project was appraised in October 1976 by a Bank mission com-
prising Messrs. H. Laeyendecker, K. Cleaver, and J. Marinet (consultant).
The mission's findings were discussed with Government in Rabat.
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Description
2.01      Morocco has a total land area of 51 million ha of which 7.6 mil-
lion have soils and moisture suitable for crops, and Il million are in semi-
arid regions suitable for grazing. Irrigation covered 750,000 ha in 1975 out



of 1.4 million hectares which are potentially irrigable. Population was
estimated at 16.7 million in 1975 of which two-thirds live in rural areas.
Population growth has equaled 2.9% p.a.; 5.2% p.a. in the urban sector, 1.6%
p.a. in the rural sector, the difference being due to rural-urban migration.
Agriculture contributes about 25% of GDP; about one-half of the labor force
is employed in agriculture, and agricultural exports account for 25% of total
exports. Most of the industrial crops, forage crops, vegetables, and citrus
plantations are under irrigation which provides almost all exports of agri-
cultural products. Rainfed land mainly produces grains, legumes, oilseeds
and grapes.
2.02      Under Morocco's Third Five-Year Plan (1973-1977) agriculture
receives high priority, with major objectives including (a) improvement of
the trade balance of agricultural products, (b) increase in the contribution
of the agricultural sector to economic growth through an increase in farm
output by 3.6% p.a., compared to targeted GDP growth of 7.5% p.a. in constant
prices, (c) increase in farm income, and (d) improvement of the distribution
of income between income groups and regions.
Realization of Plans and Constraints
2.03      Agricultural output (in constant prices) fluctuates annually mainly
because of variations in climatic conditions (for example it increased by 30%
in 1968 and declined by 8% in 1969). During the 1968-1972 Second Plan period
the output of the agricultural sector increased rapidly, leveling off during
the 1973-1975 period. In 1976 agricultural production increased about 10%
over the 1975 level as a result of abundant rainfall. Agricultural exports
which grew steadily during the Second Plan declined in 1975 while agricultural
imports rose. This trend continued in 1976. Domestic agricultural production
has not kept up with increased demand caused by urbanization, income and pop-
ulation growth.
2.04      An important constraint to the achievement of Third Plan objectives
in the agricultural sector is the inability of the Government to mobilize the
resources needed to reach public investment objectives due to the declining
value of phosphate and agricultural exports which are major sources of Govern-
ment revenue. World recession, which has caused reduced demand for Moroccan
exports, is largely responsible for this. Secondly, agricultural sector tar-
gets were optimistic given the scarcity of trained manpower, accentuated by
the departure of European landowners between 1963 and 1973. Thirdly, problems
of land fragmentation, absentee ownership, price distortions, and inadequate
extension, agricultural research, and seed production and distribution con-
strain growth, especially in rainfed areas. Constraints have been less
imposing in irrigated areas as a result of a larger allocation of public
resources permitting higher quality staff, better extension and organization,
as well as a successful land consolidation program.
2.05      Land distribution is unequal, and at least 35% of farm families
live below the poverty level. A modest agrarian reform was to improve this
situation, but thus far its impact on rural poverty has been negligible.
About 4% of landless workers, sharecroppers, and subsistence farmers will
have received land under the program by the end of 1977.



- 3 -
B. Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector
2.06      The Bank has assisted the Government in identifying and overcoming
constraints to agricultural development, largely through assistance in
orienting and designing a wide range of projects, including loans for export-
oriented agro-industries, irrigation, agricultural credit, rainfed projects,
training, and by conducting marketing studies for export crops. Problems are
slowly being solved including the establishment of a new institution respon-
sible for distribution of cereal seed, the establishment of provincial agri-
cultural directors to coordinate the various agricultural departments at the
provincial level, increased water charges and, perhaps most importantly, land
consolidation in irrigated areas. Extension services and research activity
are being improved in projects wit:h which the Bank is associated. The results
of a recent Bank agricultural sector study in l4orocco will be discussed with
the Moroccan Government with the objective of assisting in the resolution of
problems. As a result of expected problem resolution, along with the coming
onstream of more irrigation and rainfed projects, Moroccan agriculture should
grow more rapidly than in the past: three years, but will continue to be
constrained by water shortages and lack of additional cultivable land.
2.07      Bank Group lending for agriculture in Morocco began in 1965 and
to date 9 projects have been undertaken and supported by US$272 million in
Bank/IDA funds, (US$24 million of which in IDA credits). They include four
irrigation projects: Sidi Slimane (FY65, completed), Sebou I (FY70), Souss
Groundwater (FY75) and Doukkala I (FY76). There have been in addition, three
Agricultural Credit Projects (FY66, FY73 and FY77); an Agro-industries and
Flood Control Project, Sebou II (FY74); and a rainfed Agricultural Development
Project in the Meknes region (FY75).
2.08      Management problems have been encountered for the Meknes Project and
the Sebou Il Project faces delays because of land acquisition problems related
to the construction of dikes. There has been an OED report dealing with the
First Agricultural Credit Project in Morocco, which was discussed in the
'Appraisal of a Third Agricultural Credit Project' (Report No. 1308-MOR),
December 1976. 1/ The OED report found a low economic return to the farm
mechanization financed through the agricultural credit project. Analysis in
the appraisal report cited above shows adequate returns to farm mechanization
and considerable strengthening of the management and operations of the National
Agricultural Credit Bank which continues to receive Bank loans. The OED's
general findings in its agricultural project audit reports with respect to
project risks are discussed in para 6.14.
2.09      Performance in Bank financed irrigation projects has suffered in
the beginning (Sidi Slimane and Sebou I) from land distribution problems,
poor management and frequent changes of leading personnel. As the institu-
tions which administer irrigation projects (ORMVA's) began to take root,
1/   OED Report:  Agricultural Credit Programs, Background Paper No. 4.



-4-
managerial problems were solved. Presently, a problem encountered in irriga-
tion projects is the discrepancy between the actual construction and the
targets for irrigation development, expressed in hectares to be equipped per
year, which are set optimistically high. The Doukkala I Irrigation Project
loan became effective on July 20, 1976 two months late because of delay in the
formation of a project coordinating committee. Progress of construction for
Doukkala I is satisfactory with the exception of laying and testing of large
diameter concrete pipes (para 4.03). Annex 1 includes an assessment of
irrigation in the Doukkala region. Present water charges were fixed by law
over a decade ago and do not reflect the true cost of operating and maintain-
ing irrigation networks. Under the Doukkala I Project, the Government is
undertaking a national review of water charges with the aim of formulating
before December 31, 1977, a new policy.
III. PROJECT AREA AND NATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
A. The Area
3.01      Area.  With an average discharge of 3,400 Mm3 per year the Oum Er
R'Bia is Morocco's second largest river. The project is located outside its
river basin (Map 12561R) and forms part of the "low service" I)oukkala perimeter
which is supplied by the existing "low service" canal. Plans are underway to
irrigate an additional 40,000 ha in the Doukkala, to be supplied by a proposed
"high service" canal. The Doukkala Il project would cover the Tnine Rharbia
subdivision (13,300 ha) which lies west of Zemamra along the main road (P8)
to Safi.  Extensions to the existing subdivisions of Faregh and Sidi Smail,
totalling 3,300 ha would also be included in the project.
3.02      Population.  The population of the project area amounts to 20,000
people, all working in the agricultural sector. The average household con-
sists of 5.8 persons with a labor potential of about 50 mandays per month.
Most of the population is underemployed. The average annual per capita income
is about US$165, as compared with a national per capita income of US$470 per
year and an absolute poverty income level of US$195.
3.03      Electricity and Water Supply.  The existing 22 kV network is insuf-
ficient to meet anticipated project needs and any further development would
require additional power lines (para 4.01). The town of Tnine Rharbia, some
of the Development Centers (CMV, where field extension services are located)
and project villages have adequate domestic water supply from wells.
3.04      Transportation and Communication.  The road system is adequate to
meet present production levels but would need reinforcement and expansion
to meet anticipated agricultural production under the project. The telephone
network is inadequate and only serves part of the major towns. Exchanges are
overloaded and prevent extension of the present system (para 4.01).



3.05      Health.  A one doctor hospital in Zemamra and a 200 bed provincial
hospital in El Jadida serve the project area. These health services, although
not adequate, are better than average for the Moroccan rural areas. The Govern-
ment is successfully completing a malaria eradication program. Bilharzia
exists in the Oum Er R'bia Basin and affects mainly the Tadla perimeter. How-
ever, a Bilharzia eradication program financed under the Doukkala I Project is
underway for the province of El Jadida. Irrigation in the Doukkala I Project
and in the proposed Doukkala Il Project will be by sprinkler method, the water
being conveyed mainly by buried pipes and thus it will not cause the develop-
ment of bilharzia which, with the eradication program underway, should not be
a problem in the project area.
3.06      Education.  Existing education facilities comprise 32 classrooms
in the project area, which is insufficient to meet the needs of the farming
population of about 20,000 persons (para 4.01).
B. Natural Resources
3.07      Climate.  The climate is characterized by hot and dry summers and
relatively short and cool winters. Dry periods extend over six months and
rainfall averages 300 mm and shows great variations from year to year.  The
area is under maritime influence. Further climatic data are given in Annex 2.
3.08      Soils and Topography.  The Regional Office for Agricultural Develop-
ment of the Doukkala (ORMVAD), which is the project authority, has satis-
factorily carried out a soil survey (scale 1:10,000). A soil classification
classified 77% of the soils in the project area as Class I, 21% as Class II,
and 2% as Class III. Existing Class IV soils were excluded from the project.
A number of 15 m high gently sloping mounds, covering about 15% of the area,
rise out of the surrounding terrain, which itself is slightly undulating with
slopes up to 4% (Annex 2). The relatively heavy soils require a low intensity
sprinkler system and are sensitive to an excess of water. Because of the
topography and soil conditions, the project area should be sprinkler irrigated.
C. Water Demand, Supply, and Quality
3.09      Water demand.  Allowing for effective rainfall and types of crops to
be grown, gross water demand would amount to 171 Mm3/year or 10,300 m3/ha/year
at headworks (Annex 3). Efficiency at farm level was assumed at 75% and canal
conveyance losses at 15%, giving an overall efficiency of about 65%. Annual
water demand at headworks for the entire 60,000 ha Doukkala low service area
is estimated at about 600 Mm3/year. Peak water demand at pumping station



- 6 -
level for the entire low service area would amount to 36 m3/sec, occurring in
August. With conveyance losses at 15%, demand at headworks would be 41 m3/sec
(Annex 2). The tunnel connecting the Im Fout reservoir with the main canal
has a capacity of 36.0 m3/sec. A small deficiency occurring in August may be
overcome by scheduling the dormancy period of alfalfa, which was planned for
July for all areas. However, it is clear that with the project the limits of
irrigation development, based on supply from the low service canal, are
reached.
3.10      Water Supply.  The Al Massira Dam now under construction 50 km
upstream of Im Fout will have a live capacity for irrigation of 2,320 Mm3,
guaranteeing sufficient supply. The reservoir will become operational by the
end of 1979, in time to meet first project demands (Annex 2). Scheduling of
releases from the reservoir will take place in accordance with downstream
demand, whereby priority is given in the following order: domestic, indus-
trial, irrigation, and power demand.
3.11      Water Quality.  Although relatively saline, the Oum Er R'Bia water
has been used successfully for eight years for crops similar to those proposed
at full development. No negative effects may be expected, as long as drainage
is adequate and relatively salt tolerant crops are cultivated (Annex 2).
3.12      Water Rights.  Given past experience in existing irrigated areas in
the region, no problems are expected as waters belong to the public domain and
are administered by the Ministry of Public Works and Communications.
D. Land Tenure, Land Use and Agricultural Production
3.13      All land in the project area which is to be farmed is privately
owned. About 78% of the holdings are less than 5 ha, 18% between 5 and 20
ha and 4% above 20 ha. Farms in the project area are presently fragmented,
making efficient agricultural practices difficult. For all modern irrigation
projects Moroccan law requires land consolidation, which is undertaken
successfully (para 5.16 and Annex 4).
3.14      The project area is presently dry farmed with durum wheat occupying
30% of the area, maize 10%, beans 10%, barley 30%, and fallow land 20% (Annex
5). Sheep, goats, and cattle subsist on fallow land supplemented by crop
residues and stubble (Annex 6). Because of low average rainfall, yields are
low, varying from almost zero in dry years to a maximum of 1.5 tons per ha of
wheat, 1.4 tons per ha for maize, 1.8 tons per ha for barley. For the crops
grown in the project area there are at present no problems with marketing
(Annex 7) and credit (Annex 8).
E. Development Institutions in Agriculture
3.15      The Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MARA) is responsible
for development of Moroccan agriculture through its seven directorates including



Agricultural Development, Construction, Agricultural Education, Agricultural
Research, Livestock, Land Registry and Topography Works, and Forestry (Chart
16781). The Directorate of Construction is concerned with planning and imple-
menting irrigation projects, and with supervising those project authorities
responsible for irrigation projects. These are called Regional Offices for
Agricultural Development (ORMVA's). In addition to constructing and managing
irrigation systems, the ORMVA's construct slaughterhouses, market places, and
village water supply, and are responsible for assisting farmers to reach
targeted cropping patterns, yields, and livestock development. Farmers are
obligated by law to utilize the cropping pattern dictated by ORMVA's in order
to assure optimal land use. This cropping pattern however allows farmers
to cultivate what they wish on one quarter of their land. ORMVA's provide
sprinkler equipment to farmers, which is paid for out of water charges.
Farmers replace this equipment themselves.
3.16      ORMVAD is responsible for the agricultural development of 389,000
ha of land in El Jadida province, of which 27,000 are presently irrigated,
15,500 ha will be irrigated under Doukkala I, and 16,600 ha under Doukkala
Il. In addition to operating and maintaining the irrigation system, ORMVAD
provides through its development centers (1 per 3,000 ha of irrigated land),
extension services, farm inputs, artificial insemination, establishes and
manages milk cooperatives, plans and organizes production and sale of contract
crops (sugar beet, cotton, hybrid maize) (chart 16782). ORMVAD also trains
farmers and undertakes specialized agro-economic research. ORMVAD's agricul-
tural services have been successful in inducing rapid changes in cropping
patterns and increases in crop yields and milk production in irrigated areas
(Annex 1). It has also caused some improvement in yield in rainfed areas.
This is largely due to the generally high quality of ORMVAD's staff, and the
significant decentralization to ORMVAD of responsibility for the region's
agricultural development.
3.17      The emphasis placed on the development of the country's irrigation
potential has not only resulted in a substantial application of resources for
the construction of irrigation infrastructure but as a corollary it has
created relatively well functionïng regional irrigation development offices
(ORMVA's). The greater amount of financial resources available to the ORMVA's
has permitted them to obtain the best managerial and technical personnel in
agriculture (Annex 5). The result is that the new irrigation perimeters are
the best managed farming areas in the country.
3.18      Although ORMVAD's agricultural services have been effective, its
machine services are sometimes not optimally timed and its extension service,
though adequate, could be more effective in introducing modern methods of sow-
ing, better water conservation practices (which could also be improved by
higher water charges), and optimal cropping patterns (cotton has yielded poor
incomes compared to vegetables, and oilseeds have not been investigated).
ORMVAD is making corrections by assisting larger farmers to purchase agri-
cultural equipment which they use more efficiently than the ORMVAD employees,
and has begun to permit farmers to respond to price signals in substituting
vegetables for cotton. The number of extension agents would be increased for
the project.



- 8 -
3.19      The Agricultural Research Directorate (DRA) is responsible for agri-
cultural research in Morocco and plans to continue operating two experimental
stations in the Doukkala. One of these stations experiments on fruit produc-
tion which is not relevant for project needs, while the other undertakes crop
experiments which, if adapted, could be useful for the project. The problems
with the DRA's agricultural research are analyzed in the recent Bank agricul-
tural sector study of Morocco (para 2.06), and will be a subject of discussion
between the Bank and the Government. Measures for improving agricultural
research in Morocco would be part of a proposed Bank agricultural research
project now being identified for possible Bank financing. Applied agricul-
tural research in the project area would be undertaken as part of the project.
A preliminary program of applied research was established jointly by ORMVAD
and the DRA and submitted to the Bank for review (para 5.13).
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Description
4.01      The project would provide sprinkler irrigation on 16,600 ha of
presently dry-farmed land for the production of wheat, maize, sugar beet,
cotton, and forage for livestock development. Production would serve pri-
marily to substitute for imports. The project would serve 20,000 people for
whom per capita income would be increased above the absolute poverty level.
It would increase annual labor requirements by 5,400 man years, and thus
reduce migration to urban centers which already have high unemployment rates.
The project would consist of four sectors in the Tnine Rharbia subdivision,
one sector in the Faregh subdivision, and one sector in the Sidi Smail sub-
division. Each sector would be served by its individual pumping station and
underground distribution network. The project would include:
(a)  land consolidation, farm roads, windbreaks, and drainage;
(b)  enlargement of the main supply canal over 22 km, construc-
tion of 10 km feeder canals for the North and West 2 sectors,
and installation of automatic gates to regulate flow;
(c)  construction of six pumping stations with a total installed
capacity of 11,300 kW, each with one high equalizing reser-
voir;
(d)  construction of underground distribution systems totalling
450 km including hydrants, each serving about 16 ha, and
mobile equipment;
(e)  construction of 31 km of 60 kV and 62 km of 22 kV lines and
one substation;



(f) construction of main drainage channels (about 300,000 m3
excavation);
(g) construction of 48 km of new asphalt roads and 60 km of gravel
roads, and enlargement and reinforcement of 64 km of existing
asphalt roads and telecommunication between El Jadida head-
quarters, subdivisions in Zemamra and Sidi Bennour, and mobile
units;
(h) construction of buildings and procurement of equipment including
tractors for four development centers (CMV's), refrigerated milk
collecting centers in each CMV, and office buildings for operation
and maintenance in the Zemamra subdivision;
(i)  on-farm development consisting of construction of cow sheds,
purchase of Friesian cattle for crossbreeding, and purchase of
farm equipment, to be financed by medium-term credit from CNCA;
(j) provision of extension services, artificial insemination, agri-
cultural inputs and applied research;
(k) construction of five village centers, including schools, public
water supply, and public lighting; and
(1) consulting engineering services.
4.02      The major executing agency for the project works would be ORMVAD.
Detailed features of the project are described in Annex 9.
B. Construction Schedule and Status of Engineering
4.03      Construction Schedule.  Construction of project works would begin
in 1977 and be completed by December 1982. The proposed construction and
activity schedule is presented in Annex 10. The Doukkala I Project presently
experiences delays in the construction of the large diameter underground
pipe network due to an insufficient number of pipe laying and testing crews.
During negotiations the Government informed the Bank that the following
measures had been taken to remedy the situation: (i) the contractor under-
took to triple the number of laying and testing crews and agreed to recover
the time lost; (ii) an interministerial committee was created to inspect
the site two weeks after resumption of work, which was interrupted because
of exceptional rainfall; this committee reported to the Bank that the con-
tractor had achieved a satisfactory construction rate.
4.04      Status of Engineering.  Feasibility level design for the irrigation
and drainage network has been satisfactorily completed. The Roads Directorate
of the Ministry of Public Works and Communications has completed a study on
the need for extension and improvement of the road system. A contract for
land consolidation was let to local consultants (SFAM) for the 7,200 ha of the



- 10 -
first two sectors and contracts for the remainder of the area will be let in
1977. Mlaps of scale 1:2,500 are available. The National Power Authority has
prepared contract documents for power supply. Both the Roads Directorate and
National Power Authority are capable of planning and executing their tasks.
Road construction and power supply construction are ahead of schedule for the
Doukkala I project. Construction of village centers and extension centers
(CMV's) poses no problems for ORMVAD, which has experience in this type of
work.
4.05      Consulting Services.  Under the Doukkala I project a five-man team
of consultants from the firm SCET is in residence at ORMVAD's headquarters in
El Jadida to assist in design, organization and supervision of construction,
and startup. The present contract expires end of 1979 and the project would
provide for similar services until the end of the construction period. Govern-
ment policy is to employ consultants for construction and land consolidation
to prevent staffing with engineers who would become redundant once this work
is completed.
C. Cost Estimates
4.06      Total project costs amount to US$121.0 million (DH 532.3 million)
including taxes, duties, physical and price contingencies. The foreign ex-
change component is estimated at US$46.5 million (38%). Taxes and duties
amount to about US$23.3 million (DH 102.5 million). Cost estimates for civil
works and major equipment are based on unit rates obtained in contracts for
the Doukkala I project in 1975 and 1976. Prices have been updated to January
1977 equivalent. Physical contingencies for civil works and equipment were
taken at only 10% in view of recent experience with similar work in the area.
For all civil works price contingencies were compounded at annual rates of 12%
(1977-1979) and 10% (1980-1982). These price contingencies are based on the
projected continued price inflation in Morocco's civil works industry, which
amounted to 13% in 1976. For equipment, price contingencies were compounded
at annual rates of 8% (1977-1979) and 7% (1980-1982). Because of the rela-
tively long construction period, overall contingencies would amount to 57%
of base costs. The cost estimates are summarized in the following table and
shown in detail in Annex 11. The schedule of expenditures is shown in Annex 12.
D. Financing
4.07      The proposed Bank loan of US$41 million would finance 88% of the
estimated foreign exchange requirements. CNCA would provide credit for farm
development in an amount of US$3.2 million and the Government would finance
the remainder of the foreign exchange costs and the local cost component
for a total equivalent to US$76.8 million, or 63% of total project cost.
The Bank loan would be for a period of 30 years including a 6 1/2 year grace
period. The loan conditions were selected on the basis of the long period



- il -
Foreign
Item                                    Local   Foreign   Total         Local   Foreign   Total        Exchange
-- -7DH million /-                  US million /1---%
Irrigation Network
Canals                                 15.0       8.1      23.1         3.4      1.8        5.2          35
Pumping Stations                       19.2      10.4      29.6         4.3      2.4        6.7          35
Underground Pipes                      70.7      38.3    109.0         16.2      8.9      25.1           35
Farm Roads, Drainage, etc.             22.2      18.7      40.9         5.1     4.2         9.3          46
Electro-Mechanical Equipment            6.7       9.7      16.4         1.6      2.2        3.8          59
Mobile Equipment and Hydrants          12.8      17.2      30.0         2.9      3.8        6.7          57
Small Equipment                         0.7       1.3       2.0         0.2     0.3        0.5           65
Power Network                           9.(       6.0      15.0         2.0      1.4        3.4          40
Agricultural Infrastructure               6.4       4.0      10.4         1.4      1.0        2.4          38
Roads                                     9.7       9.8      19.5         2.2      2.2        4.4          50
Village Infrastructure                    4.8       1.6       6.4         1.1      0.3        1.4          25
Agricultural Credit                      14.3        0       14.3         3.2       0         3.2           0
Administration and Consultants           16.8       5.8      22.6         3.8      .1.        5.1          26
Subtotal                              208.3    130.9    339.2          47.4    29.8        77.2          39
Physical Contingencies                 19.8      12.9      32.7         4.5      2.9        7.4          39
Price Contingencies                    99.5;    60.9    160.4          22.6    13.8       36.4           38
Total                               327.6    204.7    532.3          74.5    46.5      121.0           38
/L Discrepancies due to rounding
April 1977



- 12 -
that irrigation projects require before benefits are generated. Interest and
commitment charges on the Bank loan during the construction period, estimated
to be about US$5.8 million, would be paid by the Government.
E. Procurement
4.08      Since the Bank loan is insufficient to finance total foreign ex-
change requirements, a selection was made of contracts to be financed by the
Bank.  Most small contracts, which normally would not generate international
interest, were omitted. Although Moroccan law allows international competitive
bidding, in practice most irrigation works are awarded to local contractors
or suppliers. Often local contractors, manufacturers and suppliers have an
association with a foreign firm and can supply good after-sales service,
which the Moroccans insist upon (Annex 13). Contracts for civil works and
goods financed under the proposed Bank loan would be grouped to the extent
practicable into 21 contracts as indicated in Annex 13. Except for US$250,000
worth of locally procured equipment, Bank-financed contracts would be tendered
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
Guidelines for Procurement. A 15% preference margin, or prevailing customs
duty if lower, would be extended to local manufacturing in the evaluation of
bids for equipment. There is a large degree of uncertainty about the outcome
of bids for these contracts as the period of construction and supply extends
through 1982. It is estimated that of the US$85.6 value of Bank financed
contracts, between US$28.1 million and US$45.4 million would be won by purely
local contractors, with as most likely figure US$40.2 million. These would
include civil works of pumping stations (US$4.8 million) drainage network and
farm roads (US$9.6 million), installation of the underground pipe network
(US$12.1 million), canals (US$6.7 million), classified roads (US$6.8 million)
and operation and maintenance equipment (US$0.2 million). Individual purchases
of equipment not exceeding US$125,000, which would be financed from the pro-
posed Bank loan, would be procured in accordance with applicable local proce-
dures up to an aggregate of US$250,000. Bank staff have reviewed the local
procedures and found them acceptable. Other project items would be procured
under Moroccan procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank, and which are
open to international bidding.
4.09      Future demand for prestressed concrete pipes for water supply and
irrigation development exceeds existing manufacturing capacity, which is fully
committed. Discussions about expansion of production are underway between the
Government and local manufacturers. A bottleneck for the Doukkala is foreseen
in 1978 and 1979 when pipe-laying for the last sectors of Doukkala I and the
first sectors of Doukkala II would be simultaneously in progress. Altogether
about 22,000 hectares would have to be equipped for these two projects between
the middle of 1978 and the end of 1982. In the El Jadida province further
irrigation and water supply construction is being contemplated. Construction
of a new factory could be completed in a year. The construction planning of
the project (Annex 10) shows that a new pipe factory could be in production
by end 1978, given sufficient incentives to keep administrative delays to a
minimum.



- 13 -
4.10      During negotiations the Government of Morocco agreed to issue tender
documents at an early date for the supply of large diameter pipes as one con-
tract for the 16,600 ha project area.  This would provide adequate incentive
for the construction of a new pipe factory as recent experience has shown
(Annex 13).
F. Dïsbursements
4.11      The proposed Bank loan would finance:
Category                           Item                                Cost
(I)   Selected civil works consisting of canals, pumping
stations, equalizing reservoirs, underground pipe
network (supply and laying), farm roads, drainage
network and classified roads;
40% of total cost.                                      US$28.0 million
(II)   Selected equipment consisting of electromechanical
equipment and filters for pumping stations, hydrants,
telecommunicaton equipment and mobile sprinkler
equipment; 60% of local cost or 100% of the cif
cost of imported goods.                                 US$ 8.0 million
(III)  Foreign consultants;
100% of foreign cost.                                   US$ 1.5 million
(IV)  Unallocated.                                            US$ 3.5 million
Savings on the proposed Bank loan, if any, would be cancelled. The estimated
disbursement schedule is presented in Annex 14.
G. Retroactive Financing
4.12      Contracts involving up to a total of US$0.5 million of Bank financing
awarded according to Bank Guidelines after December 1, 1976, would qualify for
retroactive financing.  Contracts likely to fall into this category would be
for the enlargement of the main canal. A timely start of this element is
essential to assure early project benefits.
H. Environmental Impact
4.13      The project would improve the environment by providing village
infrastructure in the form of village roads, water supply to community taps,
public lighting, and schools. As a result of increasing incomes in the



- 14 -
region and the inflow of Government resources, the once bleak Doukkala area
is already gradually improving as a habitat, and commerce is increasing in
such centers as Sidi Bennour. A Bilharzia control program forms part of the
Doukkala I Project (para 3.05).
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
5.01      The project is part of an ongoing program for which the Regional
Agricultural Development Office for Doukkala (ORMVAD) is the primary executing
agency. ORMVAD's agricultural development activity is described in Chapter
III and in Annex 2. ORMVAD would be responsible for construction, operation
and maintenance of the irrigation and drainage works, construction of treated
water supply facilities, project buildings and farm roads, provision of exten-
sion and other agricultural services, and would supervise construction of the
village centers except for the schools. The Agricultural Research Directorate
(DRA) personnel serving El Jadida province, with ORMVAD assistance, would be
responsible for agricultural research. The Ministry of Education would be the
executing agency for construction and operation of schools. The Directorate
of Animal Production of the Ministry of Agriculture would advise ORMVAD in
implementation of the crossbreeding program. The National Power Authority
(ONE) would be the executing agency for the construction of power lines in the
project area and the Roads Directorate of the Ministry of Public Works would be
the executing agency for construction and improvement of the main road network.
5.02      The project Coordination Committee established under the Doukkala I
Loan Agreement, with representation of all government agencies involved in
project implementation, would be responsible for project coordination. The
committee reviews past achievements and future work programs for each of the
participating organizations, and on the basis of experience to date is ex-
pected to adequately coordinate the agencies involved in the project.
5.03      A deficiency requiring correction under Doukkala II is the communi-
cation between ORMVAD headquarters in El Jadida and the project area. Assur-
ances were obtained that ORMVAD would establish a system of telecommunication
between its headquarters and field offices, for which equipment would be
provided under the project. In addition, ORMVAD is establishing under the
Doukkala I Project subdivisional offices in the field for (a) construction,
(b) operation and maintenance, and (c) agricultural development. All field
services will be directed from these subdivisional offices. Based on present
performance, no organizational or staffing problems are foreseen. Consultants
chosen by ORMVAD with the concurrence of the Bank would provide their services
for the Doukkala Il Project (para 4.05). ORMVAD agreed to retain adequate
staff to carry out the project.



- 15 -
5.04      Organization of Farmers and Cooperatives.  Following the trend
observed in areas already irrigated in the Doukkala, farmers would establish
independent service cooperatives to meet their needs for medium and short-
term credit, bulk marketing, and co-ownership of equipment (mobile sprinkler
equipment). ORMVAD, which has previous experience in the establishment of
cooperatives and has an ongoing training program for cooperative managers,
would provide assistance to farmers for this purpose. ORMVAD has been effec-
tive in establishing milk collection cooperatives over the last four years
and would establish and manage four such cooperatives in the Doukkala II
Project area.
5.05      Following the experience in other irrigation projects in Morocco,
farmers would group into Water Users Associations to organize water alloca-
tion. Farmers' water users' associations would select among themselves a
representative responsible for equitable allocation of water and to serve as
contact with ORMVAD ditchriders. Small farmers' interests are adequately
accounted for in these associations.
B. Operation and Maintenance
5.06      Operation.  The ORMVAD operations service, with offices throughout
the project area, would be in charge of equitable distribution of water,
administered through ditchriders, each in charge of about 30 hydrants or 470
ha (Annex 15). Annual irrigation schedules would be made in the autumn in
consultation with the agricultural service in the CMV's, who process billing
of water charges which are deducted from proceeds of the contract crops on
behalf of the income tax service. Metered hydrants are no longer installed as
a result of past experience in which meters have been destroyed. Hydrants are
equipped with fixed-discharge outlets and volumetric billing takes place by
recording their time of operation. In each area served by one hydrant (about
16 ha), farmers' water users' associations would take care of distribution
(para 5.05) (Chart 16783). For the off-peak season, the annual irrigation
schedule would determine dates of irrigation per sector so that systems would
function at full capacity for a short time and not at all for the rest of the
time to avoid waste.
5.07      At full development, a total of 12 pumping stations would be pumping
from the low service canal (para 3.01). Eleven of these would feed under-
ground pressure networks. Scheduling of pipe moving during peak hours would
have to be done by ORMVAD among the various pumping stations to avoid unaccept-
able surges in the canal which would occur if all stations were to stop or
start at the same time.
5.08      Maintenance.  Maintenance and major repairs would be the responsi-
bility of the maintenance service which would operate both a central workshop
attached to its subdivision office in Zemamra and mobile repair units (Annex
15). The maintenance service prefers to have major repairs performed by
contractors and to keep the ORMVAD-owned and operated heavy equipment (cranes,
draglines) to a minimum due to cumbersome bureaucratic purchase procedures for
spares.  Under Moroccan law, ORMVAD's financial requirements must be provided



- 16 -
through Government budgetary allocations. The Government, aware of the impli-
cations on recurrent costs caused by equipping 25,000 hectares for irrigation
per year, is searching for new ways to address maintenance problems. New
policies are being developed whereby contractors are awarded pluri-annual
maintenance contracts. Adequate maintenance should not be a problem in the
Doukkala II project area under these circumstances.
5.09      Minor maintenance and repairs of the irrigation system would be
carried out at the local CMV level. Farmers operating 4 ha or more would own
their own mobile sprinkler equipment. Farmers owning less than 4 ha would
join into cooperatives for ownership of the equipment, as they have done in
existing irrigated areas. Maintenance of mobile equipment would be the
farmers' responsibility. ORMVAD would train farmers in the use of mobile
sprinkler equipment prior to the application of first water (Annex 5). Such
training has been successful in a nearby 1,100 ha sprinkler irrigated area
managed by ORMVAD. An improvement introduced in early 1976 was the transfer
of agricultural machine operation from the agricultural production service to
the maintenance service, whose staff is seconded to the CMV's during the
cropping season. This frees all agricultural production service personnel to
perform their proper extension task, leaving the machines in the hands of the
mechanics.
5.10      Operation and maintenance of schools would be the responsibility of
the Ministry of Education. No firm program has yet been established for staff-
ing and operation of the schools as their construction program would start
within the framework of the next national Five-Year Plan. Assurances were
obtained that the Ministry of Education would provide the staff and facilities
needed to operate and maintain the schools as and when required.
5.11      Power facilities would be owned, operated and maintained by ONE,
and the Roads Directorate of the Ministry of Public Works (MTPC) would be
responsible for all classified roads. Farm access roads would be maintained
by ORMVAD. Maintenance of water supply facilities would be performed by
ORMVAD until sufficient population has settled in the village centers and
a village council formed to take over this responsibility. Assurances were
obtained that the Government would cause ONE, the Roads Directorate of MTPC,
and ORMVAD to operate and maintain the facilities as outlined above.
C. Services
5.12      Supply of Inputs.  Land preparation, bulk sowing and cereal har-
vesting would be mechanized (Annex 5). Farmers would use their animals for
cultivation of row crops and transport within the farm. Agricultural inputs
required for each crop are shown in Annex 5, and prices in Annex 7. Resulting
farm budgets are shown in Annex 16. Inputs would be supplied to farmers
through merchants on local farm markets and through ORMVAD's development
centers. Extension agents would assist farmers and cooperatives in selecting
type and quantity of inputs and in obtaining necessary credit. ORMVAD would
supply all inputs required by farmers to cultivate sugar beet, cotton and
hybrid maize. ORMVAD receives payment from the sugar beet and cotton process-
ing factories before payments are made to farmers. Repayment of short-term



-- 17 -
credit provided to farmers for maize production is inadequate. ORMVAD sub-
sequently would phase out the provision of inputs on credit for hybrid maize
in favor of input sales for cash after several years of irrigation, once
farmers had become accustomed to hybrid maize. The distribution of certified
wheat seed is the responsibility of a Government marketing organization
(SCAM), and is supervised by the Directorate of Agricultural Research of MARA.
Present handling is inefficient, storage facilities are poor contributing to
deterioration of seed, and the distribution system does not work well.  The
Governm,ent of Morocco is aware of this problem and is therefore reorganizing
its cereal seed handling and distribution system under a new agency. The
provision of adequate quantities of high quality selected wheat seed would be
provided under the project, which the Government has agreed to implement in a
timely and efficient manner.
5.13      Research.  Research efforts, discussed in para 3.19, would be
strengthened in the project area through the implementation of a program of
applied agricultural research developed jointly by the Directorate of Agri-
cultural Research (DRA) and ORMVAD. The program would be implemented by the
DRA on its 325 ha experimental farm in the Doukkala I project area, and would
serve Doukkala I and II, as well as the remaining irrigated areas of the
Doukkala perimeter. A preliminary program for agricultural research has been
submitted to the Bank. ORMVAD's role will be to specify the problems to be
addressed by the research and to assist in analyzing research results. Trials
would be carried out on a production scale, thereby increasing the applied
nature of the research.
5.14      Extension.  Extension would be provided in the same manner as pro-
vided in existing irrigated areas of the Doukkala region, as described in
Chapter III. Incremental annual cost of extension services would amount to
DH 2.4 million.
5.15      Credit.  Agricultural credit would be provided under the project
through the National Agricultural Credit Bank (CNCA) which maintains four
branch offices (CRCA's and CLCA's) in the proximity of the project area
(Annex 8). The CNCA has recently received a third loan from the Bank.
Incremental medium-term credit totalling DH 14.1 million (US$3.2 million)
would be required by farmers to finance construction of animal shelters, and
for the purchase of Friesian cows and farm equipment.  At full development,
incremental short-term credit requirements would be DH 18.9 million per annum
(US$4.3 million) of which about 21% would come from the three local agricul-
tural banks serving small farmers (CLCA's), 30% from the Regional Agricultural
Bank (CRCA) in Sidi Bennour serving medium and large farmers, and 49% from
the National Agricultural Bank through ORMVAD for contract crops. The credit
institution is preparing for increased demand for credit by expanding its
newly created banking facilities at Zemamra and Sidi Bennour (next to the
Doukkala I and II project areas). It has successfully expanded its opera-
tions in existing irrigated areas to meet increased demand for credit, and
no difficulty is foreseen in its doing so for Doukkala II.



- 18 -
D. Land Consolidation
5.16      Presently fragmented parcels benefitting from the project would be
consolidated as a first step in project implementation. Main objectives of
existing legislation are to (a) stabilize ownership patterns and (b) estab-
lish viable family holdings by eliminating fragmentation and future sub-
division. Based on results obtained on already consolidated land adjacent
to the project area, land consolidation would be undertaken effectively by
local consultants specialized in this type of work and supervised by ORMVAD's
construction service (Annex 4).
E. Recovery of Project Cost
5.17      The recovery of project cost through water charges and levies on
irrigated land has been the subject of a continuing dialogue between the Gov-
ernment and th Bank since the Sebou I Project (Loan 643-MOR, FY70). Moroccan
legislation on this subject, included in the "Code des Investissements
Agricoles" of 1969, allows for the full recovery of operation and maintenance
costs and up to a maximum of 40% of capital investments. An application
decree issued in 1969 settîng the water charges for each irrigation district
(ORMVA) has not been revised since, despite increases in the investment and
the operation and maintenance costs of irrigated perimeters. The legislation
further stipulates that the introduction of water charges be spread over five
years in equal annual installments corresponding to 20% of the full rate, in
order to allow farmers to adapt to new agricultural methods. The gradual
introduction of water charges also reduces the financial burden on farmers
at a time when they have high initial investments to complement the increased
productive capacity of the land, such as the purchase of dairy cattle.
5.18      Past discussions on cost recovery have primarily focused on three
interrelated issues: the level of cost recovery, the indexing of water
charges, and the progressivity of total charges and levies collected on
irrigated lands. On the occasion of the first Doukkala loan, the Government
agreed to levy in the Project area, starting from the fifth year of irriga-
tion, a basic water charge and a supplementary pumping charge, the levels of
which would be set so as to recover fully operation and maintenance (O&M)
costs and to contribute reasonably towards the recovery of capital costs,
subject to the proviso that the total charges and levies collected would not
exceed farmers' capacity to pay. The Government also agreed to a study
of the level and structure of cost recovery throughout Morocco, the results
of which would be discussed with the Bank. Included among the objectives
of the study was the preparation of recommendations for the indexing of
water charges. The agreements reached included the price formulas to be
used (Annex 17).
5.19      In the context of the preparation of the present project, a study
was made of the implications of the agreements reached under Doukkala I and
of the farmers' ability to pay. The results of this study are summarized in



- 19 -
Annex 17 which sets out the impact on farm budgets, and consequently on
farmers' ability to pay, of cost recovery under three hypotheses: (i) con-
tinued application of existing water charges and betterment levy at present
levels; (ii) indexed water charges increased to cover full operation, main-
tenance and replacerment costs and an increased betterment levy (the preferred
solution); and (iii) indexed water charges increased so as to recover together
with the existing betterment levy full O&II costs and 40% of investment costs
(maximum possible recovery within the framework of existing legislation and
envisaged under Doukkala I). All three hypotheses assume a uniform volumetric
water charge, as a change in this system does not appear feasible for tech-
nica:L reasons. An analysis of the results obtained under the third hypothesis
demonstrated that application of such charges in addition to incremental in-
come taxes wihich are used by Governnent in the same manner as recovery charges,
would exceed the ability of farmers to pay, and most so in the case of small
farmers. Furthermore, project rent imputable to irrigation, i.e. the surplus
return above reasonable incentives, increases more than proportionately with
the size of farms. It was found that the combination of uniform high water
charges with a relatively low betterment levy results in total irrigation
charges that are regressive with respect to farm size. New proposals were
therefore developed to increase the relative weight of the betterment levy.
Since it is not applied to the first 5 ha of properties under 20 ha, any in-
crease would augment the progressivity of total recovery charges. A preferred
solution which takes into account farmers' incentives and ability to pay was
reaclhed in which (i) the basic water charge and the supplermentary pumping
charge would be set so as to recover full O&M costs permitting the project to
function without Government subsidy and encouraging efficient use of water,
and (ii) the land betterment levy would be increased so as to tax away all
project rent accruing to farms over 20 ha, payable over the life of the proj-
ect. The adoption of such a system would mean increasing the present water
charges 2.7 times and the present betterment levy about 2.5 times and indexing
both. The study also revealed that increasing the level of water charges
above the level required to cover O&M costs would not leave sufficient motiva-
tion to small farmers to induce their participation in irrigation and to in-
vest incremental income in livestock and machinery that have high rates of
economic return (Annex 1).
5.20      During negotiations for the second project, it was agreed to retain
the covenants and agreements reached under Doukkala I. A paper containing the
proposals set out in Annex 17 and summarized in para 5.19 was handed over to
the Moroccan delegation which agreed to review and discuss the proposals with
the Bank on the occasion of the ongoing policy discussions and in the context
of project supervision. Since past discussions with the Moroccan authorities
have yielded positive results and since the first installment of the betterment
levy on the project holdings does not fall due until 1982 at the earliest, con-
tinued dialogue with the Governrnent to reach a mutually acceptable formula for
capital cost recovery is justified.
5.21      The Bank was also informed that the techuical stage of the nation-
wide review of water charges had been completed and that the draft proposals
were under review by the authorities concerned. The Government agreed to
adopt before the end of 1977 a system for indexing water charges. Adoption



- 20 -
of these proposals which imply higher and indexed charges and levies would
permit the Governnent to meet the objectives of recovering a reasonable part
of its investment in irrigation while introducing a greater element of pro-
gressivity in farmers contributions.
5.22      The present level of water charges and land betterment levy would
recover 47% of operation, maintenance, power and replacement (O&M) costs, while
incremental income taxes would recover another 29%, excluding further recovery
by Governnent through price distortions (para 5.24). The absence of indexation
would result in a constantly decreasing recovery of O&M costs. Recovery of
investment would be nil. At present farmgate prices, the level of recovery
charges under the preferred hypothesis analyzed above would recover all O&M
costs (net of taxes and subsidies) plus about 12% of irrigation investment
costs. Incremental income tax would recover an additional 10% of investrent
costs. The total cost recovery index would vary from 42% of the costs allo-
cated to the smallest farmers to 55% for the largest.
5.23      Government price policies for agricultural products have repercus-
sions on cost recovery. At the level of recovery charges proposed in para
5.19, economic benefits of farm production uould be distributed between farmers
(37%), Government through recovery charges and taxes (31%), hired labor (1%),
and the remaining 31%, equal to the excess of economic over farmgate prices,
distributed between consumers, farmers and Government depending on future Gov-
ernment price policy. If farmgate prices are not raised to the level of future
border prices, consumers would recover 15% of economic benefits, and Govern-
ment 16% through savings of subsidies which without the project would have
been applied to reduce the retail price of imported sugar. In this case, Gov-
ernment would recover O&M plus 59% of irrigation investment costs. If farm-
gate prices are increased to the level of future border prices, farmers would
capture another 17% of the benefits and Government 14% through additional re-
covery charges (indexed to agricultural prices) and taxes. This would in-
crease recovery of investment costs from 22% to 53%. In either case, cost
recovery would be satisfactory. The issue of agricultural price distortions
is analyzed in a Bank agricultural sector study of Morocco, and the results
of that study will be discussed with the Governnent.
F. }Ionitoring
5.24      The Office of Agro-Economy in OIIVAD's Agricultural Production Ser-
vice (Annex 5) presently surveys prices on local farm markets, cropping pat-
terns, herd size and composition, parasite control, markets, crop yields and
farm income. IIonthly reports are provided to management containing results of
price and production surveys as well as qualitative assessments of constraints
encountered in agricultural operations. The information assists management to
improve agricultural services or to overcome obstacles. However, changes in
procedure such as are suggested in Annex 18 would improve the utility of the
monitoring and evaluation system in providing the information necessary for



- 21 -
management to make timely adjustments in agricultural services (input supply,
extension, marketing activity, research, training, etc.) in response to prob-
lems. The system should permit constant evaluation of policies and institu-
tional arrangements. Assurances have been obtained that ORMVAD provide to the
Bank, not later than December 31, 1979 a proposal for improving its monitoring
and evaluation system. In addition, assurances have been obtained that ORMVAD
provide to the Bank not later than December 31, 1983 and again on December 31,
1988 an assessment of project achievements and reasons for any shortfalls.
The terms of reference for a monitoring and evaluation system included in
Annex 18 were given to the Moroccan Government to assist ORMVAD in making the
required improvements.
G. Accounts and Audit
5.25      The Government agencies responsible for project implementation main-
tain budgets and accounts which are audited by the Controller General of the
Ministry of Finance. Accounts are presently maintained in a format consistent
with Bank requirements, and the Moroccan Government has been informed that the
Controller General of the Ministry of Finance would be considered an accept-
able independent auditor. Assurances have been obtained from the Government
that each government agency responsible for any part of the project would
maintain separate accounts for the project work with which it is associated,
that annual financial statements would be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, and that audited financial statements along with audit
reports be forwarded to the Bank not later than four months after the end of
each fiscal year.  Assurances have been obtained that Government would cause
ORMVAD to maintain separate accounts reflecting revenues from recovery charges
and investment, operation, maintenance and replacement costs of the irrigation
system, and that ORMVAD would submit to the Bank a summary of overall physical
and financial progress of the project, including information on procurement.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Production
6.01      At full development, net incremental production would equal DH 64.5
million per annum (US$14.7 million) in economic prices. Increased production
would result from adequate and timely irrigation which would (a) increase
yields, (b) permit effective application of about 8,600 tons of fertilizer
further increasing yields, (c) permit introduction of crops (sugar beet,
cotton, vegetables, alfalfa, and berseem) which cannot be cultivated success-
fully under rainfed conditions in the province, and (d) permit double cropping.
ORMVAD's extension services, input supply, pest and disease control would
facilitate this development, as would the use of agricultural credit and
access to markets.



- 22 -
6.02      Present extension, input supply, and research activity assisting
rainfed farmers in the province of El Jadida provided by the Ministry of
Agriculture's Provincial Services have had almost no observable impact on
agriculture. However, in the 260,000ha rainfed area managed by ORMVAD,
ORMVAD's extension and input supply assistance to farmers has marginally
improved yields, livestock production and cropping intensity and as a result
production could be expected to grow at about 2% per annum without the project
(Annex 1). At full development in 1989, incremental output is assumed to
cease growing.
6.03      At full development, incremental production, above the 2% p.a.
growth without the project, would be as follows (Annex 5):
Incremental       Production as a % of
Production        Moroccan consumption
Crp                             (tons)          plus exports in 1985
Cereals                                 100                     0.0
Hybrid maize                         16,550                     4.6
Sugar beet                          211,750                     3.6
Cotton                                2,450                    13.9
Melons                                9,500                     1.5
Legumes                                  50                     0.0
Alfalfa, berseem, other forage    238,000                       n.a.
Milk                                 13,600                     1.2.
Meat                                  1,550                      .8
Breeding heifers (head)                 250                     n.a.
B.  Markets, Marketing and Prices
6.04      Production of sugar beet, cereals, milk and meat would substitute
for imports, while production of cotton would be exported. Vegetables and
legumes not exported have an urban market. All crops included in the cropping
pattern, as well as livestock products, have an assured market and are pro-
duced successfully in presently irrigated areas in the Doukkala (Annex 7
discusses markets and prices).
6.05      The Government subsidizes the price of imported sugar in order to
maintain low consumer prices, spending about US$300 million in 1975 for this
purpose. In order for sugar beet producers to sell at a profit, the price of
sugar beet to the farmer is fixed at about 85% of the present world price.
Although the present price is high enough to assure enthusiastic farmer pro-
duction of sugar beet, the Government will have to adjust the beet price more
rapidly than in the past in response to variation in production costs and
world market prices to induce continuous cultivation of sugar beet.
6.06      A second sugar beet processing plant in the low service perimeter
with a capacity sufficient to serve Doukkala I and II would be ready for
operation by the end of 1979. Financing is available and construction plans
are definitive.



- 23 -
6.07      A combination of suboptimum growing conditions for cotton because
of high humidity and an insufficiently remunerative farmgate price fixed by
Government has discouraged cotton production in existing irrigated areas of
the Doukkala region. As a result, the cotton ginning plant located in the
region has operated at about 30% of capacity. The price was increased in
1976 to a level which for the present will encourage production. The price
would have to be adjusted on a yearly basis. Doukkala I and II should provide
enough cotton to permit full capacity utilization of the plant.  However, cot-
ton prices are expected to fall in real terms and, given the difficult growing
conditions, there will be pressure from farmers to substitute vegetables for
cotton. ORMVAD, recognizing the problem, has become more flexible in permit-
ting farmers to substitute other crops for cotton and has begun investigating
the desirability to the economy and to farmers of such substitution. A deci-
sion will be taken with respect to the cultivation of cotton before the
Doukkala II project area receives first water.
6.08      Farm budgets include peas, turnips and melons, which are either
locally consumed or sold on urban markets. Tomatoes, potatoes, string beans,
asparagus, and other vegetables can be profitably produced subject to market-
ing opportunities. Tomatoes are second only to sugar beet in providing the
highest economic return per hectare, but were excluded from the cropping
pattern because of the uncertainty of the Western European market. The
Government decision to create a plant for production of tomato concentrate
and dehydrated vegetables in the Doukkala region has been deferred pending
consultant's findings on export prospects. Tomatoes would be introduced
into the cropping pattern if the factory is built, thereby increasing the
project's rate of return.
6.09      A dairy plant is to be constructed in the city of El Jadida, and
will serve the Doukkala I and II areas. Financing is assured and plans are
well advanced.
6.10      World prices of cereals are lower than prices on local farmers
markets in the Doukkala, while world prices of sugar beet, milk, and some
vegetables are higher than local prices. ORMVAD's machine services are sub-
sidized as are certain seed varieties (forage and hybrid corn). Prices of
fertilizers and pesticides are slightly higher than world prices (Annex 7).
Although the distributive impact of price distortions is important (para
5.21), they do not seriously distort farmers choice of cropping patterns
away from the economic optimum (Annex 19). However, the present water
charge is enough below the marginal cost of providing water that there is
a significant incentive for farmers to cultivate more water intensive crops
than would be economically optimal. The proposed water charge would eliminate
this distortion.
C. Farmers Income
6.11      The project would directly benefit about 20,000 people, growing to
25,000 by 1985. Distribution of the benefits between farm income groups
would be as follows (Annex 19, Table 3).



- 24 -
Percentage of
Percent                                                              Project Farm
of Farm                                      With Project          Income Accruing
Families           Present Situation           Situation               to Group
77%           Below absolute            At or somewhat above           58%
poverty level            poverty level
18%           Above absolute            Up to 50% above aver-          31%
poverty level, below    age per capita GDP
average per capita
GNP
5%           Above average per         Up to twice the aver-          11%
capita GDP, below        age per capita GDP
twice average per
capita GDP
The above distribution of income is no more skewed than in other agricultural
areas of Morocco. A major issue for the future is the fact that in spite of
the project, 42% of the farmers who have 2 ha or less would obtain farm in-
comes below the projected absolute poverty level, pushed above only by off-farm
income (Annex 19, Table 3).  Cultivation of field crops on such farms will not
permit incomes above the poverty level.  These small farms can only produce an
above poverty level income when devoted to the production of high value crops,
such as fruits and vegetables. Moroccan authorities recognized this situation
when they stipulated that 5 irrigated ha would be the unit farm size for
confiscated foreign-owned land distributed to Moroccans.
6.12      Farms less than 2 ha should be consolidated into viable units.  This
would require creation of alternative employment for farmers which, given the
high urban unemployment rate projected through 1985, is a long-term proposition,
and would not be undertaken under this project.
D. Economic Benefits
o.13      The project would assist Morocco in meeting its national objectives
(listed in para 2.02) by (a) improving its balance of trade, through earning
or saving foreign exchange of an amount equal to 2.5% of projected food im-
ports in 1985; (b) accelerating economic growth given the project's expected
economic rate of return of 11.6%, which is higher than the opportunity cost
of capital in Morocco (Annex 19); (c) raising the income of about 25,000
rural people to a level closer to the national average.
6.14      The risks inherent in agricultural projects discussed by the OED
have been minimized for this project. 1/   Risks caused by the possibility of
1/   OED Report No. 1357 issued November 18, 1976.  PPAR, Malaysia-Muda and
Kemubu Irrigation Projects, issued September 24, 1976.



-- 25 -
severe adverse climatic conditions would be excluded through irrigation. The
risk of a drastic change in Morocco's agricultural policies which would com-
promise the project is low given the Governnent's emphasis on agricultural
development and its effort to make Governnent intervention in the agricultural
sector less rigid.  Farmers' aversion to risk will not hinder development
because of the high return to both their own investments in cows, cowsheds and
farm equipment, and to their increased labor, and due to the low risk nature
of their participation (Annex 1). Financial rates of return obtained by
farmers are projected to vary from 100% for the smallest farmers decreasing
to 35% for the largest (Annex 16). The most important risks involve uncon-
trollable factors, the impact of some of which on the economic rate of
return are shown below (Annex 19).
Economic
Rate of Return
(%)
1.  Expected                                                        11.6
2.  Investment costs 15% higher, or crop yields 10% lower           10.3
3.  Power costs 10% higher                                          11.5
4.  Prices of crops, milk, meat, 10% lower                           9.5
5.  Tomatoes substituted for cotton and some spring maize           13.4
6.  Soybeans substituted for cotton and some spring maize           11.7
6.15      Although the project cost per beneficiary farm family is moderately
high ($14,500) the Government appears correct in concluding that the develop-
ment of irrigated agriculture in the Doukkala is the most feasible and economic
way in which to achieve the region's considerable agricultural potential, given
the constraint imposed by lack of water, the rather poor results from Govern-
ment's efforts in rainfed areas, and the availability of water from the Oum
Er R'Bia river. In addition there are significant sunk costs in the Im Fout
dam built in 1943 and in conveyance structures which would not be optimally
utilized without the project (Annex 19). Rainfed projects are planned for
areas of Morocco having more plentiful rainfall. Development of sectors other
than agriculture in the region is limited to that of processing industries
which would require a stable agricultural production base.
6.16      Annex 20 shows that with the project, all available 7,700 man years
of family labor would be utilized, compared to the 2,260 man-years presently
employed. Farms smaller than 5 ha would supply 2,460 of these man-years
to farms 8 ha and above, and at least 300 man-years would be required from
dry farmed areas surrounding the project area.
6.17      There is a ceiling to the number of people per hectare which can
be supported by rainfed farming in the area. The surplus population has been
migrating to cities at an accelerating rate since about 1970, causing popula-
tion size to stabilize in the area. However, given the present and projected
urban unemployment rate of about 15%, this migration off the land entails
significant social and economic costs of housing, feeding and transporting
the migrants in and to the cities. By increasing the capacity of the land to



- 26 -
maintain people, migration will decline, averting social and economic costs.
The incentive to remain on the land will also be increased by the construc-
tion of new schools, villages, and the installation of village water supply,
electricity, and rural roads, all of which improve the well being of the rural
population.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      Agreements reached during negotiations included:
(a) ORMVAD would extend the collection of water charges and
betterment levy as agreed upon in the Doukkala I Loan
Agreement to Doukkala II. The Government would inform the
Bank of (1) the results and recommendations of the water charge
study presently underway and (2) the Government's proposed
timetable for implementing the recommendations derived from
the study (para 5.20).
(b) ORMVAD and the Directorate for Agricultural Research (DRA)
will together establish annual programs of applied agricul-
tural research to be undertaken on the existing research
station of the DRA near Zemamra (para 5.13).
(c) ORMVAD will establish a telecommunications network (para 5.03).
(d)  Government will ensure the supply of adequate quantities of
seeds of improved wheat varieties to farmers (para 5.12).
(e) ORMVAD would provide to the Bank, not later than December 31,
1979, a proposal for improving its monitoring and evaluation
system. ORMVAD would provide to the Bank not later than
December 31, 1983 and again on December 31, 1988 an assessment
of project achievements, and reasons for shortfalls (para 5.24).
(f) Each Government agency responsible for any part of the proj-
ect would maintain separate accounts for the project work
with which it is associated. Annual financial statements
would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank and, along with audit reports, would be forwarded to
the Bank not later than four months after the end of each
fiscal year. ORMVAD would maintain separate accounits
reflecting revenues from recovery charges, investment,
operation, maintenance, and replacement costs of the
irrigation system, which would be submitted to the Bank
along with audited financial statements (para 5.25).



- 27 -
(g)  By assuring timely implementation of the project and by
agreeing to invite tenders for the supply of large dia-
meter pipes in one contract for 16,600 ha, the Government
would ensure the availability of an adequate supply of such
pipe (para 4.10).
7.02      The Government caused improvement of the laying and testing of
prestressed concrete pipe for the Doukkala I Project. It informed the Bank
that the contractor fulfilled his obligation to triple the number of laying
and testing crews (para 4.03).
7.03      Subject to the above agreements, the proposed project is suitable
for a Bank loan of US$41 million to the Government of Morocco for a term of
30 years including 6 1/2 years of grace.
April 12, 1977






ANNEX 1
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Results in Existing Irrigated Areas
1.        The project authority, ORMVAD, presently manages about 389,000 ha
of land in El Jadida Province, of which in 1975/76 26,370 ha were gravity
irrigated, 1,100 ha were sprinkler irrigated, and the remainder dry farmed,
left fallow or occupied by roads, villages, etc.  ORMVAD provides agricultural
services to both dry and irrigated farmers under its jurisdiction. In ORMVAD's
capital budgets from 1973 to 1976, expenditures for extension, training and
subsidies, for which there were no charges to farmers (excluding salaries,
operation and maintenance activity which are current expenditures) equaled
DH 31 per ha (US$7.80/ha) for dry farming, DH 132 per ha (US$33/ha) for irri-
gated farming. The number of staff attending agriculture in irrigated areas
is also four to five times as great per hectare as for dry farmers. This
results from the greater effort required to introduce the drastic changes in
agricultural practices undertaken in irrigated areas. ORMVAD's activity in
dry farmed areas is directed primarily to improving cereal and forage crop
yields (see Annex 5 for description of ORMVAD's services).
2.        Crop Yields Achieved.  Yields on the 260,000 ha dry farmed area
managed by ORMVAD are higher than the national average, reflecting in part
ORMVAD's operations (subsidies, farm machinery services, extension). However,
that area managed by ORMVAD benefitting from gravity irrigation showed average
yields for the 1973-1976 period two times higher than under dry farming for
durum wheat, soft wheat, and peas; three times higher for corn; one and one
half times higher for beans (see Table 1). Irrigation also permitted success-
ful cultivation of alfalfa, sugar beet, cotton and tomatoes; impossible in
the dry farmed area. During the same period, the 1,100 hectares now under
sprinkler irrigation had average yields higher than those under gravity irri-
gation by about 40% for soft wheat, cotton, and green peas; 20% for sugar beet,
15% for durum wheat, and only marginally for alfalfa. It is most likely that
these permanent differences are due to a lower percentage of germination of
seeds in gravity irrigated areas. This would apply in particular to broad-
casted small seeds: with sprinkler irrigation it is possible to apply a
small dose of just sufficient moisture for germination. With gravity irriga-
tion, flooding carries away a good percentage of the seeds. This phenomenon
is aggravated when the land levelling necessary for gravity irrigation is not
perfect, in which case the high spots will not be wetted at all, while some
seeds in the low spots are removed. A second reason is that water applica-
tion is easier and more efficient under sprinkler irrigation than under
gravity. Finally, soils and topography of the region are not well suited
to gravity irrigation, reducing the benefits obtained from it. The level
of services and the quality of soils is relatively similar between the two
sample areas, and do not explain the better agricultural performance under
sprinkler.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
3.        Cropping Pattern.
Percentage of Area Managed by OIMVAD under each Crop, 1976
Dry Farmed           Irrigated
(262,320 ha) /1    (30,350 ha) /l
(%) 
Durum wheat                                   25.9                 18.2
Soft wheat                                    10.9                  2.7
Barley                                        18.7                  0.0
Local corn                                    20.5                  1.7
Hybrid corn                                    0.3                 14.8
Broad beans                                    7.4                  1.6
Chick peas                                     5.9                  0.0
Peas                                           3.3                  1.9
Lentils                                        5.0                  0.0
Alfalfa and berseemn                           0.0                 13.8
Sugar beet                                     0.1                 20.8
Cotton                                         0.0                  4.9
Tomatoes and other vegetables                  2.0                 17.0
Other                                          0.0                  2.6
/1   Total cropped area.
The area under high value crops: sugar beet, alfalfa, tomatoes and vege-
tables, hybrid corn and cotton has expanded as a result of irrigation; while
that under low value crops: wheat, local corn, beans and lentils has con-
tracted.
Speed of Response to Irrigation
4.        Sprinkler Irrigation.  In the 1,100 ha area presently served by
sprinkler irrigation in the Doukkala, which was studied during appraisal,
the highest yields for most crops were obtained in the first year of irriga-
tion (1971), and have remained relatively stable since that time (see Table
2). This rapid response was primarily caused by the successful operation of
services by ORMVAD (extension, management, machinery, input supply, credit)
to beneficiaries of agrarian reform. Similarly, the cropping pattern imposed
by ORIVAD was largely accepted within two years of first irrigation. Cotton
yields have varied markedly, and farmers have been permitted to increase the
area under tomatoes and vegetables, at the expense of cotton, in order to
obtain a higher income per hectare. Farmer response to price incentives
appears quite rapid.
5.        Gravity Irrigation.  A sample 2,700 ha gravity irrigated area was
selected for intensive study which had substantial information available.
As indicated in Table 3, the response of yields and cropping pattern to



ANNEX 1
Page 3
gravity irrigation was slower than that under sprinkler, although still rapid.
For sugar beet, alfalfa, cotton and soft wheat, maximum yields were reached
within two years while maximum area under these crops was reached in the first
year for soft wheat and alfalfa, the third year for sugar beet, the fourth
for cotton, and the fifth for hybrid corn. A subsequent decline in area under
cotton and soft wheat has been made up for by an increase in the area under
tomatoes, vegetables and corn due to higher expected income per hectare for
the latter.
Incremental Income Resulting from Irrigation
6.        The 2,700 ha sample area served by gravity irrigation includes 560
farm households (4.82 ha per household), with a population of 3,250. The
1,100 ha area served by sprinkler irrigation studied during appraisal contains
220 farm families (5 ha per family), and 1,320 people. The 1,100 ha was dis-
tributed to these families under Morocco's agrarian reform. Not all of the
beneficiaries had been farmers, and all began without any farm equipment and
livestock. Results of irrigation have been as follows:
Income per hectare /1        Income per Capita
Crop   Livestock              Total
(US$/ha)  (US$/ha)          (US$ per Capita)
Sprinkler /2                    540        200                 620
Gravity /3                      380        185                  470
Dry farming /4                  125         80                  170
Poverty income level             -          -                   196
/1   Data is shown in tables 1 through 3, prices in  Annex 7, input
quantities in Annex 5. Income is before water charges, taxes,
opportunity cost of labor.
/2   After seven years of irrigation, but beginning from a situation
in which farmers had no farm assets (equipment, machinery, farm
know-how).
/3   After 5 years of irrigation.
/4   Average income from dry farming in area managed by ORIVAD
(above national average). Assumes 5.8 family members per farm
household, and average holding equals 4.8 ha as found in the
2,700 ha gravity irrigated area.
7.        Since the large incremental increase in yields and the change in
cropping pattern occurred in the first several years of irrigation, income
from crops will not increase much more rapidly in either irrigated sample
area than will income under dry farming. In the first year of sprinkler
irrigation, income per ha from crops equaled US$500 compared to US$540 in
the seventh year. However, real income (1976 prices) from meat and milk
sales still continues to increase at a rapid rate of 14% p.a. in the
sprinkler irrigated area and 23% p.a. in the gravity irrigated area.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
Use of Incremental Income
8.        Farmers have tended to save most incremental income in the form of
livestock and agricultural machinery. Greatly expanded herds have accelerated
income growth through milk and meat sales. Availability of forage will limit
growth in herd size however, as observed already in the difference in growth
of meat and milk sales between the area irrigated by sprinkler for 7 years
(14% p.a. growth), and that irrigated by gravity for 5 years (23% p.a. growth).
In areas under dry farming, herd size is already constrained by the lack of
forage.
9.        Employment Generation.  Total family and hired labor requirements
in the 2,700 ha area irrigated by gravity are estimated to have increased by
2.7 times from the pre-irrigation (88,000 man days) to the 1975 situation
(239,000 man days). Increasing mechanization is now causing a yearly reduc-
tion in man days required per crop, while rapid livestock development is
causing an offsetting increase in labor demand. Although no figures are
available for the area irrigated by sprinklers, the extension service said
that the demand for labor from surrounding dry farmed areas was high.
Economic Analysis of Gravity Versus Sprinkler Irrigation
10.       Table 5 shows the stream of net incremental farm production per
hectare resulting from gravity and sprinkler irrigation in the sampled areas,
compared to production under rainfed conditions. Outputs and inputs are
valued net of taxes and subsidies, in constant 1976 prices, with labor costed
at its marginal product under dry farming conditions (see Annexes 7 and 19).
No incremental benefits were obtained for three years prior to first water
when construction was underway. The present value discounted at 10% of the
stream of economic benefits from sprinkler irrigation equals US$4,760 per ha,
while that from gravity irrigation equals US$3,895 per ha, for a difference
of US$865 per hectare. The information available shows sprinkler trrigation
to cost US$640 per hectare more than gravity irrigation (measured as a present
value discounted at 10%). The incremental benefits of sprinkler over gravity
irrigation exceed the incremental cost by US$225, and therefore sprinkler is
economically more desirable. The efficiency of water use under sprinkler
irrigation is about 80% while it is 60% for gravity irrigation in the Doukkala
area. Therefore under sprinkler irrigation 33% more area can be irrigated
with the same amount of water. Therefore, to the US$225 per hectare increment
in net benefits under sprinkler compared to gravity irrigation should be added
the net value of production less costs of sprinkler irrigating another third
of one hectare, equal to US$170 when discounted at 10%. 1/
1/   The total cost per hectare of the Doukkala II project equals US$4,240
when discounted at 10%. Since benefits were found to equal US$4,760
per hectare, the net benefit of irrigating another one-third of a
hectare equals 1/3 x (US$4,760 - 4,240) or US$170.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
Reasons for Success
11.       Although incremental yields could be improved, they have been good
for most crops, and have been arrived at rapidly. Income growth has been
more rapid than that implied by yield increases because incremental incomes
have been saved by farmers in the form of income generating assets (livestock
and farm machinery).
12.       The most frequent cause of difficulty in agricultural projects ac-
cording to the Bank's Operation Evaluation Department and research undertaken
on the subject appears to be poor management and staff. Staff (including
headquarters and extension) may not be competent, committed, or provided with
sufficent incentives. Project services are often not coordinated by partici-
pating government agencies. Input supply (credit, fertilizer, seed, machine
services) may then be inefficiently disseminated or not disseminated at all,
come at the wrong time, or be of poor quality. Scrutiny of typical managerial
or organizational constraints revealed that for the most part they have been
overcome by ORMVAD. The staff is of generally high quality, well managed,
committed to the objective of increasing farm production, and paid salaries
higher than the average government salary.  All services related to irriga-
tion infrastructure and agricultural production, with the exception of agri-
cultural research and cereal seed supply, are managed by the project authority,
which is located in the region and has considerable autonomy. Decision making
has been decentralized to ORMVAD, although accounts are audited by the Min-
istry of Finance, and the yearly budget is derived from the Five-Year Plan,
modified if necessary for central government budgetary reasons. The project
authority efficiently purchases and distributes through its extension centers
all inputs (credit, fertilizer, pesticides, machine services, water, etc.)
for key cash crops (sugar beet, cotton, hybrid maize) as well as organizes
the purchase of pure bred imported cows (required for rapid increase in herd
size). The agricultural credit institution has rapidly increased medium-term
and short-term credit to farmers in the irrigated area. The reason for this
efficiency is probably the Government's commitment to the project, induced
in turn by the King's stated goal of rapidly expanding the irrigated area.
The importance of commitment can be observed in the difference in dry farm
yields in the area of El Jadida province managed by ORMVAD compared to yields
in the area managed by the Provincial Agricultural Service. ORMVAD operations
have induced increases in dry farmed yields whereas the operations of the
provincial service, which suffers from lack of Government commitment, have
not.
13.       The agricultural marketing system has worked well, as described in
Annex 7.
14.       Often, the failure of a new technology or package of technologies
to gain acceptance by farmers has been caused by low return to the farmer
after he discounts for risk of loss. This may be caused by insufficiently
remunerative producer prices, ill-adapted farm technologies which the Govern-
ment pushes him to utilize, or simply inadequately remunerative technologies.
Changing a farmer's technology implies higher input costs which from the
farmer's perspective carries the risk of not being offset by increased value



AINEX 1
Page 6
of production. The cost to the farmer of halving tlhe net value of production
is much greater than the value of doubling it because halving may mean starva-
tion (or migration to the city in order to avoid starvation'>. The farmer
therefore avoids changing farming practice unless he perceives the risk as
being low or unless he expects a return adequate to cover the risk. ORMVAD
provides an easily understood low risk package. This is so firstly because
two crops are possible on each piece of land under irrigation, whereas less
than 100% of farmland is cultivated under rainfed conditions in the area.
Therefore, the farmer can grow crops under contract with ORMVAD for cash and
in addition grow traditional crops, if necessary, in the traditional manner.
Because farm inputs are furnished to the farmer for contract: crops paid for at
the end of the harvest out of the cash proceeds from crop sales, and because
the farmers' payments would never exceed cash income, farmers cannot lose by
participating in the project. In addition, increased animal. feed due to
irrigation of alfalfa and berseem permits a rapid increase in the herd which
constitutes for the farmer insurance against crop disasters. Significantly
increased cash income in the first year of irrigation reduces the farmers
uncertainty with respect to extension advice on use of fertilizer, pesticides,
and improved land use practices, and hence farmers acceptance of such innova-
tions comes more rapidly.
15.       A final reason for success is the farmers' own high marginal pro-
pensity to save in the form of income generating assets (livestock and ma-
chinery). The Moroccan Government has chosen to subsidize water use by
imposing water charges which do not cover the operation and maintenance costs
of ORMVAD, and by imposing low direct taxes on agriculture. This leaves a
large percentage of net project benefits to farmers. Farmers invest these
benefits. This situation would be changed when water charges are increased to
the level proposed in Annex 17, leaving less for farmers to invest. This has
been incorporated in the projections of farm income.
16.       Improvements which could have a large impact on ecoriomic returns
are discussed in Annex 5. Agricultural research requires improvement as does
cereal seed supply. In addition, ORMVAD's machine services are sometimes
not optimally timed, and its extension service could he more effective in
introducing modern methods of sowing, adequate water conservation practices,
and optimal cropping patterns (cotton has yielded poor incomes compared to
vegetables and perhaps oilseeds).  Improvement in these areas would permit
higher yields and incomes. ORMVAD, after several years of experience, is
cognizant of these problens. It is assisting larger farmers to purchase agri-
cultural equipment which they use more efficiently than do ORMVAD employees,
and has permitted farmers to respond to price signals in substituting vegeta-
bles for cotton.  Bank supervision missions will have to monitor these areas
however.
Miarch 1977



ANNEX 1
Table 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Average Yields Obtained
/1                          ORMVAD
National-       Dry Farmed      Gravity Irri.         Sprinkler
Crop                 1973-1975       1973-1976          1973-1976        Irri. 1970-76
-----------------------(ton/ha)---------------------------
Durum Wheat              0.92            1.08            2.20                 2.5
Soft Wheat               0.80            1.15            2.20                 3.0
Barley                   0.90            1.18            nc                   nc
Corn (Local)              na             1.03            1.83                 nc
Corn (Hybrid)           0.70             ne              3.07                 3.0
Beans                    1.05            0.93            1.33                 ne
Chick Peas               0.86            0.75            nc                   nc
Alfalfa                   na             nc             58.80                60.0
Sugar Beet             30.40             ne             41.10                49.6
Cotton                   1.27            ne              0.95 /2              1.3 /3
Tomatoes               18.50             nc             30.00 /4              na
Lentils                  0.80            0.60            ne                   nc
Peas                     0.75            0.85            1.47                 2.0
/1   Includes irrigated yields; especially for sugar beet, cotton, tomatoes.
/2   1973 - 1975.
/3   1970 - 1974.
/4   1976 only.
ne: not cultivated.
na: not available.
Source:  Data provided by ORMVAD, data collected by mission at Sidi Bennour
(gravity irrigation), and Boulaoane (sprinkler irrigation). National
figures obtained from "Statistiques Agricoles", December 1975, MARA,
Morocco.
December 1976



MZNEX 1
Table 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA Il IRRIGATION PROJECT
Evolution of Yields and Cropping Pattern in Response
to Sprinkler Irrigation
Sugar Beet                        Cotton
Year                 Yield        Area Cultivated      Yield   Area Cultivated
1970                 100.0              80.9            92.3         100.0
1971                  91.5              89.5            56.9          na
1972                  91.6              98.2            90.0          73.5
1973                  83.0              98.2           100.0          na
1974                  79.1              99.1            56.9          36.5
1975                  89.8             100.0             -             -
1976                  96.4             100.0             -             -
Maximum Attained      55 ton/ha        220 ha            1.3 ha      211 ha
na: not available
December 1976



AYiNEX 1
Table 3
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Yield and CI:opping Pattern Build-Up in a Gravity Irrigated Area
Managed by ORMVAD (2,700 ha)
Yield Build-Up
(Percentage of Maximum Yield Attained)
First Irrigation  Sugar            Hybrid  Soft   Durum       Alfalfa
Year             Equals 1       Beet   Cotton   Corn   Wheat  Wheat  (Green Matter)
1972                 1            65      90      73      nc     100         100
1973                 2            97     na       83      nc      na         100
1974                 3           100    100       83      80      na         100
1975                 4            96      97     100    100       na         100
1976                 5            99     na       83    100      100         100
Maximum Yield (ton/ha)           38.0   0.72    3.0    2.5        2.5        60.0
na: not. available
nC: not cultivated
Evolution of Cropping Pattern
in Response to Irrigation
(Percentage of Maximum Cropped Area Attained)
First Irrigation  Sugar            Hybrid  Soft   Drum    Alfalfa
Year             Equals 1       Beet   Cotton   Corn   Wheat  Wheat  & Berseem
1972                 1            62      17       4      nc     100         100
1973                 2            89      18      25      nc      /1         100
1974                 3            96      52      30    100                  100
1975                 4           100    100       92      20                 100
1976                 5           100      48     100      20                 100
Maximum Area Under Crop (ha)   732    300        500    6515    625           425
/1   Area under durum wheat has declined each year, as has that of other
traditional dry farming crops such as barley, local variety corn,
beans and chick peas.
December 1976



ANNEX 1
Table 4
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Full Development Yields and Economic Return
Yields               Net Economic Value of Production
Crop                   Dry   Gravity  Sprinkler       Present      Gravity   Sprinkler
(1975)     (1975)
----     ton/ha---------       -------------DH/ha--------------
Durum Wheat            1.0      2.50        -           430         1,150         -
Soft Wheat              -       2.50       3.0           -          1,150       1,525
Barley                 1.2       -         -             335          -           -
Spring Maize           1.0      3.00      3.0           580         1,410       1,410
Summer Maize            -       3.00      1.8            -          1,560         660
Broad Beans            0.9       -          -            420          -           -
Sugar Beet              -      37.00     53.0            -          4,070       6,490
Cotton                  -       0.70       -             -            680         -
Alfalfa /1              -      60.00      60.0            -           (580)      (580)
Berseem /1              -      50.00       -              -           (345)       -
Green Peas              -       0.85       2.0           -            700       2,174
Watermelon              -        -       12.0             -           -         2,450
/1   The net economic value of alfalfa and berseem is implicit in the value of
meat and milk production since it is all consumed on the farm.  It is
therefore not included in the total economic value of crop production,
nor is the value of sugar beet pulp, straw and other crop derivatives
consumed by livestock.
December 1976



ANNEX 1
Table 5
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Value of Net Incremental Production Li
Under Gravity                Under Sprinkler
Year                   Crop       Meat & Milk         Crop       Meat & Milk
---------------------(US$/ha) -------------------
1                      O             O                O             O
2                      0             0                0             0
3                      0             0                0             0
4                    215            10              415            70
5                    300            30              435            80
6                    330            60              480            90
7                    340            95              440           105
8                    430           130              425           120
9                    430           145              460           135
10                    430           160              475           155
il                    430           175              475           165
12                    430           190              475           175
13                    430           210              475           190
14                    430           230              475           200
15                    430           230              475           215
16-45                    430           230              475           230
Present Value
Discounted to
Year 0 at 10%         2,830         1,065            3,565         1,195
/1 Incremental output is valued at border prices adjusted for internal
handling and transport costs. Incremental inputs (fertilizer, pesti-
cides, machine services, health services, minerals, animal feed) are
valued at border prices, family and hired labor at its opportunity
cost, animal services at the cost of feed. The value of production
is based on observed evolution of yields, cropping pattern, herd, milk
sales, quantities of inputs, in the 1,100 ha sprinkler and 2,700 ha
gravity irrigated sample areas, compared to dry farmed areas in the
Doukkala. Observations through the first five years of gravity irri-
gation, and the first seven for sprinkler were available. No tendency
for yields to continue to increase more rapidly than under dry farmed
conditions was observed, so incremental crop production is assumed
constant in the future. Growth in incrementàl milk and meat sales in
the future are mission projections. Where data gaps exist (primarily
for inputs), mission estimates are used. Border prices are shown
in Annex 7, inputs in Annex 5, and livestock analysis in Annex 6.
December 1976



ANNEX 2
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Natural Resources
Climate
1.        The climate is characterized by hot and dry summers and short and
cool winters. Dry periods extend over six months and rainfall averages 305 mm
and shows great variations from year to year. The 1 in 5 years dry year has
240 mm and the 1 in 5 years wet year 380 mm. As a result, frequent crop
failures occur. Annual evaporation amounts to about 1,650 mm. Total number
of rainy days is 50 to 60 and only two for the period of June through September.
Diurnal variation of winds for the project area in the main irrigation season
are, in m/sec:
0-6 am      6-12 am        12-6 pm       6-12 pm
June                              1.4          2.4             4.6         2.8
July                              1.4          2.5             4.4         2.8
August                            1.4          2.4             4.2          2.7
Further climatic data are tabulated in Table 1.
Topography and Soils
2.        The project area is spread over three different zones:  the Tnine
Rharbia zone, west of Zemamra, on both sides of road 126 joining Zemamra and
Safi, with a net area of 13,300 ha and a general slope SE-NW; the Sidi Smail
extension, north of the main canal on the eastern part of the Sidi Smail
perimeter with a net area of 1,400 ha; and the Faregh extension, between
Faregh and Boulaouane perimeters, with a net area of 1,900 ha. The general
topography is slightly undulating with slopes of 4% and 15 to 20 m high
mounds which would make gravity irrigation impossible in many parts. No
natural surface drainage exists in the project area which is cut off from
the ocean by a 50 km wide strip of fossil dunes. Storm water collects in
karstic sink holes, called daya's from which it flows about 60 m underground
towards the ocean.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
3.        ORMVAD has carried out a soil survey at scale 1:10,000 with pedo-
logical and land capability maps for irrigation at scale 1:20,000. The soils
belong to five types:
(i)  Vertisols which are deep and uniform soils with a high
percentage of clay; porosity is low when the soil is
wet and very high when dry due to cracks. They have
a good agricultural potential and mainly belong to
Classes I and II.
(ii)  Alluvial deposits, mainly sandy soils with good porosity;
they also belong to Classes I and II.
(iii)  Shallow brown calcareous soils, underlain by calcareous
materials; they belong to Class IV.
(iv)  Subtropical chestnut brown soils with low calcium
percentage, underlain by calcareous materials, deep
and permeable soils which belong to Class I.
(v)  Hydromorphic soils belonging to Class IV.
The following table gives for the three zones the number of hectares belonging
to the different land capability classes for irrigation:
Class                        Total
Zone                      I         II      III       IV        Mapped Area
-----____________----(ha)----------------
Tnine-Rharbia                 14,800    2,400    200      2,900          20,300
Extension Sidi Smail           1,456      500       0        20           1,976
Extension Faregh                   6    1,633    143        178           1,960
Total                   16,262    4,533    343       3,098          24,236
From this table it appears that 67% of the mapped soils belong to Class I and
19% to Class II, an acceptable percentage of suitable soils for irrigation.
Since Class IV lands were omitted for irrigation, the distribution for the
project is even better, with 77% as Class I, 21% as Class II and 2% as
Class III land.



AiNEX 2
Page 3
Water Supply and Quality
4.        The Oum Er R'bia River originates in the high and middle Atlas
Mountains and has a drainage area above Im Fout (diversion point for the
Doukkala) of 30,600 km2. Highest annual discharges occur in March and
lowest in August. Dams constructed on the two main tributaries partly
regulate its flow. Salt springs upstream of Khenifra contribute to a
relatively high salinity content of the water which is gradually diluted
in a downstream direction. Average annual discharge at Im Fout is 3,400
Mm3 per year.
5.        The Ai Massira Dam now under construction at Sidi Cheho, 50 km
upstream of Im Fout, will change the regime of the river profoundly. The
reservoir created behind the dam by end of 1979 will have a live volume of
2,320 2m3 available for irrigation. As a result, mixing of high salt content
summer water with low salt content spring water will take place and an aver-
age conductivity of 1,100 micromhos and a sodium absorption ratio of 3.50 is
expected. This would classify it as high salt, low sodium water, or C3SI
according to the Riverside classification. No negative effects may be
expected with adequate drainage and relatively salt tolerant crops. The
same waters have been used successfully over seven years for the same crops
as those proposed for the project.
6.        With a gross demand at headworks of 171 Mm3/year for the proposed
project and of about 600 Mm3/year for the entire low service Doukkala irri-
gated area, the storage of 2,320 Mm3 behind the Ai Massira Dam guarantees
supply. The critical element is therefore not the quantity of water avail-
able, but the capacity of the existing tunnel to meet peak demand. Capacity
of the tunnel is 36 m3/sec. With a peak demand of 0.57 i/sec/ha at the
pumping stations, the total irrigated area would need 34 m3/sec, to which the
domestic supply of Safi, 2 m3/sec, should be added. This would not leave any
room for conveyance losses in the main canal. The solution should be found in
scheduling the dormancy period of alfalfa between the various perimeters to
distribute peak demand over the various perimeters.
February 1977



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Climatic Data
Annual
Item                                          J       F      M       A      M       J       J      A       S       O      N       D   Average
Rainfall (mm)
Sidi Bennour (Nat. Meteorological
Service)        45     39      39     28      14        4                      4    34      41      56        304
Zemamra (from SOMET study)/L              43     59      38      23      8        4                      8    45      74      57        359
Temperature (OC)
Average                                   13.2   13.6   14.2   15.6   18.6    21.2  25.2    24.1   23.2  20.2   16.3   12.2    18.1
Maximum Average                           19      19.6   20.6   21.8   25.2    28.3  33.2    31.5   30.7  26.8   21.2   18.5
Minimum Average                            6.8    7.3    7.7    9.1   il         14.4  18       17.3   16.2  12.6   10.2    5.9
Sunshine (hours)       )                            577                    794                     992                   664            3,027
)
Relative Humidity (%) )
Average              )                             81                    76                       72                    80
Maximum Average       )  per                       95                     96                      94                    96
Minimum Average       )  quarter                   54                     44
)
Wind Velocity (m/sec) )                              1.9                    2.3                     2.4                   1.6
De Martone Index /2 )                                29                     I1                      0                     24                14
Evaporation (mm/day)/3                       1.6    2.3    3.6    4.5    6          6.6   7.3       7.3    6      4       2.6    2.2   1,647
Potential Evapotranspiration (Blaney
Criddle in mm)    102    100    122    134    161          171   193      178    156   138    110        96   1,661
/1 Eight years of record.
/2 I=10 represents the limit of aridity.
/3 Colorado pan at Im Fout.
January 1977
i- NS



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA Il IRRIGATION PROJECT
Irrigation Water Requirements
Nuaber of                                                                                                     Net      Total Pumped
Crous                        Growing Period     Irrigations   Jan   Feb   March   A            MY    June       July       Aug    Sept    Oct   Nov   Dec   Total    75% Efficiency    'da          M3/vr
.(3/ha ---
Alfalfa                    Yearlong                 19          180   190    390      730    1,280   1,720   1,060/2   1,780   1,420   780   310   160   10,000            13,333           3,210    42.80
Berseem                    Aug 15-Marab 15           6         390   320       -       -        -       -        -          370   1,140   890   450   320    3,880          5,172          1,730      8.95
Wheat and Barley           Nov 1-May 31               3         280   320    510      550       -        -       -          -        -      -     70    -      1,730         2,306          4,600    10.61
Spring Maize               March 15-July 31          8           -     -      80      420    1,160   1,490       860        -       -       -     -      -     4,010         5,345            940     5.02
Sumner Maize               June 15-oct 15            8           -     -       -       -        -        380   1,240      1,690   1,420    -      -      -     4,730         6,305          5,110    32.23
Early Sugar Beet           Oct 15-May 31             5          340   320    510      730       -       -        -          -       -      130   140   180    2,350          3,132            -         -
Medium Sugar Beet          Nov 15-July 15             8         230   270    510      730    1,160      750      -          -        -      -      50    90    3,790         5,052
Late Sugar Beet            Dec 15-Aug 15            il          120   170    430      730    1,160   1,470   1,910          -        -      -      -     40    6,030         8,038            -         -
Average Sugar Beet          Oct 15-Aug 15            8          230   253    483      730       774     740      636        -        -      43    63   103    4,055          5,405          3,850    20.81
Cotton                     Apr 20-Nov 30            il           -     -       -      250       490     900   1,720       1,690   1,280    -       -     -      6,330        8,438          1,615    13.80
Melon and Watermelon        Apr 1-Sept 30             9          -     -       -      140       560   1,050   1,530       1,360      990    -      -     -      5,630        7,504            790      5.93
Green Peas, Turnips        Sept 15-Dec 30            4                         -       -        -       -        -          -       140   890   450   320    1,800           2,400            470      1.13
Barley Peas, Forage        Nov 1-Apr 30              3          230   320    360      460       -       -        -          -       -       -    140   140    1,650          3,629          1,205      4.37
Tomatoes                   March 1-Aug 15            8           -     -      140     280       990   1,490   1,630         -        -      -      -     -      4,530        6,038            -         -
23,540   145.65
Total                                                                                                                                                                                      ____      _ _ _
1ater Désand at Pumping Station                                4.93  5.33   7.96    12.20   12.56   20.39   22.69         25.11/4 22.31  6.17  3.63  2.37                                            145.65
Water Demand at 'eadworks  3                                   5.80  6.27   9.05    14.35   14.78   23.99   26.69         29.54   26.25  7.26  4.27  2.79                                            171.04
Il Effective rainfall subtracted.  Computation according to Blaney and Criddle.
/2 Dormancy period.
/3 Assumes 15% conveyance losses.
/4 Equals 0.57 1/sec/ha for an area of 16,600 ha, or 0.72 1/sec/ha for 13,045 ha actually under crop.
December 1976.



ANNEX 4
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Land Tenure
1.        The land tenure situation in Morocco is described extensively in
Annex 2 of the Bank Appraisal Report of the Meknes Agricultural Development
Project. All lands benefitting from the Doukkala II project are private
freehold and would be consolidated by December 1978, before construction of
the irrigation and drainage networks. Land consolidation is undertaken in
accordance with the Land Consolidation Law of 1962 and the Agricultural
Investment Code of 1969. The Land Consolidation Law defines the procedures
for consolidation which are carried out by a special commission with the
technical help of MARA. The law requires that everyone receives land equal in
value to that held previously, it allows any complaints to be lodged with the
commission within six months, and subjects any further subdivision of holdings
to authorization by the commission. The Agricultural Investment Code permits
the state to enlarge small non-viable holdings to insure effective use of
capital improvements such as irrigation facilities. Division of land into
units of less than five hectares is forbidden. Transfer of land title is
prohibited until reorganization within the zone is completed.
2.        Taking into account the results of land consolidation on 8,500 ha,
future farm size distribution is expected to be as follows:
Farm Size                Farms                      Area
(ha)             No.              (%)        ha         (%)
0-2               1,487             43          2,158      13
2-5               1,210             35          5,146      31
5-10                485             14          4,150      25
10-20               138              4          1,660      10
Above 20            138              4          3,486       21
Total             3,460            100         16,600     100
Average farm size equals 4.8 ha.
The technical work involved in land consolidation is carried out by firms
specialized in this type of work, under contract with OR4VAD.  ORMVAD has
the technical staff and experience to supervise the land consolidation
program.
February 1977



ANNEX 5
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Agricultural Supporting Services and Crop Production
Agricultural Supporting Services
1.        The Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MARA) consists of
seven directorates: Agricultural Development, Construction, Agricultural Edu-
cation, Agricultural Research, Livestock, Land Registry and Topographical
Works, and Forestry. The Directorate for Construction is concerned with plan-
ning and implementing irrigation projects, and supervising those regional
project authorities (ORMVA's) responsible for implementing irrigation proj-
ects, including ORMVAD. ORMVA's are established by royal decree, which
delineates the geographical territory in which the ORMVA operates. Outside
this territory, agricultural services are provided by the Provincial Agri-
cultural Services. ORMVA's always contain one or more major modern irrigation
projects as the focus of their activity, but their responsibility equally
includes the development of dry-farming within the boundaries of their ter-
ritory. In addition to constructing and managing irrigation systems, the
ORMVA's construct slaughterhouses, market places and village water supply,
and are responsible for assisting farmers to reach targeted cropping patterns,
yields, and livestock development. To do this, the ORMVA's provide extension
services, organize the provision of fertilizers, pesticides, machine services,
artificial insemination, purchase imported cows, establish milk cooperatives,
and channel short-term credit to farmers for "contract crops" (sugar beet,
cotton, hybrid corn). The ORMVA's do not undertake agricultural research,
education, and supply of certain inputs. All medium-term credit and most
short-term credit is provided by the Agricultural Credit Bank. Cereal seeds
are sold through a government controlled marketing agency. Most agricultural
inputs and outputs are also marketed on private farm markets. The national
emphasis on the development of irrigation potential has resulted in a substan-
tial flow of resources, not only to the construction of irrigation facilities,
but also to those entrusted with construction and management of the new fa-
cilities. Thus, the ORMVA's have enjoyed large budgetary allocations, permit-
ting the employment of more and better qualified personnel, to the envy and
frustration of the agricultural services with responsibility outside the
ORMtVA territories.
The Project Authority
2.        ORMVAD, which was established in 1966, presently serves 389,000 ha
of land in El Jadida Province, 26,370 ha of which are gravity irrigated, 1,100
ha sprinkler irrigated, and 3,000 ha in a narrow strip along the coast with
small-scale traditional irrigation of early vegetables. About 345,000 ha is
dry farmed or fallow land, with the balance under villages and roads. Services
presently provided to existing irrigated areas are described below, and



ANNEX 5
Page 2
assurances will be obtained that the same level of services, with the adjust-
ments recommended by the appraisal team, also be provided in the Doukkala II
perimeter.
3.        At the El Jadida headquarters, ORMVAD has an agricultural production
and a livestock service responsible for extension, input supply, marketing,
teaching, and agricultural planning. The agricultural production service is
divided into six offices at headquarters, and is represented by three sub-
divisions in the field, each of which directs several extension centers
(CMV's). There is one extension center for every 3,000 ha of irrigated land.
In the Doukkala II Project area, 13,300 ha will be under the jurisdiction of
the same subdivisional headquarters at Zemamra that will serve the Doukkala I
Project. Doukkala II will also have an extension center per 3,000 ha. The
smaller perimeters at Faregh and Sidi Smail (3,300 ha) will be served by
existing extension centers. The organization chart of ORMVAD is shown in
Chart 16782.
ORMVAD Headguarters
4.        ORMVAD's agricultural production service includes the following
major offices at headquarters:
(a) The Office of Agro-Economic Studies surveys prices on local
farm markets, cropping patterns, herd size and composition,
parasite control, marketing possibilities, the relative merits
of sprinkler and gravity irrigation. This office should under-
take agro-economic analysis of new crops, changes in input use,
and possible farm level technical innovations, and would be
responsible for project monitoring and evaluation (Annex 18).
(b) The Office of Agrarian Reform supervises the provision of services
to beneficiaries of the agrarian reform, under which landless
farm laborers are given land expropriated from foreigners. The
office plans construction, infrastructure, cropping patterns,
requirements for credit, fertilizers, pesticide, machine services,
and organizes the supply of these inputs to appropriate extension
centers or cooperatives from where distribution to beneficiaries
takes place. Since there is very little land in the Doukkala II
Project which has been distributed under the agrarian reform,
this office will have negligible impact on the project.
(c) The Office for Agricultural Activity is responsible for providing
services to farmers for crops produced under contract with OIWIVAD
including sugar beet, cotton, hybrid maize in irrigated areas, and
cereals in dry-farmed areas. The headquarters personnel purchase
required supplies of fertilizer, pesticides, seeds, machinery and
material for farmers, plan cropping patterns for contract crops
and obtain from the National Agricultural Credit Bank the short-
term credit required to finance the provision of these inputs to
farmers. Inputs are channeled through the extension centers.
This division's activity has been effective in inducing a rapid
acceptance of industrial crops by farmers, and has aided in the
rapid achievement of relatively high yields.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
(d) The Office of the Director of Extension Centers coordinates
extension center activity, and communicates orders from head-
quarters to the field.
(e) The Office for Training and Agricultural Cooperation organizes
and administers seminars, demonstration farms, audiovisual
aides, trips for farmers to existing irrigated areas, and trains
extension agents. Much of this activity would be undertaken on
existing ORMVAD managed demonstration farms and at the 325 ha
research station in the project area.
5.        Extension.  Each extension center serves about 3,000 ha, and in-
cludes six extension agents and six water use supervisors, each of whom is
responsible for a 500 ha zone. The organization of each extension center CMV
is as follows:
Director
Water Management                                      Livestock    Administrative
Office          Supply Office  Extension Office    Office          Services
1 director      1 director         1 director   1 director
I director,        2 stockroom    6 extension         2 extension  1 accountant
6 agents             agents          agents             agents
It is through these extension centers that the planning of headquarters staff
receives field implementation. Training of extension agents would be improved
through the project by making consultants' services available for this purpose
and by the demonstration farm which would be managed by ORMVAD. From the
Office of Agricultural Activity is received directions as to the percentage
of each farmer's land which can be placed under sugar beet, cotton and hybrid
maize, as well as supply of fertilizer, pesticide, seeds, and other material
to be sold to farmers for the purpose of cultivating these crops. The cost of
the material received by farmers is deducted from the price they received from
the sugar and cotton factories. Farmers receive only the inputs required to
cultivate the amount of land under sugar beet, cotton, and hybrid maize desig-
nated by ORMVAD. The extension center also maintains the equipment required
for land preparation for the contract crops. Dry farmers with less than 20 ha
who wish to participate in ORMVAD's cereal operations receive selected seed
and Eertilizer subsidized at 20%. Forage seeds are also provided to dry
farmers by ORMVAD at a subsidized price. For other irrigated or dry farmed
crops, farmers may purchase fertilizer, pesticide, and machine services from
the extension centers, when available. These may also be obtained from
private suppliers on farm markets. In existing irrigated areas, ORMVAD
supplied in the first years of irrigation all machine services utilized, as
well as pesticides and most fertilizers. By the sixth year of irrigation,
private owners of equipment supplied 75% of machine services, and a growing
percentage of farmers were purchasing other farm supplies on private markets.
Part of the income generated from irrigation is invested by large farmers in
agricultural machinery, the services of which are used both on the farmer's



ANNEX 5
Page 4
own land and sold to smaller farmers in competition with ORMVAD's subsidized
services. ORMVAD welcomes this development since it prefers to reduce its own
machine services to farmers. The Doukkala Il project would provide adequate
farm machinery to each of the 4 CMV's to be established under the project.
6.        Milk Collecting Centers.  Under ORMVAD's livestock production
division there are 6 inseminators, 25 directors of the 25 milk collection
centers, 2 controllers of milk quality, 12 veterinary nurses. Presently,
16 milk cooperatives have been organized which serve 8,000 producers owning
a total of 28,000 cows. Veterinary services are provided through the live-
stock office in each extension center.
Supporting Services not under ORMVAD's Authority
7.        Agricultural Research.  The Agricultural Research Directorate (DRA)
of the Ministry of Agriculture supervises agricultural research in Morocco.
It employs 470 professionals plus 1,780 supporting personnel, and has a 1976
budget of DH 23.6 billion (US$5.4 million), excluding salaries. There are
three research stations managed by the DRA in the Doukkala area, one of which
is being phased out of activity, another of which experiments on fruit produc-
tion, and the third and largest (Zemamra) undertakes crop experiments which
could be useful for the project area. The Zemamra station is located at the
border of the Doukkala I irrigation perimeter, and thus could serve Doukkala
Il as well. It presently covers 325 ha, 30 ha of which are irrigated by
pumping from the main canal which passes the station's border. Results
obtained have not been disseminated in the project area but rather coded and
sent to Rabat for analysis. Research results are aggregated in Rabat with
those from other research stations in the country and after several years
published. As in areas administered by other ORMVA's, the DRA-operated
research station produces virtually no analysis applicable to the project area
and dealing with the economics of new seed varieties, new crops, fertilizers,
pesticide use, and variations in cropping patterns. There is no indication
that ORMVAD's operations have benefitted from the station. The project would
therefore include a reform of the system of determining the kind of research
to be undertaken. ORMVAD would, with the DRA, define a research program to
be implemented each year by the DRA on the DRA research station at Zemamra.
The research programs would be sent to the Bank for its review and comments.
ORMVAD's office for training and agricultural cooperation would also use the
research station for training purposes. The cooperation between the DRA and
ORMVAD is an achievement which should be duplicated elsewhere in Morocco.
8.        Agricultural Education.  Approximately 103 agricultural engineers
and Il veterinarians were graduated in 1976 from the four major agricultural
schools in Morocco. This number is expected to rise to 600 by 1981. Nine
post-secondary schools with a current enrollment of 777 provide two-year
courses in agriculture and related technical fields.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
9.        The demand for technicians has increased more rapidly than supply,
and there is no prospect of quick improvement of this situation since the
existing schools cannot provide the required personnel. Demand is coming
primarily from Government, especially for management of state lands expro-
priated from foreigners, cooperatives and from the irrigated perimeters.
In the Doukkala Irrigation Project, the results of the scarcity of qualified
technical agents are observable primarily in the quality of agricultural re-
search. Important positions are assigned to staff unprepared for the tasks
required, and the quality of work suffers. On the other hand, ORMVAD has
attracted good technicians by offering high salaries. This solution is of
course at the expense of other agricultural services. At the national level,
the Directorate of Agricultural Education and Vocational Training has begun to
increase its training effort, but this will not serve to meet demand by the
end of the 70's. ORMVAD will therefore be forced to continue to pay high
salaries to attract the agriculturalists required.
Crop Production
10.       The sub project area (16,600 ha) is presently dry farmed with durum
wheat (30%), maize (10%), beans (10%) and barley (30%). The remainder is
fallow.  Sheep, goats, and cattle subsist on fallow land, supplemented by crop
residues and stubble. Because of low average rainfall (350 mm) yields are low
varying from almost zero in dry years to a maximum of 1.5 tons per ha for
wheat, 1.4 tons per ha for maize, 1.2 tons per ha for broad beans and 1.8 tons
per ha for barley. Average rainfed yields in ORMVAD managed areas are higher
than the average for Morocco (see Annex 1, Table 1). Rainfall is not suffi-
cient to permit agricultural practices which will significantly improve
average yields. Without the project it is assumed that cropping intensity
increases such that during 10 years production would grow at 2% per annum,
which is consistent with the projected growth in rainfed production by
a Bank Agricultural Sector Study. The projected without project cropping
pattern and yields are shown in Table 1.
11.       With the project, the total area would be sprinkler irrigated,
permitting an intensive cropping pattern similar to that in the existing
sprinkler irrigated area as discussed in Annex 1.  High value labor intensive
crops including sugar beet, cotton, and vegetables would partly replace wheat,
barley and beans. High yield hybrid maize requiring a significant water input
would replace local maize, and alfalfa and fodder would be grown for milk and
meat production. At full development the cropping intensity would be 141%
varying from 150% on the small 1.6 ha farms to 137% on the large 24 ha farms.
Choice of crop and crop rotations take into account soil conditions. To
improve and maintain soil fertility, mixed farming would be implemented and
the rotation would include a high percentage of leguminous crops. The area
under each crop is shown in Table 2.
12.       Yields are expected to increase to about the same level and at about
the same speed as in the area presently under sprinkler irrigation discussed
in Annex 1. Yield increases result from irrigation, increased inputs most



ANINEX 5
Page 6
of which are complementary to water, and effective supporting services. Pro-
jected crop yields at full development in the mid-1980's are shown in Table
2. Based on results obtained in the 1,100 ha sprinkler irrigated area in
the Doukkala, projected yields should be reached three years after introduc-
tion of first water, 80% in the first year, 90% in the second. The projected
cropping pattern would be implemented after three years, 75% in the first year,
90% in the second.  As a result, full production would be reached in the fifth
year, as shown below in comparison to development in the presently sprinkler
irrigated perimeter.
Annual Production as a Percent of Production
At Full Development
Weighted Average for
Year Beginning                                           Existing Sprinkler
with First Irrigation            Doukkala Il             Irrigated /1
(%)                     (%)
1                           60                       87
2                           80                       92
3                           96                     101
4                           99                       93
5                          100                       90
6                          100                      97
7                          100                     100
/1   See Annex 1.
13.       The appraisal report for the Doukkala I Project projected a slightly
more conservative yield and cropping pattern buildup, with generally similar
yields. The Doukkala I appraisal was more conservative in predicting sugar
beet yields, basing its projection on average yields in Doukkala's irrigated
area. These average yields reflect results under gravity irrigation, and
are significantly lower than yields now obtained from sprinkler irrigation
(see Annex 1, Table 1).
14.       The cropping pattern was chosen on the basis of cropping patterns
in existing irrigated areas, ORMVAD objectives, farm income maximization, and
agronomic feasibility. Only crops for which markets are certain are included
in the cropping pattern. This excludes tomatoes which were originally in-
cluded and which would increase the economic rate of return to the project
(see Annex 19). The proposed 4 year rotation scheme has as main crops:
(i) sugar beet
(ii) wheat followed by summer maize or berseem
(iii) alfalfa
(iv) cotton



ANNEX 5
Page 7
The only weak link in this group is cotton for which the Doukkala climate is
sub-optimal and which farmers prefer not to cultivate because of the excessive
attention it requires relative to its low return per hectare. With low wages
a suitable climate and a labor surplus, industrial tomatoes would be the
preferred substitute, in particular for the smallest farms. Should present
marketing problems be solved, a rapid change to tomatoes may be expected.
Inputs
15.       Labor and Mechanization.  Under the nronect, land -re-aration, bulk
sowing, and cereal harvesting must be mechanized (a) because present methods
require a large labor force for brief periods of time which cannot be supplied,
(b) in order to insure that a second crop can be grown on time, (c) to make up
for the insufficient supply of draft animals within the project area, and (d)
and due to the fact that draft animals do not permit land preparation of a
quality necessary to obtain expected yields. Draft animals will continue to
be used for light work and transport. Table 3 shows input requirements per
hectare for each crop.
16.       Seeds.  Production of improved "certified" cereal seeds is supervised
by DRA. Seeds are distributed through a Government marketing organization
(SCAM).  Enough certified cereal seed is produced in Morocco to satisfy the
needs of the country. Seed sold by SCAM in the Doukkala is limited to farmers
Darticinatinq in rontract onerations with ORMVAD.  Tt iq ns-umed that seler'red
seeds for winter cereals will be used in the project area. However, this will
require improvement of SCAM's seed storage and distribution system.  Present
handling is inefficient, storage facilities are poor contributing to deteriora-
tion of seed, and the distribution system does not work well. Ultimately, a
solution to this problem must be obtained at the national level. The Govern-
ment has agreed to provide an adequate quantity of high quality selected wheat
seed for use in the project area. Alfalfa and hybrid maize seed are purchased
by ORMVAD from importers for resale to farmers. The cotton processing company,
COMAPRA, selects the best cotton seed before ginning for sale to farmers for
the following season. The seeds belong to the Tadla 16 type which is mainly
exported to European markets. ORMVAD is supplied with sugar beet seed for
resale to farmers by the Moroccan Agricultural Company (COMAGRI). Vegetable
seeds are distributed through private merchants. No distribution difficulties
other than those for cereal seeds are foreseen.
17.       Fertilizers.  Consumption of fertilizer is low in rainfed areas.
With the project it would increase to the levels shown in the following
table:



ANNEX 5
Page 8
Fertilizer                        Amount Used at Full Development
(tons)
14-28-14                                     2,450
Urea                                          2,000
Ammonium sulfate                                350
13-26-13 (for sugar beet)                    1,925
18-36-0 (winter grains)                        950
Superphosphate 45                               160
Superphosphate 18                               320
Potassium sulfate                                32
A Government owned company (Fertima) imports and processes fertilizer, selling
it to wholesalers for resale on farm markets. ORMVAD purchases from Fertima
in bulk and resells fertilizer through its extension centers. Prices are
discussed in Annex 7.
18.       Plant Protection.  ORIIVAD would organize and implement pest and
disease control with the technical advice of DRA when necessary. Materials
are available to farmers at ORMVAD extension centers. Cotton is the crop
which requires the most pest control with an average of seven spray applica-
tions against the pink bollworm, spiny bollworm, American bollworm, and white
fly.  About 6 routine spray applications are needed to maintain control.
Sugar beets are sprayed twice, mainly against aphids.
March 1977



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Present Land Use in Are& Managed by ORNVAD
1973-74 (Wet Year)                   197L4-75 (Dry Yenr      _                  1975-76
Present Land Use                  Rainfed   Irrigated    Total         Rainfed   Irrigated    Total          Rainfed   Irrigated    Total
----        ------------------------------ (Hectares) -----------------_______________-____-_
Winter Grains                     190,660      6,459      197,119       137,575     5,103      142,678       163,400      6,347      169,747
Maize                              59,310      3,628       62,938        63,705      5,112      68,817         60,017      5,023       65,040
Peas and.Beans                     41,580        470       42,050        32,760        524      33,284         31,415      1,076      32,491
Industrial Crops                      848      7,159        8,007           564     8,257        8,821            840     7,878        8,718
Truck Gardening                    13,995      3,565       17,560         1,132     4,104        5,236          5,820      2,190        8,010
Forage Crops                          409      3,093        3,502           628     4,040        4,668            820     4,957        5.777
Total                           306,802    24,374      331,176       236,364    27,140       263,504       262,312    27,471       289,783
Tree Crops                                                 15,567                               15,958                                 n.a.
Forest                                                      5,544                                5,544                                 n.a.
Roads, Villages, etc.                                      21,070                               21,864                                 n.a.
Fallow and Pasture Lands                                   15,620                               82,107                                 n.a.
Total                                               388,977                               388,977
n.a. = not available.
Source: ORMVAD.
November 1976.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cultivated Area, Crop Yields, and Production
With and Without the Project
Cultivated Hectares                  Yields                       Pro4uction
Without       With           Without        With              Without        With
____) -- ----          - ton/ha)-----                  ------ (ton)-------
Durum Whleat              6,225          -               1.0                           6,225
Soft hbeat                  -          4,600              -           3.0                 -         13,800
Barley                    6,225          -               1.2                            7,470
Spring Maize              2,075           940            1.0          3.5               2,075        3,290
Summer Maize                -          5,111              -           3.0                 -         15,335
Beans and Peas            2,075          -               0.9           _                1,870
Sugar Beet                  -          3,850               -         55.0                 -        211,750
Cotton                      -          1,635              -           1.5                 -          2,450
Melons and Watermelons      -             790             -          12.0                  -         9,480
Alfalfa                     -          3,210              -          60.0                  -       192,600
Berseem                     -          1,730              _          25.0                 -         43,250
Barley/Peas (For:"e)        -          1,205              -           1.8                 -          2,170
Green Peas                  -            145              _           2.0                 _            290
Turnips                     -            325              -           5.0                 -          1,625
Total              162600        23_7541
November 1976.



ANNÈ7. 5
Table 3
IUNCDQM OF MRWCO
DOULKALA Il IRRIGATION PROJRCT
Fas Inputs pet Hectare With snd Without thé Prolect
Lad Ilrig                                                             Production
C top                                Seed         Fertilizers            Psstictdes         Preearation                                                                Court Workis   n  Aorking 2  Gosut
(kg)      Type    Quintaja        <kg or liters)                                (<ours)       Crop+ Irrig.       (Day.)           (DH)
Irrigsted
W.est (Dorum snd Soft)             120      19-38-0      2                  -               P+CC+H         CH          2           9  +  3             0              596
Ores         2
Spring Msize                        20      14-28-14    3           Teodon 2. 5L            P+CC+H         '           3          21  +  12            4              553
Ures         1.5
Suer Maize                          20      14-28-14    2           Teodon 2.5L              2CC+H         -           3          21  +  12            4              426
Urea         I
SoSar Beet                          20      13-26-13+8  5           Heptachlore 2.5L        P+2CC          -           4          70  +  8             4            1,041
Urea         1.5
Cotton                               50     0-30-15      2.5                3               P+2CC+R                    -         112  +  16            3              685
Urea         1
Bereee-                             20         -         -                 -                P+CC+H      6 houra        -          15  +  6            12              264
Alfalft                              20     /4                              -               P+2CC       10 hours       -          31  +  19           20              369
Tesattes                             1      14-28-14    5                 13                P+2CC+R        -           -         155  +  6            20            1.180
Urea         3
Manote - 10 tons
Barley, Pes   Forage                25      14-28-14    2                   -               CC          4 hours        3          16  +  3             2              359
Green Pea 1                        100      Urea         1                  -               CC+H           -           -           8  +  3             2              355
Turaips /;                         200      14-28-14    1
urea         1                 -               CC+H            -           -              +  3            2               234
Uater.elous, Melons /6             300      14-28-14    2           Karatan 1 kg            P+-CC          -           -          24  +  9             4              372
Ures         1         Parathion 2 kg
Rapeseed                            20      14-28-14    2                   -               P+CC+'d        CH          2           9  +  3             -              504
Ures         I
Soybeans                            60      14-28-14    2                                   2 CC           CH          2          35 +  6              8              454
Raipfed
Durtu klest                        100         -         -                  _               5 dsys /2      CH      2 day. t2      16                   -              234
Barley                             100         -         -                  -               5deye          CH      2 days         16                   -              194
Spring Maite                        25      Manore                          _               5 days                 2 days         32                   4               40
Broad Beans                         50         -         -                 -                5daya          -       2 days         18                   2               50
L1  Lad Preparation:  P  - Ploing                     /2  Working Animale:  4 kilos of barley per day
CC - Cover eropping
H  - Heeting
R - Ridgins
CH - Combine barvester
2  Pesticides for cotton:  Metasistox (scarians) 0.75 kg;  Endrin DDT (Earias)  2.5 I p-r treat-cot:  3 treatments; Dicarbon (pink bail vowm) 1.2 * per treatent:
2 treatreuts; Ostathion (Qeliothis) 1.5 kg.
L4  Fertilizers for alfalf:  At aowing tOme:  Superphosphate 45%H  2 Q 1.  Potassium nolfate 48%:  I Q 1; Aaeonioe sulfate 21%:  1 Q 1.
L5  Pesticides fros FAO Study (1975) on tomstoes udthout specificstiou:  Total cost of pesticide equals Dh 340/ha.
/6 Harveat sold on th. field.
Noemsber 1976



ANNIEX 6
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Animal Production
General
1.        Livestock production in Morocco accounts for one-third of the total
value of agricultural production. Three systems of livestock production can
be identified. The greatest proportion of production originates from exten-
sive grazing on 11 million ha of marginal land which is either collectively
owned or state forest land. In addition, animals may have access to supple-
mentary grazing on 4 million ha of crop stubble following the harvest of
rainfed wheat and barley. The second system consists of intensive dairy pro-
duction in a ring around large urban centers which depends on purchased feed.
The third system exists on irrigated land and areas of adequate rainfall
where both livestock and forage production are carried out on the same farm.
The livestock component of the Doukkala II project belongs to the third
system. Without the project it would continue to belong to the first system.
2.        In the absence of the project, cattle productivity would remain low
due to the poor level of nutrition caused by inadequate supply of feedstuff at
prices within the reach of dry farmers and low production potential of local
cows. The project would increase livestock production (a) with the introduc-
tion of forage crops, mainly alfalfa, berseem, and barley-pea hay; and (b) by
the improvement of the productivity of local dairy cows through cross breeding
with imported Friesian breeds and artificial insemination provided free of
charge by ORMVAD livestock services. Inseminators also train selected
farmers in insemination practices. Specialists of the Department of Animal
Production of MARA would supervise the cross breeding program in order to
maintain equilibrium between production potential and disease and parasite
resistance. Animal health is the responsibility of the Ministry of Agricul-
ture and Agrarian Reform, which is discharged through regional offices. The
project area is adequately served through the El Jadida Regional Office.
Present and Future Livestock Production in the Proiect Area
3.        Without the project, there would be about 10,790 animal units of
local breed cows grazing on farmers' fields and in pasturelands around the
farm. This would provide 540 tons of meat (liveweight), 1,250 head of
breeding heifers, and 2,000 tons of milk per year.
4.        With the project it will be possible to feed 17,440 animal units
belonging to the Friesian type (see Table 1). This increase would occur as
the result of provision of irrigation water for forage production. For this
reason and through the provision of supporting services including artificial
insemination, veterinary services, marketing facilities, and improved exten-
sion, the project would increase meat production to 2,080 tons of meat
(liveweight), 1,500 head of breeding heifers, and 16,100 tons of milk per



ANNEX 6
Page 2
year. Development is shown in Table 2. Four hectare farmers would have two
local breed cows and calves before development. The lowest yielding cow would
be sold and replaced by an imported Eriesian in-calf heifer. The remaining
local cow would be crossed with Friesian blood by artificial insemination.
On the assumption of a calving rate of 60% increasing to 65% the second year
and 70% the fourth year, the herd would grow to a ceiling of 3.5 cows and 3.5
calves by year five when forage production reaches full development.  Full
development of livestock production would be reached in year seven (Table 2).
In addition to the forage produced on the farm, each cow would receive dried
sugar beet pulp plus required minerals and health services (Table 3). Labor
would be supplied by the farm family. One man would be able to care for
eight animal units.
5.        Farmers importing Friesian in-calf heifers and constructing cowsheds
would benefit from a 20% subsidy provided by the Government (Decree 353-69
dated July 25, 1969). Eighty percent of purchase price would be financed by
the Agricultural Credit Bank for farmers having 4 ha or less of land; 70% for
larger farmers (see Annex 8).
6.        The project would provide for additional milk collection centers to
complement existing centers in the area and meet project needs. 2Mfilk would be
collected by trucks sent from a pasteurization plant to be constructed in
El Jadida (Annex 7). Slaughtering capacity is adequate with two municipal
slaughterhouses in El Jadida and Azemour, and three large rural slaughter-
houses in the proximity of the project area.
February 1977



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Feed Available for Livestock at Full Production, per Farm 
Alfalfa      straw Soft Wheat   Spring Maize   Summer Maize        Berseem      Sugar Beet    Barley Been Hay    Total        Feed Units
Yields/ha           - 60,000 kg/ha       3,000 kg/ha        700 kg/ha       600 kg/ha    25,000 kg/ha  16,500 kg/ha    25,000 kg/ha          Feed    Available as a
Feed Units (FU) kg = 0.13 FU/kg           0.2 FU/kg         0.2 FU/kg       0.2 FU/kg     0.12 FU/kg    0.09 FU/kg        0.12 FU/kg        Units      Percentage
Kg/ha              = 7,800 FU/ha          600 FIT/ha        140 FU/ha       120 FU/ha      3,000 FU/ha   1,485 FU/ha      3,000FU /ha                  Compared to
4 ha Fara Model
(ha)     (FIU)    (ha)     (FU)    (ha)   (FU)      (ha)   (FIU)     (ha)  (FU)   (ha)   (FU)      (ha)    (FU)         (FIU)
Farm Model    l
1.6 ha            0.4      3,120    0.4       240            -         0.8     96            -       0.4       594    0.4    1,200       5,250         1.134
4   ha             1       7,800    1         600             -        1.5    180            -       1       1,485    0.5    1,500    11,565            1
8   ha            1        7,800    2       1,200      1     140       1      120       2    6,000   2       2,970         -            18,230         0.788
12   ha            2       15,600    3       1,800      1     140       2.9    348      2    6,000   3        4,455         -            28,343         0.816
24   ha            4       31,200    9       5,400      2      280      7.8    936       3    9,000   4       5,940         -            52,756          0.760
Number of Animal Units with and without the Proiect
With the Project                 Per Farm                 Number of Farms                For the Project Area
1.6 ha Farm                 2.1 Animal Units                 1,450                         3,045 Animal Units
4 ha   Farm                 4.7                              1,250                          5,875 Animal Units
8 ha   Farm                 7.4                                500                         3,700 Animal Units
12 ha   Farm                11.5                                140                         1,610 Animal Units
24 ha   Farm                21.4                                150                         3,210 Animal Units
3,490                        17,440 Animal Units
Without the Project
4 ha   Farm                 2.6 Animal Units                 4,150                         10,790 Animal Units
/1  See Annex 15, Table 1 for number of farma and cultivated cropa.
November 1976.
o. e



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA II IRRRIGATION PROJECT
Livestock - Projected Cattle Numbers, Technical Coefficients, Production
(10 Farms of 4 Ha)
Without                                             Y E A R S
Project    1          2         3         4        5         6         7         8         9        10
Breeding Cows   (Number)       20       20        20        30        31       35        35        35        35        35        35
Calves           (Number)      12       12        13        20        21       24        24        24        24        24        24
Breeding Heifers 1-2 Years    6          6         6         6        10       10        10        10        10        10        10
(Number)
Technical Coefficients
Weaning (Calving)    (M)       60       60        65        65        70        70        70       70         70        70        70
Adult Mlortality       (%)      5        0         °         3         3         3         3         3         3         3         3
Cow Culling           (Y)      10       50        10        13       13        20        20        20        20        20        20
Liters of Milk (Average
per Lactation)         60011   600    1,200    1,350    1,500    1,650    1,800    1,800    1,800    1,800    1,800
Purchases of In-Calf Heifers -          -          4         6        -        -         -         -         -         -         -
(Number)
Production
Culled Cows      (Number)       2       10         2         4         4         7        7         7          7         7         7
Male Calves      (Number)        6       6         7        10        il        12       12        12         12        12        12
Milk Produced   (Liters)  6,000   7,200   15,600   27,000   31,500   39,600   43,200   43,200   43,200   43,200   43,200
Breeding Heifers                3       -         -         -        -           2        4         4         4          4         4
Mortality Breeding Cows         1       -         -          1         1         1         1        1          1         1         1
/1  To feed calves plus family consumption.
oD x
November 1976.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Livestock - Production and Investment Cost for 4 Ha Farm
I t ei                                                                             With  Project
Without    Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5
ProLectD                                              Onwards
~~---------Dirhamis------------
Investment for Cowshed                                     -        3,120       -          --
Purchase of In-Calf Heifer                                                    1,440      2,160        -         -
Materials                                                60         120       240        240        240        240
Minerals                                                 18          18        18         24         24         24
Health                                                   36          36        36         48         48        48
Sugar Pulp at 0.42 DH/kg                                  168         336       336        504        504       588
Forage Production:  Alfalfa                                -          277       332        369        369        369
Barley Beans Forage                   -          135        162       180        180        180
Total                                           282      4,042      2,564      3,525     1,365      1,449
Working Days:  For Forage Production (working days)        -           45         54        60         60         60
For Livestock Care    (working days)        78        104        104       144        160        180
December 1976
F"
rD >
w o



ANNEX 7
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Markets, Marketing and Prices
Cereals
1.        The market for cereals and pulses is relatively free in Morocco.
The Government will buy cereals offered to it at support prices which are
below market prices. A Government agency, ONICL, imports soft wheat which
it sells at a price of DH 600 per ton, equal to about 90% of the world price.
The Government provides an annual subsidy, in 1976 equal to DH 400 million,
to ONICL for this purpose. Locally produced durum wheat now sells on private
farm markets in the province of El Jadida at DH 1,000 per ton, and soft wheat
at DH 750 per ton. The present border price equals DH 675 per ton (US$155).
Growth in cereal production has not matched population growth. Production of
wheat and barley provided 280 kg per person over the 1970-1973 period, falling
to 180 kg per person in 1975. Imports increased from 42 kg per person 1970-
1974 to 75 kg per person in 1975. However, this has not been sufficient to
avoid a decline in consumption per capita.
2.        Most domestic production is either consumed by the farm family or
sold on local markets to registered wholesalers, retailers, or flour mills.
The private marketing system works smoothly. There are about 8,000 small
artisan flour mills in Morocco which treat about 2.5 million tons of wheat
per year, primarily for local consumption. The organized sector includes
66 flour mills with a capacity of 15.57 million tons per year, of which 23
mills with a capacity of 7.01 million tons are found within easy transport
distance from the project (Marakech to Casablanca). The 13,800 tons of wheat
to be produced in the project area will be absorbed easily and will consti-
tute 0.2% of projected wheat consumption in Morocco in 1985 (see Table 1).
Local production will substitute for imports which are projected to reach
1.86 million tons of soft wheat by 1985.
3.        The project will supply 18,620 tons of corn at full development,
equal to about 4.6% of projected national consumption in 1985 (see Table 1).
Most corn will be sold to private traders on the local markets.
Sugar Beet
4.        The Government subsidizes the sale price of imported sugar in
order to maintain low retail prices, spending DH 1,230 million in 1975 for
this purpose. In order for Moroccan sugar beet processors to sell at a
price below the world price, they pay a price for sugar beet (DH 96/ton)



ANiNEX 7
Page 2
below the equivalent border price (DH 115/ton).  The farmgate price is how-
ever high enough, and the payient system efficient enough to assure enthu-
siastic farmer production of sugar beet. (Farmers' income will be about
DH 3,900 per ha from sugar beet). It is the consumer who benefits from
the price differential between world and domestic prices.
5.        Moroccan consumption of sugar per capita, equal to 30.7 kg, is
among the highest in the world. Domestic production meets about 50% of
demand and is projected by the Bank to meet 66% by 1985. At full development
the Doukkala II Project will produce 211,750 tons of sugar beet (which will
be converted into 30,180 tons of sugar), or 3.6% of projected national sugar
consumption in 1985.
6.        In 1975, total sugar refining capacity in Morocco was 525,000 tons
of sugar per year. Actual production in 1975 utilized 75% of this capacity.
The factory in the Doukkala region produced 46,000 tons of sugar in 1975, or
18% of national production.  A new factory will be established in the proxi-
mity of the project (at Zemamra) in 1979 to serve the Doukkala I and Il
projects, with a capacity of about 370,000 tons of sugar beet per year,
enough to absorb the production from the project perimeter. Total sugar
production by this factory would approximate 52,000 tons per year, or about
6.1% of projected Moroccan consumption in 1985. Although the Government
states that creation of this plant is a certainty, assurances as to the
plant's capacity and date of creation will be requested during negotiations.
7.        OIIVAD successfully controls the amount of sugar beet grown by
contracting with farmers to produce beet on a specified number of hectares
for which ORIVAD supplies required inputs. As a result, there is no risk
of production being greater than the processing capacity of the plant, nor
of planting beets on the same parcel more frequently than phytosanitary
requirements allow.
Vegetables
8.        The farm budgets developed for the project show a full development
production of 1,625 tons of turnips, 290 tons of green peas, and 9,480 tons
of melons and watermelons. Tomatoes, potatoes, string beans, asparagus,
and other vegetables can also be produced profitably. Vegetables are sold
either on the field, on local markets to traders, or directly to packing
plants for export. Traders sell the produce either fresh on urban markets
or to the packing plants. The Government operated "Office de Commercializa-
tion et d'Exploration" (OCE) acts as export agent, handling all export
marketing and payments. It maintains a representative at each packing
station who is responsible for quality control.
9.        Table 1 shows that production of green peas, early vegetables,
tomatoes, potatoes and fresh vegetables increased over the 1970/71 to 1973/74
period, while the volume of exports declined due to marketing problems. Local
consumption per capita has increased.  France purchases 85% of Morocco's
tomato exports, 89% of its potato exports, 74% of fruit conserve exports, and



ANNEX 7
Page 3
28% of other vegetable exports. Other important customers include Germany
(12% of fruit conserve, 10% of tomato, and 7% of potato exports), Italy
(21% of vegetable exports), and Spain (16% of vegetable exports). The EEC
has extended its existing tariff concessions to Morocco for potatoes, tomatoes,
fresh beans, peas and grapes, but only during certain parts of the year when
not competitive with European production, i.e., before M'ay 15.  The foreign
market for Moroccan early vegetables appears relatively open, with the impor-
tant exception of tomatoes. The possible entry of Greece, Spain and Portugal
into the EEC, all important producers of tomatoes, may make entry of Moroccan
tomatoes very difficult. It is for this reason that tomatoes were excluded
from the project's cropping pattern, and vegetables included in the cropping
pattern are those having a good domestic market.
10.       Project production of 1,900 tons of peas and turnips would equal
about 0.3% of Moroccan production in 1985. Project production of 9,480 tons
of melons would constitute about 1.5% of the 1985 production of early and
fresh vegetables. A plant for tomato concentrate and dehydrated vegetables,
having a capacity of 60,000 tons of tomatoes and 25,000 tons of vegetables,
is foreseen for Doukkala in the Government's economic plan. Rowever, due to
the present uncertainty of export markets for tomatoes, the final decision to
create this plant has been deferred. A small plant for dried vegetables and
fruits is being considered, and a plant for the dehydration of onions will
be constructed in the vicinity, at Miarakech.
Cotton
11.       The market for cotton is controlled by COMAPRA, which purchases
cotton from the farmers, transports, processes and markets it.  The Government
is a major shareholder. The farmgate price is fixed by the Government and
was increased this year to the approximate world price level making cotton
cultivation more attractive to farmers. Cotton is grown in irrigated areas and
its production is controlled by the ORMVA. CNCA provides short-term credit
through the ORMVA. The ORMVA also provide extension and machine services to
farmers, the cost of which is deducted from the price paid to the farmers.
1
12.       There are six cotton processing plants in Morocco with a total
capacity of 44,000 tons of seed cotton per year. One of these is located near
the project perimeter at Sidi Bennour with a capacity of 7,000 tons per year.
Moroccan cotton production has declined from 60% capacity utilization in
1972/73 to 40% in 1974/75. The plant at Sidi Bennour utilized 29% of its
capacity in 1975. At full development, the Doukkala II project will supply
2,450 tons of cotton, equal ta 5.6% of total Moroccan processing capacity, 35%
of the capacity of the local cotton processor. Production from Doukkala I and
II, along with production from the other irrigated areas in the Doukkala,
should permit full capacity utilization of the local plant.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
13.       There is no difficulty foreseen in exporting heavily demanded long
staple cotton. China is the biggest customer, purchasing 48%, Italy second
at 31% and Japan third purchasing 9%.
Milk Production
14.       Government statistics show mnilk production in Morocco stagnating
at the 525,000 tons per annum level since 1969, despite the rapid importation
of Friesian cows having an annual output of milk about four times that of
local cows. Nevertheless, milk production in the province of El Jadida in-
creased from 4.35 million liters in 1973 to 8.53 million liters in 1975 as a
result of the rapid increase in herd size and output per animal permitted by
increased irrigated forage production and improved quality of livestock. The
number of cows increased from 17,800 in 1973 to 28,100 in 1975. Milk in the
presently irrigated area in Doukkala is either consumed by the farm family or
sold to a pasteurization plant at Casablanca through milk collection centers
organized by the Ministry of Agriculture. The plant collects the milk from
the centers each day. These centers function smoothly in Doukkala's presently
irrigated area and as a result, increased milk production in existing irrig-
ated areas has been readily marketed. Milk prices are set on a monthly basis
depending on supply and demand. The seven milk processing plants in Morocco
operated at 38% of capacity in 1974, 58% in 1975. Currently, milk from the
Doukkala region is processed at the 70 million liter capacity plant "Centrale
Laitiere", at Casablanca. The plant utilized 84% of its capacity in 1975.
A new plant will be installed at El Jadida to service the project area.
Construction plans and a financing plan (DH 20 million) has been agreed
between the owners, who include Centrale Laitiere, 35%, Office de Developpe-
ment Industrial 17.5%, ORMVAD 17.5%, farmers cooperatives 27%, sugar factory
at Sidi Bennour 3%. This system should work as smoothly as that in the
existing irrigated area and absorb the entire projected production of milk
in the project area.
15.       The Government keeps the price of pasteurized milk paid by the
urban consumer below world price by fixing the price paid to milk producers
and the sales price charged by pasteurization plants. A subsidy is paid to
pasteurization plants to induce production at the low sales price. Presently,
farmers receive DH 0.78/liter for milk, while the c.i.f. price Casablanca is
about DH 1.0/liter for fresh milk.  Milk production by farmers is encouraged
by subsidized sales of imported cows.
16.       Milk production of about 16.1 million liters of milk from the
project at full development would constitute 1 percent of total Moroccan
milk consumption in 1985 (see Table 1).
Meat
17.       Meat production in the existing irrigated area in the Doukkala
is consumed by the farm family, sold on the local market to traders, or
to representatives of slaughterhouses. Moroccan meat consumption in 1975
approached 275,000 tons (10 kg per capita). Production from the project



ANNEX 7
Page 5
at full development, equaling 2,100 tons of beef liveweight, would provide
about 0.8% of projected Moroccan consumption in 1985 (1.2% of 1975 level of
consumption). Due to quality differences, the price of meat in local farm
markets is used in the economic analysis rather than the Bank's world price.
The rapid increase in meat prices relative to international prices, as pro-
jected by the Bank, would have a positive impact on the rate of return to
this project.
Farm Inputs
18.       Seeds.  Financial and economic prices of farm inputs are shown in
Table 3. Vegetable and forage crop seeds are sold by El Jadida retailers and
by wholesalers acting as agents of suppliers headquartered in Casablanca.
Large farmers buy directly in El Jadida. Local traders purchase seeds in El
Jadida for resale to farmers on the local farm markets. The private distribu-
tion system for these seeds works well. A government marketing organization
(SCAM) is responsible for sales of high yield cereal seeds, which are produced
in Morocco. SCAM has not been effective in the province of El Jadida due to
poor processing and storage facilities, and an inadequate distribution system
(see Annex 5).
19.       Indirect taxes of 30% are imposed on most imported seed, resulting
in domestic prices higher than world prices, adjusted for internal handling,
by about 20%. The price paid by farmers for controlled wheat seed does not
cover the cost of production and handling; a Government subsidy to SCAM covers
the difference. The sale price of hybrid corn seed is 28% of the border price.
The difference is paid by the Government through the ORMVA in order to induce
farmer acceptance by hybrid corn. Prices of seeds relative to international
prices are projected to change in the same proportion as the prices of the
crops they produce (see Table 3 for market and world prices).
20.       Fertilizer.  Fertilizer is imported, processed, and distributed by
a State monopoly, FERTIMA. Farmers can purchase fertilizer from traders in
local farm markets or from ORMVAD extension centers. Certain categories of
farmers may purchase fertilizer at prices lower than those shown in Table 3.
Farmers in rainfed areas who participate in ORMVAD's cereal operations obtain
a 20% price reduction, as do farmers producing irrigated hybrid maize. Reci-
pients of previously foreign owned land under the agrarian reform obtain a
25% price reduction. Indirect taxes amounting to 30% of c.i.f. prices are
imposed on imported fertilizers, which increases the retail price about
8% above what it otherwise would be. IBRD projections of world fertilizer
prices are used to adjust the border price upwards to reflect relative world
prices in 1985.
21.       Machine Services.  ORMVAD would provide most machine services to
the project area during its first ten years of operation. The charges for
these services, shown in Table 3, are estimated to be 45% below the cost to
ORMVAD. On the other hand, the investment cost to ORMVAD of farm machinery,
and hence the depreciation charge, includes indirect taxes ranging from



ANNEX 7
Page 6
40-50% of c.i.f. price depending on the machine. Adjusting for these two
factors provides an estimate of the border price of machine services, which
is in all cases significantly higher than charges imposed by ORMVAD.
22.       Pesticides.  Pesticides utilized in the project area would in nearly
all cases be sold through ORMVAD extension services. OR1VAD purchases pesti-
cides from private importers, of which there are several located in Casablanca.
Indirect taxes on imported pesticides amount to about 10%. World prices at
farmgate are about 8% lower than domestic prices.
February 1977



ANNEX 7
Table 1
KINGDON OF HDROCCO
DOUIUCALA Il IRRIGATION PROJECT
Production and Importe of Agricultural Comnodities in Morocco, and Production under Doukkala II
Lt  Average                           Projected
Item~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/ Avrge--                                                          Li
1972-1974      1975         1980         1985         1990
Population (millions)                                  16.5          16.7        21.0          24.5         27.6
CDP (Constant 1975 dollars; million)                    7,353        7,953       11,265        15,360       19,600
--------------------- thousand tons ------------------
1.  Wheat
(a)  Production in Morocco                         1,862        1,575       2,150         2,350        2,550
(b)  Imports                                         688        1.304       1.390         1,860        2.270
(c)  Total utilization                             2,550        2,879       3,540         4,210        4,820
(d)  Full development project
production as a % of total                   -            0.3         0.2          0.2           0,2
2.  Corn
(a)  Production ln Morocco                           325          371          376          401          423
(b)  Full development project
production as a Z of total                   -            5.0         5.0          4.6           4.4
3.  Sugar            /2
(a)  Production-r                                    246          257         430           560          700
(b)  Imports                                         262          279          270          290           290
(c)  Total                                           508          536          700          850           990
(d)  Full development project
production as a Z of total                   -            5.6         4.3           3. 6         3.0
4.  Milk3
(a)  Production                                      523          525          590          630          680
(b)  Imports                                         257          317          435          715           945
(c)  Total                                           780          842       1,025         1,345        1,625
(d)  Full development project
production as a % of total                   -            1.9         1.6           1.2          1.0
5.  Cotton
(a)  Raw cotton treated                              22.5       17.6        17.6          17.6         17. 6
(b)  Production
grain                                        14.2       11.8         11.8         11.8          11.8
fiber and lin                                  . 6       5.4          5.4          5.4           5.4
(c)  Exported                                         6.2        0.5          1.0          1.0          1.0
(d)  Pull development project
production as a Z of rasw cotton treated   -             13.9        13.9         13.9          13.9
6. VeRetables
Production
(a)  Early vegetables                               391         40'/        500           615          760
(b)  Tomatoes                                       240         250L        295           350          420
(c)  Potatoes                                       130         1304        158           190          235
(d)  Fresh garden vegetables                         24          25           30           37           45
(e)  Legumnes                                       490         451         505           570          640
(f)  Project production of turnips, peas
as a Z of legunes                            -           0.4         0.4           0.3         0°3
(g)  Project production of melons as a
% of production of fresh garden
vegetables and early vegetables              -           2.2         1.8           1.5          1.2
(hT   Fresh tomatoes                                146         144
(i)  Legumes                                        192         118
(j)  Eerly potatoes                                  81          78
(k)  Puree and tomato conserves                      10          10
7. Meat
(a)  Production (beef and lamb)                       r.a.        180          210          255           300
(b)  Project production as a Z of
Moroccan production                            -           1.2         1.0           0.8          0.7
Source:  IBRD Survey of the Agricultural Sector; Morocco, 1976, and MARA 1976.
/1  Projections vere made by the above source on the basis of the historical relationship between consumption,
population, and imports/consumption. Projected production of vegetables are based on prement growth rates.
/2  Based on 5% impurities in sugar beet, and 15% extraction of sugar.
/3  All dairy producta are expressed as milk equivalents.
/4  1974 production, source;  "Statistiques Agricoles", MARA, June 1975 p. 54.
December 1976.



ANNEX 7
Table 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
1976 Economic and Financial Prices
Output
Adjustment to
Basis     Economic Price
Present        of       for Changes in
Product                     Financial /     Economyz    Economic   Relative Prices
Prices       Prices-    Pricing    1977 - 1985/3
-------- DH/ton-------
Durum Wheat                          1,000          675          c.i.f.         1.16
Soft Wheat                             750          675          c.i.f.         1.16
Corn                                   730          520          c.i.f.         1.04
Cotton:  Raw                         2,700        2,700          f.o.b.          .81
Sugar                                 -           1,295          c.i.f.         1.28
Sugar Beet                              96          115          c.i.f.         1.28
Fresh Milk                             780          980          c.i.f.         1.30
Breeding Heifers                     7,200        7,220          c.i.f.         1.87
Peas                                 1,200        1,280          f.o.b.         1.00
Turnips                                400          400          local          1.00
Watermelons                            250          250          local          1.11
Fresh Tomatoes                         240          240          local          1.11
Broad Beans                            600          602          f.o.b.         1.00
Meat (Cow) (Liveweight)              4,000        4,000          local          1.87
Meat (Calf) (Liveweight)             4,800        4,800          local          1.87
Soyabeans                           1,030         1,030          local          1.30
Transport Costs Zemamra/Casablanca       DH35/ton
Note:  Conversions made at DH4.4 = US$1
/1 Based on price observations made on a monthly basis by ORMVAD in the Doukkala
region, and on mission interviews.
/2  Based on c.i.f. (or f.o.b.) prices quoted at Casablanca, and IBRD commodity price
quotations adjusted for transport and handling.
/3 Ratio of 1985 world price to 1976 world price, both deflated to 1976 with the
international price index, according to IBRD price projections (November 1976).
March 1977



ANNEX 7
Table 3
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic and Financial Prices for Farm Inputs
Basis of      Adjustment Factor
Financial Price      Economic Price       Economic          to Express
Item                                         (1976)              (1976)           Pricing       Relative Price Change-
(DH/ton)  ------------
Seeds
Wheat                                       1,080               1,180             c.i.f.              1.16
Hybrid Maize                                1,260               4,540              c.i.f.             1.04
Local Maize                                   730                 730             c.i.f.              1.04
Sugar Beet                                 11,150               9,200              c.i.f.             1.28
Cotton                                        600                 550              c.i.f.              .81
Alfalfa                                    17,500              13,100              c.i.f.             1.00
Tomato                                        240                 365              c.i.f.             1.11
Broad Beans                                   640                 590             c,i.f.              1.00
Green Peas                                  2,250               1,800             c.i.f.              1.00
Turnips                                       200                 160             c.i.f.              1.00
Watermelon                                    100                  80             c.i.f.              1.11
Barseem                                     3,000               2,400             c.i.f.              1.00
Barley                                        600                 600             c.i.f.              1.16
Fertilizer
19-38-0                                       580                 537              c.i.f.             1.6
14-28-14                                      640                 582              c.i.f.             1.6
0-30-15                                      490                 450             c.i.f.              1.6
13-26-13                                      940                 890             c.i.f.              1.6
Urea                                          660                 660              c.i.f.             1.52
Ammonium Sulfate 21%                          410                 238              c.i.f.             1.6
Super Phosphate  18%                          200                 200              c.i.f.              .81
Super Phosphate  45%                          530                 530              c.i.f.              .81
Potassium Sulfate 48%                         510                 560              c.i.f.             1.6
Pesticides
Theodon                                   19,600               18,000              c.i.f.             1.0
Heptochlore                                13,750              12,650              c.i.f.             1.0
Metasystox                                 19,800              18,215              c.i.f.             1.0
Endrin                                     23,100              21,250              c.i.f.             1.0
Dicarbam                                   26,950              24,790              c.i.f.             1.0
Ostathion                                  35,360              32,800              c.i.f.             1.0
----------- (DH/ha) -------------
Machine Services
Ploving                                     60.0                72.6               local              1.0
Disc Harrowing                              30.0                37.5               local              1.0
Harrowing                                   30.0                39.0               local              1.0
Harvesting                                 120.0               130.0               local              1.0
Ridging                                     35.0                44.0               local              1.0
----------- (DH/day) ------------
Labor
Famîly                                                           4.0               local              1.0
Seasonal
Men                                   6.5-11.0                 4.0               local              1.0
Women                                      5.0                 4.0               local              1.0
Children                                  3.0                  4.0              local               1.0
Animal Services                                2.0                 2.0               local              1.0
Source:  Financial prices were obtained from seed suppliera, price quotations published by state fertilizer
monopoly, pesticide supplier, OFMVAD monthly price surveys in the Doukkala, and for animals a mission estimate.
Border prices were estimated by the mission from published indirect tax schedules, c.i.f. prices (Casablanca
for seeds, fertilizers and pesticides according to suppliera and Ministry of Agriculture Statistics). Border
prices include transport and handling costs, Casablanca to Zemnara. The border price of labor is its opportu-
nity cost calculated as the value of subsistence production in the absence of the project.
/1 Msasured as the border price in 1985 divided by the border price in 1976, both deflated to 1976 by the IBRD
international inflation index (November 1976).
March 1977



ANNEX 8
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Agricultural Credit
1.        Agricultural credit is provided primarily through the National
Agricultural Credit Bank (CNCA), which has received two loans from the Bank
while a third agricultural credit has been appraised recently. CNCA has been
evaluated by the Bank to be well managed and effective. Additional credit
sources include commercial banks for the largest farmers and traditional
money lenders. The CNCA maintains four Banking outlets which serve the
project area. A regional bank (CRCA) at Sidi Bennour, lying just outside
the project perimeter, lends to medium and large-size farmers having fiscal
incomes above DH 3,000, which corresponds to a real farm income of US$1,750
(1976). About 10% of the farms in the project perimeter are potential clients
of this Bank. Three local Banks (CLCA), one of which is located within the
perimeter of the Doukkala I project at Zemamra, and two located in the proxi-
mity of the irrigation extensions at Faregh and Sidi Small, lend to farmers
having farm incomes between US$60 and US$1,750 (fiscal incomes between DH 100
and DH 3,000). About 80% of farmers in the project area are potential clients
of these CLCA's. Short-term loans to farmers participating in ORMVAD managed
cropping operations (sugar beet, cotton, hybrid corn) are advanced through
ORMVAD, mainly in the form of materials; e.g., fertilizer, seed, services.
Such credit is financed by CNCA headquarters.
2.        Credit supplied by banking outlets serving the Doukkala region
has increased more rapidly than for Morocco as a whole (see Table 1 for
details on local credit supply.
Increase in Agricultural Credit, 1974/75 Compared to 1971/72
Doukkala Region      Morocco
CRCA:  amount lent increased                 2.5 times        1.9 times
number of loans increased            2.4 times
CLCA:  amount lent increased                 6.8 times        2.1 times
number of loans increased            6.5 times
The cause of this more rapid local increase in credit is the annual increase
in irrigated area which has generated growth in demand for credit. The agri-
cultural credit system has proved responsive to this demand.
Mechanism for Provision of Credit
3.        CRCA.  Generally, CRCA covers 70% of costs for both short-term and
medium-term loans. (see Tables 3 and 4 for credit norms for various kinds of
loans). The rate of recovery is high; about 95% for the CRCA's in El Jadida



MINEX 8
Page 2
provinc   A' high 37% of the 3,600 potential clients of the two CRCA's in
El Jadida received medium-term loans in one year (1975-76); 32% was for invest-
ment in wells and pumps, 30% for the purchase of cows, 26% for agricultural
machinery and 8% for stables. The CRCA's provided about US$3.7 million in
short-term credit in the province, of which 86% went to purchase inputs for
vegetable production. Eight percent was used for cattle fattening.
4.        CLCA.  The three CLCA's in the Doukkala region lent to 10.4% of
their 46,655 potential clients in 1975/76. The three CLCA's recovered about
84%o of repayments due. In 1975/76, the three CLCA's lent 44.7% of medium-
term credit (totaling US$1.2 million) for investment in stables, 41% for
purchase of cows, and 8.7% for work animals (see Table 2). Nearly 83% of
short-term credit (totaling US$.12 million) was used for input purchases in
cereal production.
5.        ORI4VAD.  ORMVAD's short-term loans for sugar beet and cotton produc-
tion are recovered at the processing factories. Recovery rates are high for
sugar beet since farmers must sell to the local processing plant. Recovery
rates for cotton are satisfactory, while for hybrid maize recovery rates are
poor. Credit extended for hybrid maize is considered a temporary operation
needed to introduce the crop to farmers.
Interest Rates
6.        Appraisal of the adequacy of the interest rate structure is dis-
cussed in the "Appraisal of a Third Agricultural Credit Project, Morocco"
and in Schedule 4 of the Loan Agreement for the Third Agricultural Credit
Project which deals with Lending and Operating Policies. Medium and long-
term loans granted by CNCA to "Cooperative Agricoles" and to farmers asso-
ciations will have an annual interest rate of not less than 7% for short-term
loans and up to 8.5% for loans maturing after 6 or more years. Loans granted
to the ORMVA's will have an interest rate of 8% per annum, while loans granted
to individual farmers will have an interest rate of not less than 8.5% per
annum.
Incremental Credit Requirements
7.        Incremental medium-term credit totaling DH 14.1 million would be
required for the construction of animal shelters, purchase of farm equipment
and purchase of Friesian cows. Medium-term credit requirements have been
estimated on the basis of animal shelters required to house the projected herd
(69,670 m2 of shelter), imports of cows (3,720 head), and incremental equip-
ment purchases by farmers (DH 3.4 million); together with the norms estab-
lished by the National Agricultural Bank for credit to be supplied per unit
investment. Incremental credit requirements are detailed for each farm model
in Tables 3 and 4, and would be disbursed over the 1980-1985 period. This
would constitute about 10% of present annual CRCA disbursements of medium-term
credit in the province of El Jadida for medium and large farmers, and about
28% of present CLCA disbursements in the Doukkala region. This is within the
credit institution's financial capacity, but it would require rapid expansion
of the CLCA in Zemamra and the CRCA in Sidi Bennour.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
8.        Incremental short-term credit requirements in the project area
(detailed in Table 4) total DII 18.9 million per annum, of which about 21%
would come from the three CLCA's (especially that in Zemamra), 30% from
the CRCA in Sidi Bennour, and 49% from ORMVAD.  Short-term credit presently
disbursed to small farmers is negligible. ORMVAD would have no difficulty
in obtaining financing from CNCA to meet short-term credit requirements
of the contract cropping operations. The Agricultural Credit Institution
is aware of the prospect of increased demand for credit as the project area
becomes irrigated. It is for this reason that a new CRCA was established
at Sidi Bennour and a CLCA at Zemamra to serve the project area. The Agri-
cultural Credit Institution expects to meet incremental credit requirements,
and on the basis of its performance, no problems are expected.
February 1977



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA Il IRRIGATION PROJECT
Agricultural Loans Advanced in Province of El Jadida-
Item                                              1971/72         1972/73        1973/74         1974/75         1975/76
CRCA (Serving Medium Sized Farms)/2
1.  Total short-term credit         (DH)          5,477,000       9,708,000      16,104,000    17,232,000    22,464,000
%  of which to private farms (%)                 61.4            36.8             39.4           36.7            16.0
X  of which to cooperatives  (X)                 38.6            63.2             60.6           63.3            84.0
amount per private farm         (DH)             10,954           3,570            6,345          6,332           7,113
2.  Total medium-term credit        (DH)           6,800,000    14,253,000        10,674,000    13,832,000    15,806,000
% of which to private farms  (%)                 69.1            87.2             89.0           82.2            93.2
% of which to cooperatives   (Z)                 30.9            12.8             11.0           17.8             6.8
amount per private farm         (DH)              9,455          23,550            7,980          9,477          11,166
3.  Farms which are potential clients
(excluding cooperatives)                         n.a.           n.a.             n.a.            n.a.          3,600
4.  Actual number of farms which borrowed
- short-term                        307             335              718            721             505
- medium-term                       497             528           1,190           1,199           1,319
percentage of farmers reached    n.a.              n.a.             n.a.            n.a.          36.6%
CLCA (Serving Small Faruers)/3
1.  Total credit, from CLCA branches (DH)            416,000        702,000        3,870,000       2,815,000      4,660,000
2.  Potential clientel (No. of farmi)                    n.a.           n.a.             n.a.            n.a.         46,655
3.  Number of farms which borrowed                       360             466           4,859           3,353           4,144
percentage of farmers reached    n.a.              n.a.             n.a.            n.a.            .9%
n.a. - not available.
/1 The project is located in El Jadida.
/2 The CRCA located in El Jadida and Sidi Bennour.
/3  CLCA's in Zemamra, Sidi Bennour, Oulad Frej.
Source:  CRCA El Jadida, CLCA El Jadida.
November 1976.



ANNEX 8
Table 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Use of Agricultural Loans Advanced in Region of Project (1975/1976)
Percentage of Loans Committed
Item                                                         CLCA                       CRCA
Medium Term Credit
Destoning                                                   0.8                        0.8
Wells and Pumps                                             1.5                       31.5
Stables                                                    44.7                        8.2
Harvestors, Tractors, Transport Equipment                   0.0                       26.0
Imported and Other Cows                                    41.1                       29.5
Work Animals                                                8.7                        1.3
Small Material and Other Equipment                          3.2                        2.7
Total Percentage                               100.0                      100.0
Total Credit (DH '000)                         4,210                     15,806
Short Term Credit
Input Purchases - Cereals                                  82.8                        3.8
- Vegetables                               0.0                       86.1
Cattle Fattening                                            0.0                        8.2
Animal Feed                                                 0.0                        0.5
Poultry Farming                                             0.0                        0.6
Harvest                                                     6.8                        0.6
Pasture                                                    10.4                        0.2
Total Percentage                               100.0                      100.0
Total Amount (DH '000)                           450                     22,464
Short Term Credit through ORMVAD (1974/75)                               ORMVAD
Sugar Beet           Cotton            Hybrid Corn
(M)                (X)                  (%)
Machine Services                                      2.6               11.9                31.6
Fertilizer                                           58.5               18.3                30.6
Seeds                                               17.9                 3.8                22.2
Insecticides                                           .5               23.9               12.7
Cash Advance                                         18.3               41.0                 -
Transport                                             2.2                1.1                 2.9
Total Percentage                         100.0              100.0               100.0
Total Amount (DH '000)                   6,195              2,927               1,892
Total Hectares Served                    6,300              3,000               4,000
Source: CRCA El Jadida, CLCA El Jadida.
November 1976.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Medium Term Credit Requirements and Investment per Farm-
Cowshed                                          Cows                        Farm Equipment
Herd size   Cowshed        Investment      Credit                       Investment   Credit   Investment   Credit
Farm   Number            per          size  /3       per         require94   Impotted cows         per/6       per         per         per/7
Size   of Farms          Farm--    Required-        Farm        per Fa.        _ per Farm/5       Farm-       Farm        Fari        Farm-
(ha)                (animal units)   (m2)           (DH)           (DH)         (number)          (DH)        (DH)        (DH)         (DH)
1.6     1,450              2.1         8.4             720           504            0.45         1,620        1,296         285         228
4.0     1,250              4.7        18.8          1,610         1,128             1.0          3,600        2,880         713         570
8,0       500              7.4        29.6          2,537         1,776             1.58         5,688        3,982       1,629       1,140
12.0       140             11.5        46.0           3,943         2,760            2.45         8,820        6,174       2,443       1,710
24.0       150             21.4        85.0           7,286         5,100            4.56        16,415       11,491       4,486       3,420
/1  The  CLCA will serve 1.6 ha and 4 ha farms under irrigation, while the CRCA will serve the larger farms.
/2  Based on herd size at full development (see Annex 6).
/3  Based on CNCA estimates that 4m2 of shelter are required per animal.
/4  Based on CNCA norms shown in Table 3 (i.e., credit to equal DH 60/m2, which approximates 80% of cost).
/5  As discussed in Annex 6.
/6  Each cow costs DH 3,600.
/7  In presently irrigated areas about DH 570 per 4 hectares is loaned by CLCA for small farm implements.
This is assumed to occur in the Doukkala II project. ORMVAD will purchase large investment goods,
the services of which are sold to farmers. Such investments are included as project investments.
December 1976.
F31o
fDI
ui 00



ANNEX 8
Table 4
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Total Incremental Agricultural Credit Requirements
Item                                                          Incremental       Incremental
Quantity      Investment        Credit Required
_______-- DH '000 ------------
Medium Term Credit (Total Requirement)
CRCA (Medium/large farmers) 9,280 ha
Animal shelters                                  33,990 m2       2,910               2,040
Farm equipment                                       -           1,890               1,320
Imported cows                                     1,820 head    6,540                4,580
Total                                                 11.340                7,940
CLCA (Small farms) 7,320 ha
Animal shelters                                  35,680 m2       2,680               2,140
Farm equipment                                       -           1,495               1,045
Imported cows                                     1,900 head    6,850                5,480
Total                                                 11,025                8,665
Total Medium Term                                     22,365              16,605
Future          Present           Incremental
DE---------------- DH '000 ---------
Short Term Credit (Annual Requirement)
CLCA  -  Grains                                       458              -                  458
Irrigated fodder                           1,518             -                1,518
Livestock                                  5,320            3,290             2,030
Total                                  7,296           3,290              4,006
CRCA  -  Grains                                       776              -                  776
Alfalfa and Bersim                         1,209              -                1,209
Vegetables                                 1,764              -                1,764
Livestock                                  5,112            3,160              1,952
Total                                  8,861           3,160              5,701
ORMVAD  -  Hybrid corn                                3,177              -                3,177
Cotton                                     1,782              -               1,782
Sugar beet                                 4,197              -               4,197
Total                                  9,156             -                9.156
Total Short Term                     25,313            6,450             18,863
Source: Mission Estimates.
November 1976.



ANNEX 9
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project Description
General
1.        Bank involvement with the development of the water resources of the
Oum Er R'bia has been substantial, consisting of the Doukkala Irrigation Proj-
ect (Loan 1201-MOR), the Sidi Cheho-Al Mlassira Hydro Project (Loan 1299-MOR),
and the appraisal of the Beni Amir Rehabilitation Project on behalf of the
Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development. Part of the proceeds of Loan
1201-MOR are utilized for a study of the Dechra el Oued Dam.
2.        The low service Doukkala scheme adequately serves 27,000 net ha.  In
1974 the Government requested Bank participation in financing the development
of additional 32,000 ha. However, intensive irrigation of the entire area
would required additional water supply from the projected multipurpose Ai
Massira reservoir. The project was therefore reduced to the Zemamra subdi-
vision (15,400 ha) which could be irrigated with the then available water
supply. With construction of the Ai Massira Dam now secured, the proposed
project would complete the "second" irrigation area (DTI) of the Doukkala
low service which was started with Loan 1201-MOR. It would fully utilize
the existing Phase I hydraulic infrastructure and partly the reserves created
by the Ai Massira Dam. Although sufficient good quality land dominated by the
low service canal is available, the hydraulic capacity of the tunnel and canal
restrict further extension. The areas served by the low service canal are dis-
tributed as follows:
Net Irrigated Area
First Irrigation Area (PTI)        27,000 ha          Under irrigation
Second Irrigation Area (DTI)
Zemamra                          15,400 ha          Under construction
Tnine Rharbia                    16,600 ha          Proposed project
Total                          59,000 ha
Now that the Ai Massira Dam is under construction, the possibility also exists
of irrigating land in the upper Doukkala, to be commanded by the "high service
canal." This would require a feasibility study for which consultants are
being selected by the Government.
3. Sprinkler irrigation was selected because of topographic conditions,
which also excluded the Faregh and Sidi Smail extension areas from the earlier
construction of the perimeters served by gravity.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
Description of the Project
4.        The project would irrigate the four sectors of Tnine Rharbia subdi-
vision and two extensions of existing subdivisions, totalling 16,600 ha (Map
12561). Each sector would be served by its own pumping station. Distribution
of sectors and implementation schedule would be as follows:
Sector                       Net Area (ha)             First Water
South                            3,600                 November 1979
North                            3,600                 September 1980
West 1                           2,800                 May 1981
West 2                           3,300                 March 1982
Extension Faregh                 1,900                 October 1982
Extension Sidi Smail             1,400                 October 1982
5.        A land consolidation contract has been let for the first 7,200 ha.
Tender documents are completed for West 1 and 2, and they are being prepared
for the extension of Faregh and Sidi Smail.
6.        The main canal would be enlarged over 22 km to accommodate project
demand. Automatic gates with downstream control would regulate water levels
in the various canal sections. A branch canal of 9 km would supply the North
pumping station. Six pumping stations with a combined installed capacity of
11,300 kW would supply water from the main canal into an underground network.
Water would be provided through hydrants, each covering about 16 ha served
by mobile equipment. Power for the pumping statons would be provided by
reinforcing the Sidi Bennour-Zemamra 60 kV line and connecting the existing
line from Im Fout-Boulaouane to Sidi Bennour. the individual pumping stations
would be served by a total of 62 km of 22 kV lines.
7.        Existing hard surface roads would be reinforced to accommodate the
expected increase in heavy traffic during the sugar beet harvest season. About
48 km of new hard top roads and 60 km of gravel roads would be constructed in
addition to farm roads. The project would provide for telecommunication equip-
ment (radios) between the main office in El Jadida, subdivisional offices
and mobile units. Buildings and other facilities for the project authority
include subdivision offices and housing in Zemamra, and four Development
Centers (CMV's). Four new milk collection centers would improve bulk
marketing of milk (Table 1). Supporting services, extension, and credit
would be reinforced.
8.        The rural environment would be promoted by provision of basic vil-
lage infrastructure. A total of five new centers would receive roads, public
lighting, domestic water supply, and schools (Table 1).



ANNEX 9
Page 3
9.        ORMVAD would be responsible for the irrigation developrient of the
project. Other institutions involved would be the Ministry of Public Works
and Communication through its Road Division and National Power Authority,
and the `Ministry of Education.
Project Works
10.       Irrigation Network
(a) Land Consolidation and Preparation. A land consolidation
contract has been let for the 7,200 ha of the South and
North sectors but work is delayed by the cadastral service
in supplying data on the existing land tenure situation.
Consolidation contracts for the remaining area will be let
in early 1977 and to avoid similar delays as for South and
North these contracts will include the work normally per-
formed by the cadastral service. By July 1978 the new
property delineation should be well enough advanced to
finalize the detailed hydraulic design. Farm roads (76 m/ha)
with storm water collector ditches and windbreaks (106 m/ha)
would complete land preparation works.
(b) Canals. The existing main canal, constructed in 1959, has
earth embankments over most of its length and lining over
5.8 km where it passes through permeable strata. The main
canal starts at km 17 at the outlet of the pressure tunnel
connecting it to the headworks. Widening and repair of the
canal is completed up to km 77. For the next 29 km, contracts
for civil works have been let and contracts for the procure-
ment of all automatic gates have been let for the remainder
of the main canal which will serve Tnine Rharbia. The proj-
ect would further provide civil works for the remaining 22 km
serving Tnine Rharbia and for civil works and automatic gates
for the branch canals serving the North and West 2 pumping
stations.
(c) Pumping Stations. Six pumping stations of the following
characteristics would be constructed:
No. of        Q 1/sec           H        kW per
Sector         Pumps         per Pump           m         Pump
North            7              340            63         350
South            7              340            63         350
West 1           6              340            58         320
West 2           7              340            58         320
Faregh           5              300            55         270
Sidi Smail       4              300            55         270



ANNEX 9
Page 4
Water would be pumped through a rotating filter to avoid
floating debris from entering the system. On-line elevated
storage tanks with level sensing controls would activate
pumps according to fluctuations in pressure and demand.
(d)  Pipe Distribution System.  A buried distribution network
would consist of 1,400 mm to 60 mm diameter pipes with an
average length of 27 m/ha. Each sector would have its indi-
vidual distribution system. Pipes would run parallel to
farm roads, permitting easy access to hydrants.  Typical
layout would be as indicated on Chart 16783. Experience to
date in Morocco indicates that asbestos cement is the most
economical material for diameters below 500 mm and prestressed
concrete for the larger sizes.
(e)  Mobile Equipment.  Hydrants equipped with two fixed discharge
outlets would each supply water into a semi-permanent 4 inch
aluminum main pipe 252 m long, feeding two moveable 3 inch
laterals. The net area of the parcels served was derived on
basis of allowable pressure losses. Each lateral would carry
eight sprinklers with an individual discharge of 0.54 1/sec
and nozzle pressure of three atmospheres. During the peak
rnonth, irrigation would take place during 20 hours per day
(2 positions of 10 hours) with an intensity of 6 mm/hour,
selected because of the low infiltration capacity of the
heavier soils. The irrigation interval would be 7.5 days.
Experience in the Boulaouane perimeter, where three six-hour
positions per day are used on the much lighter soils, indi-
cated the desirability to change to two ten-hour positions.
This (i) allows for less down time to change pipes, (ii)
obviates the need for nocturnal field activities, and (iii)
allows a lower hourly intensity on the heavier soils of
Tnine Rharbia. The plan as indicated on Chart WB 16783
evolved in Morocco after years of experience, and this prin-
cipal layout is used both for gravity and sprinkler irriga-
tion. It is know as "trame B," and its advantage is that
it allows for mechanical through-going operations, passing
boundaries of very small properties. The boundaries of the
crops in the rotation scheme run perpendicular to the pro-
perty boundaries. It is noted that for a property size of
1.6 ha and an obligatory four-year rotation scheme, the length
of the property becomes only 28 m, too small for any mechaniza-
tion on an individual basis. This is also the reason for the
quite rigid limits of the layout: widening of the strips under
each crop would result in greater pressure losses at the extreme-
ties, and property boundaries of very small farmers would come
too close together. The disadvantage of this layout is that it
precludes mechanical harvesting for small properties of crops
with yields paid on an individual basis. Therefore sugar beet
harvesting (paid per ton and sugar content) is done by hand.



ANNEX 9
Page 5
(f) Power Supply: Power supply would be provided in three phases:
(i) connection of the Zemamra substation (80% completed) to
the South, West 1 and West 2 pumping stations and connection
of the Zemamra Z3 pumping station with the North pumping sta-
tion, all by 22 kV lines; (ii) doubling of the Sidi Bennour-
Zemamra 60 kV line; and (iii) supply of the Faregh extension
from Boulaouane and the Sidi Smail extension from Sidi Bennour
with an interconnection and hook-up to a 60/22 kV substation
at Souk Arba des Aounates. All together, 31 km of 60 kV and
22 kV lines and a small 60/22 kV substation are involved.
(g) Drainage. No natural surface drainage exists in the project
area because the Doukkala Plain is separated from the ocean
by a 30-50 km wide band of fossil dunes superimposed on
karstic jurassic and cretaceous layers. Storm water collects
in karstic sinkholes called "dayas" in which surface water is
observed for a couple of days if 90-100 mm of rainfall occur
in a 15-day period. This happens about once every 12 years.
The storm water flows underground towards the ocean where it
is pumped from very shallow wells to irrigate 3,000 ha of
tomatoes. Since it is impossible to cross the dune zone,
drainage would be provided by guiding large open collector
drains towards very large "dayas" behind the first row of
dunes (see Map 12651). Storm discharge coming from the
south would be passed underneath the canal into the main
drains. Design criteria correspond to probable one in ten
year 24 hour storms, giving a specific drainage requirement
of 0.62 1/sec/ha.
11.       Infrastructure
(a)  Roads.  A major national highway, RP8, from Casablanca to
Agadir via Safi passes through the area. About 64 km of
asphalt roads in the project area would have to be reinforced
and widened to 6 m to accommodate the increase in heavy
traffic during the sugar beet harvest period; 48 km of new
asphalt roads and 60 km of 4 m gravel roads would be pro-
vided (Table 2). These roads would be constructed by the
Roads Department of the Ministry of Public Works and Com-
munications, according to specifications applied in the area
for the roads construction program under Doukkala I.   Dirt
farm roads with a density of 76 m/ha would be constructed and
maintained by ORMVAD. 80% of annual tonnage is transported
during the three months beet harvest period.  Criteria 1/
for the establishment of different types of roads would be:
1/   These criteria were established after a detailed study under the
Sebou II Project (Loan 1018).



AINEX 9
Page 6
Estimated Agricultural Traffic                  Type of Road
More than 20,000 ton/year                       6 m asphalt
Between 6,000 and 20,000 ton/year               4 m gravel
Less than 6,000 ton/year                        4 m dirt
(b)  Telecommunications.  The project would provide for telecom-
munication equipment (radios) between the main office in El
Jadida, subdivisional offices, pumping stations, and mobile
units. Telephone connections are either nonexistent or so
overloaded that not even a reliable connection between El
Jadida and Sidi Bennour exists. No improvement can be
expected as long as the El Jadida provincial exchange is
not replaced by a modern unit. The present way of communica-
tions is by messenger and an extraordinary use has to be made
of ORMIVAD's vehicles making a 180 km round trip to deliver a
message equivalent to a telephone conversation of a few
minutes.
(c) Project Buildings. Four new CIV's would be constructed which
would also contain on their premises milk collecting centers,
each with 2,000 liter per day initial capacity, and space to
accommodate a total of 5,000 liter per day. Additional housing
space and housing would be constructed in Zemamra to accommo-
date the growing subdivisional establishment of the construction,
maintenance and operating services. A large lot in Zemamra has
been reserved for this purpose. Farm machinery adequate to ser-
vice the needs of farmers living within the jurisdiction of each
CMV would also be provided.
(d) Project Equipment and Vehicles. Each CMV would be equipped
with a standard package of equipment consisting of eight tractors
with appurtenant agricultural implements, maintenance equipment
and five vehicles. Operation and maintenance equipment would
include a 5 ton crane, one grader and one excavator and personnel
vehicles as indicated in Annex 15. On-farm equipment would con-
sist of tractors purchased with medium-term credit.
(e) Village Centers. The presently scattered population could only
be provided with some amenities if they would be grouped into
village centers. The project would provide for the creation of
five such centers with paved roads, electricity, treated public
water supply, and schools as indicated in Table 1. These
village centers are located adjacent to existing villages.
During land consolidation an allotment takes place whereby
outside farmers are each allocated a new lot in the future
village. During the Doukkala I appraisal, provision of vil-
lage infrastructure was the subject of long discussions between
the Government and the Bank. The above package represents the
Government's wishes. Governnent further intends to add a mosque
and a soccer field.
February 1977



ANNEX 9
Table 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Typical Cost of Buildings for CMV and Village Centers
Cost
Item                                                    (DH '000)
CMV
Office                               200 m2                184
Five Houses                           80 m2                503
Warehouse                            350 m2                198
Sanitary Building                     10 m2                 21
Loading Platform                                             8
Milk Collecting Center                80 m2                 80
Enclos ure                                                  64
Power Connection                                            95
Water Sup ply and Treatment           80 m2                305
Pavement /i                        3,000 m2                100
Total for one CMV                                     1,558
Village Center
Water Supply and Treatment                               374
Power Connection Including
2 km of 22 kv line                                     217
Pavement                         3,800 m2                125
School (5 classes)                                       560
Total for one Village Center                        1,276
/l  To protect against damage from concentrated movement of trucks,
tractors, and cattle and to prevent inconvenience from
excessive dust.
January 1977



ANNEX 9
Table 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Road Improvement Program
Widening        Reinforcement of
Road Number                Length    (New Pavement)    Existing Pavement
km              m                   m
RP8                           9.0             1                   6
CT 1366                     11.0              6
CT 1352                      1.5              3                   3
CT 1352                       3.0             6                   -
CT 1339                     12.5              3                   3
RS 126                      27.0              3                   3
New Asphalt Roads
Tnine Rharbia             33.0
Faregh                      7.0
Sidi Smail                 8.0
New Gravel Roads             60.0
Unit Costs:
Reinforcement of existing pavement    20 DH/m2
New pavement                            35 DH/m2
Gravel roads                            16 DH/m2
January 1977



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA Il IRRIGATION PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF ACTIVITIES
Calendar Year                   1977                 1978                1979                 1 980               1981                 1982
Sectors South and North
Main Canal                     DB           B_C___D   = Design
Power Supply 1                                          c.....                       _                                   B   = Bidding
Drainage and Farm Roads                                   D        B                  C                                  C   = Construction
Mobile Equipment                                                    _                                                    M   = Manufacturing
Land Consolidation       .         PES        NL                                                                         I   = Installation
Underground Network                                              * B                 C                                   T   = Testing
Pipe Mantacturin PDaBtC                               T t  J"                                                  PES = Plans of Existing Situation
Pumping Stations Equipment                      D      B                            . 1   T  M _                         NL -  New Layout
Pumping Stations Civil Works               _                      B *    .c                                                  = Critical Path
Hydrants                                                      O D B      M        I    . M    I                              = First Water
Feeder Canal                                   D          B            C                            Il
Storage Reservoirs                            *D .B 
Sectors West 1 and 2
Power Supply2                       D      B               C            _l
Drainage and Farm Roads                                                      D        B                  C
Mobile Equipment                 BE... . _ D                                   .M
Land Consolidation              ....                                                      D        
Underground Network
Pumping Stations Equipment                                                      D     B              M           I  T      M      I   T
Pumping Stations Civil Works                                                            _3 O   B          C            C
Hydrants                                                                           B                   M B         M M   ,1
Storage Reservoirs                                                       O         B D_ .._      C                              I
Extensions Faregh, Sidi Smail                                                                                                      l
D     B               C
Power Supply 3                                             D    .      BC                                                B              C
Drainage and Farm Roads                                                                                                                -
Mobile Equipment                                            D      B            PES                NL                   ....
Land Consolidation                                                ...
Underground Network                                                                                                  D       B
Pumping Stations Equipment                                                                                             D     B B
Pumping Stations Civil Works
Hydrants                                                                                                 D           B _
Storage Reservoirs                                                                               t                a....
Accumulated hectares                                                                  South            North         West 1           West 2        Ext.
receiving first water                                                                 3,600            7,200         9,950            13,300      16,600          x
World Bank-16886



ANNEX il
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKIKALA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cost Estimate L
Foreign
Item                                                   Local   Foreign   Total           Local   Foreign   Total         Exchange
-----(DH Million) ------          -----(US$ Million) -----            %
Irrigation Network
Canals                                                15.0       8.1      23.1          3.4         1.8       5.2          35
Pumping Station, Civil Works                           8.8       4.8      13.6          2.0         1.1       3.1          35
Equalizing Reservoirs                                 10.4       5.6      16.0          2.3         1.3       3.6          35
Underground Pipes                                     70.7      38.3    109.0          16.1        8.7       24.8          35
Farm Roads                                             4.4       4.5       8.9          1.0        1.0        2.0          50
Windbreaks                                             2.5         0       2.5          0.6           0       0.6           0
Drainage Network                                      13.7      13.8      27.5          3.1        3.1        6.2          50
Project Buildings                                      1,6       0.4       2.0          0.4        0.1       0.5           20
Subtotal                                          127.1       75.5    202.6          28.9       17.1      46.0           37
Price Contingency                                   59.2      35.8      95.0         13.5        8.1      21.6
Total                                           186.3    111.3    297.6            42.4       25.2      67.6
Equipment
Hydromechanical                                        0.6       0.7       1.3          0.1        0.2        0.3          50
Electromechanical                                      5.5       8.0      13.5          1.3         1.8       3.1          60
Filters                                                0.6       1.0       1.6          0.2        0.2       0.4           60
Hydrants                                               3.6       6.8      10.4          0.8         1.5       2.3          66
Mobile Equipment                                       9.2      10.4      19.6          2.1         2.3       4.4          54
O & M Equipment                                        0.3       0.6       0.9          0.1        0.1       0.2           66
Teleconsunication                                      0.4       0.7       1.1          O.1        0.2       0.3           66
Subtotal                                            20.2      28.2     48.4           4.7        6.3      11.0           58
Price Contingency                                    6.3       8.0      14.3          1.5        1.8       3.3
Total                                            26.5      36.2       62.7          6.2        8.1      14.3
Roads and Power Network
Power Network                                          9.0       6.0      15.0          2.0         1.4       3.4          40
Classified Roads                                       9.7       9.8      19.5          2.2         2.2       4.4          50
Subtotal                                            18.7      15.8      34.5          4.2        3.6       7.8           46
Price Contingency                                    6.8       6.1      12.9          1.5        1.4       2.9
Total                                             25.5     21.9      47.4           5.7        5.0      10.7
Four CMV's Civil Works                                   5.0       1.2       6.2           1.1        0.3       1.4          20
Price Contingency                                      1.6       0.5       2.1          0.4         0.1       0,5
Total                                                6.6       1.7       8.3          1.5        0.4       1.9
Four CMV's Equipment                                     1.4       2.8       4.2          0.3         0.7       1.0          66
Frice Contingency                                      0.3       0.6       0.9          0.1        0.1       0.2
Total                                                1.7       3.4       5.1          0.4        0.8        1.2
Agricultural Credit                                     14.3         0      14.3           3.2          0       3.2           0
Price Contingency                                      5.2         0       5.2          1.2           0       1.2
Total                                               19.5         0      19.5          4.4           0      4.4
Five village Centers                                     4.8       1.6       6.4           1.1        0.3       1.4          25
Price Contingency                                      3.0       0.8       3.8          0.7         0.2       0.9
Total                                                7.8       2.4      10.2          1.8        0.5       2.3
Administration. Engineering
Operation and Extension                               10.4       1.6      12.0          2.4         0.3       2.7          14
Land Consolidation                                     2.8         0       2.8          0.6          0       0.6            0
Local Consultants                                      0.8         0       0.8          0.2           0       0.2           0
Foreign Consultants                                    2.8       4.2       7.0          0.6        1.0        1.6          60
Subtotal                                            16.8       5.8      22.6          3.8        1.3       5.1           26
Price Contingency                                    8.6       3.7      12.3          2.0        0.8       2.8
Total                                             25.4       9.5      34.9          5.8        2.1       7.9
Total Including Price Contingencies             299.3    186.4    485.7            68.0       42.4    110.4           38
Physical Contingencies                            19.8      12.9     32.7           4.5        2.9       7.4
Price Contingency                                  8.5       5.4      13.9          2.0        1.2       3.2
Total Physical Contingency                    :28.3      18.3      46.6           6.5        4.1      10.6          39
GRAND TOTAL                                   327.6    204.7    532.3            74.5       46.5    121.0           38
Total Contingencies                           119.3      73.8    193.1           27.1       16.8      43.9
Total Price Contingencies                      99.5      60.9    160.4           22.6       13.8      36.4          38
fL Discrepancies due to rounding
February 1977



ANNEXc 12
DOUKUL4A I IRRIGATION PXJECT
Schaduli of zzpnditur tl
CY t977           CY 1978             CY 1979              CY 1960              CY 1981.             CY 1982        For-gn
1cm                                   FoNi n  Sotal       oni n  Total    Foreign  ZStu        Foran   Total        Fcr ign   Total      ForYiRn   Total     Fortign   Total    E-change
Irrioatio- N.tOork
Canal                                  8.1    23.1       1.7     5.0         2.0  S.7           2.5     7.0          1.9     5.4               -         -              -         35
PFuping Station, Civil Vorkt           4.8    13.6        -       -           -      -          0.9     2.6          1.7     4.8          1.5     4.2         0.7      .0         35
Equali.inag ioervoin                    5.6    16.0       -       -          0.9    2.7         0.9      2.7         1.9     5.3          1.2     3.3         0.7      2.0        35
Undergroaod Pipas                      38.3   109.0               -          4.8   13.6         9.5    27.2          9.2    26.1        1l.0    28.5          4.8    13.6         35
Fa   Ro.d.                             4.5      8.9       _       _                             1.1      2.2         1.1     2.2          1.2     2.3         1.1      2.2        50
Windbr.ake                                      2.5       -       -           -                   O     0.6            0     0.6            0     0.6           0      0.7         0
fitnage Network                       13.8   27.5         _-                         -          3.6     7.1          4.2     8.4          2.8     5.6         3.2      6.4        50
Frojoot Building4                       0.4     2.0       -       -          0.4    2.0          -        -           -       -            -       -           -        -         20
Subtotal                            75.5   2.6         1.7     5.0         8.1   24.0        18.5    49.4         20.0    52.8         16.7    44.5        10.5    26.9         37
Price Contingncy                    35.8    95.0       0.1     0.3         1.5    4.4         6.1    16.4          9.5    25.0         10.4    27.8         8.2    21.1
Total                             111.3   297.6      1.8     5.3         9.6   28.4        24.6    65.8         29.5   77.8          27.1    72.3        18.7    48.0
Eq.Lolnot
Oydronochanial                        0.7      1.3       -       -           -      -          0.6      1.1         0.1     0.2           -       -           -        -         50
tleltronoohmnic-l                       8.0    13.5       _       _          1.7    2.9         1.7      2.9         1.4     2.4          2.9     4.8         0.:      0.5        60
Filt-r.                                 1.0    1.6        -       _           _      _          0.2     0.3          0.3     0.5         0.5      0.8          -       -          60
Hydra-t.                                6.8    10.4       _       _         1.1    1.7          2.0     3.0          1.7     2.6          1.7     2.6         0.3      0.5        66
Mobile EquipF.nt                       10.4    19.6       -       -           -      -          2.6      4.9         2.9     5.4          2.6     4.9         2.3      4.4        54
O & M Equipont                          0.6     0.9       _       _         0.6    0.9           -       .            -       .            -       -                              66
T.I.ct.-oi.ation                        0.7     1.1      0.7     1.1          -      -           -        -           -       -            -       -           _      _           66
Subiotal                            11T      43.4      0.7     1.1         3.4    5.5         7.1    12.2          6.4    11.1          7.7    13.1    2     .9      5.4        58
Price Contingency                    8.0    14.3         0     0.1        0.4    0.7          1.5      2.5         1.9     3.3          3.0     5.0          t.2     2.7
Total                             36.2    62.7       0.7     1.2         3.8    6.2         8.6    14.7          8.3    14.4         10.7    18.1         4.1      8.1
Ria.ds and Pewer Netv2rk
Poor Notwork                            6.0    15.0      1.8     4.5         3.0    7.5         1.2      3.0          -       -            -       -            -       -         40
Cl...tfied qood.                        9.8    1.5        _       _           _      _          2.8      5.5         2.8     5.6          2.8     5.6          1.4     2.8         50
S.btotal                             15.8   34.5       1.8     4.5        3.0    7.5          4.0     8.5          2.8     5.6          2.8     5.6         1.4      2.8        46
Price Contingency                    6.1    12.9       0.1     0.3        0.6    1.4          1.3     2.9          1.3     2.6          1.7     3.5         1.1      2.2
Total                              21.9    47.4      1.9     4.8         3.6    8.9         5.3    11.4          4.1     8.2          4.5     9.1          2.5     5.0
F... CMV'. Cisil Work_                    1.2     5.2       -       -          0.3    1.5         0.6      3.1         0.3     1.6           -       -            -       -         20
Pric- Cootiog.ncy                     0°5       .1       _       _          0.1    0.3         0.2      1.1         0.2     0.7
Total                                 1.7     3.3       -       -         0.4    1.8          0.8     4.2          0.5     2.3           _       _
Four CMV' Bcuionnt                        2.8     4.2       -       -          0.7    1.1         1.4      2.1         0.7     1.0           _       _                               66
Prico Cootiogeocy                      0.6      0.9                          0.1    0.1         0.3      0.4         0.2     0.4
Totol                                3.4      5.1       _       ,         0.8    1.2          1.7     2.5          0.9     1.4           _       _                    -
lAsrîoultural Credit                        0    14.3       -                   -      -            0      3.0           0      3.1           0     4.9            D     3.3          0
Pric- Conticg.n.y                        0      5.2       -       .                  -            0     0.7            0     0.9            °   _1.9            0      1.7
Total                                  O    19.5        -       -           -      -            0      3.7           0     4.0            0     6.8           0      5.0
Fiv- Vill.or Cont.re                      1.6     6.4       -       -           -      -           -        -          0.6     2.5          0.7     2.6          0.3     1.3         25
Price Contiogenoy                      0.8      1.,       -       -           -      -           -        -          0.3     1.2          0.2     1.6          0.3     1.0
Total                                 2.4    10.2       -       -           .      -           .        -          0.9     3.7          0.9     4.2          D.6     2.3
Ad.inlotratioo. Engineering
opotatioo  rd Oatonsion                 1.6    12.0       -      1             0     .          0.2      1.4         0.4     2.8          0.5     3.9          0.5     3.9         14
Lard Coooolldatii                         O     2.8        O     1.4           O    1.4          -        -           -       -            -       -            -       . 
L.oca Co1  o2tonts                        0     0.8       -             -         -               O      0.8          -       -            -       -            -       -           O
Fo-eig. Coonsultnts                     4.2     .0        -                        L14                                       2.3          1.4     2.3          1.4     2.4         60
S.btot.1                             5.8    22.6         0     1.4           0    1.4         0.2     2.2          1.8     5.1          1.9     6.2          1.9     6.3        26
PricF   Contingency                  3.7    12.3         O     0.1           0    0.3         0.1     0.7          0.9     2.4          1.2     3.9          1.5     4.9
Total                              9.5    34.9         0     1.5           0    1.7         0.3     2.9          2.7     7.5          3.1    10.1          3.4    11.2
Total Icluding
Prico Continoeonioo             186.4   485.7       4.4    12.8        18.2   48.2        41.3   105.2         46.9  119.3          46.3   120.6        29.3    79.6         38
Physical Co-ti.gonoios            12.9    32.7       0.4     1.2         1.6    4.1         3.2     7.9          3.2     8.0          2.9     7.3          1.6     4.2
Yrioo Contiogoooy                   5.4    13.9        0     0.1        0.2    0.7          0.9      2.4         1.4     3.5          1.7     4.1          1.2     3.1
Total Physical Contingecny      18.3    46.6       0.4     1.3         1.8    4.8         4.1    10.3          4.6    11.5          4.6    11.4          2.8     7.3        39
GRAND TOTAL                     204.7   532.3      4.8    14.1        20.0   53.0        45.4   115.5         51.5  130.8          50.9   132.0         32.1    86.9         38
Total Contingencios              73.8   193.1      0.6     2.1         4.5   12.0        13.6    35.0         18.9   48.0          21.1    55.1         15.1    40.9
Total Price Cootingoncies       60.9   160.4       0.2     0.9         2.9    7.9        10.4    27.1         15.7   40.0          18.2    47.8         13.5    36.7         38
Civil Work. Dflator /2                                1.06               1.187              1.330                1.475                1.623                1.785
Equipent Deflator /2                                  1.04               1.123              1.213                1.304                1.395                1.493
L  Pir100  as of Janoary 1, 1977
/2 Conpoundod
February 1977



ANNEX 13
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Procurement
1.        Moroccan construction capacity for civil works in the irrigation
sector has advanced to the point where normal construction can be carried out
by local contractors. Normal in this connotation means the construction of
buildings, canals, drainage networks and underground pipe networks. Out-of-
the-ordinary civil works are performed by Moroccan contractors associated
with foreign firms in joint ventures, or by 100% foreign firms.  Out-of-the-
ordinary civil works include works requiring either specific technical exper-
tise, such as deep well drilling or continuous cast concrete construction or
requiring very large construction capability as needed for the construction
of large dams.
2.        Moroccan equipment manufacturing capacity for irrigation projects
is limited to a number of local subsidiaries of foreign firms (asbestos-cement
pipes, hydromechanical equipment). Further supply of equipment such as pumps,
motors and associated electrical equipment, mobile sprinkler equipment and
earthmoving equipment are channeled through local agents of foreign firms.
Foreign firms without Moroccan agents or subsidiaries have little chance in
winning Moroccan equipment contracts because of Moroccan insistence on easily
available after-sales service, which is always emphasized in the relevant
clauses of their tender documents.
3.        Moroccan tender documents follow closely French customs, and speci-
fications, if no national equivalent exists, are according to French standards.
Designs included in tender documents follow the European custom of being less
specific than US designs, leaving bidders a greater responsibility and leeway
in their technical solutions and bids.
4.        Tender documents for the supply of prestressed concrete pipes would
indicate the range of linear meters per year per diameter to be produced for
the period 1978 through 1982. Bids would indicate unit prices loaded on truck
ex-factory gate. A similar recent tender to equip a 15,000 ha irrigation peri-
meter in the Loukkos resulted in award of the contract to a Spanish-Moroccan
joint venture which will construct a new plant.
March 1977



ANNEX 13
Table 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Procurement _1
No. of
Item                                        Contracts       US$ Million /2
Category I: Civil Works
Canals                                        3               6.7
Pumping Stations                              2               4.8
Equalizing Reservoirs                         1               5.2
Underground Pipe Network:
Prestressed Concrete Pipes; Supply            1              14.3
Prestressed Concrete Pipes; Laying            1               8.4
Small Diameter Pipes; Supply                  1              10.2
Small Diameter Pipes; Laying                  1               3.7
Drainage Network and Farm Roads               1               9.6
Classified Roads                              4               6.8
Subtotal                                                   69.7
40% Disbursement                                           28.0
Category II: Equipment
Mobile Equipment                              1               6.0
Electromechanical and Filters                 2               3.9
Hydrants                                      1               3.0
Telecommunication                             1               0.3
Operation and Maintenance Equipment           1               0.2
Subtotal                                   21              13.4
60% Disbursement                                            8.0
Category III: Consultants
Foreign Consultants                                           2.5
100% of Foreign Cost                                        1.5
Category IV:  Unallocated                                       3.5
/1   All civil works and equipment through ICB.
/2   Includes price contingencies.
March 1977



ANNEX 14
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
IBRD Fiscal Year                           Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter                                 at End of Quarter   _
- -US$ million
1978
September 30, 1977                                  0
December 31, 1977                                   0
March 31, 1978                                      0
June 30, 1978                                       0.5
1979
September 30, 1978                                  1
December 31, 1978                                   2
March 31, 1979                                      3
June 30, 1979                                       4
1980
September 30, 1979                                  5
December 31, 1979                                   6
March 31, 1980                                      8
June 30, 1980                                      10
1981
September 30, 1980                                 12
December 31, 1980                                  14
March 31, 1981                                     16
June 30, 1981                                      19
1982
September 30, 1981                                 21
December 31, 1981                                  24
March 31, 1982                                     27
June 30, 1982                                      30
1983
September 30, 1982                                 33
December 31, 1982                                  36
March 31, 1983                                     37
June 30, 1983                                      38
1984
September 30, 1983                                 40
D-c-mber 31, 1983                                  41
February 1977



ANNEX 15
Table 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Operating Costs/Salaries
Item                                   Gross Individual Salaries 1l        Total
---(DH '000/year)-------------
Central Office
2 Senior Engineers                                 52
2 Junior Engineers                                 38
3 Technicians                                      22
x 1/2 (other "half" serves Zemamra subdivision)                            123
4 CMV's
4 Junior Engineers                                 38
16 Technicians                                      22
48 Extension Agents.                                16.4
4 Bookkeepers                                      11.4
4 Storekeepers                                     11.4
4 Secretaries                                      11.4
4 Inseminators                                     22
60 Daily Labor                                      10
2,116
Subdivision for Operation and Maintenance
1/4 Senior Engineer                                52
1/2 Junior Engineer                                38
1/2 Electrician                                    22
6   Technicians                                    22
6   Sector Chiefs                                  22
6   Chiefs of Pumping Stations                     22
2   Chiefs                                         22
33  Ditchriders                                    11.4
1   Storekeeper                                    11.4
2   Secretaries                                    13.8
10  Guards                                         10.8
10  Labor                                          10
1,106
Total Salaries                                                       3,345
Salaries net of tax used in ERR computation                    DH 2.7 million/yr
Salaries including tax used in water charge computation   DH 1.2 million/yr/2
/1 Includes 30% social charges
/2 Water charges exclude costs of extension service
February 1977



ANNEX 15
Table 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Operating Costs/Vehicles
Type                Life (yr)  Price (DH)  Amortization  Maintenance  Fuel   Annual Cost
---------- (DH per year) -------------
Renault 4               4         13,241       3,310          1,059      3,200     7,569
Renault 12              5        18,144        3,629          1,448      9,600    14,677
Landrover 109 Diesel   8          42,065       5,258          5,258      1,440    11,956
Mobylette               -           --            -             -          -       1,643
For CMV's farm equipment  operating costs are recovered through charges to farmers.
Cost of heavy equipment--practically nothing is owned by ORMVAD--is included in the
percentage maintenance charges for individual items; see table 3.
Central Office                                      DH/yr
2 R12     )
2 R4      ) x 1/2 (other 1/2 for Zemamra)         21,000
1 LRlO9 )
4 CMV's
12 R4                 )
8 LR 109             )
48 Mobylettes         )                          313,164
4 Pickups fi         )
Subdivision for Operation and Maintenance
8 R4                 )
5 LR 109             )
1 R12                )                          189,228
33 Mobylettes         )
Total Annual Vehicle Operating Cost           523,392
Net of duties and taxes, used
for ERR computation               DH 0.4 million/yr
Vehicle charges used for
water charges                      DH 0.2 million/yr
/1 Annual cost of a pickup assumed equal to that of a Landrover
February 1977



ANNEX 15
Table 3
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Maintenance, Replacement, and Power Costs
Item                                     Life         Maintenance
(yr)               %
Power Supply System                        30               o /2
Pumping Station Civil Works                40               0.5
Pumping Station Equipment                  15               3
Equalizing Reservoirs                     40                0.5
Underground Network                       40                1
Hydrants                                   15               3
Drainage Network                           40               3
Mobile Equipment /3                        12               3
Dirt Roads                                 40               3
Windbreaks                                 30               0
Canals                                    40                3
Project Buildings                          40               1
Hydromechanical Equipment                  15               2
Telecommunication Equipment               15                2
CMV Equipment                             15                3
Pumping Costs at Full Development:
H=60 m /4; Q=145.65 Mm3/yr; P=0.17 DH/kWh; ep x em = 74%
DH 5.46 million/year
or 329 DH/ha/yr
or 1,927 kWH/ha/yr
/1 Annual maintenance cost expressed as % of investment
/2 Maintenance charge included in power charge of 0.17 DH/kWh
/3  Cost to farmer, included in farm operating costs
/4 Average dynamic head
February 1977



ANNEX 16
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Models and Budgets
Basic Data
1.        The information used to project farm budgets and statements of farm
sources and applications of funds was compiled from the consultant's, ORMVAD's
and the Bank's surveys of prices and farming practices in rainfed and irri-
gated areas within ORMVAD's management control (Annexes 1, 5 and 7). Cropping
patterns for each of 5 farm models are shown in Table 1. Gross returns and
production costs for each crop in each farm model are shown in Table 2. Herd
size, meat and milk sales, as well as costs of livestock production are shown
for each farm model in Table 3. Tables 4 through 7 show sources and applica-
tions of funds for four of the farm models, which assume adoption of the water
charges and the betterment levy proposed in the preferred alternative given in
Annex 17.
Sources and Application of Funds
2.        Sources of funds include the gross value of incremental production,
medium and short term credit. Applications of funds include incremental costs
of materials and services, hired labor, farm investment, amortization and
interest on debt, maintenance and replacement of sprinkler equipment, water
charges and taxes, all measured as the increment above the without project
situation. Farm investment and credit is estimated for each farm model in
Annex 8. The build-up rate of production benefits and costs was discussed
in Annex 5.  The net return to the farm family equals the net funds available
after all applications at the end of the year.
3.        The purpose of the sources and applications of funds statement is
to assess the financial return to farmers from participation in the project.
This is indicated as the financial rate of return obtained by the farmer on
his own equity and on the imputed value of incremental family labor. Results
are as follows:
Farm Model                         Financial Rate of Return
1.6 ha                                      100%
4.0 ha                                      100%
8.0 ha                                       60%
12.0 ha                                       60%
24.0 ha                                       35%
These rates of return are sufficiently high to induce farmer participation in
the project as well as the purchase of required livestock, animal shelters,
farm machinery, and mobile sprinkler equipment necessary for project success.
February 1977



ANNEX 16
Table 1
KINGDOM OP MOROCCO
DOUKKALA Il IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cropping Patterns and Cultivated Hectares
Item                                        1.6 ha Farm   4 ha Farm   8 ha Farm   12 ha Farm   24 ha Farm
-------------------------- (ha)----______________
With Irrigation
Alfalfa                                       0.4          1.0          1.0          2.0          4.0
Soft Wheat                                    0.4          1.0          2.0          3.0          9.0
Summer Maize                                 0.8           1.5          1.0          2.9          7.8
Sugar Beet                                    0.4          1.0          2.0          3.0          4.0
Green Peas                                     -                                     0'5
Turnips                                        -            -           0.5           -           0.5
Spring Maize                                   -            -           1.0         1.0           2.0
Berseem                                        -            -           2.0          2.0          3.0
Cotton                                         -           0.5          1.0          1.5          2.0
Melon and Watermelon                           -            -           1.0          1.0          1.0
Barley Peas                                   0.4          0.5           -            -            -
Cropping Intensity (%)                      150          137          143         140           137
Without Irrigation
Durum Wheat                                   0.6          1.5          3.0          4.5          9.0
Barley                                        0.6          1.5          3.0          4.5          9.0
Spring Maize                                  0.2          0.5          1.0          1.5          3.0
Beans and Peas                                0.2          0.5          1.0          1.5          3.0
Cropping Intensity (%)                      100          100          100          100          100
Hectares Cultivated Under Each Crop at Full Development
1,450        1,250         500          140          150
Item                         1.6 ha Farm   4 ha Farm   8 ha Farm   12 ha Farm   24 ha Farm   3,490 Farm
-----------------------------------(ha) ---------------------------------
Alfalfa                          580           1,250           500         280          600         3,210
Soft Wheat                       580           1,250        1,000          420        1,350         4,600
Summer Maize                   1,160           1,875          500          406        1,170        5,111
Sugar Beet                       580           1,250        1,000          420          600         3,850
Green Peas                        -              -             -            70           75           145
Turnips                           -              -             250          -            75           325
Spring Maize                      -              -             500         140          300           940
Berseem                           -              -           1.000         280          450         1,730
Cotton                            -              625           500         210          300         1,635
Melon and Watermelon              -              -             500         140          150           790
Barley Peas                      580             625           -            -            -          1,205
Total                      3,480           6,875        5.750        2,366        5 070       23,541
December 1976



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA II IRRIGATION P{OJECT
Farai Budget
A - Crop Operating Costs and Returns Before Labor Costs, Watt!r Charges, and Taxes at Full Develop -ent'
Farm Budget                        Farm Budget                         Farm Budget                          Farm Budget                         Farm Budget
Item                                            1.6 ha                             4.0 ha                                 8 ha                               12 ha-                               24 ha
Gross    Production    Net         Grogs    Production    Net           Gross    Production    Net          Gross    Production    Net          Gross    Production    Net
Return      Cost       Return      Return        Cost       Return      Return       Cost       Return      Return       Cost       Return      Return        Cost       Return
Soft Wheat                              900        238          662       2,250        594        1,656       4,500      1,188        3,312       6,750      1.782        4,968      20,250       5,346       14,904
Spring Maize                            -           -           -           -           -           -         2,555        553        2,002       2,555        553        2,002        5,110      1,106        4,004
Suuner Maire                          1.752        341        1,411       3,205        639        2,566       2,190        426        1,764       6,351      1,235        5,116      17,082       3,323       13,759
Sugar Beet                            2,200        416        1,784       5,500      1,041        4,459      11,000      2,082        8,918      16,500      3,123       13,377      22,000       4,164       17,836
Cotton                                  -           -           -         2,025        343        1,682       4,050        685        3,365       6,075      1,027         5,048       8,100      1,370        6,730
Watermelon                              -           -           -           -           -           -         3,000        372        2,628       3,000         372       2,628        3,000        372        2.628
Green Beans                             -           -           -           -           -           -           -          -            -         1,000        177           823       1,000        177          823
TurnipS                                 -           -           -           -           -           -         1,000        117          883         -          -             -         1,000        117          883
4,852        995        3.857     12.980       2.617       10,363      28,295      5,423       22,872      42,231      8.269       33.962      7        5  19615 57
Without the Project                   1.214        275          939       3,035        687        2,348       6,070      1,374        4,696       9,105      2,061         7,044      18,210      4,122       14,088
/I  yields are shown in Annex 5, Table 1; quantities of inputs per hectare in Annex 5, Table 3   prices of inputs and outputs in Annex 7, Tables 2 and 3; cropping pattern with and vithout
project in Anex 15, Table 1.
December 1976.



KINGDON OF MDROCCO
DOUKKALA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Faru Budget
B - Livestock Operating Coste and Returne Before Labor, Water Charges and Taxes at Full Development 
1.6 ha                  4 ha                    8 ha                   12 ha                   24 ha
With       Without    With         Without    With         Without    With        Without    With          Without
Farn Budget                 Project    Proiect    Project    Prolect    Project    Project    Project    Project    Project    Prolect
Cattle Herd
Breeding Cows (number)    1.6          0.9         3.5         2.0         5.5         3.2        8.6         4.9         16.0        9.1
Calves         (number)    1.1         0.5         2.4         1.2         3.8         1.9         5.9        2.9         10.9        5.5
Heifers        (number)    0.5         0.3         1.2         0.6         1.9         0.9         2.9        1.5           5.5        2.7
Production
Culled Cows   (number)    0.3          0.1         0.7         0.2         1.1         0.3        1.7          0.5          3.2        0.9
Calves         (number)    0.5         0.3         1.2         0.6         1.9         0.9        2.9         1.5           5.5        2.7
Reifers        (number)    0.2         0.1         0.4         0.3         0.6         0.5         1.0         0.9          1.8        1.4
Milk           (liters)    1,960        270        4,320        600        6,810        945      10,575        1,470      19,700       2,740
Grosa Revenue
from Livestock    (DH)    3,264         790        7,189      1,740       11,330      2,742       17,598       4,260       32,781      7,934
Production Coit
Excluding Labor,
Taxes, and Wàter
Charges for
Forage Crops       (DH)      657        128        1,449        282        2,284        444        3,547         690       6,607       1,285
Net Return for
Livestock          (DH)    2,607        662        5.740      1,458        9,046      298         14j051       3 570       26,174      6649
/1  Herd build-up, Sales, and costs are discussed in Annex 6.  Prices for meat and milk, and prices for inputs éntering into forage
production are given in Annex 7 , Tables 2 and 3.
December 1976.
* z



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA Il IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Sources and Application of Funds 1.6 Ha Farm
Y E A R
I taem                                                             1          2          3          4          5          6          7        8-13         14       15-40
----------------------------------------------- (D) -------------------------------------------
Sources of Funds
Gross Value of Incremental Production                          2,080      3,030      4,390      4,805      5,640      6,035      6,200      6,205      6,205      6,205
Medium-term Loan                                                 618        632        778        -          -          -          -          -          -           -
Short-term Loan                                                1,758      1,758      1.758      1.758      1.758      1.758      1.758        -          -          -
Total Sources                                               4.456      5.420    _6926       6,563      7.398      7.793       7.958      6.205      6,205      6.205
Uses of Funds
Incremental Costs of Materials, Services                         780      1,025      1,230      1,230      1,265      1,265      1,265      1,265      1,265      1,265
Incremental Wages                                                -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -
Farm Investment                                                  865        790        970        -          -          -          -          -           -          -
Amortization and Interest on Debt
Mediuc-term                                    -          183        400        560        495        495        225        -                      -
Short-term                                  1,840      1,840       1,840       1,840                1,840      1,840        -          -          -
Maintenance and Replacement; Sprinkler
Equipment                                                      -           38         38         38         38         38      1,885         38      1,885          38
Betterment Levy                                                  -          -
Water Cha!ges                                                    295        590        885      1,195      1,425      1,475      1,475      1,475      1,475       1,475
Tazes                                                             88        108        175        186        226        256        260         269        269        269
Total Uses                                                  3,868      4,574     5,538       5,049     5,339       5,369      6,950      3,047      4,894      3,047
Return to Farm Fazily                                              588        846      1,388      1,514      2,059      2,424      J,008      36158       1.311      3 158
December 1976.
crl,



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Sources and Application of Funds 4.0 Ha Farm
Y E A R
I tem                                                              1            2          3           4           5           6           7         8-13         14         15-40
--------------------------------------------------  (DH) --------------------------------------------------
Sources of Funds
Gross Value of Incremental Production                           5,182       7,550      10,949      11,991      14,074      15,054      15,474      15,475      15,475      15,475
Medium-term Loan                                                1,413       1,437       1,728         -           -           -           -           -           -           -
Short-term Loan                                                 4,395       4,395       4,395       4,395       4.395       4,395       4,395         -           -           -
Total Sources                                               10,990     13.382       17,072     16,386      18,469      19,449       19,869      15,475      15,475      15,475
Uses of Funds
Incremental Costs of Materials, Services                        1,915       2,510       3,013       3,013       3,097       3,097       3,097       3,097       3,097       3,097
Incremental Wages                                                 _           _           _           _           _           _           _           _
Farm Investment                                                 1,967       1,797       2,160         -           -           -           -           -           -           -
Amortization and Interest on Debt
Medium-term                                     -           428         925       1,268       1,107       1,107         504         -           -           -
Short-term                                   4,605       4,605       4,605       4,605       4,605       4,605       4,605          -           -           -
Maintenance and Replacement; Sprinkler Equipuent                  -            95          95          95          95          95       4,719          95       4,710           95
Betterment Levy                                                   _           _           _           _           _
Water Charges                                                     737       1,474       2,211       2,948       3,685       3,685       3,685       3,685       3,685       3,685
Taxes                                                             227         315         509         540         655         742         779         779         779         779
Total Uses                                                   9,4,1      11,224      13,518      12,469     13,244      13,331       17,380       7,656      12,271       7,656
Return to Farm fssdly                                             1,539       2,158       3,554       3,:17       5,225       6,118       2,48j       7,819       3,204       7,819
December 1976.
o '



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Sources and Application of Funds 12 Ha Farm
Y E A R
Item                                                  1           2           3           4           5           6           7         8-11         12          13          14         15-40
_--------------------------------------------                       (DH) ------------------------------------------------------------
Sources of Funds
Gross Value of Incremental Production            15,240      22,200      32,210      35,260      41,3',5     44,265      45,495      45,495      45,495      45,495      45,495      45,495
Medium-term loan                                   3,615      3,325        3,705         -          -           -           -            -           -           -           -           -
Short-term loan                                  13,990      13,990      13,990      13,990      13,990         -           -                        -           -           -           -
Total Sources                                 32,845      39,515      49,905      49,250      55,345      44,265      45,495      45,495      45,495      45,495      45,495      45,495
Uses ofFFunds
Incremental Costs of Materials, Services          5,505       7,215       8,670       8,670       8,910       8,910       8,910       8,910       8,910       8,910       8,910        8,910
Incremental Wages                                 2,635       3,454       4,150       4,150       4,265       4,265       4,265       4,265       4,265       4,265       4,265        4,265
Farm Investnent                                   5,165       4,750       5,290         -           -           -           -            -           -           -           -           -
Amortization and Interest debt:
Medium-term                        -           555      1,065       1,630       1,630       1,630       1,630       1,630       1,075          570         -           -
Short-term                     14,480      14,480      14,480      14,480      14,480         -           -           -            -           -           -           -
Maintenance and Replacement of Sprinkler
Equipment                                          -           280         280        280         280         280      14,135          280         280         280     14,135          280
Betterment Levy                                      -           -           -        2,415       2,415       2,415       2,415       2,415        2,415       2,415       2,415       2,415
Water Charges                                      2,210      4,420        6,631      8,841      11,052       11,052    11,052       11,052      11,052      11,052      11,052       11,052
Taxes                                                587         830      1,485       1,317       1,764       2,106       2,250       2,250        2,250       2,250       2,250       2,250
Total Uses                                    30.582      35,984      42 051      41j783      44,79G      30,658      44.657      30,802      30,247      29,742      43,027       29.172
Return to Farm Fari1y                                2,263       3,531       7,854       7,467      10,549      13,607         838      14,693      15,248      15,753       2,468      16,323
Decempber 1976.
o' 



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Sources and Application of Funds 24 Ha Farm
Y E A R
Item                                                 1          2           3          4           5           6          7         8-il        12          13          14       15-40
-- - -- -- - - -- -- -- -- - -- - - -- -- - - -- - - -- - - - - - - - -- (D )  -- - - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - - - - -- -- - - -- - - -- - - - - --
Sources of Funds
Gross Value of Incremental Production           27,360     39,860      57,825     63,300      74,240      79,470     81,675      81,675     81,675      81,675      81,675     81,675
Medium-term Loan                                 6,810      6,305       6,895         -          -           -          -           -           -          -
Short-term Loan                                 27,980     27,980      27,980     27,980      27,980
Total Sources                               62.150  _4j~45          92 700    _2WLO    L2 22          79,470      8l_75        1,675     81,675      81,675      81,675         75
Uses of Funds
Incremental Costs of Materials, Services        10,360     13,585      16,320     16,320      16,770     16,770      16,770      16,770     16,770      16,770      16,770     16,770
Incremental Wages                                5,300      6,950       8,350      8,350       8,580       8,580      8,580       8,580      8,580       8,580       8,580       8,580
Farm Investnient                                 9,530      8,810       9,850        -           -           -          -           -           -          -           -           -
Amortization and Interest on debt
medium-term                      -         1,040      2,005       3,060       3,060      3,060       3,060      3,060       2,020       1,055
short-term                    28,960     28,960      28,960      28,960     28,960         -           -          -           -           -           -          -
Maintenance and replacement; sprinkler
equipment                                        -          5t5         565        565         565         565     28,270         565         565        565      28,270         565
Betterment levy                                    -          -           -        8,280       8,280       8,280      8,280       8,280       8,280      8,280       8,280       8,280
Water charges                                    4,420      8,840      13,260     17,680      22,095      22,095     22,095      22,095      22,095     22,095      22,095      22,095
Taxes                                              979      1           2,608      1,701       2,494       3,172      3,459       3,459       3,459      3,459       3,459       3,459
Total Uses                                  5»9549      70,102     81,918      84,916      90,804     62,523      90,514      62,809     61,J69      60,804      87,454     59.749
Return to FarmFsmlly                              2,601       4_048      10,782      6,364                  16,948  (8,839)    18,866          19,906     20,870      (5,779) Z1,926
December 1976.



ANNEX 17
Page l
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA 1I IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cost and Benefit Recovery
1.        This annex examines three alternative recovery policies possible in
the Doukkala II project area in terms of their impact on the growth, effi-
ciency, and income distribution objectives, as well as the feasibility of
various recovery schemes in order to refine upon the agreements reached on
cost recovery under the Doukkala I loan. A formula for computing water and
supplementary pumping charges was included in the Doukkala I Loan Agreement.
All operation and maintenance costs, plus a maximum of 40% of investment costs
were to be recovered from beneficiaries, "subject to beneficiaries incentives
and capacity to pay." The Government is at present undertaking a review of
the level and structure of water charges in Morocco which they agreed in the
Doukkala I Loan Agreement to complete by December 31, 1977. During appraisal
the construction department of MARA was collecting information from all ORMVA's
on their actual levels of operation and maintenance costs, using the formula
provided in the side letter to the Doukkala I Loan Agreement. The intention
of the Ministry is to index O&M costs to the construction cost indices estab-
lished for civil works construction. Also, the level and structure of the
land tax applied to irrigated areas is under review. The recovery charges
suggested in this annex are those recommended as both feasible and desirable,
are derived using the formula agreed upon under Doukkala I, and are consistent
with farmers ability to pay.
2.        An analysis of the maximal recovery possible under the present
Moroccan legislation and accepted under the Doukkala I agreement indicated
that increasing water charges so as to recover a substantial proportion of
capital costs would be beyond the farmers ability to pay and that the incidence
of such charges would fall most heavily on small farmers. Consequently this
Annex presents a "preferred hypothesis" under which total cost recovery is
increased above the minimum level set out by the Loan Agreement, essentially
by increasing the betterment levy. Since this levy is progressive in nature,
the first five ha of properties smaller than 20 ha being exempted from it, the
overall effect of increasing it would also be to redress the regressivity
of cost recovery implied in the maximal recovery under Doukkala I. During
negotiations, the present analysis was handed to the Government, which agreed
to review and discuss the issues it raised with the Bank on the occasion of
ongoing policy discussions and in the context of project supervision.
Issues
3.        Efficiency Pricing.  In presently irrigated areas of the Doukkala
region, water charges do not cover ORMVAD's operation and maintenance costs,
and encourage inefficiency of water use. Water conservation practices would
increase with higher water charges since they are imposed on a volumetric
basis. However, water charges should not be higher than farmers' ability
to pay, which would discourage the use of water. The ability of farmers
to pay was found to be the critical constraint on the amount recoverable.



ANNEX 17
Page 2
4.        Equity considerations suggest that:
(a) larger irrigated farmers should pay a higher charge than
smaller farmers;
(b) all irrigated farmers should pay the maximum amount pos-
sible since average farm incomes at full development will
be several times the average incomes of dry farmers;
(c)  charges should fit into an acceptable structure compared
with both adjacent gravity irrigated perimeters and peri-
meters elsewhere in the nation.
5.        ORMVAD's dependence on Government subsidy of its operation and main-
tenance activity should be decreased. Once constructed, operation and main-
tenance costs of an irrigation district should be born by the beneficiaries,
since subsidies might be terminated as a result of budgetary cuts.
6.        Economic Growth.  One conclusion of the investigation of the results
in existing irrigated areas in the Doukkala (Annex 1) is that farmers tend to
invest their incremental income in income generating assets, including live-
stock and farm machinery.  The higher the water charge, the lower the farm
income out of which such investments are made. Since the Government sub-
sidizes the difference between ORMVAD's costs and its revenues from water
charges, an increase in water charges merely reduces the subsidy. The added
funds would be put into uses by Government which otherwise would have been
foregone. Farmers ability to invest in livestock is constrained by forage
availability. Herd size is predicted to stop growing significantly about 7
years after irrigation begins. Therefore, it would seem wise from the view-
point of the growth objective to permit the farmer to recover the maximum
project benefits in the early years of the project, and then to increase
recovery charges when the possibilities of productive investment have been
exhausted. 1/ Present Moroccan law already provides for such a stepped
increase in charges:  farmers pay only 20% of the full charge in the first
year of irrigation, 40% in the second year, etc.
7.        Administrative Feasibility.  Progressive volumetric water charges,
increasing as a function of farmer income or wealth, are not administratively
feasible. However, a modest land betterment levy presently exists which
exempts the smaller farmers and is more onerous for the largest. If in-
creased, this tax could introduce more progressivity.
8.        Income Taxes.  Incremental income taxes resulting from the project
are treated as recovery charges because both taxes and water charges in-
crease Governnent revenues in the same manner and are both collected by the
income tax service. Income taxes are progressive while water clharges are
regressive (since a flat rate is charged per m3 of water while rent per m3 of
water is lower for small farmers than for large, as shown in Table 1). Rent
per m3 of water is lower for smaller than for larger farmers due to the
greater increment in family labor utilized as a result of the project and the
greater allowance for risk per m3 of water used by small farmers (para. 9).
1/   See farm budgets in Annex 16.



ANNT '
Page 3
Water charges are deducted from taxable income.  Therefore, the higher the
water charge, the lower the income taxes paid and the greater the regressivity
of recovery charges.
9.        Optimum Charges.  The analysis suggests that for reasons of (a)
efficiency, (b) possible future financial requirements of ORMVAD, and
(c) safeguarding of funds required for maintenance, at least operation and
maintenance cost should be recovered through water charges. For equity
reasons, the maximum should be recovered consistent with farmers ability to
pay.  For Rrowth reasons. verv little should be recovprpèl inil nfti-r fc-rma-c
exhaust productive investment outlets for their incremental income (about
year 7). The betterment levy should be increased to the maximum in order
to ensure some progressivity.
10.       Ability to Pay.  Line 1 of Table 1 shows for the total of farms
represented by each farm model, the incremental farm income before recovery
charges, family labor, financial charges, and taxes.  Incremental income
represents a return to (a) project investment, (b) farmers' own investment in
cows, stables, and farm equipment, (c) additional family labor used, and (d)
increased farm management requirements.  The increment of family labor required
per farm type is shown in Annex 18 and valued at its average wage (DH 6.2 per
day). The value of management is assumed to equal 15% of incremental income
for farms less than 10 ha and 20% for farms larger than 10 ha, reflecting
the greater difficulty in managing larger farms. The minimum rate of return
to farmers' own investment required to induce that investment was assumed to
equal 40% for 1.6 ha and 4 ha farms, 30% for larger farms. The higher return
required by small farmers to induce their investment results from the small
farmers' greater aversion to risk, and recent evidence that about a 40% rate
of return is required to induce small farmer investment.  The cost to the
farmer of his investment equals the present value of the invetment plus debt
service, less the loan. The remaining benefit to the farmer after the above
are deducted equals project rent, which would be divided between the farmer
and the Government through recovery charges and general taxes. The table
shows that project rent as a percentage of incremental income increases with
farm size; beginning with 38% for 1.6 ha farms, increasing to 58% for 24 ha
farms.
11.       The 40% of beneficiaries living on 1.6 ha farms would obtain an
income before taxes and charges equal to the present poverty level (US$200 per
capita compared to a present poverty income level of US$195 per capita which
will grow to US$240 by 1985). On the other hand, the largest farms (24 ha)
would generate about $1,650 per capita before charges and taxes. Project
rent equals US$70 per capita for 1.6 ha farm families, US$580 per capita for
24 ha farm families.  The ability of small farmers to pay recovery charges
is therefore limited, while large farmers are able to pay a substantial
amount.
12.       Three alternative systems of recovery charges are considered, one
being the present system, the other two computed according to the following
formula agreed upon during the Doukkala I negotiations:
present value of income from water charges and irrigated land betterment
levy = present value of all financial operating and maintenance costs plus
a certain percentage of investment costs.



ANNEX 17
Page 4
wV + BS = (I x x%) + R + O + M + E
Meaning of symbols
= Present value at discount rate i = 10%
w  =  Water charge at full development taking into account stepped
charges during first four years
V  =  Annual volume of water punliped reaching equilibrium in year 9
S  =  Hectares qualifytng to pay the betterment levy (6,080 ha
out of 16,600 total)
B  =  Betterment levy, presently fixed by law at 1,500 DH/ha;
I  =  Investment net of taxes and contingencies
x  =  Varying percentage.  Presently fixed by law not to exceed 40%
R  =  Replacement at financial cost
O  =  Operation at financial cost
i4 = Maintenance at financial cost
E  =  Power cost at price per kWh actually billed which equals the
marginal generating cost
For I, R, 0, and M only those costs were taken into consideraton which are
related to the provision of irrigation water. Extension service items, vil-
lage infrastructure and classified roads were therefore left out.  Farm budget
computations made it clear that small farmers would just be able to pay, through
volumetric water charges, for full recovery of R, 0, M, and E, and that there
would be no reasonable amount left to contribute to recovery of investment.
The formula was therefore broken down into two equations:
I. wV = R + O + M + E for all farms, to recover financial cost of
R, 0, M, and E.
II. BS = I x x% for "ricli" farmers only, to recover part of
investment
V = 781.9 million m3
R  =    6.2 million DH
O  =   10.3 milion DH
M  =   27.0 million DH
E  =   38.3 million DH
I  =  153.6 million DH
S  =  6,080 ha



ANNEX 17
Page 5
The water and supplementary pumping charge required to recover operation,
maintenance, replacement, and energy at financial prices thus equals DH
105/1,000 m3. A charge covering full operation, maintenance and replacement
costs (in economic prices), plus 40% of economic învestment costs, less the
value of the betterment levy computed as if applied to the entire project
area would equal DH 159/1,000 m3. The present charges, including the pumping
charge, equal DH 39.5/1,000 m3.  The present betterment levy equals DR 1,500
per ha, payable over 20 years including a three year grace period and an
interest rate of 4%.  The first 5 hectares of farms smaller than 20 ha are
exempt. For Doukkala Il, this betterment levy would be chargeable to 6,080
hectares.
13.       Three recovery schemes were considered.  That shown in Table 1 rep-
resents the preferred recovery structure consisting of a water charge which
at the present level of farmgate prices relative to prices of investment goods
recovers full operation, maintenance and replacement (O&M) costs in financial
prices. In addition, a betterment levy would be imposed of an amount per
hectare which, with the water charge, recovers 100% of project rent accruing
to farmers having farms 20 ha or above. Water and power charges would be
indexed to the higher of either agricultural prices or O & M costs, and the
betterment levy would be indexed either to agricultural prices or land values.
In this case, with the water charge equal to DR 105/1,000 m3, the betterment
levy would have to be increased 2.5 times and be paid continuously over the
life of the project, as an annual equivalent, starting after the three year
grace period. At present farmgate prices relative to prices of investment
items, recovery charges including the betterment levy would recover all
operation, maintenance and replacement costs (in economic prices) plus 12%
of investment costs. Incremental taxes would recover an additional 10% of
investment costs. The total cost recovery index is lowest for the smallest
farmers (42%), rising with farm size to 54% for the largest farmers.
14.       Table 2, alternative 1 represents the present Government recovery
charges and betterment levy. These charges, along with incremental income
taxes recover 46% of projet rent for 1.6 ha farmers rising to 53% for the
largest farms. The betterment levy, water and supplementary pumping charges
would recover 47% of O&M costs, while incremental taxes would recover another
29%. Recovery of investment costs would be nil.
15.       Alternative 2 in Table 2 consists of the water and power charge
of DH 159/1,000 m3 covering operation, maintenance and 40% of investment costs
less exemptions of small farmers from the betterment levy.  Actual recovery
would cover operation, maintenance, replacement and power costs, plus 35% of
investment costs (all in economic prices). Incremental taxes would recover
an additional 8% of investment costs. However, more than 100% of project rent
would be recovered from all farmers.  The smallest farmers would bear the
heaviest burden (130% of project rent recovered). Water charges of this
magnitude would not leave sufficient incentives for farmers to participate
in the project.



ANNEX 17
Page 6
Price Distortions, Benefit and Cost Recovery
16.       The above analysis is based on present farmgate prices and on the
assumption that farmgate prices inflate at the same rate as international
inflation. At the proposed desirable level of recovery charges, economic
benefits of farm production would be distributed between farmers (37%), Gov-
ernment through recovery charges and taxes (31%), hired labor (1%), and the
remaining 31%, equal to the excess of economic over farmgate prices, distri-
buted between consumers, farmers and Government depending on future Government
price policy (Table 3). If farmgate prices are increased to the level of
future border prices, the price assumptions of the Dreceeding AnAlvQsis would
no longer hold, and farmers would capture another 17% of the benefits and
Government 14% through additional recovery charges and taxes (since charges
are indexed to agricultural prices). This would increase recovery to full O&M
plus 53% of investment costs. If present policies continue and farmgate
prices are not raised to the level of future border prices, consumers would
recover 15% of economic benefits, and Government 16% through savings of sub-
sidies which without the project would have been used to reduce the retail
price of imported sugar. In this second case, Government would recover O&M
plus 59% of irrigation investment costs (Table 3). Therefore under either set
of price assumptions, the proposed water charges would recover full O&M plus
from 53% to 59% of investment costs.
17.       Within the Doukkala area the proposed water charges would have sub-
stantial repercussions. Since energy costs constitute 47% of the water charge.
tarmers with sprinkler irrigation would feel at a disadvantage with respect to
those receiving gravity irrigation whose energy charge would be 47% less if
using the same volume of water per hectare per year. Since gravity irrigation
is less effective and needs more water per hectare, the difference in the
power charge may be reduced to 25%. Although the higher and earlier yields
with sprinkler irrigation easily offset the higher annual power charge in
project economic considerations, farmers would be hard to convince. The Gov-
ernment should therefore consider to allow farmers using sprinkler irrigation
to cultivate the most profitable crops, with less profitable crops to be
cultivated in the gravity irrigated area. The cost of irrigation water should
be reflected by the type of crop produced.
18.       On the national level there is little doubt that the exercise now
underway to determine actual R, O, M and E costs will lead to the same con-
clusions as for the Doukkala. It has already contributed to an awareness
that the large investments in irrigation made during the last ten years have
resulted in large recurrent expenditures, leading to the formulation of a
policy to establish a system of pluri-annual maintenance contracts.  It ought
to lead also to the formulation of a national irrigation policy that will take
into account the annual cost of water in its decisions as to type of crops to
be grown rather than relying more on global desirabilities of import substitu-
tion and yield increase. Such considerations would lead to construction of
the highest cost irrigation projects in those areas endowed by nature to
produce the highest value crops and to making a national effort to secure
markets for those crops.
April 1977



AN i,x 17
Table 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Proposed Rent and Cost Recovery Indices
1,450    1,250        500      140       150    3,490
1.6 ha   4,0 ha   8.0 ha   12.0 ha   24 ha   Total
icem                                                           Farm      Farm     Farm       Farm    Farm    Farm
------------------- (DH Million)----------------
Present Value at a 10% Discount Rate
Net Incremental Cash Income                                    36.7      79.1      56.0      22.4       41.7   235.9
Less Incremental:
Imputed Value of Family Labor                               4.4     11.2       7.4       0.6        0.2    23.8
Imputed Value of Management Services                        5.5     11.9       8.4       4.5        8.3    38.6
Cost of Borrowed Capital                                    2.6      5.2       3.4       1.4        2.8    15.4
Return on Own Capital and Allowance for Risk               10.2     18.1       8.2       3.4        6.9    46.8
Equals Rent                                                  14.0      32.7      28.6      12.5       24.0   111.3
Rent as a Percentage of Net Cash Income (%)                    38        41        51        56         58       47
Water and Power Char2es                                        11.5      24.6      19.7       8.3       17.8    81.8
Land Betterment Levy                                            -         -         2.5       1.6        6.0    10.1
Incremental Income Tax                                          1.8       5.3       4.0       1.7        2.7    15.5
Total Charges                                              13.3      29.9     26.2      11.6       26.5   107.4
Rent Recovery Index (%)                                        95        91        92        93        110       96
Recovery of Cash Income Net of Investment Cost (%)             39        40        50        55         68       49
Public Sector Outlays for Irrigation (Capital,
Operation, Maintenance)                                       31.7      68.3      54.6      22.9       49.2   226.7
Cost Recovery Index (%)                                        42        44        48        51         54       47
------------ - ----*--(DH)-----------------------
Farmers Income Per Capita  in 1989, at Full Development  950    1,620    2,585    3,490              5,000        -
Poverty Level 1976                                             -        -         -         -          -        855
Estimated Critical Consumption Level in 1989
(1.5% Growth p.a.)                                            -        -         -         -         -      1,040
National Per Capita  Income, 1976                              -        -         -         -          -      2,080
Estimated National Per Capita Income, 1989                     -        -         -         -          -      3,250
Relative Farmer Affluence; Before, After Project           dl to dl  dl to d2 d2 to d2  d2 to d3 d3 to d3
dl = below poverty level.
d2 = between poverty level and national per capita income.
d3 = between national per capita income and twice national income.
December 1976



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKAL Il IRRIGATION PROJECT
Alternative Rent and Cost Recovery Indices
1,450     1,250        500        140        150     3,490
1.6 ha    4.0 ha    8.0 ha    12.0 ha   24 ha        Total
Item                                                        Farms     Farma      Farma      Farma      Farms     Farms
----------------------- (DH Million) ------------------
Present Value Discounted at 10% of:
Alternative One: Present Situation
Water and Power Charges                                   4.3        9.3        7.4        3.1       6.7        30.8
Land Betterment Levy                                       -          -         0.9       0.6        2.2         3.7
Incremental Income Tax                                    2.2        7.0       5.7        2.6        4.0        21.5
Total Charges                                          6.5       16.3      14.0        6.3       12.9        56.0
Rent Recovery Index (X)                                  46         50        49         50         53          50
Cost Recovery Index (Z)                                  21         24         26        28         26          25
Alternative Two:  Recovery of O&M1' + 40% of
Investment Cost
Water and power Charges                                  17.4       37.2       29.8      12.6       26.9       123.8
Land Betterment Levy                                      -          -          0.9        0.6       2.2         3.7
Incremental Income Tax                                    1.5        4.2        3.2       1.3        2.1        12.3
Total Charges                                         18.9       41.4      33.9       14.5       31.2       139.8
Rent Recovery Index (Z)                                 135        127       119        116        130         126
Cost Recovery Index (Z)                                  60         61         62        63         63          62
/1 O&M - Operation and Maintenance.
1-  tj
eD 17
December 1976. 



ANNEX 17
Table 3
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Distribution of Project Benefits
Projected Benefits
Item                                                    Discounted at 10%
(US$ Million)
Distributed to:
1.  Farmers
(a)  Incremental net income, at current
financial prices                                     53.6
(b)  Less recovery charges and taxes                       (24.4)
Farm Income                                            29.9
2. Government
(a)  Recovery charges and taxes on farm income              24.4
3. Hired Labor
(a)  Wages                                                   2.5
(b)  Less opportunity cost                                  (1.6)
Economic Benefits Obtained by Hired Labor               0.9
4.  Excess of projected economic over present financial
value of farm production                                  23.9
Accrues to:
(a)  If farmgate prices are increased to equal
future border prices
-   Farmers                                12.6
-   Government                             11.3
(b)  If farmgate prices are not increased to
level of border prices
-   Consumers                              11.7
-   Government                             12.2
5.  Incremental Economic Benefits of Farm Production
(total of 1 through 4)                                   78.4
December 1976.



ANNEX 18
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation
Existing Situation
1.        ORMVAD's present agricultural monitoring system is intended to be
utilized as a tool for better field level management, as an input into plan-
ing and decision making, and as a source of information for the training of
farmers. The monitoring of agricultural inputs and outputs, as well as farm
assets is undertaken by ORMVAD's Office of Agro-Economic Studies, which is
one of five offices in ORMIVAD's agricultural production service.
2.        The Office of Agro-Economic Studies consists of four sections
including Analysis, Statistics and Enuneration, Vegetables, and Laboratory.
Most data is collected in the field by extension agents. Up to the present
monitoring in the following areas has been undertaken:
(a) cropping patterns;
(b)  crop profitability at farm level. land tenure, farmn assets;
(c) results of agricultural research;
(d) monthly prices, agricultural outputs, and inputs.
3.        Monthly surveys of agricultural prices on local farm markets, wages,
and costs of farm inputs are reported on a regular basis to management.
Monthly reports include a brief assessment of agricultural operations with
a short description of irregularities which would adversely affect yields,
marketing, input supply, etc. The Director of the Agricultural Production
Service utilizes the qualitative information in decisions about input supply,
extension activity, dealings with sugar and cotton processors, cropping pat-
terns. The more detailed quantitative surveys of farm budgets, assets, and
prices do not appear to be effectively used by the Director in decision making
with respect to quality, timing or quantity of extension service activity,
ORMVAD's input supply, cropping patterns, agricultural techniques, etc.
With changes in content such information could serve an analytical function.
Evaluation of the impact of ORMVAD's activity on agricultural production
would permit more timely changes in ORMVAD's intervention when data indicate
that changes are appropriate.
4.        The local branches of the National Agricultural Credit Bank have a
relatively sophisticated monitoring system which will be improved under the
Bank's Third Agricultural Credit Project in Morocco (Report No. 1308-MOR).
Since many of the clients of these Branch Banks are farmers living within
ORMVAD's perimeter, a useful collaboration in monitoring would be established
between these two institutions.



ANNEX 18
Page 2
Monitoring and Evaluation System for ORMVAD
5.        ORMVAD will design a monitoring and evaluation system which will be
implemented by the middle of 1979. It will utilize to the extent possible
existing staff and procedures, and take into account manpower, organizational
and budgetary constraints.
6.        Monitoring is defined as the timely gathering of information on
actual inputs, activities and outputs. It is used to warn project management
about potential implementation problems requiring corrective actions. Evalua-
tion of this data should enable management to adjust when necessary, policies,
objectives, institutional arrangements, and resources affecting the project.
Evaluation is defined as the measurement of effectiveness and efficiency of
project activities.
7.        The functions of the Office of Agro-Economic Studies will consist of:
(a) Monitoring of Project
(i) Implementation of a data recording system so that
all significant items of project development are
regularly recorded. This involves measuring the
level of project activities which include water
and other input supply, extension activities, con-
trol of cropping patterns, assistance to coopera-
tives, artificial insemination, credit provision,
farmer training, research, construction, etc.
(ii) Collaboration with Ministry of Finance accountants
seconded to Extension Centers and to ORMVAD head-
quarters to ensure that suitable financial records
are maintained so that the cost of physical develop-
ment can be calculated.
(iii) Dissemination of information on physical progress and
financial results to ORMVAD management, the Ministry
of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform and the World Bank
at regular intervals.
(b) Evaluation of Data obtained from Monitoring
(i)  Assessment of impact of project activities monitored
(as in (i) of part (a) above) on project outputs.
Project outputs consist of hectares irrigated, farmers
trained, farmers reached through extension, increased
use of better seeds and fertilizers, cooperatives estab-
lished, credit provided, other farm inputs provided,
village infrastructure provided, projected cropping
patterns achieved.



ANNEX 18
Page 3
(ii) Assessment of the impact of project activities on broad
objectives (employment, production, farm income).
(iii) Provision of advice to management on changes in project
policies which appear desirable in the light of the
information generated by monitoring and evaluation
activity.
8.        In addition to the above activities, the Office of Agro-economic
Studies will (i) maintain close contact with the agricultural research sta-
tions, providing both recommendations for research to be undertaken, and
analysing research results for the purpose of application to the project
area. The office will also maintain communication with other local and
foreign organizations to obtain information on useful technical innovations,
changes in world prices of agricultural products and inputs, etc.; (ii)
establish a separate section, replacing its laboratory section, to conduct
and analyze results of applied agricultural research on the demonstration
farm. A proposal will be submitted to the Bank by ORMVAD including the
appropriate organizational change within the Office of Agro-economic
Studies.
9.        A minimum amount of information should be accumulated and analyzed
in order that rapid feed-back to project management and policy makers be main-
tained. A monthly report should continue to be provided to management for
this purpose, which would be provided to the Bank to satisfy its agricultural
reporting requirements. It may be useful for ORMVAD to place greater emphasis
on in-depth interviewing of farmers or surveying perceptions of farmers as
reported by elected representatives of water user associations and coopera-
tives. The present emphasis on the accumulation of quantitative data requiring
a great deal of manpower and time to analyze may not adequately meet manage-
ment's requirements for timely information. ORMVAD also intends to increase
the number of enumerators in the statistical section to carry out monitoring
in the field, and rely less on extension agents in order to avoid diverting
the latter from their extension function.
10.       Not later than December 31, 1983 and again on December 31, 1988
ORMVAD will provide to the Bank a project completion report assessing the
growth in production, employment, farm income, and farmn assets resulting from
the project compared to changes in these factors in rainfed areas administered
by ORMVAD.
March 1977



ANNEX 19
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Economic Costs and Benefits
1.        Benefits.  The expected crop yields and quantities of inputs in-
cluding labor for each crop are shown in Annex 5, Tables 1 and 2, and are
based on observed results of sprinkler irrigation in the Doukkala area (Annex
1).  Livestock development and costs are discussed in Annex 6.  Inputs and
outputs are valued in constant 1976 border prices (net of taxes and subsidies)
at the projected long-term exchange rate (US$1 = DH 4.4), as shown in Annex 7,
Tables 2 and 3. Draft animal services on the farm are valued at the cost of
feed.  The average wage in the project area in 1976 varied between DR 6.5 per
day for men, DH 4 per day for women in months of low labor demand, to DR 10
per day for men, DH 6 per day for women in months of maximum demand. Without
the project, only about 35% of available family working days in the project
area are utilized for crop and livestock production. In the absence of the
project, an additional day's labor would be likely to produce enough to supply
the subsistence needs of the laborer. Therefore, in the economic analysis,
the opportunity cost of the increment in labor required by the project is
valued at the money value of subsistence production, equal to DR 4 per day.
In reality, incremental labor requirements imposed by the project will reduce
leisure time and time spent on home improvement, etc.  On the margin, this
activity should be as valuable to the farmer as is the additional output
obtainable through increased work, which is the value of subsistence produc-
tion. An alternative calculation used in the sensitivity testing, based on
the percentage of labor employed per month and on the average daily wage,
yields an opportunity cost of DH 2.5 per day 1/.
1/   The formula is:
m=12  LU               m=months
Opportunity cost of labor=Z        -- x W ; where LU=labor uttlized per month
m=1   LA              LA=labor available per month
m           W =wage per day
Data for without project situation on 16,600 ha:
Month
1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9   10  Il  12
Labor days required ('000)       29  29  42  42  62 104  29  58  29  29 116  46
Labor days available ('000)   140 140 140 140 140 140 140 140 140 140 140 140
Average daily wage)  (DH)       5.8 5.8 5.8 5.8 5.8 8.0 8.0 7.0 7.0 7.0 7.0 5.8
for men and women)
Labor utilization X wage (DH) 1.2 1.2 1.7 1.7 3.6 5.9 1.5 2.9 1.5 1.5 5.8 1.9
labor available



ANNEX 19
Page 2
2.        Investment Costs include those provided for by the project and those
undertaken by farmers (Annex 11). For the project these include civil works,
electromechanical equipment, mobile sprinklers, hydrants, power network, ex-
tension center buildings, milk collecting centers, vehicles and other equip-
ment, infrastructure, consultants, and studies. Investments to be undertaken
by farmers include cows, cowsheds and farn equipment which will be financed
from agricultural credit and farmers' own equity. Farmers also finance
replacement of mobile sprinkler equipment, while all other replacements are
undertaken by O14VAD. A comparison of total project costs and costs included
in the economic analysis is shown in Table 4. Excluded from investment costs
are taxes and subsidies, price contingencies, village infrastructure, classi-
fied roads and agricultural credit as well as the sunk costs of (1) existing
diversion and conveyance structures and (2) the Al Massira Dam. Agricultural
credit is merely the financing counterpart of farm investment which is in-
cluded in costs. Village infrastructure does not contribute to agricultural
benefit and hence the cost of this infrastructure is not included in the
benefit cost analysis. The costs of constructing, operating and maintaining
the Al Mlassira dam are excluded from the economic analysis because there would
be no change in these costs if the Doukkala Il project were not undertaken.
The size and operation of the dam were determined on the basis of that neces-
sary to meet power and water supply requirements. The downstream Im Fout dam,
where the conveyance canal begins, was constructed in the 1940's and is a sunk
cost. Classified roads include construction and improvement of the major road
arteries throuzh the region and are justified bv benefits to be obtained out-
side of the project, within the framework of the Government's road building
program. However, project benefits would be compromised without these roads.
If the costs of the roads net of taxes (US$3.4 million) are added to project
costs, but the benefits in terms of road user savings not included, the
economic rate of return to the project falls from 11.6% to 11.1%.
3.        Operation and Maintenance costs are shown in constant 1976 prices,
net of taxes and subsidies. These are undertaken by ORMVAD, except for upkeep
of mobile sprinkler equipment which is the responsibility of farmers.
4.        Power costs for running the pumping stations are incurred by ORMVAD.
The marginal cost of producing power, DII 0.178/kwh, was used.
5.        Expenditure by ORMVAD for extension, farm subsidies where not in-
cluded elsewhere, and other agricultural administration are estimated on
the basis of present costs for this activity in the existing irrigated area
managed by ORIVAD.
6.        The development period for yields and cropping patterns is predicted
on the basis of the development period observed for the existing sprinkler
irrigated area in the Doukkala region (see Annex 5, para 11). 43.4% of the
project area will receive first water in 1980, 16.9% in 1981, 19.8% in 1982,
and 19.8% in 1983. The net incremental economic value of production, as a
percentage of its level at full development in 1989, evolves as follows:



AMNEX 19
Page 3
Year    1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989-2016
14    22    39    53    69    79    88    97    99          100
This is based on water availability, a five year crop production and a seven
year livestock production build-up after application of first water.
7.        The economic rate of return under the above assumptions tabulated
in Table 1, equals 11.6%. This rate of return was further verified by inves-
tigation of the results in a 1,100 hectare area managed by ORMVAD, which has
been irrigated by sprinkler for seven years. Actual net farm production
benefits on these 1,100 hectares, in 1976 economic prices, equal about $4,760
per hectare in present value terms at 10% (measured before costs of investment,
operation, maintenance, power, and OR1IVAD agricultural services). This com-
pares with US$4,725 per hectare predicted for Doukkala II at a discount rate
of 10%.  Costs of the Doukkala II project, in present value terms at 10%, equal
US$4,240 per hectare. Therefore, if project benefits per ha are identical to
those obtained in the existing sprinkler irrigated area, the project would be
viable (net agricultural benefits would exceed costs by $520). 1/
8.        Table 2 shows the relative economic and financial value of produc-
tion per hectare of various crops. High returns are available from production
of sugar beet, tomatoes, other vegetables, meat and milk. Cotton will become
increasingly less attractive as its relative price declines. Cotton yields
are also highly variable and farmers discount the risk inherent in its produc-
tion. Maize and rapeseed appear to be unattractive both financially and eco-
nomically. However, summer maize is a second crop and therefore it should be
regarded in combination with wheat or rapeseed.  A shift away from cotton and
maize towards vegetables (tomatoes) and soybeans would increase the economic
return to the project's investments. If 60,000 tons of tomatoes were to be
produced for the originally foreseen processing plant, deferred due to a poten-
tial marketing constraint, 2,000 hectares of tomatoes would be required. All
1,635 hectares of cotton and 365 hectares of spring maize would be sacrificed.
The economic rate of return would increase to 13.4%. A similar substitution
with soybean brings the rate of return to 11.7%, while with rapeseed the rate
of return falls. The possible introduction of soybeans into the cropping pat-
tern would be studied by ORMVAD on the proposed demonstration farm. ORMVAD
is prepared to organize the production of tomatoes as it does for sugar beet,
cotton, and hybrid maize, if the required processing plant is built. This is
presently under study by the Government's export office.
1/   The present value of each cost component of Doukkala II is as follows:
($ per hectare at $1 = DH 4.4)
Project investment                                     2,585
Operation, maintenance, power                          1,160
Farmers' investment                                      180
Agricultural extension, subsidies,
management                                             315
Total                                          4,240



ANNEX 19
Page 4
Sensitivity Tests
9.        Factors which are likely to have the greatest degree of variability
are relative prices and the construction timetable. Yields, cropping pattern,
and the development period are based on experience in the Doukkala area and
should not vary much from the estimates. The following sensitivity tests
show the impact on economic viability of possible changes in key project
components or relative prices.
Basic Rate                            Rate of Return
(%)
(a)  Basic Rate                                                   11.6
(b)  Delay of benefits by one year                                10.5
(c)  Power costs 10% higher                                       11.5
(d)  Investment costs 15% higher                                   10.3
(e)  All prices of crops, milk, and meat 10% lower                 9.5
(f)  Crop yields 10% lower                                         10.3
(g)  Crop yields 10% higher                                       13.0
(h)  Labor costed at the average wage in 1976                     10.9
(i)  Fertilizer prices inflate at international
inflation rate rather than rapid rate projected              12.4
(j)  Real milk prices increase at same rate as real
meat prices                                                  13.2
(k)  Cropping pattern with industrial tomatoes                    13.4
(1)  Cropping pattern with tomatoes and soybeans                  13.5
(m)  Nlo increase in production without project                   12.1
(n)  Classified roads included as a cost component                11.1
10.       The likelihood of several of the above negative events occurring
together, and not being offset by yields higher than those projected or
increases in some commodity prices relative to international inflation, is
very low. For example, the border prices of crops relative to international
prices could as well be 10% above that projected as 10% below.



ANINEX 19
Page 5
Alternative Development
11.       No significant alternative dry farming projects have been considered
feasible for the area due to the significant water deficit. However, the
Ministry of Agriculture's Provincial Agricultural Service in the province
of El Jadida is carrying on extension, input supply, and research activity
designed to assist dry farmers in areas not managed by ORIVAD.  Agricultural
credit is also provided to dry farmers (Annex 8). Little impact of this
activity on agricultural practices and production could be observed. ORMVAD
has been more successful in providing extension and inputs to dry farmers
on the 260,000 ha under its responsibility. Yields are higher in the ORMVAD
managed area. It is estimated that ORMVAD's extension and input supply
assistance provided to dry farmers may cause an increase in crop and livestock
production by about 2% per annum. This is considered as the without project
situation. It is assumed that production under either rainfed or irrigated
conditions would grow at the same rate after full project development is
reached in 1989. The rate of return to the project was taken as the net in-
cremental economic value of production above the rainfed alternative. Since
the rate of return is above 10% (the estimated opportunity cost of capital
in Morocco) the project as now conceived is better than the optimistic dry
farming alternative. In addition there are significant sunk costs in dam
and adduction structures, which without the project would not be optimally
utilized. The project is the cheapest irrigation project per hectare in
iorocco of such a size and is the most economically viable now available for
financing. Rainfed projects are planned for areas of Morocco having more
plentiful rainfall.
February 1977



ANNEX 19
Table 1
K(INtoM OF MOROCCO
DOUIKALA IRRIGATION Il
PrFeu1t Ecunoeidc enefita and Costa
itn                                                      1977     1978      1979      1980      1981      1982     1983      1984      1985      1986      1987     1988    1989-2016
Hectares Irrigated (ha)                                   -         -        -       7,200   10,000   13,300   16,600   16,600   16,6(10   16,600   16,600   16,600            16,600
---------------------------------_ _ _  _ __ _--- -- -- -- - --- -- ----- ('000 DH) - --- -- ---- - ---- -- -- -- - ---- --- --- - ----- - --- -- -- -- -- -- --
Grous Value of Production at Econu-ic Prices
With the Prolect
Soft W,heat                                             -        -         -       2,f11    4,843    7,201    9,406   10,282   10,715   10,802   10,813   10,813            10,813
Maize                                                   -         -        -       3.158    6-88R     6.882    9.728    q 5st    9.941   10 022   10,032   10.032           10.032
vo con  -  -       -       1,267    2,183    3,246    4,240    4,634    4,830    4,868    4,874    4,874             4,874
Sugar baet                                              -        -         -       8,082   13,926   20,702   27,154   29,691   30,938   31.188   31,230   31,230            31,230
Peau                                                    -        -         -          96       166      247       323       353       368       370       371      371         371
Tu-nips                                                 -        -         -         169       291      433       566       618       644       649       650       650         650
Watermelon                                              -        -         _         683    1.176    1,749    2,285    2,498    2,603    2,623    2,626    2,626             2,626
Dur,mn Wheat                                            -        -         -       2,397    1,714        873      -         -         -         -         -         -           -
Oarîey                                                                             1,840    1,316       670
Bruad BOans                                             -        -         -         555       395       201
Total Crop                                            -        -         -      21,058   30,898   42,204   52,702   57,617   60,039   60,522   60,596   60,596            60,596
Milk                                                                               2,795    4,642    7,752   10,469   14,247   17, 048   18,481   19,551   19,880           19,880
Meat                                                                               6,774    4.729    6,954    8,680   10,097   10,326   12.856   15,609   16,194             16,779
BOeeding Heifers                                        -        -         -       1,901    1.361        693      -       2,184    5,219   7,070   _9.073   10,074          10.074
Total Livestock                                      -         -         -      11,470   10,732   15,399   19,149   26,528   32,593   38,407   44,233   46,148            46,733
Total Production
Grous Value cf Production Witheut Proejet
Doro  Wheat                                             -        -         -       4,246    4,331    4,418    4,503    4,596    4,688    4,781    4,877    4,877             4.877
Barley                                                                             3,251    3,316    3,382    3,450    3,519    3,587    3,660    3,735    3,735              3,735
Bromd Bea.                                                                           9 -  - _ 79  996    1.017    1,037    1,039    1 080    1,102    1,125    1.125          1.125
(laize                                                  -         _        -         973       993    1,013    1,033    1,054    1.074    1,096    1,118    1.118             1.118
Milk                                                    _        -         -       2,401    2,449    2,493    2,544    2,596    2,649    2,702    2,759    2,759              2.759
Meut                                                    -         -        -       3,635    3,708    3,782    3,858    3,935    4,014    4,094    4.176    4,176              4 176
Breeding Heifer-                                       -         -         -           i1      ?          ,  .            7,710    3,784    3140                  .,3W       70
Total Production                                                                180846   19,221   19,602   19,994   20,397   20,802   21,220   21,650   21,630            21 630
Grcs. Value cf Increeenal Production
Crop                                                    _        -         -      11,609   21,262   32,374   42,677   47,389   49,610   49,883   49,741   49,741             49 741
Meat and Heifero                                        -         -        -       1,680   (1,045)       368    1,257    4,710    ',82,   12,350   163,646   18,232          18 816
Milk                                                    -394    2,193    5,259    7,925   11,651   14.399   15,778   16.792   17,121                                         17.121
Total                                                 -        -         -      13,683   22,410   38,001   51,859   63,750   71,834   77,711   83,179   85,094             85,684
Increremtal Value of Fans Inputs
Sods-                                                                                320       664    1,055    1,403    1,601    1,687    1,691    1,694    1,694             1,694
Fertilizer                                              -        -         -       2,036    3,507    5,214    6,811    7,445    7,759    7,813    7,829    7,829              7,829
Pesticides                                              -        _         -         232       400       594       776       848      884       891       892       892         892
Land Preparatiun by Machine                             -         -        -          722    1,243    1,848    2,414    2,639    2,750    2,772    2,775    2,775             2,775
Harvest by Machice                                      -         -        -         (299)    (329)    (375)    (450)    (383)    (365)    (386)    (417)    (417)             (417)
Transport by Machine                                    -         -        -         274       472       702       917    1,002    1,045    1,053    1,054    1ô054           1,054
Labcr (Hired and Fenily)                                -         -        -          815    1,454    2,430    3,294    3,862    4,193    4,290    4,306    4,306             4,306
Animal Poer-                                            -         _        _          (35)      (30)     (27)      (27)      (14)      (9)       (11)     (17)      (17)        (17)
Minerals, Material, Health; Li-eutock                   -         -        -          121      358       510       655       750       754      746       738       738         738
Sugar beet Pulp; livestock                              -        -         -         496       687    1.183    1,771    ,71    1,946    2,006    2,067    2,067               2,067
Total                                                 -        -         -       4,682    8,426   13,134   17,564   19,521   20,64i   20,865   20,921   20,921             20,921
Net Incre,aental Value of Production                      -         -         -       9,001   13,984   24,867   34,295   44,229   51,190   56,846   62,258   64_173            64_493
Farn InveabyFants (.b Farners3
Cowsheds                                                -         -        -        2,590    1,000    1,190    1,190         -
Imported Cuva                                           -        -         -       2,350    4,435    2,450    2,690    1,615
Faru Equipuent                                          -         -        -          590       815      500       540       270
Total                                                 -         -                5,530    6,260    4,140    4,420    1,885           -        -         -         -           -
levetabent and Reulaea1 ent3 LO,600   36,100   62,000    60,500   52,600   30,400                                    -         -
Operation aud Maintenance.                               -         -       1,600      3,900    5,500    7,100    7,100    7,100    7,100    7,100    7,100    7,10J             7,100
Power Costa                                               -         -         -       1,800    2,800    4,000    3,100    5,400    S,50)    5,500    5,500    5,500              5,500
Agir ultural (Management. Entemaico, Subsidien)               -              -        W20    2,100    2,800    3,500    3,500    3,50)    3,500    3.500    3.500              3,500
INC8EHENTAL  POLOCONOM1C bENEFIT -t                  (Iç,.600) ( 100)  (63600)  (64,249) Q5_276)  ;3.573)  14.175   26.344   35,090   40,746   46.158   48_0                    48.393
Ll Replacemeot equal te DH 17,200,000 in yeara 1992, 2004, and 2016; DH 28,000,000 in 1995; and DH 43,500,000 in year 2010
Dece-ber 1976



ANNEX 19
Table 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Value of Production Net of Farm Inputs
Percentage
Excess of
In Financial                                                            Financial
Prices at             In Financial             In Economic           Return (Col. 2)
Present Water      Prices at Proposed       Prices at Proposed        Over Economic
Crop                 Charge              Water Charge             Water Charge          Return (Col. 3)
(1)                   (2)                       (3)                   (4)
DH/ha    Rank       DH/ha       Rank          DH/ha    Rank                (M)
Soft Wheat        1,525       9        1,375         8          1,285       6                  7
Summer Maize      1,410      il          995        il            205      il                385
Sugar Beet        3,900       2        3,545         2          5,840       1                -39
Green Peas        1,905       6        1,750         4          1,905       4                 -8
Turnips           1,695       7        1,540         6          1,400       5                 10
Spring Maize      1,685       8        1,335         9            400      10                235
Cotton            2,500       3        1,950         3          1,140       8                 71
Melon             2,200       4        1,710         5          1,940        3               -12
Tomatoes          6,350       1        5,955         1          5,230       2                 14
Soy Beans         1,930       5        1,440         7          1,160       7                 24
Rapeseed          1,420      10        1,215        10          1,075       9                 13
December 1976



ANNEX 19
Table 3
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farmers Income
Net Cash Income (After Taxes, Charges, Depreciation)
With Project               Without Project
Farm    Off-farm            Farm    Off-farm
Farm Model     No. of Farms           Income  Employment-/        Income  Employment
(ha)                               (---------------- US$/Family) ---------------
1.6            1,450              1,005        545               345         50
4.0            1,250              2,460        185               820         -
8.0               500             4,220         -              1,610         -
12.0               140              5,695        -              2,335         -
24.0               150              8,490        -              4,150         -
Poverty Family Income Level (1976)/2                     1,140
Average GNP per Family (1975)/2                /3        2,745
Projected Family Poverty Income Level (1989)'3           1,385
Projected Average GNP per Family (1989)/3                4,300
/1 Off-farm employment is shown in Annex 18.
/2 Assuming 5.8 family members.
/3  Assuming population growth of 2.9% p.a., 1.7% p.a. in the rural sector;
GNP growth at 6.4% p.a., 3.2% p.a. in agriculture.
December 1976.



ANNEX 19
Table 4
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA II IRRIGATION
Equivalence Between Economic Costs of Investment
and Total Project Cost
(DH Million)
Grand Total Investment Cost                                513.0
1.  Less Price Contingencies                              (153.1)
2.  Less Classified Roads                                  (19.5)
3.  Less Village Infrastructure                             (6.4)
4.  Less Agricultural Credit                               (14.3)
5.  Less Physical Contingencies on
2, 3 and 4 above                                      (4.0)
Equals                                          315.7
6. Less Taxes plus subsidies included
in the above                                         (63.1)
Equals                                          252.6
7.  Plus Investments by Farmers (Annex 5
Table 4)                22.4
8. Minus taxes plus subsidies on
Farm Investments                                      (0.2)
Economic Cost of Investment                               274.8
Economic Cost of Investment shown in
Annex 19 , Table 1                                       274.4
Rounding Error                                             (0.4)
April 1977



ANNEX 20
K180DM OP liOIIOCCO
DODXdALA  Il IRIaIATION PR0JlCT
ite0                                     Jan."ry    Febry    Ma-h            April           V      J0e.       J,IY      Aagoat    Sept00ber    Octobr    No-ber    D-,sb.r                Total
W1T1 PROjECI
W.rkina DlYe Reaulred Per Fat.
1.6 [aFar                                  t°            9          13          9         19         28         14         17            9           17           12           12           169
4 ha Fts                                   Z3           20          29         23         4S         74         38         40          25            50           36           34          440
l ha Fao                                   40           40          55         47         88        138         61         63          40            74           64           69           779
12 h. F7.a                                 61           58          81         68        129        270        100        104          62           126           96          101        1,256
24 ha Fs.-                                112           99         141        119        207        350        185        208         113           233          149          170         2,086
P_ilV of 5.8 Per.oaS                        40           40          40         40         50         55          55        S0           50           50           40           40           550
Wotklcz lIai. Avauîahîe Per Patta
for Off-Fa.M E.Plot.yeot
Fr00 1.6 ha Fat.                           30           31          27         31         31         27         41         33          41            33           28           28           381
Fro  4 ha Fan-                             17           20          il          17          -          -          -         10         25             -            4             6          110
Total Availabl. W.rkiaa Dyas for
Off-Fat. Ecaloyent                      64,750       69,950      52,900    66,200    44,950    39,150    59,450    60,350           90,700        47,850       45,600       48,100      689,950
Hired \SotkiR DYava R.e.ired per F ar
Fr    a ha Fat.                             -             -          15          7         38        83           6         13           -           14           24           29           229
Fr- 12 ha Fat                              21           18          41         28         79        155         45         54          12            76           56           61          646
Fr00 24 ha Faim                            72           59         101         79        157        295        130        158          63           183          109          130        1,536
Tlotal Uired W,srltio laya Itopolt-d Os
tise Proiect Area                       13,740       11,370      28,390    19,270    53,610   107.450    28,800    37,760           11,130       45,090        36,190       42,540      435,340
Hired Workino Dlas Fr00 the
Proi-et Area                            13,740       11.370      28,390    19,270    44.950    39,150    28,800    37,760           11,130       45,090        36,190       42,540      358,360
Hiread  orkin- Daya Fr00 Oat.ide
the Pro-JCt Ar.a                             -            -            -          -     8,660    68,300           -           -           -            _            _                    76,960
W-okis Dlaya Solry for Hired
Labor (Dll/dy)-                                                                                                                                                                         Average
Man                                       6.5          6.5         6.5        6.5          10        le           8          8           8            8            8          6.5           7.7
Sotoas                                   .50           5.0         5.0        5.0          6          6          6          6            6            6            6          5.0          1.6
sal_ies Paid for (lb)
A 8 ha Fat.                                 -            -          87         44        260        667         36         88            -          144          172          166       1l654
A 12 ha Fra-                              114          102         242        179        625      1,240        284        380          92           456          405          496        4,615
A 24 ha Fat-                              450          370         625        485      1,342      2,360        928      1,203         495        1,298           834          b00       11,192
WITHOUT PROJECT
W.r,iks  Days pet Fars
1. 6 h  Fat-                                3            3           4          4          6         10          3           6           3            3           12             5           62
4 ha r-                                     7             7          10        10          15        25           7         14           7            7           28            il          148
i ha Far                                   13           13          19         19         29         49         13         27          13            13           5S           21          284
12 hba7 Ya                                 20           20          29         29         44         74         20         41          20            20           83           32          432
24 ha  t.-                                 39           39          57         57         87        147         39         81          39            39          165           63           852
Hired ta-bor Oeooited
12 ha t F-                                               .           -          .          .          .          .                       .            .           33            .            33
24 ha.Fos                                   -            -          17         17         37         92          -         31            -            _          125           23          342
"otal Hired Workig  DaYa Paqair±ed
io thse Proie,t Àroa                         -            _       2,550      2,550      5,55e    13,800            _     4,650            -            _       23,370        3,450        55,920
Dea-.mbre 1976



KINGDOM OF N OROCCO
DOUKKALA Il IRRIGATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF MARA
(Ministere de l'Agriculture et de la Reforme Agraire)
COORDINATION AND TECHNICAL|
STE| CABINET  _   <COOPERATION DIVISION
|     PLANNING DIVISION
ECONOMICAL DIVISION
FRAUD CONTROIL
DIVISJON                                             SECRETARY GENlERAL                               A-
_                          g  ~~~~~~~~~ADMINISTRATIVE DIVISION
DEVELOPMENT                             ~~~~~~~~~~AGRICUJLTURAL    ARCTURAI                                               LAND REGISTRATION           FORESTRY AND SOIL
DIDEVELCOPMENT                                        E                         R         COAND TOPOGRAPHY                                                          CONSERVATION
DIRECTORATE    l    1      DIRECTORATE                DIRECTORATE                                           DIRECORAT                  DIRECTORATEDIRECTORATE
DMV(EA                                                                          DIRECTORATE (DRA)                                       DIRECTORATEDRETAE
ADRICULTURAL                                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FOR EST
AGRICULTURAL                  DESIGN                    SCHOOLING               RESEARCH AND                ANIMAL PRODUCTION           LAND REGISTRATION              EXPLOITATION
PRODUCTION                    DIVISION                  DIVISION                EXPERIM DIVDIVISION         DIVISION                    DIVISION                       DIVISION
EXTENSION AND| HYDRAULICS AND                          INSPECTION AND            SEED CERTIFICATION           ANIMAL HEALTH                 KADASTER                  NATIONAL
COOPERATIVES             LAND CONSOLIDATION            COORDINATION              PLANT PROTEC3 ION            DIVISION                       DIVISION                 FOREST DIVISION
DIVISION                 DIVISION                      DIVISION                  DIVISION
SOIL PROTECTION AND
AGRARIAN REFORM           RURAL DEVELOPMENT                                          INFORMATION                 STUD FARMS                    MAPPING               REAFFOROTATIONA
DIVISION                   [      DIVISION                                           DIVISION                    DIVISION                                            DIVISION
HU NTlNG, FISHERIES
INFORMATION              AND VVILDLIFE
SERVICE                  PROTECTION
DIVISION
FORESTRY RESEARCH
AND EXPERIMENTAL
DIVISION
W.,Id B-ok 16781



KINGOOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA Il IRRIGATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF ORMVAD
SERVICES                                                                                                                                           GRARAL                   LIVESTOMA
CONS                          ATION               MAINTENANCE                GENERAL                  PLANNING                PRODUCTION
SERVC                     SERVICE                 SERVICE                    SERV ICE                 SERVICESEVC
CONSOLIDATION  E         l AND PLANT        l       l                l                                l                 l~~~~ 1  1 
B   AGRARNAN                  ANIMAL
OEEOMNT              OR~AEPOKHPPERSONNEL                                                       PROGRAMMFOMINOUCIO
ANO MACHINE       CONTROLLER                 BUDGET                ETNION AND                    NIA
1  INTERVENTION
FIELD            _SIDI                      SID BENNOUR              SIDI BENNOUR  SIDI SMAIL                                                    SIDI BENNOUR +            SIDI BENNOUR
SUBSIVISIONS        BENNOUR                   G F                                                                                                StDI SMAIL                FAREGH
ZEMAMRA                  BG SIDI SMAIL           FAREGH                                                                      CMV 300, 331. 333         SIOI SMAIL
BG SIDI BENNOUR         ZEMAMR                                                                      334 334 336 335           ARLA  GANE
ZEMAMRA                                                                                              FAREGH
BG TNNEMMRHRA                                                                                       CMV 310, 311, 312. 313
BG TNINE RHARBIA                                                                                     ZEMAMRA
BG ZEMAMRAZEAR
324, + 4 NEWY CMV'S
IN TNINE RHARBIA
Wo,Id Bank-16782



KINGDOM OF MORROCCO
DOUKKALA Il IRRIGATION PROJECT
"Trame B" Irrigation Layout il
_~ e -
1 5  ~-Trir
14      Tertiary                               Hydrant
13      Conduit                                with two
12                                             Outlets
\25 Flyng LineGated
18 s 18         10    Hydrant
o               Sprinkler       9
N~~~~~~~~~
tN              Pattern         7
6
Quarternary     5v"- F'ositions of
Pipe or Field   4      Flying Line
Ditch           3
2                         Open Drainr
o    Windbreak       /        /     ////
I                     //ANET>///                               t
:t                                                     g                    I
-o ~~~wz
e                                                                     4~~~~~~~~- 
o                     F-                   <
'c                    /     /
20             443                  144         118       144        lia        144         W13
623        8
-For 4 vear rotation. Dimensio,ns in metrer
World Bank - 16783






-        -         3      'r~           \ ThEIJ 7dSf     -  -To.l-d-7=                                                                                            IBRD  12561R
2 - -t - -  D     U N E                        -        '    ~-`-- ½ r=r _-3 -&À . z , -=~~; -/ ~  __                                       KINGDOM OF MOROCCO                     MARCH 1977
Et                                                                                            p ,  '," ,_,--  - // >'-  7-- C'<St jX   'R - DOUKKALA l IRRIGATION PROJECT
rOulad S:lem y ) i > ] * = - -2S; '                                                                       -                                                                                                    s 94 _ / _ i _< ;$t  DoukkcIala 2 Irrigation Prolect
d 15 g_/ {*323 _ * 0 , » ; g-u ~ J                                                                                                                                                                          Doukkkala 2 sector boundaries
V23  ~      ~       ~       g                                             -                                  G<J--.~Doukkala t Irrigatiorn Prnject
el a li irl>q aDaya Enoùsara-,  't  r                                                                                                                                         r ébQ 5a;5 t <:< > __ 7 t <  - - - Doikkala t sector boundaries
4  On'srs&ro                                                                                                               Existing     gravi ly  irrigoted    areas
,<t        j        .-.                  -      -                    Qnrr[ SidiSmllSdtson-                   ,     r                               U-                   ;_             R i e
*Existing sprinkler rrigated areas
Future high service  creas
r W               i,-11        (            \;                                                                                                                                                 "   e ~ -~ _ , ,<  //. . ^- ' \> Ivo eA   aSbivision headquarters
- M  n cainal
*3Io                ''~....   Tunnels
i  At = ;iu    i i-tdé  Ovled Fo/,                                                                                                                    Feeder canails
ia"W                                                                                                                                                           -----Moin drains
C     i'                                                                                      ,r/                ----'1;n~-- Proposed high service cainal
d~~~~4pn                 <a ~~~~P,oject pomping staitiore
Cx   on             - \.        A              -~~~~~~~~~~ r,  C ~~~Doukkaili 1 pumpinq stations
33 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*Existinq purmping stations
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1/ ~~~ d iç, X« f Ç at 3Lvr 5 - 0< V I = 5 > > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~P r oaect                                                                   ro vds(nw
336                                                                                                              Q      ew CMSV
'- t             .V-C ---s---/v                                 ''r'Cuo   n                                                                                                                   '         *     Existing CMV's
v-r  >,z    k  -                                                                          * '        MO                                  *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  Existîrg suggar factury
- »~~~ -r    ~~   (  -"-'  --r'                              r' ~~~~~~ f>>   tan'bk Arbe desurnoe                                                     C>   Foture sugar tactory
5  r-.  r.                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c'  ontours in metero
>Sçi   jr  ~ ~ ~ ~ ..rt3-.-,>                ~      ~     t          ir'~~.,.r,-.r'-,Pt~~tr"2Bs'                         ::roDya (Karst depressioni
/7~'2'4'-r   -'-QI~1v~  ~       SEPrCoC-ANIAL                         r~U                                                                         Prîmury rouads
Secondary roads
OC 'Tertiory ronds
S.Project rouas Cnew>
r                                                                                          r                 //0               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Project ruonsd (ta be improued)
~~r.  ~~~~             - ~Prouincia  boundairies
______                                                                                                  MI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1ES






Casablan-a                                                                                                      KINGDOM  OF MOROCCO
A T  A ,;S N    C., R'' 'DOUKKALA Il IRRIGATION PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT OF THE OUM ER R' BIA BASIN
81zemmaur Joddo,0'X--e                                                                                                                        Existing irriga ronaeas
Doukkala I ond 1 areas
O3  C  T  A  N            ~ f         3C<sEMAA(HOU                                                                                                                           -   Future extensions
333'                                                                                                                                                                                 Existing dams
A,         DOAOURAT           0Settat                                                             Kherai                                  D    Potential dam sites             332
/~'z,  'l SFAREGH                                             nO    Z                  I                                                 Hydro power plants
-~~~~~~~~~\Y ~~~~~~~~~~~MIzDIFANEr
SIDI SMAIL                             ~~~~~~~~~Khour,bg.0  O
Tunnel
//  <ç)  »    \  vrrÀ =éb 4BOULAOUANE                                                                           ,     
»  o                           BO~~~~~~~~~,,3M-(UTAUN                                                                                                        Maiin irrigaition canals
X ZEMAMRA                                   MFU
SD ZEMAgé * ``;F1IM-FOUT rP                                                 BENI AMIR          -RECHKA EL OUED                                     -   Rinero
/        t'8 ~~ENNOUR    >.                                                   -\ /    fASBA                  4      
(fN/NE RHARBIA                                               AL =A=IR                         Z-DANIA--KasboTodlo
> 8*++' -` 5'; D~~~OUKKALA                            liunderconsîract,onl  <..
HIGH SERVICE                 ,s0    2 0O  30  40  5,0  60  70  80
-                                                                                                                             E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILOMETERS
LOWER    J           ~        '"   Q '    B-r, Mello1                                            9      10    20    30    40    5o
sot,                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TESSAOUT                                   6'MILES
(                                                                                       /\ B    ENI MOUSSA X9<  
32'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
9i l 4 - 5 >< `-J <We oaRb g l ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g-o<32'
r'       JEUPPER     o
TESSAOUJTAI
"      CHOUARIT
HAOUZ -          _    ,                                        [ v                                                                                          i
iMLALLA TAKESKOUSTnr
I                                      7                                      ,'                                    6°                                    ,S'                                              'O



