Document of
The WoirR 1Baink
FO1R GD1 FICll(AL JUSE ONVLY
iRepore No.P-1994-MOR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR THE
DOUKKALA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
April 12, 1977
This dciume¢m bn  s  mtdic deisbinlsnbm  Dntd ny be uMsd by reciplemes only Ai the perfornmee of
tlelr omlebd luties. am contenb mmay not oagenoe be dIscIoed without WorDd Banu aughorDzzion.



Currency Equivalents
US$1.00  =  DH 4.4
DH 1.00  = US$0.227
ABBREVIATIONS
CMV       Centre de Mise en Valeur (Development Center of MARA)
CNCA      Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (National Agricultural Credit Bank)
CLCA      Caisse Locale de Credit Agricole (local branch of CNCA)
CRCA      Caisse Regionale de Credit Agricole (Regional branch of CNCA)
MARA      Ministere de l'Agriculture et de la Reforme Agraire (Ministry
of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform)
OCE       Office de Commercialisation et d'Exportation (Fruit and
Vegetable Export Agency)
ONE       Office National de l'Electricite (National Power Authority)
ONICL     Office National Interprofessionnel des Cereales et Legumineuses
(Cereals and Pulses Trade Office)
ORMVA     Office Regional de Mise en Valeur Agricole (Regional Irrigated
Land Development Agency)
ORMVAD    ORMVA des Doukkala
SODEA     Societe pour le Developpement Agricole (State Agricultural Company)
SOGETA    Societe pour la Gestion des Terres Agricoles (State Agricultural
Company)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR THE DOUKKALA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Kingdom of Morocco, for the equivalent of US$41 million to help finance
the Doukkala II Irrigation Project. The loan would have a term of 30 years
including 6-1/2 years of grace (see para 50) with interest at 8.20 percent per
annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects of
Morocco" (1021-MOR, dated January 26, 1976) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on February 13, 1976. An updating economic mission visited Morocco
in June 1976, and the following is based on this mission's findings.
3.        During the 1968-72 Plan, Morocco succeeded in accelerating the
growth of its economy and in improving the situation of its external payments.
Aided substantially by good crops following favorable weather in three years
out of five, real GDP growth averaged 5.6 percent per annum during the five-
year period. Reflecting the sustained rise in exports during the Plan period
and a slower growth of imports in 1971 and 1972, the balance of payments showed
a surplus from 1969 onward. These results represented a definite improvement
over those of the preceding decade, during which the rate of real GDP growth
had barely exceeded that of population growth, and the balance of payments
had been a source of constant concern. These achievements were accompanied
by an increase in private consumption averaging about 2 percent per capita
in real terms during the five-year period.
4.        From 1967 to 1970, the main growth determinants had been exports,
tourism and investment, all of which rose substantially; in addition sizeable
stocks were accumulated following the exceptionally good harvest in 1968.
By contrast, in 1971-72, exports and tourism together with current govern-
ment spending were the major factors to sustain economic growth. During
the last two years of the Plan, the investment of public and semi-public
enterprises declined, largely because the state-owned phosphate company
(OCP) had completed its expansion program. Government investment stagnated
after 1968. Private investors adopted a wait-and-see attitude in the face
of political developments in 1971 and 1972 and in the expectation of new
measures to encourage investment and exports. At the end of the 1968-72
Plan period, there was therefore an urgent need to revive public and private
investment. Particularly in the public sector, absorptive capacity needed
to be increased by appropriate changes in staffing and organization.
1/   This part has been slightly revised from President's Report No.
P-1980-MOR on a Loan to Cimenterie de l'Oriental for the CIOR Cement
Project, dated March 9, 1977.
This document hu a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
5.        Following a long period of very slow growth in private consumption,
social problems had to be tackled. Over the 1969-71 period, there had been
a slow but perceptible decline in real per capita consumption for about one-
third of the rural population. Wealth and income differences between cities
and villages, among regions, and between rich and poor tended to widen.      Un-
employment remained high, in 1971 averaging 9 percent of the country's labor
force, and ranging between 12 and 16 percent in large urban centers.
6.        Recognizing these difficulties and problems, the Government began
in 1971 to revise its development policies, paying increasing attention to
social objectives. The changed orientations were reflected in the 1973-77
Plan which aims at (1) GDP growth of 7.5 percent per annum in real terms from
1973 to 1977, mainly through a sharp increase in public and private investment
and a strategy geared strongly toward increasing exports; and (2) an improve-
ment in the distribution of growth benefits among the different social groups
and the various regions, in order to achieve greater equity and at the same
time increase domestic demand. This improvement was to be brought about
through a modest program of distributing color lands to poor farmers, more
emphasis on the development of rainfed agriculture, "Moroccanization" of some
industrial and commercial enterprises, a price and wage policy designed to
enable the poorest segments of the population to satisfy their essential
needs, an ambitious program of low-cost housing, various measures to improve
the lot of the rural poor, and increased emphasis on the development of
poorest regions.
7.        In 1974 and 1975, Morocco benefitted from a large increase in the
average export price of phosphate, its main export product, which provided
substantial additional resources compared to the Plan's expectation. The
Government decided to step up investment spending for the years 1975-77,
and the allocations for investment by the public and semi-public sectors
were increased substantially in the 1975 and 1976 Budget Laws. Part of the
additional allocations were to cover investment cost increases, and a larger
part to launch expanded or new investment programs.
Recent Economic Performance
8.        During the first three years of the 1973-77 Plan period, Morocco's
overall economic performance improved substantially as compared to the past.
Gross fixed investment rose sharply and reached 24 percent of GDP in 1975 or
twice the 1972 level; investments in the public and semi-public sectors con-
tributed strongly to this increase and there was also a good response on the
part of private investors to the new incentives introduced in 1973. Indus-
trial growth accelerated to an average annual rate of 11.5 percent for the
first three years of the Plan compared to 6 percent in 1968-72, in large
part because of the vigorous expansion of construction in response to rising
investment demand. At the same time, increased emphasis was put on achieving
the social objectives of the 1973-77 Plan with the implementation of an
accelerated low-cost housing program, expanded investments in social sectors
in small cities, and a program of small-scale investments in disfavored
regions. In the face of import price rises, especially for wheat, sugar and



- 3 -
edible oil, the Government also raised significantly price subsidies for these
essential foodstuffs and adjusted upward legal minimum wages in agriculture
and industry with a view to protecting the purchasing power of low-income
groups.
9.        Some weaknesses appeared, however, during this period.    After the
five-fold increase in phosphate exports receipts between 1973 and 1974, which
had led the Government to revise upward the Plan's allocations for 1975-77,
expectations of further increases in financial resources did not materialize
in 1975. Due to weakening external demand, phosphate exports decreased to
13.1 million tons, from 18.7 million tons in 1974, and prices began to drop
sharply in the second half of 1975, restraining correspondingly the country's
real capacity to save and to import. Unfavorable weather resulted in poor
crops in 1973 and in 1975 and to meet domestic demand, food imports were
increased substantially. In constant prices, value added by the mining and
agricultural sectors returned in 1975 to levels slightly below those of 1972
despite the fast growth of other industry and services and this held back real
GDP growth to about 4 percent per year in 1973-75. As a result largely of
the disappointing performance of phosphate exports in 1975, Morocco's internal
and external finances came under pressure. The Treasury's accounts showed
in 1975 an overall deficit twice the 1974 level due mainly to sharply rising
capital spending and insufficient growth in budgetary savings. This contri-
buted to inflationary pressure domestically; the cost of living index rose
by nearly 8 percent in 1975. The current account of the balance of payments,
which had shown a surplus of $105 million in 1973 and $237 million in 1974,
registered a deficit of $546 million in 1975.
10.       In 1976, GDP growth accelerated to 10 percent, thanks partly to a
good cereal harvest (48 percent larger than the previous year's) and a gradual
recovery of phosphate sales abroad, and partly to the continued growth momentum
in manufacturing, construction and services. The expansionary investment
policies of 1973-75 have continued, and the 1976 Budget Law raised further the
allocations for investments in the public and semi-public sectors. Several
measures were, however, taken to curb the growth of consumption demand, in-
cluding some restraint in current budgetary spending, the successful placement
last summer of a DH 1 billion ($230 million) bond issue among the Moroccan
public, and the introduction of credit restraints. These measures were in-
troduced under a financial program which Morocco adopted in February 1976 in
support of purchases from the International Monetary Fund with first credit
tranche and under the 1975 oil facility. Nevertheless, for the full year,
imports are expected to register another sizeable increase, not matched by
the recovery of export receipts, and the balance of payments current account
registered a deficit estimated at $1.1 billion compared to $0.5 billion in
1975. There was however little change in the country's net foreign assets,
as the deficit was covered by large. increases in worker's remittances from
abroad, and in net external capital inflows. Regarding the latter, Morocco
has drawn on IMF facilities for a total amount of SDR 115 million in early
1976, and it has considerably stepped up borrowings from Arab and commercial
sources (see Annex 1, page 4). An important factor in economic and financial
developments in 1976 was Morocco's commitments and defense expenditures in the



- 4 -
Sahara province and their impact on Government expenditures, imports and
external capital inflows. While detailed information is lacking, it appears
that substantially higher Government spending on imports for military purposes
were nearly offset by increased grant inflows from external sources.
11.       For 1977, the Government intends to further curb the trends in con-
sumption demand, particularly for imported consumer goods, and restrain sig-
nificantly investment in the public and semi-public sectors, in order to keep
developments in the internal and external financial situation under firm
control. Measures to this effect have been taken. While 1977 would be a year
of retrenchment by comparison with policies during the first four years of the
1973-77 Plan, the overall performance of the economy would be satisfactory for
the Plan period as a whole. Staff estimates show that a rapid growth (between
16 and 17 percent a year) of investment would have been achieved, exceeding
the original Plan targets for 1973-77. They also show relatively good gains
in GDP (about 6 percent a year) and consumption (close to 3 percent a year per
capita), despite the rather disappointing developments in real terms for the
phosphate and agricultural sectors. Finally, national savings would have fi-
nanced a larger share of 1973-77 investments than anticipated originally. A
detailed performance review of the economy during 1973-77 will be undertaken
by the Bank late next fiscal year, in conjunction with an assessment of
Morocco's next five-year Plan (1978-82).
Development Prospects
12.       The Plan revisions that were introduced on the occasion of the 1975
and 1976 Budget Laws, have maintained or strengthened the investment programs
designed to achieve the original economic and social objectives of the 1973-77
Plan. They have, in addition, greatly increased allocations for regional
development, for low-cost housing, and especially for the launching of three
industrial investment programs to be implemented over the next decade. These
programs are a one-million ton steel mill and related infrastructure at Nador,
a series of sugar mills and related irrigation development and several chemical
and petrochemical export units based partly on phosphate. Thus, the Plan
revisions will have an important spill-over effect on the next 1978-82 Plan.
13.       The general thrust of the Plan revisions seems justified.    Indeed,
the achievement of initial (especially social) Plan objectives is eminently
desirable. Similarly, Morocco's economy has developed to a stage where the
establishment of some basic industries may find a justified place. The coun-
try in particular possesses an obvious comparative advantage in the processing
of phosphates, which would tend to stabilize export earnings. Similarly, it
can produce at competitive cost sugar and steel which would otherwise have to
be imported. However, the Plan revisions raise several issues of importance
for Morocco's long-term development strategy and prospects.
14.       The investment level is now very close to the country's absorptive
capacity, following the noted increases in 1973-76. Although training efforts
have been stepped up, it is likely that shortages of skilled and experienced



- 5 -
manpower will continue to be a problem for some years to come. While for
large industrial and infrastructure projects, Morocco can use foreign services
extensively, this is costly and would not be a suitable solution to meeting
the needs of smaller investments in large numbers. Further investments in
steel and chemical industries will generate comparatively little employment
opportunities for unskilled workers.
15.       In addition, financial constraints may in future again restrain
Morocco's overall development efforts. While there is scope for increasing
the volume of phosphate exports in the medium term, prospects are that the
real price of phosphate will remain at best stable. Since phosphate export
receipts are a major factor for Morocco's real capacity to save and import,
such capacity would be restrained. Taking into account the objective and
policies to improve consumption levels of low-income groups, national savings
may be expected to be restrained on this account also. In spite of likely
efforts to increase budgetary savings and import substitution (particularly
food), foreign exchange and national savings are likely to be constraints
on investment during the next Plan period.
16.       For the 1978-82 Plan period, absorptive capacity and especially
resource availability therefore call for caution. Staff projections which are
preliminary since the Government has not yet fixed the 1978-82 Plan's objec-
tives and strategy indicate that gross fixed investment could only grow
slowly in view of these constraints. Given the planned move into heavy
industries, investment possibilities in other sectors would by necessity be
limited. Assuming a real investment growth rate of about 3 percent per year
and export growth of about 8 percent, which seems feasible in view of market
prospects and export capacity, a GDP growth rate averaging about 6.1 percent
yearly during the 1978-82 period would be likely. Despite implementation of
policies to restrain consumer goods imports and likely import substitution,
Morocco would experience a sizeable resource gap, and need relatively large
inflows of external capital to cover it and to service accumulated debt.
External borrowing requirements on a commitment basis are tentatively pro-
jected to average $900 million per year in 1978-82, about two-thirds of which
would be met by official multilateral and bilateral sources and the rest by
commercial sources. Morocco has successfully increased external borrowings in
1974-76; loan commitments have risen to $550 million in 1974, $860 million in
1975 and $1.8 billion in 1976. Morocco should, therefore, be able to mobilize
the amounts projected for 1978-82.
17.       External debt and debt service would increase as a result of pro-
jected borrowings. Debt outstanding and disbursed, which was $1.1 billion at
the end of 1974 and an estimated $1.5 billion (19 percent of GDP) at the end
of 1975, would rise to a projected $5.0 billion (or 24 percent of GDP) by the
end of 1982. Similarly, debt service payments would rise from the low 8.3
percent of exports in 1975 to a maximum of about 18 percent in 1982. Adding
workers' remittances to exports, the debt service ratio was less than 7 per-
cent in 1975 and would rise to 15 percent in 1982. These projected levels
for debt and debt service would be high, but still within Morocco's debt
carrying capacity, especially when considering the country's improved eco-
nomic and social policies and its long-term export prospects, not only in



- 6 -
phosphate rock and related products, but also in agricultural and industrial
commodities for the European market. Beyond 1982, the relative burden of debt
would probably tend to decline gradually as the economy's external resource
gap would tend to diminish. Therefore Morocco is considered creditworthy for
Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOROCCO
18.       Bank and IDA lending to Morocco has supported 30 projects, financing
a total of $749.5 million (net of cancellations) including a $45 million loan
for a cement project approved by the Executive Directors on March 22, 1977 but
not yet signed; of this total $534.5 million has been lent since the beginning
of FY73. IDA credits, totalling $50.0 million, have been made available for
five projects. A Third Window loan for $25 million for the third education
project was approved in March 1976. IFC investments have amounted to $4.2
million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and
IFC investments as of February 28, 1977, and notes on the execution of ongoing
IBRD/IDA projects. In some cases, delays have been caused by management or
procurement difficulties, and in 1974 cost overruns increased due to the
upsurge in investment activity in Morocco and the acceleration of inflation.
However, performance in project execution has considerably improved during
the last two years.
19.       Past Bank Group lending has been concentrated in the industrial and
agricultural sectors, which together have accounted for 63 percent of total
net commitments; the balance is accounted for by utilities (17 percent),
tourism (9 percent), roads (6 percent) and education (5 percent). Apart from
the transfer of resources to Morocco (Bank Group gross disbursements amounted
to 5.5 percent of total fixed investment in 1970-74), the main objectives of
lending were to foster and strengthen development institutions, provide tech-
nical assistance, particularly for project preparation, and increase produc-
tive capacity, particularly in order to improve the balance of payments.
20.       While these objectives remain, emphasis is also being given to
supporting the Government's development effort in income distribution.    An
increasing share of Bank Group lending will be devoted to projects directly
or indirectly developing the productive capacity of the lowest urban and rural
income groups.
21.       Past lending for agriculture has supported irrigation development,
credit and, through a first operation in FY75, the improvement of the produc-
tivity of rainfed farming. While continued lending for irrigation is envisaged,
greater emphasis will be given to supporting the improvement of rainfed farm-
ing, and lending will in general be focussed on support to small farmers.    A
third agricultural project was recently approved. Projects for livestock/
rural development in the rainfed zones in northern Morocco, for developing
production of fruits and vegetables on small holdings and for promoting in-
tegrated rural development in selected regions of Morocco are being prepared.



22.       Projects in industry and tourism have as key objectives increased
foreign exchange earnings or savings and the improvement of sectoral policies.
Continued lending for industry and tourism through two DFC's (Banque Nationale
pour le Developpement Economique-BNDE and Credit Immobilier et Hotelier-CIH)
will be proposed. A project for the construction of a large cement plant in
the less developed Northeast was recently approved. Proposals for industrial
lending, including one for a steel mill in northeast Morocco, are under con-
sideration.
23.       An urban development project is being prepared, which should contri-
bute to devising means for solving the problem of rapid growth of slum areas.
A substantial social services component and an employment generation program
are envisaged.
24.       Education is a critical bottleneck in Morocco's development.    Two
IDA credits have been made to develop secondary education and teacher training
and to improve technical and vocational training, while a loan for a third
project, emphasized on improving facilities in rural areas. A fourth project
with emphasis on technical and vocational training is under preparation.
25.       Loan commitments from multilateral and bilateral official sources to
Morocco rose from $92 million in 1973 to $425 million in 1974 and $538 million
in 1975. In addition Morocco received grants totalling $40 million in 1973
and $42 million in 1974. The major sources of aid were France, Saudi Arabia,
the UAE, the U.S., Germany and the Bank Group. At the end of 1976, the Bank
Group's share in Morocco's outstanding and disbursed external public debt was
estimated at 13 percent. The share of the Bank Group in debt service was 20
percent in 1975 and an estimated 13 percent in 1976. By 1982 the Bank Group's
shares in debt outstanding and in debt service are expected to be about 17
percent and 11 percent respectively, on the basis of the assumptions made for
total external borrowings for the 1976-82 period (paragraph 17).
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
26.       Agriculture is the most important economic activity in Morocco.    An
average of six million ha are presently cultivated, of which about 750,000 ha
are perennially irrigated. Main agricultural products are cereals, pulses,
vegetables, citrus, sugarbeets, olives and oilseeds. About half of the labor
force is employed in agriculture and two thirds of the population live in
rural areas. Until the recent rise in phosphate prices, the sector contri-
buted about 25 percent of GDP and accounted for over quarter of total exports.
Poor performance of the agricultural sector in the decade after Independence
contributed to general economic stagnation, while in the years 1967-72 more
rapid growth of agriculture - partly because previous large investments in
the modern sector began to bear fruit - was accompanied by overall expansion.
Despite past development of irrigation, performance of the sector is very
sensitive to the substantial variations in annual rainfall which affect much



- 8 -
of the country. In 1972/3 and again in 1974/5, inadequate rainfall seriously
affected crop production and substantially reduced the country's overall
growth performance, despite rapid expansion in mining and manufacture; in
1975/6, good rainfall boosted agricultural production by 14 percent and con-
tributed to an overall GDP growth rate of over 10 percent in real terms.
27.       Since Independence, the Government's intervention in the agricultural
sector has focussed very heavily on the expansion of irrigated farming to
stabilize production and rapidly develop the country's potential. During the
Second Five-Year Plan (1968-72), 26 percent of total Government development
expenditure was devoted to dams and irrigated farming. Under the Third Five-
Year Plan (1973-77), this share is expected to account for about 14 percent.
While greater attention is being given to improvement of rainfed agriculture,
livestock production, training, improvement of the extension service, credit
to small farmers, research and marketing, the Government remains committed to
a large irrigation program which is justified by the rapid contribution
irrigation projects can make to increasing production, to reducing imports
(and subsidies) of basic commodities such as wheat and sugar, and to raising
and stabilizing farmers' income given the relative scarcity of cultivable land
in Morocco.
28.       In many parts of the country, the small size and fragmentation of
holdings and complex traditional tenure systems, frequently involving joint
ownership, have been major obstacles to improving agricultural productivity.
The Government has taken various measures to overcome these problems and to
encourage the adoption of modern cultivation methods, particularly on lands
with high production potential. First, under legislation introduced in 1962,
the Government has successfully started a program of land consolidation:
during the Second Five-Year Plan (1968-72) 80,000 farmers have benefited.
Secondly, the Government has acquired 610,000 ha of land, previously held by
foreigners, for distribution to the rural poor, both small farmers and land-
less. Under a law of 1966 (amended in December 1972) the Government is
distributing this and other state-owned land to Moroccan farmers meeting
competence, poverty, age and character criteria. Recipients are obliged to
renounce all other rights to land and to join a Government-sponsored coopera-
tive. By 1975 some 270,000 ha had been distributed and measures currently
being undertaken indicate that the Plan target to distribute 400,000 ha by end
1977 will be met. Thirdly, the Agricultural Investment Code enacted in 1969
gave powers to the Government to organize agricultural development in irrigated
areas. The Code provides for transformation of some tribal land into indi-
vidually held freehold plots, prevents excessive fragmentation of holdings,
and obliges farmers to follow an approved cropping pattern in exchange for
various subsidies.
29.       The legislation as a whole has been carefully designed to ensure
that changes in the tenure system, particularly the transfer of foreign-owned
farms to small Moroccan farmers, do not lead to declines in productivity.
Implementation, however, is complex and slow due to the limits of the Govern-
ment's administrative capacity. So far the land reform program has been con-
centrated in the irrigated areas and has touched only a very small proportion



- 9 -
of Morocco's farmers (about 2 percent). This proportion would only rise to
about 4 percent once the actual land distribution program is completed (see
para 28). Further land distribution offers only limited scope for improving
rural income distribution as the amount of land that could be redistributed
is relatively small: farms of more than 50 ha number 6,500 and represent
10 percent of arable land. On the other hand 960,000 farmers own farms
less than 5 ha and a further 650,000 families derive their primary source
of livelihood from the cultivation of some 870,000 ha of collectively owned
lands, representing 15 percent of all arable land. Despite the paucity of
reliable information it can be estimated that a substantial proportion of the
rural population is under the poverty level of about $195 per capita or $1,140
per family.
30.       Government activity in the agricultural sector in Morocco is the
primary responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
(MIARA). The Ministry's activities are concentrated in the central Director-
ates of Agricultural Development and of Equipment, in provincial services
which serve rainfed areas (SPs), and in largely autonomous regional devel-
opment offices (ORMVAs) for irrigated areas. There are also three public
institutions with country-wide responsibilities in the sector: the 1lational
Agricultural Credit Bank (CNCA), the Cereals and Pulses Trade Office (ONICL)
and the Export and Trade Company (OCE). Two state-owned companies are re-
sponsible for managing the land acquired by the Government from foreigners,
prior to its eventual distribution under the land reform program; the Farm
Development Corporation (SODEA), established in 1972, is primarily responsible
for managing plantations while the Agricultural Land Management Corporation
(SOGETA), established in 1973, is primarily responsible for managing annual
crop land acquired from foreign owners in March 1973.
31.       The execution of past agricultural projects has been satisfactory
on the whole. Land distribution and project management problems encountered
initially in the Sidi Slimane and Sebou I projects have been solved, while
progress is being made in addressing management problems with the Meknes and
Sebou II projects. Performance under the Doukkala I project is satisfactory,
now that adequate measures have been taken to catch up on delays in the laying
and testing of the large diameter pipe network (para 41). The OED report
dealing with the First Agricultural Credit Project in Morocco found a low eco-
nomic return to farm mechanization financed through the Project attributable
to the severe drought conditions prevailing during the disbursement period.
This issue was addressed in the "Appraisal of a Third Agricultural Credit
Project" (Report No. 1308-MOR) which cited acceptable returns to farm mecha-
nization and considerable strengthening of the management and operations of
the National Agricultural Credit Bank under the Second Agricultural Credit
Project.



- 10 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
32.       The Oum-er-Rbia is the largest river in Morocco and flows from
the Middle Atlas mountains near Khenifra in a westward arc to reach the sea
eighty kilometers south of Casablanca. The river and its tributaries have
long served as the source of irrigation waters for two separate and relatively
densely populated areas characterized by limited rainfall: the Tadla plain
near Beni Mellal, and the Doukkala region, south of El Jadida. Diversion
works constructed before Independence--at Bin-el-Ouidane on the El Abid and
at Kasba Tadla and Im Fout on the Oum-er-Rbia--permitted the development
of modern irrigation in both these areas (see Map 12791).
33.       In 1969, acting on a suggestion of the Bank, the Government commis-
sioned a Water Master Plan for the Oum-Er-Rbia basin, a preliminary version of
which was completed in 1971. By that time, however, the bases for the prepara-
tion of the Master Plan had been altered by Government decisions to reallocate
the waters of the main tributaries of the Oum-Er-Rbia for upstream use thereby
affecting water availability and to build a phosphate based chemical complex
near Safi, thereby greatly increasing downstream demands. The Water Master
Plan was revised to reflect these changes and discussed with an FAO/Bank
Cooperative Program mission which visited Morocco in 1974. The Water Master
Plan, which was completed in 1975, set out a three-phase program for the
development and use of water resources. The first phase called for the full
utilization of existing diversion structures which would permit completing
irrigation development in the Lower Doukkala and Tadla perimeters. The second
phase was based on the construction of a dam at Sidi Cheho to meet downstream
industrial and potable water demands and allow for future irrigation in the
Upper Doukkala. The third phase stage envisaged the building of a multipurpose
dam further upstream on the Oum-Er-Rbia at Dechra-El-Oued. Implementation of
the first phase commenced in 1976 with the decision to construct a first
extension of the Doukkala perimeter with financing by the Bank (Loan 1201-MOR)
and USAID and to rehabilitate the Beni Amir perimeters in the Tadla (with fi-
nancing by the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development); completion of
the first phase would be achieved through the proposed project (see para 34
below). The decision to construct the Sidi-Cheho-Al-Massira dam, which is
partly financed by a Bank loan (No. 1299-MOR), sets the stage for the second
phase development. A feasibility study for the dam at Dechra-El-Oued is being
financed under the Bank Loan for Doukkala I.
34.       The proposed project consists of a second extension of irrigation
in the lower part of the Doukkala perimeter located in the Province of El-
Jadida (see Map 12561R). It would complete the development of these perimeters
and also the first phase of Water Master Plan by fully utilizing waters from
existing diversion structures. In addition, optimal design of the proposed
project requires water from the Sidi-Cheho-Al-Massira dam to meet peak irriga-
tion demands during the summer months, which is the reason why development of
this extension was withheld until the construction of the dam was assured.



- 11 -
The proposed project was appraised by a Bank mission in October 1976. Nego-
tiations for the proposed loan were held in Washington in Mlarch 1977. The
Moroccan delegation was led by Mr. Oulad Chrif, Director of Construction, MARA.
The Appraisal Report No. 1431a of April 12, 1977 is being distributed separately.
A loan and project summary is attached as Annex III.
Project Description
35.       The purpose of the project is to provide for the most economical
development of irrigation in the main Oum-er-Rbia basin in order to increase
agricultural production a substantial share of which would benefit the poorest
members of the population. The project covers an area of 16,600 ha of land
presently cultivated under rainfed conditions. The project consists of:
-    enlargement of the main supply canal over 22 km, construction
of about 10 km of feeder canals and installation of automatic
flow regulators;
-    construction of six pumping stations with a total installed
capacity of 11,300 kW, each with an elevated equalizing
reservoir;
-    construction of 31 km of 60 kV and 62 km of 22 kV power
transmission lines and a substation for pumping stations;
-    land preparation and consolidation including farm roads,
windbreaks and drainage;
-    installation of 450 km of buried pipe distribution system
including hydrants, each serving about 16 ha, and associated
mobile sprinkler equipment;
-    construction of main drainage channels entailing about
300,000 m3 excavation;
-    construction of 108 km of roads and reinforcement of 64 km
of existing roads;
-    construction of buildings, provision of equipment for exten-
sion, operation, maintenance, artificial insemination, and
telecommunications between ORIVAD's El Jadida headquarters
and the project area;
-    construction of four milk collection centers;
-    provision of village infrastructure for five villages;
-    provision of farm inputs, credit and extension services;



- 12 -
strengthening of applied agricultural research activities;
and
-    provision of consulting engineering services for project
implementation.
36.       Full development of the project would be reached in 1989, seven years
after completion of physical construction. By that time, on an indicative
basis, incremental annual production under the project would be approximately:
212,000 tons of sugar beet, 17,000 tons of maize, 9,500 tons of vegetables,
2,500 tons of cotton and 1,500 tons of milk. Cotton would be exported after
local processing in existing facilities. The remaining production would be
consumed within Morocco, thereby reducing the country's need to import.
Existing marketing and processing facilities for these products exist except
for milk, for which additional collecting centers will be constructed under
the project, and sugar, for which an additional plant, not financed by the
Bank, is under construction and would be in operation by the end of 1979.
37.       All land in the project area is privately owned and is characterized
by a high degree of fragmentation. Most farmers are small-holders with present
per capita incomes averaging $165 which is below the poverty level of $195 and
well below the national average income of $470; 78 percent of farmers have
holdings of less than 5 ha.
38.       Within the area administered by ORMVAD, there are at present about
27,100 ha of irrigated land, most of it by gravity. The proposed project, as
the first one, would provide for sprinkler irrigation of rainfed lands, the
choice of irrigation system being determined by the soil characteristics and
undulating topography of the project area which does not lend itself to
gravity irrigation. In addition, experience with the sprinkler system within
the ORMVAD perimeters demonstrates that the adoption of this system permits
more rapid development, earlier returns and greater water economies.
39.       Relocation of part of the population will allow for more efficient
irrigation. To this end, the project would provide for the creation of five
village centers, each with public water supply, paved roads, public lighting
and a primary school. No difficulties are anticipated in inducing farmers who
already live in villages, to move into these new centers for which the communal
services would serve as an incentive. Housing at these centers would be con-
structed by farmers with their own means.
Project Execution
40.       Execution of the proposed project would be carried out under essen-
tially the same conditions as those agreed under the first project. The pri-
mary responsibility would fall to the Regional Agricultural Development Office
for the Doukkala (ORMVAD), which is responsible for the agricultural develop-
ment of 389,000 ha of land in the Province of El Jadida. ORMVAD is well
managed and adequately staffed. Telecommunications difficulties experienced
between ORMVAD's headquarters in El Jadida and the project area and telecom-
munication needs between field offices would be addressed by the project



- 13 -
(Section 4.04(b), draft Loan Agreement). A subdivisional office of ORMVAD was
created at Zemamra to coordinate construction of the first project. It would
exercise the same responsibility for the proposed project. The Design and
Construction Service of ORMVAD would be responsible for land consolidation and
for design and supervision of construction of the physical works (except
schools). The engineering consultants retained under the first project would
continue to assist the Design and Construction Service in carrying out its
tasks.
41.       Delays in the laying and testing of prestressed concrete pipes have
been experienced under the first project. The Government has taken a series
of measures to correct this situation, including requiring the pipe laying
contractor to triple the number of laying and testing crews. An interminis-
terial committee created to verify compliance with these measures has reported
that physical progress of works is sufficient to permit completion of this
project component within the contracted time frame. To avoid potential delays
in implementing the proposed project, the Government agreed to take measures
to ensure a sufficient supply of pipes for the proposed project.
42.       Maintenance and major repairs of the irrigation network would be
the responsibility of the Maintenance Service of ORMVAD which would continue
to receive funds for repairs and purchase of spare parts through Government
budgetary allocations.
43.       Extension services would be provided by ORMVAD which would create
four Development Centers (CMV's) under the authority of its extension sub-
division to form the basic channel for providing extension advice to farmers.
The CMV's would also be responsible for organizing water allocation to hy-
drants, and for recording consumption of water for billing purposes. Addi-
tional extension and other staff would be hired to meet the needs of the
project (Section 4.07, draft Loan Agreement). Each CMV would be headed by
an agriculturalist, and would be staffed by agricultural agents, who together
with subject matter specialists from the Agricultural and Livestock services
would provide day-to-day extension advice. In accordance with the 1969
Agricultural Investment Code, farmers would follow approved cropping patterns
in exchange for input subsidies. The CMVs would also act as stores for agri-
cultural inputs and would be responsible for minor repairs to the irrigation
network. Agricultural research activities would be intensified and an applied
research program to serve the project area would be jointly established by
ORMVAD and the regional office of the Agricultural Research Directorate of
MARA and carried out on an existing farm located in the Doukkala I project
area. The annual applied research programs would be submitted to the Bank.
44.       As required under Morocco's legislation, farmers would be required
to join service cooperatives which would receive assistance from the extension
services. Water users associations would be created to organize water alloca-
tion from hydrants. In addition, farmers would form groups to own, operate,
maintain and replace the mobile sprinkler units. Service cooperatives would
be established to permit the bulk purchase of inputs and bulk marketing, for



- 14 -
joint ownership of agricultural equipment, and to facilitate the provision of
extension advice and credit.
45.       Organizations other than ORMVAD would be involved in the project.
The Ministry of Education would supervise construction and maintenance of
primary schools. The National Power Authority (ONE) would construct and
maintain the power connection lines, and the Roads Directorate of the Ministry
of Public Works and Communications would supervise construction, reinforce-
ment and maintenance of classified roads. The Directorate of Animal Production
of the Ministry of Agriculture would advise ORMVAD in the implementation of
the crossbreeding program. Farmers' credit needs under the project would be
met by regional (CRCA) and local (CLCA) branches of the National Agricultural
Credit Bank (CNCA).
46.       Coordination between the agencies involved in project implementation
would be ensured by the Coordination Committee established under the first
project. This Committee, which is chaired by the Governor of the Province of
El Jadida and comprised of the regional representatives of all ministries and
agencies concerned in project implementation, meets a least once every three
months to approve quarterly progress reports, review past achievements and
determine future work programs for each of the agencies concerned. It has
been effective in coordinating the activities of the different agencies for
implementation of the first project. Quarterly progress reports monitoring
project implementation would similarly be prepared for the proposed project.
In addition ORMVAD would continuously monitor agricultural production in areas
benefitting from the project and would carry out in 1983 and 1988 sample farm
surveys to evaluate project benefits (Section 4.04(a), draft Loan Agreement).
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
47.       Cost estimates are shown in Annex III and are summarized below:
Million of US$
Local     Foreign        Total
Irrigation network                      35.7       25.0           60.7
Agricultural infrastructure              1.4        1.0            2.4
Roads                                    2.2        2.2            4.4
Village Infrastructure                   1.1        0.3            1.4
Agricultural credit                      3.2        0.0            3.2
Administration and consultants           3.8        1.3            5.1
Contingencies                           27.1       16.7           43.8
Total                              74.5       46.5          121.0
48.       Physical contingencies representing 10 percent of the base cost were
calculated on the basis of recent experience for similar works.   Price contin-
gencies for civil works were estimated on the basis of an annual rate of price
increase of 12 percent during the first two years and 10 percent thereafter.
Although on the high side, these are justified by recent and forecast price



- 15 -
increases in Morocco. Corresponding rates for equipment were estimated at 8
percent and 7 percent respectively. Overall contingencies would amount to 57
percent of the base cost; this high percentage results from the relatively long
construction period.
49.       The proposed Bank loan of US$41 million would be made to the Govern-
ment and would finance 88 percent of the foreign exchange cost of the project
and would cover the estimated foreign exchange requirements of project items
suitable for procurement through international competitive bidding. The cost
of farm development, consisting of purchase of livestock, construction of
stables and agricultural inputs, would be financed by contributions from
farmers (not included in the table above) and by agricultural credit made
available by the CRCA and CLCA. The remaining project costs including US$5.5
million in foreign exchange would be borne by the Government through appro-
priate budgetary allocations.
50.       The proposed pattern of amortization on this loan, with a period
of grace of six and a half years and a final maturity of 30 years, while fully
justifiable on project grounds, is exceptionally generous in terms of the
Bank's present standards. However, this is accounted for by the fact that
other loans made to Morocco during the present fiscal year, the Agricultural
Credit Project (Ref.: LN 1361-MOR approved by the Executive Directors on
January 11, 1977) and the CIOR Cement Project (approved by the Executive
Directors on March 22, 1977) carried relatively short terms. Including the
proposed loan, the weighted average terms of lending to Morocco in FY77 would
be 19.1 years final maturity, including 4.2 years of grace, well within the
norm applicable to countries with Morocco's per capita GNP, namely 20 years
final maturity including 4.5 years of grace.
Recovery of Irrigation Networks Costs
51.       The Agricultural Investment Code of 1969 provides for the recovery
from each farmer of his share of operating and maintenance costs and up to a
maximum of 40 percent of the capital costs of the irrigation network. Costs
are recovered through (a) a betterment levy of DH 1,500 per hectare, (b) a
basic water charge which has so far been fixed at a maximum base rate of DH 27
per thousand cubic meters in existing irrigation areas in the Doukkala, and
(c) a supplementary water charge to cover the cost of energy used for pumping.
For holdings up to 20 ha, the first 5 ha are exempt from the betterment levy,
and farmers can choose to pay the levy though annual installments over 20
years, with three years grace and at four percent interest. Over the first
five years of irrigated cultivation, the amount of the basic water charge is
increased linearly up to the full base rate.
52.       The issues of the level of water charges actually levied and the
extent of recovery of the investment costs of irrigation networks have been
the subjects of an on-going dialogue with the Moroccan authorities and have
been addressed in all loans for irrigation since the Sebou I Loan (No. 643-MOR
FY70) and in particular by the first Doukkala project. Under this project



- 16 -
it was agreed that (1) ORMVAD would levy and collect from the start of irriga-
tion and would review at its own initiative or at the Bank's request, water
charges to recover actual operation and maintenance costs and a reasonable
share of capital costs subject to beneficiaries' incentives and their ability
to pay and (2) the Government would carry out a study of irrigation cost re-
covery charges throughout Morocco and would inform the Bank of the measures
resulting from the study. Identical provisions have been retained for the
proposed project (Section 4.03, draft Loan Agreement). The system envisaged
under the first Doukkala project consisted in recovering 100 percent of opera-
tion and maintenance costs and up to 40 percent of capital costs through an
adjustment of the basic water charge and of the supplementary pumping charge
and the application of the existing betterment levy. At the suggestion of
the Bank, a detailed study of the economic implications of this system has
been carried out by the Moroccan authorities and Bank staff. This study
revealed that the project rent over and above reasonable incentives accruing
to farmers increased more than proportionately with the size of holdings and
that the application of a system of high and uniform water charges levied on
a volumetric basis and of a betterment levy that was small in comparison to
water charges would threaten the small farmers' incentive to irrigate and
generate a regressive structure of cost recovery. Therefore during the
negotiations of the proposed loan, a new system was proposed by the Bank for
review by the Moroccan authorities. According to this proposal, on which
further discussions are scheduled to take place, the basic water charge and
supplementary pumping charge would be set at levels permitting full recovery
of operation, maintenance and replacement costs of the irrigation network and
the betterment levy at a level which would fully recover project rent above
reasonable incentives from holdings over 20 hectares. The proposed adjust-
ments would require water charges to be indexed and increased 2.7 times over
present prices which is only about 70 percent of the increase envisaged under
the first Doukkala project; conversely, the betterment levy would be indexed
and increased 2.5 times and collected over the life of the project. Under
these conditions, and taking into account incremental income taxes payable by
farmers, about 22 percent of capital costs would be recovered, with the
largest farmers paying proportionately more. Unless agricultural prices
increase more rapidly than forecast, a higher cost recovery ratio would not
leave farmers with sufficient financial incentives to invest and improve their
cultivation methods.
53.       The Government is presently reviewing irrigation cost recovery
charges throughout Morocco. A study of the existing situation and preliminary
recommendations have been completed and are under review by the concerned
authorities. The Government intends to implement before the end of 1977 a
system for automatically indexing the basic water charge. It also has under
review the Bank study mentioned above. The Government agreed to inform the
Bank of the results of such review and to provide the Bank with an opportunity
to comment on the recommendations made and on the proposed timetable for
implementing them.



- 17 -
Procurement
54.       Procurement for the civil works contracts to be financed under the
project amounting to $69.7 million and for most equipment items amounting to
$13.4 million would be through international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank Guidelines for Procurement. To the extent practicable, these items
would be grouped into twenty one lots for tendering purposes. A preference
margin of 15 percent or the prevailing customs duty, whichever is less, would
be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids for equipment.
Individual purchases of equipment in amounts not exceeding $125,000 per con-
tract and $250,000 in the aggregate would be procured in accordance with
applicable local procedures. These items involve amounts that are too small
to attract foreign bids or are not suitable for procurement through competi-
tive bidding (vehicles). Bank staff have reviewed the local procedures and
found them acceptable and there is adequate competition in the local market.
Consultant services to assist ORMVAD in implementing its irrigation program
which covers the Doukkala I and Doukkala II project areas were procured in
accordance with Bank guidelines under the first Doukkala project. The pro-
posed project would provide for continuation of similar services until project
completion.
Disbursements
55.       The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed by end 1983 and would
finance:
(a)  40 percent of selected civil works eligible for ICB consisting
of canals, pumping stations, reservoirs, buried pipe distribution
systems, drainage networks and roads;
(b)  100 percent of the foreign expenditures or 60 percent of local
expenditures (for goods already imported) included in the fol-
lowing categories: electromechanical equipment and filters
for pumping stations, hydrants, telecommunication equipment
and mobile sprinkler equipment;
(c) 100 percent of the foreign cost of consultants.
The disbursement schedule is given in Annex III. Retroactive financing to
December 1, 1976 for about $500,000 would be allowed for the enlargement of
the main canal to ensure a timely start on this project component.
Prolect Justification
56.       Together with the first Doukkala project and the Beni Amir Project
(para. 33), the project is part of a long-term program for irrigation develop-
ment in the Oum-er-Rbia river basin. The main benefit would be a substantial
increase in agricultural production. The project would contribute to meeting



- 18 -
the domestic demand for sugar, milk, meat, cereals and vegetables and generate
export of cotton and possibly vegetables. At full development net incremental
production would be equivalent to about $15 million per year. The project
would directly benefit 3,400 farm families, 77 percent of whom are presently
living below the absolute poverty level. Aside from agricultural development
based on irrigation, no alternative means to develop the region or provide
employment opportunities for this population have been identified. Under the
proposed project, average per capita income would be increased by 140 percent
to $390 at full development. In spite of this increase, 42 percent of the
farmers who presently own 2 ha or less, would still earn farm incomes below
the poverty level. These however, would be able to obtain additional income
through employment opportunities on larger farms. About 5,500 man-years of
family labor would be created annually by the project. Through its land
consolidation component, the project would eliminate fragmentation, thereby
improving agricultural efficiency. Financial rates of return would be higher
for smaller than for larger farmers (estimated at 100 percent for the smallest
and 35 percent for the largest ones). The rural infrastructure component of
the project would improve living conditions for the project beneficiaries.
The economic rate of return of the project is estimated at 11.6 percent; it
would decline to 10.3 percent if investment costs increased by 15 percent and
to 9.5 percent if agricultural prices decreased by 10 percent; it would in-
crease to 13.4 percent if tomatoes for industrial processing replaced cotton.
Project Risks
57.       Since irrigation will be by sprinkler the proposed project would not
induce the development of bilharzia. Moreover, it was agreed under the first
Doukkala project that the incidence of bilharzia would be monitored on a
regular basis in the entire El Jadida province; the Ministry of Health has
started implementation of the control program.
58.       The highest yielding cropping pattern is proposed taking into account
present and forecast market conditions. Farmgate prices of agricultural prod-
ucts with the exception of cotton are expected to provide sufficient incentives
for farmers to adopt improved agricultural techniques. Forecast cotton prices
may not be remunerative enough in the future to reach expected production
levels. ORMVAD recognizes this problem and is investigating substitute crops.
Provided markets are available for these crops, their cultivation could result
in a higher economic rate of return of the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUI4ENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Morocco and the
Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for the Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement, and the text of a resolution approving
the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 19 -
60.       Features of the Agreement of special interest are summarized in
Annex IV.
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
52.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President






LuI
age 1 ofr 4 pagCB
TABLE IA
MOROCCO            - SOCIAL IWu*TIS DATA SHEET
&AI,AM aRlI ITAMDq %Al.
MOROCCO                           REFERENCF LOUNIRIES (1')F,I
UV                                                 H X4OST RECENT
vr j l     2 &  Z49)4                1Q60      19*0   ESTIATAE         PHILtPPINES   TURKEY    0cia.m *
GNP P14 C.lI". fuss))                 IgO. v    3o0.0      470.0             230.0      480.0     !390.0
PJPUAATION ANJ V .'AL STATISTICS
POPULATION IttlD-YR. IILLIONS        11.6      14.6      16.7              36.9        35.T        8.8
POPULATICN DENSITY
PER SQUARE Nit.                    26.0      33.0      37.0              123.0       46.0       67.0
PER SO. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        ..        ..      78.0k            2".0         67.0       99.0
VITAL STATISTICS
AVERAGE BIRTH RATE IlHOtI)         50.4      44.2      44.2              44.2        40.6       18.1
AVERAGE DEATH RATE ITNHOttI        24.2      16.5      15.,               13.2       14.4        8.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATS 1ITHOU1     149.0&       ..     117.0              00.0       145.0       29.6
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH IVRS)     45.4      50.4      52.4               55.6       54.4       70.9
GROSS REPROOUCTION RATE             3.4&      3.4       3.4               3.3           .        1.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE tXI
TOTAL                               2.6       2.4       2.4               3.0         2.5        0.5 
URBAN                               6.4       4.0       5.6                3.1        4.2        1.5
URBAN POPULATION (S OF TOTAL)        29.3      32.3       37.9              27.6       31.2       62.6
AGE STRUCTURE tPERCENTI
0 TO 14 YEARS                     44.3      46.4      44.6              45.6        41.8       24.9
15 TO 64 YEARS                     51.7      51.1      30.9              51.6        53.9       64.0
65 YEARS AND OVER                   4.0       2.5       2.5                2.8        4.3       11.1
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                  0.9       1.0        1.0I              0.9        0.9        0.8
ECONOMIC DEPENENCY RATIO              2.0        ..       2.2u               1.5        1.1.
FAMILY PLANNItNG
ACCEPTORS ICUWULATIVE, THOJI         ..      68.1     216.4              354.0
USERS IS OF MARRIED WOMEN)           ..       3.0       6.7               2.0         8.2
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE ITHOUSAND)       3300.0        ..    3960.0   a        12300.0    14500.o0 d
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (t)       54.0k        ..      S    j            55.0 5     67.0         ..
UNEMPLOYED 13 OF LABOR FORCE)         1.0        ..       9.0                7.0        4.0         ..
INCOME OISTRIBUTION
I OF PRIVATE INCOME REC D BY-
HIGHEST  53 OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..        ..        ..                ..        32.8/        .
HIGHEST 203 OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..         ..       ..                 ..       60.6
LOWEST  203 OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..        ..        ..                ..         2.9 7.
LOWEST  403 OF HCUSEHOLDS            ..        ..        ..                 ..        9.4
DISTRIBUTION OF LANO OWNERSHIP
5 OWNED BY TOP 103 OF OWNERS           ..        ..        ..                ..        53.0
* OWNEO BY SIALLEST 10Z OWNERS         ..         ..        ..                ..        0.9
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           9100.0     13270.0  13830.0&               *-     2220.0      620.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      s350-         *-        *-                *-      1860.04    1140.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED         62.0     690.0/b   690.04             850.0      490.0      160.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES 15 OF REQUIREMENTS)       70.0      99.0       92.0/d           100.0      110.0      116.0
PROTEIN tGRAMS PER DAY)            43.0      64.0       62.0j            45.0       78.0       99.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          ..      14.0/       ..              22.0       22.0,     52.04
DEATH RATE I/THOU) AGES 1-4            ..        ..         ..               9.0       15.0/b
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                     49.0       55.0      SS.0 / .         108.0a     111.0&     106.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                    9.0      12.0      13.0 Z {             .0        8.0       66.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)           12.0      12.0       IZ.0              10.0       11.0       12.0
VOCAT IONAL ENROLLMENT
(I OF SECONtDARY)                  30.0       2.0       1.0                6.0 &     14.0       20.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (t7              17.0/4     21.0        ..                ..       55.0&      82.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM IAVERAGEI            2.1        ..        2.1o               ..        1.9
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (3)                      ..        ..       35.0/             h6.0/.     64.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(1 OF ALL DWELLINGS)               76.0        ..      82. 02             23.0/d     41.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY it5                 31.0         ..        ..               6.04d     18.0
CONSUNPTI ON
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)       )6.O      60.0       74.0              45.0       89.0      111.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)        11.0      15.0       17.0 a             8.0        4.0       26.0
ELECTRICITY tKWH/YR PER CAPP         87.0      128.0     164.0             235.0      247.0     1072.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)             0.2       0.2        0.3               1.2/4      0.7        1.6
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



binsatheas-oenio, data    sp 1960 refer to any Y-ar between 1959 and 1961, fur 19(0 between 1968 and 1970, and for Moat beceat EStimate Latween
jfjan 1 975.
ecAlthough Greece'a GNP per eapita is mach higher than that of Morocco, Greece has been selected as an, objective country since both countries are
on the Mediterrensani, their econosdes rely on the sarket mecheniam, sand they are, similar in productive activity, especially in agriculture.
MOROCCO     196     a   1 962;    &   Exclude unrported female family helpers In agriculture;       ac  Including midwives and assistant oarses;
L4  Government hospital eatabllhnota;        /a, 6-10 sad 11-17 years of age respectively;      If  Persons over 5 years of
age who can read and write.
1970    /a  Due to smigration, population grwth rats is lower than the rate of naturel incrseas;j        ab  Government hospital
establtshaeots   aly;    / j~91-66        a   7-11 and 12-18 years of age respectively.
HOBT SECENT ESTIMATE:   ~a    1972;    &   Excludes unreported female family helpers in agriculture;       /c  1971;      d  1 969-71 avenge
7-11 and 1218 years of age;       If   Urban only;      aL  Due tc emigration, growth rae    a lower then rate
d natural increase.
nnnIpnKSs          197     /a  As percentage of employment;     ab  7-12 and 13-16 years of age respectively;      4c  Not including private vocational 
schools or vocational short-ten courses;       /d  1967 househoids;     a.  Inside onob';   If, lmports only.
TURKEY1970                 a   Excludes 17 Iaetems provinces;      a  1965-67;     /c  RAtio of population under 15 end 65 and over to labor force age 15
years and over;     /d  15 years and over, eelodes unemployed;       a   Registered only;     If  DIsposble inomas;
Including assistant oses and midwives;         /h  196L-66;    /i   7-11 years of age;     ZI  Persns six1 year and over who
tell the ensus takere that they can read and write.
GMGE ~1970 /a Doe to emigration, growth rate is lower than rats of naturel increase ; /a 1967.
R9, September 17, 1976
DEFINITIONS OP SOCIAl INDICATOHS
teed A-s (thou kJ)                                                                   bepnlationc ar o-ievro          - Ppulatto.. divided by ounber   f practicing
ljocal1  Total sc-of   aps  ccpriaieg land ares sod inland    ser.Lsal a                      nd. feal    raduate oase, "tr,ained' or "1eertifiedl nurses, andf
hAk.-  ot recet entimate of agicolt-rl ares need tenpe....fly or                   aoxiliary personnel with training or experie-ec.
pe-ncs  toly far -rps, p-s u-o, e-ket & kiirhce pardons or     1o   -               Popolatio- per hospital hod - Poplotitee dIvided by nunber of hospital cede
(nUns,                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~avalable in public and pri vate general and specialized hospital and
rehabilitation ceeters; exeludes easing homes and eotablishnente for
1cNP Per -Ptel   (PSS) - GNP Pa  s                     -t-a ots  tcret carket prieco,   eusto dial and prevetive. .....
eale-lated by nse. ..a.s--Ioa method as World Rank Atlao (1973-75 taste);        ts   aiasppyo          ao    iso   off rieou -oeto) - Coeputed free c-egy
itO, 1270 and 5975 da ta.                                                         eqiaeto ntfo             ople      vial     in vnotry per capita per day;
available supplies conprise doemtie produetion, imiports less     aperto,
fopolat-ne nod vitol statiataca                                                         and changes in stank; net supplico exelude aninl feed, needs, quani,tties
fpoPladoi  (oid-Yr. cMic) - Aas of July first:      if eel.. acolable.                  coed in food processing and lessonw in distribution; reqoiroenets were
t-roencsod-yoors L-occ         1 960, 1970 ccd 1975 Into                        estimated by PAD booe d or. physiological seeds fi- sora    aet-vity  a
aed health considering   -cv.roe,ntal temperature, bdiy neights, age acid
Popalntios dnaa ttp - one sanar  koe  Mid-year popolatioc per aqonro bib0-              sex distributicon of population, and a1l.inig 10% for Waste at icuneheld
rooer(W    bee caes   of total,aea                                                    level.
fopoiation donut0 - pe    nor       heof cgrte  load - C-npocted  a above for         Par capite sopply of protein_(Xroon per day) - Protein, cont-et of per
ngri-l-crnl I.od only.                                                                capita net sopply of feed per day; oat supply of food io defined as
shoves; reqsireneets for all ocustries etstahicbd by USDA F--o,n
Vital ctstiec-                                                                          Research lercocee Provide for a ciimumvealeoc       ci tO  U-ol of   aLt.
frodo birth p.ac p.r tho...c.d - anna l..Ivet birtho per thoc -ed of old-               protein per day, and 20 grass of animal and pulse protein, of Which 10
o..or pepnlarie   tee-ysdrs ritboecic noerages ee dieg ie19.60 ood 1970,              grams siould be animal protein; these st.naiads are lower thac those of
ncd fley.rceaocdg, 1n9bll fr cot-reo ta                 ture.                        75 groo   of total protein aed 23 groan of an-Ima  protene an an ovrge
_iod  d  !, rceper ebo..s.ed - IeAa-  deatba per thon--d a,.ild-pea               F- tie e- 3d, P-.sp.od i, PAC) in tho Thn-d W.rld Food Ssroey.
popalatiec  to-year -plihmetin s-roges     edieg be bOl a-d t970, ced               Per caiapoennp              rom  nIalr ad ppulne - Protoln eupply sf fend
(inc-year -oo-go codig be 197brcarcnt enti-sro.                                       derie   fr_oiasad          usei      rc   pr day.
ath rateou      Ag     L-Annual deathe per thousand in age group I-h
I.,f.,go~i~ajfhu                   ea    atb    fifnsodr05ya                             er,to childrecinwthie age greu p; suggested aan inoedlatnr of sal-
ir .yFio  i   lites biu,rthsn.  dootrofinans ndro..y
tufe sopecaneY a-t birth (ore) - Average number of yearn of life rebate
log at birth; neoally five -year aver. ags ending in 1961), 1970 and                  dastioc
1975 for de-elepiogf                                                                     igcoontries.    rati,of- ice     school - Ecro11-nt of all agoe on
Gpo..rep,odu5ione rate - Average onumber of lips daughtere. a woac will__ i6Iid                     iz6W    isb6li~~ltou                oldsa           ,ae
bear7in her ooreIl r-pr-d-ruv    ported if she -epsrl-ere  pressent ago-              6-11 years hot adjusted for different lecgths of pr,imary ed.i .,ion;
specific fertility rates; osoaIly f is--Year avrages e-dtg inf 1960,                  for ocuetries with uiesledu..ati.n,         -1slinet any son      001%
IAU n   du,Al/b -n  J-oelpi.ig eouotries.                                             since s.ee pupilsn are below or above the offi-ta1 nehool age.
Poeslatron upowh rate 'I, -     tcra  C- fpoond ..ac.nI growth -ac- of mid-           Ajooted enrol1ment ratio - necoadaZrynohoul - Computed no above; secod-
year popobatio   (o  OO-b     1960-70 an    9071                                       r    dcetioc reqoires at least forern of approvd primary inotrou-
Population growth rate (9)f- aba    - Coopoted like groah rate of total                  tion; providen generl, voational or teacher training instruetiorn     for
popolution; ilffZeret defiitoco     f -arbo  areas ey affect -oIparn-                  pupils of 12 to 17 yonrs of age; encrenpondence coar..s a,re gneeroly
b,l ity ofdata aeg countra-s.                                                          en1.dsd.
Urban population (9 of total) - Ratin of urban to total population; d,f-              Years ofdsgotgpoie            frtadseodlvl)-Ttlyano
ferent definitioss of urban areas may affect comparability of data                    schooln;a       eeeaylve,nctoal instruction may be partially
anongeovtnirte.                                                                        or copletely excluded.
U.e stru ture(ercea:t.) - Children (0-lb yearn), working-age (15-6L years),           Pocatieoa1 enrollment (9o of seoday      -Vocational ins titutions include
Wndrt ired     W      an nd eve r) as peroectagen of cid-year pepulation.             technical, industrial or oile  porswhioh operate indeperndecily or
Age d.pend-.rti        - Ratio of population under 15 aed i5 and over to                as deparZteetof specodary institutions.
IC}uf.g   = h.odgn 6i.                                                       Adu lt literc  rte (9) - idterate adults (able to rand nod -lto) an per-
Een. edpeneyrtio - ltatno of populotion under iS and 65 an d over                  ceetege of itotl adult populatioc aged 15 years and ave r.
to the  ao.    oc    nae     ru   of i5-61 ye.ar.
family eluoclep- occepeers (cu ,ultive. thou) - C-csnt-uo  cnnmer of         H.s in
acoptror  of birth-rontrol devices neder euspices of nutionel fanllY                kPu~      per room (vrage) - Averge number of perso ns par boo. in oecopned
pluoinig program sine   ienepton.                                                     eonveetione1 dwellings to urben areas; duellnego nmlode cor-poronni
i,anjlni,    cg-sr       (8 of married    -nos) - Pereertags of married                 strueturss cud uaioeepied parts.
wne   of child-bear/op age   1-hiers)      h. use birlb~-torul de-                                    a     Foiddelig  ihu  piped  twae(9  - Occupied ~cnvoational d-11-
nines to dl married w....   in sam  age greoup.                                     Gings intuban and ru     aleams without isc      rotid       ie     ae
faeilitiee as p-reetage of nl occupied dweIllngu.
dmlR,nt                                                                             Acc.es to nleotrienty (9 of al doe1hngo) - Conv tnoonel dwelings nith
Total labo.r aine   thounand) - f-u-onvaly -etive persOons     -liridcig                eletriciy    nliving quarters as percent of totul delic-gs ino urban
ores  fres nd     1nep   yedi bot .eeldnog heus-ai-v, bl,ilects,  t-.;               and rural a-a.
IIcnstions a     curno n cntrivaes o- ot eoewarable.                                Rural hwellings connected to electricity ()-Computed as above for rua,l
yen.1 force in ogr'lp74t7-e2      Agricultural labor fare (to farot..g,                 a.1~s-y
Tor-t3y/7hnihtln, and fishing) an percen.tage of total labor f- oe
Ueenoloyed (% of labor forc) -Unemplayed are o-only defined as persaso                Cae-uept-ae
oho re A an owillgintke a jb,ct of a 1ob 00 u g-en day,                         Radio recei-er  (Dcr thou PaP) - All types of reni..ra fr. radio broad-
triedout f a jb, cd sebsg  _er  furoosetfs    5tton                       ..antn to general public per thousand of pnpu.acnos   rooldes ,oaieenS.d
perid net enceding ope week; synot be cosparnbl        trte....O sen                      ie   n t coontrtas and is y-ari-te    r-g-:ano.- i.    -di~ sento ass
trls- dune to different definitions of u-emplnyed anod   uc   of data,                in ef:ect; data for recet year' may n-c be nocco-bcl    stne cwstro-
s.g., employmatos   ffie- statltics, sample survys. vo-pul-iav     0                  trios bo2helnid lioi
ployment n-srane.                                                                   Pasege   .er   Cper thou pop) - Pis-n-wv   cur   -sp.J- orl-     --
lens ta   eight p-rnons; axolodee hnuiacs       .ie..n  no oll-
bone. distribution - Perentage of' private ineeme (tonh iii --n -id                     vehicles
kind) receivedby riebeni it, rinhen    20%, peorest, 2(. and p.OO-Ot                Elt-i Jlhl- ino-al -no-crpnirt-                          bsrn,      oir
LOT1 of ho,iseholds.                                                                  eial,paliaiid+ivteleetr,ei!y so kilo-,I/um               ptr~ia
erally han-d acpr-d-tion data, sibat        llow   Sr t- lo.-- ir grubi
Distviiatsoo of land -a-n-rhbsp - Pervertage  et land o--I iY weutnis                   hut. allwuo    fer uTrort a-d soperis of ee:m
1/9 anod poorest I/iT of land es-r-.                                                Newsprint (bg/yr per caP) - Per copsis alulal kosof O.        i lograr
Heolti and Ratrhtuon                                              en~~~~~~~~tiocted froo donesT se preductioc plus rat  ponpr t of  eanprint.
Pooul.tisn eca phvician - Pepalatioc    dvuded by ronla    ,f p-ettri-.



Page I of. 4 pages
ECOR0KUC DEVMLOPMENT DATA
(Asneots in ojillions of U.S. dollars)
Actual  - ___ct_d___L___                 ftof =E
197  1972      LM          197 L4    1IM         96        I~        1I98e I  1966-12                    19f-7        1978-82      17
(1975 Prices) ~ ~ ~    ~   197                                                                                               a                                      97
Cross Doestic prduct              5380     7049       7157       7854       7953       865        9417     12670       5.6         4.1           6.0          6.1        100.o
Go.1.  frmTre       fTae1)~-660                            -6         .:f           0        z-                                   ~-.0
Gross Dosestic Inco,se                 504                  6337552              7       ~      ~       Ul      1i60        4.8         7.             .263                   o.0
Emport. (itci. NFS)                    1501     1698       2111       2337       2996       375        3126      3860       2.5        20.8          12.9          4.3        37.7
E.ports      (imapirt calbacity)      -t67     -g3o       -?_1       -255       -13                    2883     -4239       6.6        -4.3           4.6          8.0         n34
Resource Gap                            16          8       120         52        WE        154          1      13L9         -           --                                    12.3
Coossoption Zxpeedit.rq.               4480     554        5917       6450       7027       7818       7610      9945       4. 1        8.0           6.4          1.5        88.4
Gross fixed inwetteot                  726       868        84       1143       1930        2344       1974     2281       4.1        29.5          17.3          2.9         24.3
Domestic S:avioge                       574       809       616       1132        906        452       1021      1748       7.9         4.6           4.8         11.3         11.6
Not ionaI Savings                       569       947       893       1485       1312         937      1477      2251      11.8        11.5           9.3          8.8         16.5
EXTERNAL TRADE                                                                                                                                                               percent
(Current prtces)                                                                                                                                                             of total
l.p.rt.                                                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1975
Food stffs                           143      136        262        420       640         455        602       897      -1.0        68.0         34.7          10.3        21.4
Petroleum                             25       56         74        258       277         303        354       69       17.5        70.0          44.8         14.4          9.2
Intornediates                        166      307        4~37       711      757          750        93~5     1699      13.1        35.0         24.8          12.7        25.3
Capita1 gcods                        105      154        207        326       615         796        713      1172       8.0       59.0           35. 9        10.4       -20 6
Consumer goods                        79       124       168        183       27          293        313       49        9.4        30.9          20.1          9.6          9:2
No-f.ot.r services                   102      199        231        256       4u          90         3         589      14.3       p8.4            9.1        ..13.9.      14.2
Total                    6~~   ~~~~~~2-0  977  1380      M81                  3847      PF        5546       9.5        45.2          27.0         11.4        10.
Phouphste                            108      146        192        932       847         488        566      1269       6.2        80.0         31.2          17.5        41.7
Agriculturl products                 238      357        517        463       419         429        482       541       8.4         5.5           6.2         11.8        20.6
Other sinerals                        41       44         62        100        63          64         76       564       1.4         9.4         i1.6          i6.631
lasufeotures                          37        93       140        207       211         187        219       536      20.2        31.4          13.7         19.6        10.4
on -fecto1r services                 129      502        39         422       490        .A64        566      1130      j            7.          13.4          14.8        I
Toa                              553       943       1301       2125     2-03T        163         w       394        11.3        29.1         18.1         12.7         To.
Trade indi..s (1979-1.000)
Enport price index                 0.412    0.465      0.504      0.892     1.000       O.84        0.835    1.229       2,4  -     29.1 -       12.3          8.0
I.port price index                0.519     0.6*?      0.662     0.998     1.ooo        1.031      1.148    1.597       4.7        15.4          12.1          6.9
Te-    of tr.de                   '3.795    0.713      0.761      0.894     1.0         0.823       0.727   0.707        -22        11.9           0.7         1.1
VALUE ADDED RY SECTOR                               -        (Shaeo GDP atIrUYcs
Agriculture             27.4      27~~   ~~~~.8  24.4   22.7                 19.7       18.6      16.2       5.9        -3.7        -0.7           3.2          19.7
Mining                               5.2      5.2        8.8       14.3       11.2      12.2        14.9      16.8      5.6         -1.3         5.0          8.7          11.2
Othe r industry                    20.3      20.4       21.6       19.0      25.6       22.8        22.2     22.5       5.7         11.5        12.2          7.1          22.6
Services                           47.1      46.6       4882       44.0      46.5       45.3        44.3     44.5       5.3          6.7        6.4           6.2          46.5
PUBLIC FINANCE (Percent of GDP at current prices)
(Central Gover-net)                   1967      1972                  197t4               1 976
Current receipts                   17.1      17.8       19.8       24.2      2.3       24.1
Current expenditores               15.6      16.8       17.3       22.0      22.8      22.6
Hudgetary savings                   1.9       1.0        1.5        2.2       3.5       1.5
1nvestmet expenditures              8.0       6.0       5.8        7.6       13.8      17.5
CU~RRENTT EXPENDrITURE DETAILS                                                             DETAIL ON CENTRAL
(As       .I Toa  Crrent Expend.)     967       197        1972       1974       1975     GOVKRNNENT
Education                             26.       28.2       31.1       17.1       21'?      INVSTHEN                               19  -14j                   1975 
Other Socie1 ler-lces                 11.6  -     9'T       9.2        5.6        s.4.     Agricult.re                               3,g94          29.2
Agriculture                            8o0        7.2       7.1        4.3        4.3      T.du.etr  and  .inig                      130            16.1
Other Econsei   S-riceas               6.3        0.3       4.8        2.8        3.0      Economic ingr-tr,stur.                    101            13.0
Admlioistrtion and Defense            31.3       30.9      31.2       18.1       22.2      Education snd training                     69             8.5
Other                                 16.7       18.7      16.6       51.7      'A .       Other ncial sectors                        76             9.4
Totul Current Expenditures           100.0      100.0      100.0     100.0      lot 0      Administration and security               102            12.6
____________ ___________ ____________ ___________ ____________ ___________ Re gional  develop.amm t            52              6.4
UmclAaaifLed                               3              4.8        -
SELECTED INDICATORS                              t968-      1973-      1973-     1978-     Total                                     808           100.0     445
Average ICOR                                      2.4        2.7        3.0       3.1      PINANICI,
Import Elaaticity                                 0.5        1.1       2.2       0.7       Publicseactor savings                     280            34.7     1117    25.1
Average National Sevings Rate                    12.8       16.1       14.9     16. 9      External borrvmrin                         42             5.2     1865    41.9
Margi.ul N.tio...l Savings Rate                  32.1       19.0      22 3      23.8         mei       ar.i                          486            60.1     1472     U_
-                  Total fieamcing                                          100,0    4454    100.0
LABOR FORCE AND                                   Total E..eioymont                 L~* -           Value Added Per Werker (1960       Prices *Ec..    Ratses)
OUTPUT PER WORKER                  InTeosds .                 Total           10    1          &   ..N1                ecn     fA    rg           9   7
1 960    I            -1 Ab f0  1971     Groth Rb ate-        1960        119 T60               j_F         Gro,th Rate
Agricult-r                     1, 834     190           ZF      54.7          0.7                         i W           518Q                       .
Industry                ~~~~     ~~~369  593   12.5     16.3          4.4              1328       1364        192.2     154.6            0.1
S-rvcee                          641       898          21.7    R4.7          3.1              1393        1558        201.6    177.2             1.0
Uncl.asnifled                    106       155             6     4.3          ...              -                          -
Totol                  2~~~~~~~,950  3 ~       10.0     100.0          1.9               -T~                   1100.                       .
Une.pl.voent                      305      349           -        -1.2
not applicable
cot availahle
nil or negligible



3klc    or PA    T. TEIEML ASTSDU           AIM  MBT                                              An"'e  T
(_oont iJ eilion      of U.S. dollars at corret price.)                                              Page 4 of 4 page.
Actoal                                               Projected
i!      z         X 1974    iS .gi                         IS77      1970       fo        1902     n!25
SSII(AT OF   AAC R  0? OPA*4 T5
E  t  I cl. m                  t5~~%  1301     2515       2019                16J        2166      2565       5494      4685     7430
Report.  ld n   I                       .977'  -1380     2146c     2996                 3040     3t2295     35523      43956      55466    86079
Imports, i-cl. Nf                          44                        97-M                    -1     063       916       -901      -86i     -649
Resou.rce balance                                T7g       -         9                              03       -8
Not factor services                       38     138       266       423                  464       464       487        581       729       937
Tbst inte rnt pay.ete                    -29     -29       -20       -30                  -38      -102       -150      -209      -243      -386
Net invest_.t inoe_                      -28     -38       -31       -36                  -40       .43       -46        -53       -60       -74
Workers' recoittancec                    139     249       356       533                  582       633        726       886      '°76      1441
Other (ee)                               -44     -44      -39        -43                  -43       -43        -43       -43       -43       -43
Correct transfers (eat)                   43      46        19         8                    9         9         10        12        13        16
Curreot occocnt bhles..                   47     105       237      -546                -1381      -589       -461      -309      -118       304
Private direct tre-st. (eet)              24      15         5        -                    24        28         32        43        56        84
Pub1lc .+LT logos
Di.bur.seaest                         111      82       148       538                 1136       876        808       865       918      1200
Repasy.te                             -79     -79       -82      -136                 -1.39     -192       -380      -so6      -552      -596
Net df bursen-or                       32        3       66       404                  997       683        428       353       366       604
Short-tern capital (oct)                 -35     -75      -158       125                  -25       -48       -40        -17        -20      -24
Copital c.e.t.                             7      -13      -27        13                  SOO       200          -         _          _        _
Ch..e Ic reserve.                        -7      -35      -123        17                 -184      -239         76       -75       -283     -969
Level of reserve.
-   ount                                 286     354       475       454                  593       832       756        734      1243      5608
- soothe' isporte                        3.5     3.1       2.5       1.8                  2.0       3.1        2.6       2.0        2.7      5.4
GRANT AND LOAN COaITHSNTS
Official gronto                           17       40       42         -                  500        200        -          -         -         -
Total public H+LT lo...                   177      96      553       863                 1803        701       626       863       1105    1413
IBRD/IDA                               97       49      141        63                  125       140        158       143        158     194
Other i.tercI i-etitati...              -       -        38        25                   27         29        32        35         37      41
Goverceent.                             -       43      246       450                  850        450       486       559        640     784
Suppliers  credito                     61        4       31       125                   91         82        90       107        270     394
Pic..clcl ittitutlo.                  19      -        97       200                  710                             19
EXTERNAL DEBT                                   Actual Debt Out.t.edico     Dec. 51. 1974                                                               Actual
DiabsdD1                     r.rc.Elt                                                        1967        c    IIU      1974    1975
World Beck                                        156.7                     15.8                        DEbT AND DEBT S_RVICE
ID'A                                               29.6                      2.6                        public Debt Out. + Disbursed        490      912     986     1124    1413
Other ?Wltil.ter-l                                  2.7                      0.2
G-vero_ecat                                       737.4                     65.6                           Ilte.e.t oc Public Debt           17       33      41       42      52
Suppliers                                          86.5                      7.7                           Rapy-.to con Public Debt          29       67      88       94     116
Fi.a.ctl1 Icotitoti.oc                             85.1                      7.6                           Total Public Debt Service         46      100     129      136     16°
Others                                             29.8                      2.7                           Other Debt Service (.et)         ..
Total                                            1123.8                    100.0                           Total Debt Service (net)         46       100     129     136      168
Bordec oc Report Ercineg (%)
Other -+LT Debts
Shcrt-terc  Debt (disb. only)                                                                              Public Debt Service              8.3    12.4      9.1     6.0      8.3
Total Debt Service              8.3     12.4    12.1      6.0      8.3
TDS + Direct 1ovest. I.C.      12.3     15.4    12.1      7.4     10.1
Average Ter- of Public Debt
Ilt. .o % Prior Year DOD        2.4      4.4     4.5      3.8      4.7
Aacrt. as % Prior Ye-r DDD       6.s     9.1     8.8      7.8     10.4
IBRD Debt Out.aedDoibursed
IBRSD a  % Public Debt OD          6.o      9.5    10.8     14.2     16.1
IBRD as % Public Debt Service      5.7     10.7    14.4     12.1     19.4
IDA Debt Out. ndDiobursed
IDA as % Public Debt O            0.0      1.7     2.4      2.5     2.0
IL Do % Public Debt Service        0.0      0.1     0.2      0.1     0.1
cot available
nil cr n Rlgihle



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6 pages
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of February 28, 1977)
Loan or                                                                       US$1 Million
Credit                                                              Amount (less cancellations)
Number                Borrower                   Purpose            Bank      IDA1/   Undisbursed
Ten         Loans     Fully disbursed                               152.0
Three       Credits     "       "                                            27.5
643         1965     Kingdom of Morocco          Irrigation          46.0               8.5
266         1971     Kingdom of Morocco          Education                    8.5       3.3
848         1972      CIH                        DFC (Tourism)       15.0               3.1
850         1972      ONEP                       Water Supply        48.0              10.1
890         1973      BNDE                       DFC                 24.0               1.1
936         1973      ONE                        Power               25.0               5.3
955         1974      Kingdom of Morocco         Highways            29.0              15.2
1017         1974     Maroc-Phosphore              Industry           50.0               4.4
1018         1974      Kingdom of Morocco         Agriculture         32.0              16.8
1061         1974      BNDE                       DFC                 30.0              12.4
555         1975     Kingdom of Morocco          Agriculture                  14.0     14.0
1123         1975      Kingdom of Morocco         Agriculture         18.5              16.5
1201         1976      Kingdom of Morocco         Agriculture         30.0              30.0
1202         1976     Kingdom of Morocco          Tourism             21.0              21.0
1220T        1976      Kingdom of Morocco         Education           25.0              25.0
1279         1976     CIH                         DFC (Tourism)       25.0              24.8
1299         1976     Kingdom of Morocco          Power               49.0              49.0
1361         1977     Kingdom of Morocco          Agriculture         35.0              35.0
Total                                                           654.5*   50.0     295.5
of which has been repaid                                       86.3
Total now outstanding                                           568.2    50.0
Amount sold                                  6.2
of which has been repaid                   1.3                  4.9
Total now held by Bank and the IDA!/                            563.3    50.0
Total undisbursed                                               278.2     17.3    295.5
*  Excludes a $45.0 million loan for a
4/ Prior to exchange adjustment                 cement project, approved on 3/12/77 but
not yet signed.
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of Fe'ruary 28,1977)
Year      Obligor       Type of Business                Amount in US$ Million
Loan      Equity       Total
1962       BNDE         Development Bank                 --         1.5         1.5
1966       CIL          Canning Factory                 0.9         0.5         1.4
1976       SCM          Cement Factory                   --         1.3         1.3
Total gross commitments                             0.9         3.3         4.2
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                               0.9         0.7         1.6
Total commitments now held by IFC                   --         2.6         2.6
Total undisbursed                                   --         0.2         0.2



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. No. 643 Rharb-Sebou Irrigation Project: US$46 million Loan of November
13, 1969; Date of Effectiveness: June 8, 1970; Closing Date:
November 30, 1978.
Progress in implementing the project is now satisfactory although
considerable problems were first experienced with management and procurement
of canalettes, and some procurement difficulties continue. The major project
structure, Idriss ler Dam, is completed and equipment of 19,940 ha out of a
total of 35,000 ha is completed. Construction of remaining perimeters is
expected to be completed by June 1978. Additional infrastructure for the
project area, including a sugar cane processing factory and flood protection
works, are being provided by Loan No. 1018-MOR.
Cr. No. 266 Second Education Project: US$8.5 million Credit of August 18,
1971; Date of Effectiveness: December 10, 1971;
Closing Date: April 30, 1978.
The project included the expansion and improvement of specific
sections of the secondary, vocational and higher educational systems, and
technical assistance for project administration and school maintenance.
Subsequently, the Association agreed not to finance two Vocational Training
Centers and the Department of Veterinary Medicine. Accordingly, an amount
of about US$0.9 million has been transferred to the unallocated category for
future reallocation and/or cancellation. Initial delays occurred in the
appointment of consultant architects, in the recruitment of local personnel
and technical assistance experts for the Project Unit and in procurement.
However, execution is now proceeding satisfactorily and construction is on
schedule. Procurement of furniture and equipment should be substantially
completed by mid 1977.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6 pages
Ln. No. 848 Second Hotel Development Project; US$15 million of June 30, 1972;
Date of Effectiveness: November 1, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Commitments and disbursements initially lagged behind expectations,
due to sluggish investment activity in 1973. The loan is now fully committed,
as against the appraisal estimate of March 1974 and is now expected to be
fully disbursed by mid 1977.
Ln. No. 850 Water Supply Project; US$48 million Loan of July 19, 1972;
Date of Effectiveness: May 2, 1973;GClosing Date: December 31,
1977.
The dam which was the major component of the project was inaugurated
in August 1974. All project elements are being completed on schedule except
for the treatment plant and the training school, which are both about six
months behind schedule. The financial position of the Borrower, Office
National de l'Eau Potable (ONEP), is satisfactory. In early 1976 consultants
have completed a tariff study which will assist in improving ONEP's long-term
financial performance. Consultants have recently been engaged to undertake a
management study for ONEP.
Ln. No. 890 Sixth BNDE Project; US$24 million of May 14, 1973; Date of
effectiveness: September 10, 1973; Closing Date: Mfarch 4, 1977.
The loan was fully committed by May 1974, about six months earlier
than expected. Disbursements have been completed and the Loan was closed
March 4th, 1977.
Ln. No. 936 Power Project; US$25 million of October 5, 1973; Date of
Effectiveness: January 23, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Physical implementation of the project is practically complete.
Savings amounting to about US$4.0 million are being applied to consultant
services for feasibility studies, preliminary design and preparation of bid
documents for 5 hydro stations required to alleviate Morocco's dependency on
imported oil. Although electricity rates were sharply increased on January 1,
1976, ONE's rate of return has not yet reached the covenanted level because
of even sharper increases in the price of imported inputs.
Ln. No. 955 Second Highway Project; US$29 million of January il, 1974; Date
of Effectiveness: Mlay 21, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
Construction of the Rabat-Casablanca expressway began in early 1975,
8 months behind schedule and is expected-to be completed during the first half
of 1977. Purchase of maintenance equipment and work on the highway improvement
program are proceeding satisfactorily, close to the appraisal cost estimates.
The consultants for the urban traffic and transport study in the towns of
Casablanca and Rabat have submitted the draft final reports. The Government
has recently awarded a contract for technical assistance for the establishment
of a Transport Planning Office in the Ministry of Public WJorks and consultants
have commenced work in August 1976.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6 pages
Ln. No. 1017 Phosphoric Acid Project; US$50.0 million of June 27, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: February 27, 1975; Closing Date:
June 39, 1977.
Progress in project execution is good; the units are now undergoing
commercial test runs. Full commercial production is expected by mid 1977.
Personnel recruitment and training is expected to be successfully completed
in early 1977. Cost overrun is expected to be less than 8 percent, mostly in
local currency and will be financed locally.
Ln. No. 1018 Sebou II Development Project; US$32.0 million of June 27, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: February 28, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
The sugar cane processing factory was essentially completed on
schedule in 1975. Construction of the project area roads is on schedule but
work on the flood protection dykes is about 12 months behind schedule, mainly
on account of delays in land acquisition. The studies of pollution control
and the incidence of bilharzia on the Rharb plain have not yet been started.
Ln. No. 1061 Seventh BNDE Project; US$30 million of December 30, 1974; Date
of Effectiveness: January 15, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1978.
This loan is almost fully committed. Disbursements are roughly in
line with appraisal estimates.
Ln. No. 1123 Souss Groundwater Project; US$18.5 million of June 11, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: September 26, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The project unit has been created, its staff appointed, and the
project co-ordinating committee has been established. The 59 wells required
for new irrigated area (6,300 ha) are now completed and tested, one year ahead
of appraisal schedule. Land clearing is almost complete. Land registration
of private farms is only about 50 percent completed, delaying land consolida-
tion. A consultant has been retained to speed up the design of the village
centers.
Cr. No. 555 Meknes Agricultural Development Project; US$14.0 million of
June 11, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: Noveaber 14, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
Following initial delay, the project is now getting underway. How-
ever, project management and the coordination of project activities between
the project authority and the central offices of the Ministry of Agriculture
require close monitoring for satisfactory enforcement of land distribution
criteria.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6 pages
Ln. No. 1201 Doukkala Irrigation Project; US$30.0 million of February 27,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 20, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
The project includes sprinkler irrigation for 15,400 ha and infra-
structure and equipment. Progress of construction is satisfactory with the
exception of laying and testing of large diameter concrete pipes for which
satisfactory remedial measures are being taken.
Ln. No. 1202 Bay of Agadir Tourism Project; US$21.0 million of February 27,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: October 29, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project intended to develop Agadir into a major tourism area
consists of infrastructure works and public facilities for the development
of a new tourism section on 260 ha on which 7,000 hotel beds and 2,600
housing units are expected to be constructed. The project includes also
regional infrastructure and facilities for the development of Agadir's
tourism assets. Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1220 Third Education Project; US$25.0 million of March 18, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: October 1, 1976; Closing Date:
May 1, 1981.
The project is designed to expand and improve primary and secondary
education in rural areas and specialized training to meet urgent manpower
needs in education, agriculture, health and tourism. Project implementation
is progressing satisfactorily. The ministries concerned have appointed the
officials responsible for project implementation. Consultant architects
have been selected. Selection and acquisition of site are well underway.
Ln. No. 1279 Third Hotel Development Project; US$25.0 million of July 2,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 18, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Implementation of the project is proceeding well. The Loan is
expected to be disbursed somewhat ahead of schedule. Commitments at end
1976 amounted to $4.2 million. CIH has been successful in mobilizing for-
eign exchange resources other than the Bank's and in reducing outstanding
arrears in accordance with understandings reached during negotiations.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6 pages
Ln. No. 1299 Sidi Cheho - Al Massira Hydro Project; US$49.0 million of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 16, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The Project, comprises the construction of the Al-Massira concrete
dam on the Oum er Rbia river, a 120-MW power station including a 225-KV sub-
station, construction of about 200 Km of 225 Kv transmission lines, and prepa-
ration of preliminary designs and bid documents for the Merija compensating
dam and power station. Procurement of the main project items is underway
and physical progress of the Project is satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1361 Third Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million Loan to
Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA) of February 7, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: May 10, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project aims at increasing Morocco's agricultural production and
at expanding the capability of CNCA as a sound agricultural institution. The
project will cover most of CNCA's program for medium- and long-term lending
through August 1979 and will include related technical assistance.
Ln. No.       CIOR Cement Project; US$45.0 million of March 9, 1977;
The Loan Agreement for this project has not yet been signed;
however, the signing is expected shortly.
The project comprises construction of a 1.2 million tons per year
cement plant near Oujda in the Eastern Region of Morocco, and related distri-
bution facilities.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3 pages
DOUKKALA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Borrower:         Kingdom of Morocco
Loan Amount:       $41 million equivalent in various currencies
Terms:             30 years including 6 1/2 years of grace with interest at
8.20 percent per year.
Project      -    enlargement of the main supply canal over 22 km, construc-
Description:      tion of about 10 km of feeder canals and installation of
automatic flow regulators;
-    construction of six pumping stations with a total installed
capacity of 11,300 kw, each with an elevated equalizing reser-
voir;
-    construction of 31 km of 60 kv and 62 km of 22 kv power
transmission lines and a substation for pumping stations;
-    land preparation and consolidation including farm roads,
windbreaks and drainage;
-    installation of 450 km of buried pipe distribution system
including hydrants, each serving about 16 ha, and asso-
ciated mobile sprinkler equipment;
-    construction of main drainage channels entailing about
300,000 m3 excavation;
-    construction of 108 km of roads, reinforcement of 64 km
of existing roads;
-    construction of buildings, provision of equipment for
extension, operation, maintenance, artificial insemination,
and telecommunications between ORMVAD's El Jadida head-
quarters and the project area;
-    construction of four milk collection centers;
-    provision of village infrastructure for five villages;
-    provision of farm inputs, credit and extension services;
-    strengthening of applied agricultural research activities;
and
-    provision of consulting engineering services for project
implementation.



ANNEX III
Page 2
Cost Estimates:                                 Million of US$
Local   Foreign    Total
Irrigation network                      35.7     25.0      60.7
Agricultural infrastructure              1.4      1.0       2.4
Roads                                    2.2      2.2       4.4
Village infrastructure                   1.1      0.3       1.4
Agricultural credit                      3.2      0.0       3.2
Administration and consultants           3.8      1.3       5.1
Contingencies                           27.1     16.7     43.8
Total                           74.5     46.5     121.0
Financing Plan:
Amount
Sources of Finance:               Items to be Financed                $ Million
Bank Loan               Foreign exchange cost of:  canals, pump-
ing stations, reservoirs, buried pipe
distribution systems, drainage networks,
roads, electro-mechanical equipment
and filter for pumping stations, hydrants,
telecommunication equipment and mobile
sprinkler equipment                             41.0
National Agricultural   Farm Development through Agricultural
Credit Bank (CNCA)      Credit                                          3.2
Government              Remaining foreign exchange and local
costs                                           76.8
TOTAL
Estimated Disbursements:                           Millions of US$
CY78   CY79   CY80    CY81   CY82   CY83
Annual               2.0    4.0    8.0   10.0    12.0    5.0
Cumulative           2.0    6.0   14.0   24.0   36.0    41.0
Procurement       All goods to be financed by the Bank loan with the exception
Arrangements:    of selected equipment items not exceeding $250,000 in the
aggregate, would be procured through international com-
petitive bidding in accordance with Bank Guidelines for
Procurement, and would be grouped as far as practicable
into twenty-one lots for tendering purposes. A preference
margin of 15 percent or the prevailing customs duty, which-
ever is less, would be extended to local manufacturers in
the evaluation of bids for equipment. Consultant services
would be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines.



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3 pages
Consultants:      Engineering consultants to the Regional Office for agri-
cultural Development in the Doukkala would amount to
186 man-months at an average cost of $6,800 per man-
month.
Rate of Return:    11.6 percent.
Appraisal Report: No. 1431a-MOR dated April 12, 1977



ANNEX IV
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:              two years
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:              Consultants/FAO-IBRD/CP
(c)  Project preparation report submitted to Bank:   November 1974
(d) Appraisal mission for the entire project
including the first and second extension
of irrigation:                                  April 1975
(e) Departure of appraisal mission for the
proposed extension:                              October 1976
(f)  Completion of negotiations:                     March 1977
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:                  August 15, 1977
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) ORMVAD to levy and collect in the project area, water charges and a land
betterment levy on the basis agreed upon under the Doukkala I project.
The Borrower to inform the Bank of results and recommendations of ongoing
review of water charges throughout Morocco (paras. 51 and 52).
(b) ORMVAD to continuously monitor agricultural production in project area
and to evaluate in 1983 and 1988 actual project benefits (para. 46).
(c) ORMVAD to employ additional extension and other staff to meet needs of
project (para. 43).
(d) ORMVAD to improve system of communications within Project area (para. 40).
(e) Retroactive financing of about $500,000 for enlargement of main canal to
permit timely start of this project component (para. 54).



IBRD 10682RI
--  MOLAGA  -  AIr~~~~~~~~~~~~~er,o ~~~MARtCH i977
tyt  A 1LN~
VoIlrr       Me dlt e r rea n e on  Sea
Sl-Iciros
TANGIER   CEIJTA (SEBTA)
TANGIER   TOUA
hi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                 Ai n 
AlIHoceimoa
To,~~~~~~~o 1(0>RneM
0 cr.g., el zadVc a           A B ,                              O)            r I
= l Elevo tions cbove l O OO Ketersn/>/ ' ~~ l F1. '  i  s>.:. t          AA d  . -.r Icha
MOROCCO
-M Mai roadseduaR, 
-   Secondary roads         .-Jcdi                            h d-
--t   Tracks                                                                                           Tenddido-  - Eo-Zo5o  - 
MIRo     LEroads                                                     edr  LKo                           Tdr -
33  Atrports                          DOWL                          B o nor  5l9  ,
43  Ports                                                                                                    af
Im-   e                                    r S  , _                                              -           BocErto  5  ) A
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ JENZROE                              32°
3Z400morIhmsseter rainfall line
Elevations above 1000/  mters  -                                                     -  I
. -Interntionl boundaries 
Essaoui,ra                            ..t.o...".s 
Tamao      0i Toubkalte
5~~  00~1  0  200  250                                              y eokt  e
9   0      100     is0
MILES
Sidi-Ifni    (VeCl  A  
Canary Isands                             c~
_-)(SpOCOn)
L1_ AICZAR07TEl                   olmin    oon
rS'VEN TURA Z ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ asan 
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8






.                             8 s              OM.ho..ed,o                               6                             5
CosoWblan                                                                              KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
A T L A N T I C                                                                                                    DOUKKALA 11 IRRIGATION PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT OF THE OUM ER R' BIA BASIN
EAzemmour                                                                                                    Existing irrigation creas
El Jod.da  0                       B.,ehd
MAACHOU     rre~dDoukkalo I and II areas
0  C E A    N                O e,*MAACHOU         BrehdDu                                                                                olonEes
0   C  E A   N                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Future extensions
-33'                                                                                  1   T~~~~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'.4 -  Existing dams
/Ap, \_  1 XODAOURAT  0Settos                                               hero                              Potential dam sites      33
/   1 SIDI SMA/I  F AREGH         Khouribga       OOued Zem          IMIZOIFANE,  0 Q66                C    Hydro power plants
51D SMAI        AEG-                      Kho-rbga        0                                                 ----Tunnel
IM-OU FOUTN                                                               So                   -   Main irrigation canals
0  L   A                        ~-Rivers
BENI AMIR                   DECH)RA EL OUED
AL MASSIRA
KILOMETERS
TESSAOUT                                                                                 MI °  <  °LES
A          tV  '        ' ' ' . . ' -0.'gENI MOUSSA
-324                                                                                                                                                                    3 , _ 2. ? e/< z-
Q      UPPER 
TESSA(UT   AD    -                                                                       j
IFS    0 ~~~~  CHOUARIT
HAOUZ -j< 
'o~~~~\ ~
-LALLA TAKEeKOUST
9-  :-  7-                    6-'1!_ tZ






IBRD 12561R
~~  ~ ~   To 5odiav,-~~~~~~~~~  T.ElIJuda.                               MARCH, 1977
<~~~~~~ ~~~~~i ~~~~KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
-- -D- _s N ,-E                                                               DOUKKALA E IRRIGATION PROJECT
0/ad Saleni  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~        ~     LDoukksala 2 irrigaition Project
o                      I                                                                                             SvS.1-Coukkala 2 sector boundaries
/~~  I                                                      _____                            >-~~~~~~~  ~ ~        7Ijn = oukkala 1 Irrigation Project
D.-nt                                                                                                            -      _--  Doukkalai 1 sector boundaries
I ~~~~  ~ ~ ~ . ~~~~ 0flOU55r&-~ ~ ~~ ~~SbtS.~                                                                  Existing gravity irrigated areas
Existing sprinkler irrigated areas
Subd'  Airline                                                                                 Fu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F ture high service areas
ivision                    25              S-l ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~) K~Subdivision headqsarters
L" I /                                                                        -M~~~~~~'\ouAboM~xi9~= ain canal
a                                                                    ......... ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tunnels
Soak                    ~~~~~Feeder canals
\       -----Main ~~~drains
/       ----~-Proposed high service canal
e Project pumping stations
k                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Doukkala I pumping stations
* Existing pumping staitions
_______                                                                * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Project CMV's
oNew C  '
S.fi  s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*Existing CMV's
I I  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~32                                   one*Existing sugar factory
de,  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~I               3Future suaar tactory
~--iO contours in meters
c  N                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Boss  i9i-  TUiDaya (Karst depression)
>                              FWRF    U/GA'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SERVICE CANVAl        --    eretr. I              Primary roads
Secondary roads
i  A  D  I  D  A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                 MS2Tertiary roads
I                          ~~~~~~~~~~-Project roads (new)
~~''  '~~  / 0  -- - - Proect roads (to be improved)
I  N  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~.i$,\                      --Provincial boundaries
-  -  ~~~~~~~~   ~~~ ~~~~       ~~~f~~~~A~~~/R  0~~~~~ 2 4 s g i is iu 16
-        -'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                          ci~~~~~~~~~KLOMETReS
> i~~~~~~~~~>   <   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~MILES



