CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1416 MOR
Loan Agreement
(Doukkala II Irrigation Project)
between
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 16, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 16, 1977, between KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter
provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed to make the Loan to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional term has the following meaning:
"ORMVAD" means thM Office Rigional de Mise en Valeur
Agricole des Doukkala, an agency of the Borrower responsible for
agricultural development in the Doukkala.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
forty-one million dollars ($41,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be ameLded from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1984 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-4-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and two-tenths per cent (8.20%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-5 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the Project to be
carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate agricultural, technical, administrative and
financial practices, as follows:
(a) Parts A and C (1) of the Project, except for the
schools, by ORMVAD;
(b) Part B (1) of the Project by the Ministry of Public
Works and Communications;
(c) Part B (2) of the Project by the national electricity
authority of the Borrower;
(d) The schools in Part C (1) of the Project by the Ministry
of Primary and Secondary Education;
(e) Part C (2) of the Project by the Agricultural Research
Directorate of the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform;
(f) Part D (1) of the Project by the national agricultural
credit bank of the Borrower; and
(g) Part D (2) of the Project by the Borrower's competent
authority.
The Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿-6 -
Section 3.02. In order to assist ORMVAD in its activities
under the Project, the Borrower shall cause ORMVAD to employ
engineering consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause adequate provision
to be made for the insurance of the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Eorrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate
to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the


﻿-7-
proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds,


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if
for any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assetLu of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿-9-
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar
functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall cause ORMVAD to: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (current and capital accounts) for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing


﻿- 10 -
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as
available, but in any case not later than four months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank
such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of ORMVAD and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.
(c) Without limitation upon paragraph (a) of this Section,
the Borrower shall cause ORMVAD to maintain separate accounts of
its receipts from each of the charges described in Section 4.03 of
this Agreement and its expenditures for construction, operation
and maintenance of the irrigation system included in the Project.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause ORMVAD to levy and
collect from the start of irrigation, and thereafter review on its
own initiative or at the request of the Bank, the water charge
(taux d'6quilibre) and the supplementary pumping charge
(redevance suppl6mentaire pour frais de pompage) referred to in
Dahir No. 1-69-25 dated July 25, 1969 formant code des
investissements agricoles and in D6cret No. 2-69-37 dated July
25, 1969 relatif aux conditions de distribution et d'utilisation


﻿-11 -
de l'eau dans les p6rimatres d'irrigation, in order to recover
from such charges each year, beginning in the fifth year of
irrigation, all actual operating and maintenance costs of the
irrigation facilities provided under the Project and, taking into
account beneficiaries' incentives and capacity to pay, to recover
over the life of the facilities from such charges, and from the
betterment levy (participation directe A la mise en valeur des
terres irrigu6es) referred to in the said Dahir, a reasonable
portion of the actual capital costs thereof as provided for in
such Dahir.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall ensure that:
(a) ORMVAD will continuously monitor agricultural production
in the areas benefitting from the Project in accordance with a
program to be submitted to the Bank before December 31, 1979, and
will carry out in 1983 and thereafter in 1988 sample surveys of
production and income of representative farms in the areas
benefitting from the Project for the purpose of evaluating the
actual benefits of the Project; and
(b) the system of telecommunications connecting ORMVAD with
its operational offices and field locations will be promptly and
gradually improved for the purpose of assisting in carrying out
the Project.


﻿- 12 -
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause ORMVAD at all times
to be managed and operated according to appropriate agricultural,
technical, administrative and financial policies and practices
under qualified and experienced management assisted by competent
staff in adequate numbers.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall cause:
(a) the Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education to
operate and maintain at all times the schools included in the
Project in accordance with appropriate financial, administrative
and educational practices, and to provide such schools with adequate
teaching, administrative and maintenance staff and facilities;
(b) the Ministry of Public Works and Communications to
maintain the asphalt roads included in the Project in accordance
with appropriate financial, administrative and highway practices;
(c) the national electricity authority of the Borrower to
operate and maintain the power facilities included in the Project
in accordance with appropriate financial, administrative and
public utility practices; and
(d) ORMVAD to operate and maintain the Project facilities
constructed by it in accordance with appropriate financial,
administrative and agricultural practices.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall ensure that ORMVAD will
employ such agricultural extension, supervisory and management
staff as shall be necessary to carry out its activities under the
Project.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purpose of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) Dahir No. 1-69-25 of July 25, 1969 of the Borrower
formant code des investissements agricoles, the lois particuliares
or d6cret d'application promulgated in connection therewith or
any provision thereof shall have been materially amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect the
Project adversely; and
(b) the laws of the Borrower establishing ORMVAD and
defining the scope of its powers and activities (including
D&cret No. 827-66 of October 22, 1966 establishing ORMVAD) shall
have been materially amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect the Project adversely.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely that any event specified in
paragraph (a) or (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 14 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The date September 14, 1977, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


-   1 5   - 
A R T I C L E   V I I 
R e p r e s e n t a t i v e   o f   t h e   B o r r o w e r ;   A d d r e s s e s 
S e c t i o n   7 . 0 1 .   T h e   M i n i s t e r   o f   F i n a n c e   o f   t h e   B o r r o w e r   i s 
d e s i g n a t e d   a s   r e p r e s e n t a t i v e   o f   t h e   B o r r o w e r   f o r   t h e   p u r p o s e s 
o f   S e c t i o n   1 1 . 0 3   o f   t h e   G e n e r a l   C o n d i t i o n s . 
S e c t i o n   7 . 0 2 .   T h e   f o l l o w i n g   a d d r e s s e s   a r e   s p e c i f i e d   f o r   t h e 
p u r p o s e s   o f   S e c t i o n   1 1 . 0 1   o f   t h e   G e n e r a l   C o n d i t i o n s : 
F o r   t h e   B o r r o w e r : 
M i n i s t  r e   d e s   F i n a n c e s 
R a b a t 
K i n g d o m   o f   M o r o c c o 
C a b l e   a d d r e s s :                                           T e l e x : 
M I N I S T E R E   F I N A N C E S                                     3 1 9 3 6 
F o r   t h e   B a n k : 
I n t e r n a t i o n a l   B a n k   f o r 
R e c o n s t r u c t i o n   a n d   D e v e l o p m e n t 
1 8 1 8   H   S t r e e t ,   N . W . 
W a s h i n g t o n ,   D . C .   2 0 4 3 3 
U n i t e d   S t a t e s   o f   A m e r i c a 
C a b l e   a d d r e s s :                                           T e l e x : 
I N T B A F R A D                                                     4 4 0 0 9 8   ( I T T ) 
W a s h i n g t o n ,   D . C .                                       2 4 8 4 2 3   ( R C A )   o r 
6 4 1 4 5     ( W U I ) 


﻿- 16 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
By /s/ Ali Benjelloun
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Munir P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1) Civil works:              28,000,000           40%
canals; pumping
stations; equal-
izing reser-
voirs; under-
ground pipe
network;
drainage net-
work; and
farm and
classified
roads
(2) Equipment:                 8,000,000           100% of foreign
mobile sprinkler                              expenditures or
equipment; elec-                              60% of local
tro-mechanical                               expenditures
equipment and
filters for the
pumping stations;
hydrants; telecom-
munications; and
operation and main-
tenance equipment


﻿- 18 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(3) Consultants'                                  100% of foreign
services                  1,500,000          expenditures
(4) Unallocated                3,500,000
TOTAL     41,000,000


﻿- 19 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent


﻿- 20 -
of $500,000 may be made in respect of Category (1) on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
December 1, 1975.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the


﻿- 21 -.
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is to provide sprinkler irrigation for about
16,600 ha of land situated in the Tnine Rharbia, Faregh and
Sidi Smail subdivisions, and supporting facilities. The Project
consists of the following parts:
Part A:
1.   Land consolidation under the Dahir of 1962 on Land
Consolidation and the Agricultural Investment Code of
1969 as required for the timely implementation of the
Project.
2.   Irrigation and drainage works:
(a) enlargement of the main supply canal (for the last
22 km serving Tnine Rharbia), construction of about
10 km of feeder canals for the North and West 2
sectors and installation of automatic hydraulic
flow regulators;
(b) construction of six electric pumping stations with
a total installed capacity of about 11,300 kW;
(c) construction of an elevated equalizing reservoir
for each such pumping station;
(d) installation of an irrigation water distribution
system including about 450 km of buried pipes,
hydrants and mobile sprinkler equipment; and


﻿- 23 -
(e) establishment of main drainage channels including
excavation and movement of about 300,000 m3 of
earth.
3.   Construction of dirt farm roads with a density of
76 m/ha.
4.   Provision of telecommunications equipment as required
for the proper management of the Project facilities and
ORMVAD's services in the Project area.
Part, B:
1.   Construction of about 48 km of new asphalt roads and
about 60 km of new 4 m gravel roads and reinforcement
of about 64 km of existing asphalt roads.
2.   Construction of power supply facilities consisting of
about 31 km of 60 kV lines, about 62 km of 22 kV lines
and a small 60/22 kV substation as required for operating
the irrigation facilities.
Part C:
1.   Establishment in the Project area of:
(a) five village centers provided with paved roads,
public lighting, treated water supply and schools;
(b) additional subdivisional headquarter buildings
in Zemamra;


﻿- 24 -
(c) four agricultural extension centers provided with
agricultural equipment and extension personnel; and
(d) artifical insemination centers and milk collection
centers.
2.   Strengthening of the applied agricultural research
conducted by the Agricultural Research Directorate
on the farm located in the Zemamra subdivision according
to a program submitted to the Bank.
Part D:
1.   Provision of agricultural credit facilities through the
national agricultural credit bank of the Borrower.
2.   Provision of certified wheat seeds in appropriate
quantity and quality.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1982.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning March 15, 1984
through   September 15, 2006                 872,000
On March 15, 2007                                 888,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 26 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                            Premium
Not more than four years
before maturity                           1.10%
More than four years but
not more than eight
years before maturity                      2.20%
More than eight years but
not more than fourteen
years before maturity                      3.85%
More than fourteen years but
not more than twenty
years before maturity                      5.45%
More than twenty years but
not more than twenty-six
years before maturity                      7.10%
More than twenty-six years but
not more than twenty-eight
years before maturity                      7.65%
More than twenty-eight years
before maturity                           8.20%


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part
A of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines) including the pertinent provisions of the
General Introduction thereto, on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.   Bidders for the works included in the Project for which
prequalification is required, shall be prequalified as described
in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines.
3.   Procurement of items to be financed under the Loan Agreement
shall be grouped as far as practicable into twenty-one contracts:
(i) enlargement of the main supply canal; (ii) two contracts for
the construction of the feeder canal; (iii) two contracts for the
construction of six pumping stations; (iv) construction of six
elevated equalizing reservoirs; (v) supply of large diameter
pipes; (vi) installation of large diameter pipes; (vii) supply of
small diameter pipes; (viii) installation of small diameter pipes;
(ix) drainage network and farm roads; (x) four contracts for the
rehabilitation and construction of classified roads; (xi) mobile


﻿- 28 -
sprinkler equipment; (xii) two contrac-s for the supply of
electromechanical equipment, including filters, for the six
pumping stations; (xiii) irrigation hydrants; (xiv)
telecommunications equipment; and (xv) operation and maintenance
equipment.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Individual purchases of equipment not exceeding the equivalent
of $125,000 per contract and $250,000 in the aggregate may be
procured in accordance with the applicable procedures of the
Borrower.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Morocco may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:


﻿- 29 -
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Morocco if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Morocco equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods
manufactured in Morocco.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then
be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,


﻿- 30 -
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1. Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list
of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications, shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for


﻿- 31 -
its comments before the applicants are notified of the Borrower's
decision, and the Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions
from, or modifications in, the said list as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its
review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the
bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.


﻿- 32 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
prbceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


