Report No. 1171 a-C'                                                             FILE  COPY
Appraisal of a
Second Highway Project Cyprus
November 16, 1976
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS'
CuxTency Unit                - Cyprus Pound (CL)
US$2.41                      = C62.41
US$1.00                      = CO.J41
US$2.41 million              - CE1 million
SYSTEMS OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES; METRIC
Metric System                    British&S System
1 meter (m)                    = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)               = 0.62 mile (mi)
1 metric ton ( m ton)          = 2,204.60 pounds (lb)
ACRONYMS AIND ABBREVIATIONS
AADT                           - Average Annual Daily Traffic
CPO                            - Cyprus Port Organization
DA                             - District Administration
DCA                            - Department of Civil Aviation
E.D                            - Forestry Department
MOW                            - Ministry of Communications
and Works
PWD                            - Public Works Department
GCVERNMENT OF CYPRUS
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
2/Adjusted as of June 1976.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
CYPRUS
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY  AND  CONCLUSIONS   ..................................                                                      i
I.       INTRODUCTION   .............................................                                                        I
II.       THE  TRANSPORT   SECTOR   .....................................                                                      1
A. Effects of Geography and Economic Development on
Transportation   .....................................                                                   1
B.    The  Transport   System   .................................                                                   2
C.  Transportation Policy, Planning and Coordination .....                                                          3
D.    Previous   Projects   ....................................                                                    4
III.        THE  HIGHWAY  SECTOR   .......................................                                                      4
A.    The  Network   ..........................................                                                     4
B.    Traffic   ..............................................                                                      4
C.    Administration   .......................................                                                      5
D.    Planning   .............................................                                                      6
E.    Financing   ............................................                                                      6
F.    Engineering   ..........................................                                                      7
G.    Construction   .........................................                                                      7
H.    Maintenance   ..........................................                                                      8
I.    Training   .............................................                                                      8
IV.       THE  PROJECT   ..............................................                                                        9
A.     Objectives   ...........................................                                                     9
B.    Description   ..........................................                                                      9
C.    Engineering   ..........................................                                                    11
D.     Cost  Estimates   .......................................                                                  11
E.    Financing   ............................................                                                    13
F.     Implementation   .......................................                                                   14
G.     Disbursements   ........................................                                                   14
H.    Environmental   Impact  .................................                                                   15
This document has a restricted distribution and may be usd by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without World Sank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
Page No.
V.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION .....................................    15
A.  Main Benefits and Beneficiaries .15
B. Economic Evaluation .16
C.  Other Project Elemernts ..............................   20
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS    .       .20
TABLES
1. Port Traffic, 1966-75
2. Civil Aviation Traffic, 1966-75
3. Government Development and Transport Expenditures, 1968-74
4. Highway Revenues and Expenditures, 1968-75
5. Highway Network by Administration, 1967-75
6. Motor Vehicle Registrations, 1967-75
7. Nicosia-Limassol Highway Vehicle Traffic
8. Design Standards for the Nicosia-Limassol Highway
9. Highway Width Classification
10. Estimated Project Cost Summary
11. Projected Annual Average Daily Traffic on the New Nicosia-Limassol Highway
12. Annual Traffic Growth Rates, 1975-86
13. Economic Returns on the Nicosia-Limassol Highway
ANNEXES
1. Transportation Projects Previously Financed by the Bank
2. Design of the Nicosia-Limassol Highway and Limassol Bypass
3. Project Implementation Schedule
4. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
5. Nicosia-Limassol Highway -- Link Numbers
CHARTS
16379 Organization of Ministry of Communications and Works
16380 Organization of Public Works Department
MAP S
12094 Transportation Infrastructure - Cyprus
12355 Traffic Flow - Mixed Vehicles A.A.D.T. - Cyprus



SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The economic development of Cyprus was seriously affected by the
events in July 1974. Since then an apparently stable situation has evolved
in the southern, Govermnent-controlled area where an up-turn in economic
activity can be seen.
ii.       In order to accommodate the changed situation, the Government has
carefully reviewed the short and long term requirements of the transport
sector in the southern area. This appraisal relates mostly to transportation
in the southern area and, in particular, to the highway network. There is
presently little traffic movement between the southern and northern areas.
iii.      Highway traffic patterns have altered significantly and the mpin
arteries of the system are the Nicosia to Limassol and to Larnaca corridors.
These corridors serve the major sea and air outlets for the southern area,
the social and economic integration of the three centers (Nicosia the capital,
Larnaca the main airport and Limassol the main port) and the development needs
of the adjacent hinterland.
iv.       The proposed project, the third Bank project in the transport sector
and the second for highways, is addressed to the changed highway needs, whilst
taking due account of the possibility of a resumption of communications. and
traffic between the southern and northern areas of the island. In addition
the project would continue to foster the institutional improvements in the
highway administration which are on-going under the First Highway Project.
v.        The project comprises construction of a new Nicosia-Limassol highway
(about 75 km); feasibility studies with detailed engineering where justified
for other highway improvements (up to 100 km); an urban traffic and transport
study for Limassol; and training. The estimated total cost of the project is
US$25.7 million with an estimated foreign exchange component of US$13.6
million.
vi.       The Public Works Department of the Ministry of Communications and
Works would be responsible for project implementation. Procurement of civil
works would be in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines and consulting serv-
ices for construction supervision and studies would be procured in a manner
acceptable to the Bank.
vii.      The project which was appraised in June 1976 is economically sound
and of high priority. Based on savings in highway user costs the construc-
tion is expected to yield economic returns for individual sections ranging
between 12% and 34% with an overall economic return of 23%. Since the trans-
port industry is competitive the savings are expected to be passed on to
producers and consumers.
viii.     It is proposed to contribute to the foreign costs of the project by
a loan to the Government of Cyprus of US$10.0 million for a 15-year period,
including three years of grace. Thie balance of the foreign costs (US$3.6
million) will be provided from the First Highway Project.






APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
CYPRUS
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Cyprus has asked the Bank to help finance a proj-
ect comprising the construction of a new Nicosia-Limassol highway; feasibility
studies for further highway improvements; an urban transport study for Limassol;
and training. Feasibility studies and detailed engineering for the Nicosia-
Limassol highway were financed under the First Highway Project and carried
out by consultants, Louis Berger, Inc. (USA).
1.02      The total estimated project cost is US$25.7 million with an esti-
mated foreign exchange component of US$13.6 million. The proposed loan of
US$10.0 million will contribute to the foreign exchange costs, the balance
of which will be provided from the First Highway Project (para. 4.21).
1.03      This appraisal is mostly limited to the southern, Government-con-
trolled area of Cyprus. This report was prepared on the basis of informa-
tion from Louis Berger, Inc. and on the findings of an appraisal mission
consisting of Messrs. Payne (Engineer), Auzmendi (Economist), and Ms.
Alexander (Loan Officer), who visited Cyprus in June 1976.
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Effects of Geography and Economic Development on Transportation
2.01      Cyprus has an area of 9,251 km2, 64% being agricultural land, of
which about four-fifths is cultivated. The main geographical features of
the island are two east-west mountain ranges (Kyrenia and Troodos), which
cover about half its area, separated by a broad central plain. The foot-
hills of the mountain ranges and the central plain are the principal culti-
vated areas. This configuration facilitates east-west transport routes, but
is an impediment to north-south routes.
2.02      The economic development of Cyprus had been seriously affected by
political events in July 1974. Since then the Turkish Federated State of
Cyprus was proclaimed in February 1975 and, pending an island-wide political
situation, retains control of the northern part of the island (36% of the land



- 2 -
area), which includes rich agricultural areas, touristic important cities, as
well as the island's major port of Famagusta. About one-third of both Greek-
and Turkish-Cypriots were displaced and became refugees.
2.03      The shock of these events led to a temporary stagnation in the
buoyant economic life, but with active Government support and following the
establishment of an apparently stable, an upturn in the economic activities,
at least in the southern, Government-controlled area, has been noted.
2.04      Both Government and the private sector have shown great resilience
in reacting to the shock of the hostilities. The Government's basic approach
is to reactivate the economy and provide maximum employment, with emphasis on
intensive utilization of existing resources, and priority for export-oriented
activities. Development expenditures by the Government were targeted at CL 23
million for 1975 and CL 28 million for 1976.
B. The Transport System
2.05      Prior to the events of July 1974 Cyprus had a reasonably balanced
transport system comprising highways, ports and airports, together with
reasonably conceived development plans. There are no railways or pipelines
and coastal shipping is not significant. The following modal descriptions
refer to the southern area. There is presently little transport movement
between southern and northern areas.
(a)  Highways
2.06      The highway sector is described in Chapter III.
(b)  Ports
2.07      Limassol, a newly constructed port, is relied on for general im-
ports and exports; Larnaca port is also available, although it is predominate-
ly used for the import of petroleum products. There are also other smaller
ports at Vasilikos, Paphos and Karavostasi (Table 1). In 1975, 56% of total
general cargo generated from or intended for the southern part of the island
was moved through Limassol.
(c) Civil Aviation
2.08      The main airport in the southern part of Cyprus is at Larnaca,
where the Government has extended the runway to accommodate long- and medium-
range jet-aircraft (Table 2).



- 3 -
C. Transportation Policy, Planning and Coordination
2.09      The Planning Bureau centralizes economic planning for the Govern-
ment, integrating development plans for all sectors including transporta-
tion. The events of 1974 interrupted implementation of the third 5-year plan
(1972-76) which was replaced by the Emergency Economic Action Plan (1975-76).
After the disruptions of 1974 the Government concentrated on the immediate
transportation needs and it is now beginning to look at the long-term plan-
ning horizon.
Organization and Regulations
2.10      The organization of the transport sector follows the pre-July 1974
framework. The Mlinistry of Communications and Works (M1CW), through its
Departments of Public IJorks (PWD), and Civil Aviation (DCA), is responsible
for main roads and airports, the Cyprus Ports Organization (CPO) for ports
and the Mlinistry of Interior, the Forestry Department (FD) of the Ministry of
Agriculture and the Municipalities for the remaining roads.
2.11      The Government regulates public passenger and freight transport under
the Motor Transport Regulation Law of 1964 as updated by various amendments,
the latest in 1975; the semi-independent Licensing Authority and the Licensing
Department in MCW administers the Law. The Government controls fares and
schedules of public transport routes and approves schedules of urban and in-
terurban buses. Government control is also exercised directly over the import
of buses and indirectly of trucks, as entry into the road haulage industry is
also controlled by Government. However, these controls and regulations are
administered flexibly and there is competition in the industry.
2.12      Taxis and buses provide passenger transport service.  Interurban
taxis offer fast and convenient service. Three large private firms (each
operating over 100 buses), several smaller private firms, and numerous indi-
vidual owners provide public passenger transport on urban, interurban and
rural roads. The quality and reliability of bus service is generally ade-
quate. The Government is encouraging consolidation of operations in major
urban areas to increase efficiency.
2.13      Small firms and individual owners furnish freight transport ser-
vices. The typical road freight vehicle is a 2-axle truck of 5-10 m tons
capacity; few tractor trailers are used. The quality of service is adequate
and some owners have consolidated operations to improve efficiency.
Financing and Investments
2.14      In general, prior to July 1974, investments in the transport sector
were inadequate for the full and most effective functioning of the sector
(Table 3), even though road user charges significantly exceeded expenditures
(Table 4). Since that time revenues from road user charges have decreased to



-4-
less than half, although they continue to exceed highway expenditures. At
the same time, the Government is facing larger social and economic expendi-
tures to meet the needs of a larger population due to the influx from the
north, to resume the pace of economic developments, and to provide basic
facilities urgently required by the changed situation. The Government is
therefore faced with considerable stringency in financing investments in
the sector and needs to carefully review priorities.
D. Previous Projects
2.15      Annex 1 shows details of these projects which include a port proj-
ect (Loan 628-CY) and a highway project (Loan 904-CY), with a total Bank
participation of US$16.9 million.
III. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
A. The Network
3.01      The total highway network of Cyprus in early 1974 was about 9,500 km,
of which about 4,300 km were bitumen paved (Table 5). The network was gen-
erally adequate in extent, linking all cities and most villages. There were,
however, somne geometric and structural deficiencies.
3.02      The national highways of the southern area administered by MCW make
up 1,472 km, 1,368 km of which are paved. The remainder of the system com-
prises municipal roads, minor roads and forestry roads. The southern area
network, whilst generally of adequate scope, requires improvements to satisfy
the changes in traffic patterns resulting from the changes in the economy
since July 1974.
B. Traffic
3.03      Overall future traffic growth is difficult to predict.  However,
the most significant growth since the events of 1974, has been on the
Nicosia-Limassol road which is the main artery of the southern area network
(Map 12355). Traffic is presently running, in general, above the pre-1974
level (Table 7). The highway traffic growth has been significantly in-
fluenced by factors in the other transport modes. These being Limassol Port,
which is now mostly relied upon for general imports and exports; Larnaca
Port is also available although it is predominantly used for import of pet-
roleum products. Nicosia International Airport has been closed since 1974;
to accommodate long- and medium-range jet aircraft the Government has im-
proved Larnaca Airport. Tourism is much less than expected. The general
economy has declined.



3.04      The motor vehicle fleet for the entire island grew at an average
annual rate of 6.4% between 1968 and 1974 (Table 6), at which latter time
there were about 86,042 registered vehicles. Following the events of July
1974, it is estimated that 85% of the 1974 vehicle population (73,000 vehi-
cles) remained in the southern part of the island; this vehicle population
results in a level of motorization of 13 cars or 17 vehicles per hundred in-
habitants which is about half of that of Britain or France and is the highest
of the developing countries along the eastern Mediterranean. The growth in
the number of vehicles in the south has, however, been depressed by economic
repercussions and decreased income.
3.05      A study of vehicle regulations was carried out under the First
Highway Project by consultants (Henderson, Hughes and Busby, UK); the Gov-
ernment is presently reviewing the consultants' recommendations. During
negotiations the Government agreed to adopt by December 31, 1977, after due
consideration of the study recommendations and in consultation with the Bank,
a road user charges and vehicle weight regulations system and policy for its
highway network, and to implement such system and policy by January 1, 1979.
C. Administration
3.06      Responsibility for highway administration is divided among the PWD
in the MCW, the District administration (DA) in the Ministry of Interior, the
FD in the Ministry of Agriculture, and the Municipalities.  The PWD is res-
ponsible for main highways, the DA is responsible for lower class roads while
the FD is responsible for roads mostly used for forestry management and ex-
ploitation. The Municipalities maintain local streets and roads located en-
tirely within their jurisdiction. Table 5 shows the total pre- and post-July
1974 kilometrage of roads in Cyprus.
3.07      The division of responsibility for roads between four agencies has
resulted in lack of coordination and duplicatLon of efforts, equipment, and
facilities. The Government, being aware of the deficiencies of this situa-
tion employed consultants (Italconsult, Italy) under the First Highway Proj-
ect to carry out a Highway Planning and Organization Study. The study made
recommendations to centralize highway administration under MCW, which would
also be reorganized to ensure efficient operations. The Government has
decided, on the basis of the consultants' recommendations and in consultation
with the Bank, to reorganize the PWD and centralize its highway operations in
the f14W.  As a first step, the Government transferred the responsibility of
all interurban paved highways to the PWD effective June 1974. The further im-
plementation of these agreed recommendations was understandably hindered by
the Government's need to pay immediate attention to higher priority problems
in other sectors arising from the 1974 crisis. There is now, however, no
impediment to the implementation of the recommnendations in the southern area.
During negotiations, the Government confirmed its undertaking under its obliga-
tion in Loan 904-CY, Section 4.06 to complete the remaining organizational
changes in the PWD of MCW according to a time table to be agreed with the Bank
by December 31, 1977.



3.08      The Office of the Senior Roads Engineer in the PWD (World Bank Chart
16380) is responsible for planning, designing, construction and maintenance of
main roads. Under control and supervision of the Senior Roads Engineer, three
District Engineer's Offices carry out highway maintenance and force account
construction in the southern part of the country.  The Senior Roads Engineer's
and District Engineer's Offices were adequately staffed with competent person-
nel but recently several have left to go overseas for much higher salaries.
Design peaks are handled by consultants and additional required expertise is
being built up within PWD by training programs under the First Highway Project
(para. 3.24). The proposed project includes a training element (para. 4.20).
D. Planning
3.09      Before 1973, capital investments for highways were decided mostly
on an ad hoc basis and without due consideration of economic criteria. The
Government realized the advantages of organized economic planning and under
the First Highway Project, undertook with the assistance of consultants
(Italconsult, Italy) a highway planning and organization study. Additionally,
a Planning Section was set up in the Office of the PWD Senior Roads Engineer,
under whose competent direction, planning data, particularly traffic and
cost data, are compiled.
E. Financing
3.10      Funds for highway construction and major improvements are allocated
from the Capital Development Budget, and those for highway maintenance and
minor improvements are allocated annually from the Current Budget. The con-
cerned departments of the respective Ministries administer the use of the
allocations for construction and maintenance.
3.11      PWD has spent, for the entire island, an annual average of CE
1,226,000 on capital road investments and CE 285,000 on road maintenance
(not including overheads) between 1968 and 1974. Total Capital Development
Budget funds allocated for roads in FY1975 are CI 1,654,260 comprising:  PWD:
CT 1,488,700; DA:  CI 165,560; FD:  nil.   For 1976 the PWD Budget is Ch
1,699,600.  Total Current Budget funds for road maintenance in FY1976 are CIM
472,000 comprising: PWD: CE 311,000; DA: CI5 120,000; FD: C+5 41,000 (Table 4).
3.12      Minor improvements by PWD were previously funded only after design
and estimates for each subproject had been detailed; this procedure was ex-
cessively complex and has been changed. PWD now allocates to districts from
a central fund, depending on the priority rating given by PWD Headquarters
which has the authority to transfer funds from one maintenance work to an-
other, according to needs.



- 7 -
3.13      The Ministry of the Interior issues funds on a village basis to the
DA for the upkeep of local roads. Municipalities raise funds for construction
and maintenance by local taxation. Some Municipal road construction is Gov-
ernment grant-aided (Table 4).
3.14      PWD's capital road investment on road maintenance between 1968-74
(para. 3.11), was insufficient to enable the network to keep pace with the
increasing traffic demand and the Government had been seeking ways to increase
highway investments. Since 1974 the significant disruption in the economy and
loss of revenue has caused the Government to exercise still greater financial
stringency. As a result, adequate highway financing may not be possible for
some years. The Government recognizes this situation and has instituted a
policy of detailed evaluation of proposed expenditures to ensure the optimum
use of highway funds.
F. Engineering
3.15      The Design Section of the Office of the Senior PWD Roads Engineer
is responsible for technical preparation of main highway projects. There
are adequate facilities for carrying out most design work and the staff are
competent. Peak design workloads and some special investigations are handled
by use of consultants.
3.16      Highway design standards were revised in 1973.  Details of the
standards, which are satisfactory, are shown in Tables 8 and 9.
3.17      Design work for other than main roads is presently handled by the
concerned agencies. Under the proposed rationalization of highway organiza-
tion, design work would eventually be centralized under the PWD (para. 3.08).
G. Construction
3.18      Prior to 1974 the PWD carried out, by force account, about 100 km
of paved road construction/improvements per year. About 30% of the PWD high-
way equipment is presently in the northern area. However, sufficient capacity
remains in the southern area to enable the Government to continue a satisfac-
tory force account operation for priority and mostly smaller projects.
3.19      There is an adequate civil contracting industry operating in the
southern area. Smaller firms act as subcontractors to PWD for activities
such as earthworks, for which PWD lacks equipment and for the supply of
materials. Major highway construction is normally undertaken by contract.
3.20      There are three major domestic civil works contractors (one was a
subsidiary of a foreign firm but is now wholly owned by Cypriots) with ex-
perience in road construction, all of whom are capable of handling contracts
of the size into which the Nicosia-Limassol road is to be divided. Two of
the firms have several large contracts overseas.



- 8 -
H. Maintenance
3.21      The PWD District Engineer's Offices use mostly force account and
contractors for routine and periodic maintenance, respectively, of roads for
which they are responsible. There is generally an adequate amount of high-
way maintenance equipment and related repair facilities in each district,
although about 30% of PWD's total maintenance fleet remains in the northern
part of Cyprus.
3.22      The quality of maintenance is good but the quantity is inadequate
because annual appropriations are usually insufficient to carry out all neces-
sary maintenance tasks each year.  These "go-stop-go" operations often cause
accelerated deterioration on highway sections where essential maintenance has
to be postponed, pending the release of more funds in the following fiscal
year. PWD produced routine and periodic road maintenance standards in 1976;
these standards form the basis on which PWD budget requests to the Ministry
of Finance are made annually. With the present shortage of revenues, it is
not possible for the Government to presently allocate the maintenance funds
calculated from the 1973 recommendations made by consultants for "ideal"
maintenance. Two factors alleviate the apparent shortfalL of maintenance
funds: (i) the 1976 budget allocation for maintenance has been kept at an
"all-island" level and therefore, its application to the southern part of the
island increases the amount available per kilometre and (ii) the consultants
"ideal" maintenance proposals recommend too short a time between resealing
operations on typical average-trafficked roads; lengthening the time between
reseals to a practical five years decreases the annual maintenance fund re-
quirements. During negotiations, the Government agreed to base its future
road maintenance budget allocations on (i) the 1976 financial level per
kilometre and (ii) traffic volumes. The Government also would attempt to
raise future budget allocations by 10% to remove the backlog of maintenance
operations, for example, the need for shoulder repairs which remains because
of previous under-allocation of maintenance funds.
3.23      The other administrations responsible for roads undertake mainten-
ance mostly on a force account, labor-intensive basis.
I. Train n
3.24      The PWD has normally been able to recruit and retain an adequate
number of competent staff for its operations. Peak loads have been handled
by consultants. To enable staff to remain abreast with modern procedures
and techniques the First Highway Project contained about 30 man-months of
overseas training in project preparation and execution. The training com-
prised mostly short practical courses and the program has been extended
through 1977. Some of the benefits to Cyprus of the training program have
been eroded, at least temporarily, as some PWD professional staff have
been attracted overseas by higher salaries.



- 9 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. ObJectives
4.01      The events of July 1974 significantly changed the basic economic
structure of Cyprus with corresponding effects on the infrastructure, includ-
ing the transport sector. In particular, highway traffic patterns altered
most significantly in the Nicosia-Limassol and Larnaca corridors, along
which roads serve the major sea and air outlets for the southern part of
the island. The changed traffic patterns, along almost the whole length of
the Nicosia-Limassol road, have enhanced the priority for new construction
investment established earlier by a Bank-financed consultants study in 1973.
The Government has given due consideration to the development of rural roads,
however, the rural road network is adequate to support agricultural redeploy-
ment and development in the south, average total road network density per
sq km being almost three times that of a comparable country with similar
demographic distribution. For particular areas however, for example, the
Pitsilia area (possibly to be Bank-assisted) the provision of water supplies
and access roads is inadequate and would be prerequisites of any new in-
tegrated rural development projects.
4.02      The Government's policy toward transportation and the proposed
project recognize the need to facilitate the social and economic integration
of the three most important centers: Nicosia the capital; Larnaca the air-
port and Limassol the main port. However, whilst the project has been de-
signed in light of the apparently stable present situation, it takes due
account of the possibility of a political settlement which would make traffic
movement between the southern and northern areas possible (para 5.08). Due
consideration has been given in the economic analysis to (a) a continuation
of the present situation, (b) a partial and (c) a complete return to the
pre-1974 political conditions. The economic analysis indicates that the
project is justified not only for the southern area of Cyprus but for the
island as a whole (para. 5.02).
B. Description
4.03      The project would comprise:
(i) construction, with supervision, of the first two lanes of
a new Nicosia-Limassol highway (about 65 km), the first
sections of a Limassol bypass and a connecting link to
Limassol (about 10 km) and connecting and access roads
between old and new highways;



- 10 -
(ii)  feasibility studies for improvements of the Limassol-Paphos
highway (about 70 km) and a connection between the new
Nicosia-Limassol highway and Larnaca (about 30 km);
(iii)  detailed engineering of up to 100 km of the highest priority
and economically justified sections from (ii) above;
(iv)  appropriate studies relating to the transport sector;
(v) an urban transport study of Limassol; and
(vi)  training of MCW staff.
Map IBRD 12094 shows the location of the project.
Highway Construction
4.04      The Nicosia-Limassol road was constructed in the early 1930's.
Although improvements have been made over the years to attempt to meet
increasing traffic demands it can only accommodate present traffic at low
service levels.
4.05      The present deficiencies are:  narrow pavements (5.5-6.5 m) and
shoulders, inadequate sight distances, steep grades, and unrestricted road-
side development in urban and peri-urban areas. The proposed construction
would provide a modern two-lane restricted access highway close to the
existing highway.
4.06      The present road would be used for local traffic and serve as re-
serve capacity. Adequate connections would be provided to villages in the
highway area.
4.07      The new highway would connect to a four-lane access road into
Nicosia presently under construction which will satisfactorily handle entry
and exit to and from the city area. The design and layout near Limassol
incorporates a partial bypass of the city and would accommodate future con-
nections to and from the city.
4.08      Detailed traffic and design studies were undertaken by consultants
(L. Berger, Inc., USA) under the First Highway Project. Several alternatives
were considered to arrive at a solution which is part of a stage construction
concept towards an eventual four-lane facility. Details are given in Annex 2.
4.09      Construction supervision would be undertaken by the PWD with assis-
tance from consultants. During loan negotiations assurances were given by
the Government that it will make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank
for construction supervision.



- 11 -
Feasibility Studies and Detailed Engineering
4.10      The Government proposes to employ consultants to carry out feas-
ibility studies and subsequent detailed engineering (for high priority,
economically justified sections) of the Nicosia-Larnaca and Limassol-Paphos
roads; about 100 km of highways would be studied. Approximately 175 man-
months of consultant services would be involved.
4.11      Appropriate small scale studies relating to the transport sector
(for example, future traffic management between existing and new highways
as traffic patterns respond to the new construction) would be agreed in
consultation and agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, and be condi-
tional to the availability of loan proceeds in the Category for consultants'
services.
Limassol Urban Transport Study
4.12      The Government proposes to employ consultants to study the trans-
port needs of Limassol'and its environs in relation to the physical pattern
and land use policy of the city. The study would pay particular attention
to basic transport requirements for the integration of essential inter-urban
traffic into the city system and for the needs of the port. Approximately
25 man-months of consultants' services would be involved (para. 5.17).
C. Engineering
4.13      Engineering for the Nicosia-Limassol highway and bypass was carried
out by consultants (L. Berger, Inc., USA), under the First Highway Project
and in accordance with the design standards of Table 8.
D. Cost Estimates
4.14      The estimated cost of the project is as follows, details are in
Table 10:



- 12 -
% Foreign
CGi Million             US$ Million /1         Exchange
Items              Foreign  Local  Total   Foreign  Local  Total    Component
A. Civil Works        3.53    3.53   7.06       8.52    8.52  17.04         50
Contingencies:
Physical (10%)   0.35    0.35   0.70        0.85    0.85   1.70          50
Price Escala-
tion /2          1.07    0.83   1.90       2.55    2.03   4.58          56
Total A          4.95    4.71   9.66    11.92   11.40  23.32
B. Consultants'
Services          0.58    0.25   0.83        1.41    0.61   2.02         70
Contingencies:
Price Escala-
tion /3          0.12    0.05   0.17       0.29    0.12   0.41          71
Total B          0.70    0.30   1.00        1.70    0.73   2.43
Total A + B      5.65    5.01  10.66    13.62   12.13  25.75
Total Project
Cost Rounded      5.6      5.0   10.7      13.6    12.1   25.7 /4        53
/1   CE = US$2.41.
/2   Foreign Costs:  13% for 1976, 12% for 1977-79 and 10% for 1980.
Local Costs: 10% annually, throughout construction period.
/3   10% annually for both foreign and local costs.
/4   The project cost includes about US$200,000 local taxes.
4.15      Construction cost estimates are based on quantities from the final
design and on unit rates; consulting services cost estimates are based on the
estimated man-months required and consultants rates; both rates being applic-
able to early 1976. The average man-months rates for consultants services,
including all overheads are about US$6,000.
4.16      Price escalation of the foreign exchange component of construction
has been calculated using annual escalations of 13% (1976), 12% (1977-79) and
10% (1980). Price escalation for local costs of construction has been assumed
using a constant annual escalation of 10%. Price escalation for consulting
services has been calculated using annual escalations of 10% for both the
foreign and local costs. A 10% physical contingency for civil works has been
included to allow for unforseen quantity increases. During negotiations the
Government and the Bank concurred on the project cost estimates.



- 13 -
4.17      The foreign exchange component for highway construction is estimated
to be about 70% if all work were done by foreign contractors and about 50% if
local contractors carried out all the work. The lower foreign exchange compo-
nent has been adopted for the cost estimates since the probability of award to
a local contractor is high; foreign contractors, while being attracted by the
size of the proposed construction, would probably be reticent to bid and are
likely to bid high because of the extra risks involved due to the political
situation on the island.
4.18      The foreign exchange component for construction supervision refers
to 80-100 man-months of support by consultants' staff and reflects maximum
use of PWD staff.
4.19      The 70% foreign exchange component of other consultants' services
is based on the foreign costs of feasibility studies and detailed engineering
carried out under the First Highway Project.
4.20      Because of the losses of PWD staff to higher-salaried overseas com-
mercial appointments (see para 3.25), there arises a need to make up at least
some of the lost expertise by further overseas training in project preparation
and execution. As in Loan 904-CY, an amount of US$25,000 is proposed for
training of MCW engineering and technical staff.
E. Financing
4.21      The proposed loan of US$10.0 m would finance about 74% of the for-
eign exchange component or about 38% of the total cost. The balance of
US$3.6 m or 26% of the foreign exchange component would be financed from the
First Highway Project. The Government would provide the local cost financing.
4.22      During loan negotiations the financing plan was discussed and
agreed with the Government. Before negotiations, the Government informed the
Bank that it wished to terminate the construction contract under the First
Highway Project, completion of which is frustrated by the present political
situation, and reallocate approximately US$3.6 m to this proposed project; the
Bank's management agreed to the reallocation and amended Loan 904-CY documents
accordingly.
F. Implementation
4.23      The PWD, assisted by consultants, would be responsible for project
execution.



- 14 -
Procurement
4.24      For the construction works, unit price contracts would be awarded
after international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's "Guide-
lines for Procurement". The works would be divided into contracts ranging in
physical and financial size to maximize local contractor participation. Con-
tractors would be permitted to bid for one or more contracts according to
t,heir prequalification status. Works are expected to start in late 1977 and
be completed by late 1980.
4.25      Consulting services would be provided by qualified and experienced
consultants, and according to conditions and Terms of Reference, satisfactory
to the Bank. Agreement on these points was reached during loan negotiations.
The consulting services are expected to start about mid-1977 and be completed
by mid-1979.
Project Implementation Schedule
4.26      The Project Implementation Schedule, which is in Annex 3, was estab-
lished with the Government at loan negotiations.
Land Acquisition
4.27      The Government has the necessary legal powers to expropriate right-
of-way required for roads and to restrict access to the new alignment; MCW
has already received authority to occupy the land required by the project
road. During loan negotiations assurances were given by the Government that
it will make available all right-of-way as needed for the timely implementa-
tion of the project.
G. Disbursement
4.28      Disbursements from the proposed loan will begin only after the pro-
ceeds of the Civil Works Category of Loan 904-CY (the First Highway Project),
with modified project description, have been fully utilized for the earlier
stages of construction of the Nicosia-Limassol road.
4.29      Disbursements will be made on the basis of:
(i) 50% of the cost of the construction works for the
Nicosia-Limassol highway, representing the estimated
foreign exchange component;
(ii) the actual foreign exchange costs of the consultants'
services; and
(iii)  the actual foreign exchange costs of training MCW staff.



- 15 -
A schedule of estimated disbursements, which was prepared with the Government
at loan negotiations, is in Annex 4. Surplus funds remaining in the loan
account after project completion should be cancelled.
H. Environmental Impact
4.30      The new Nicosia-Limassol highway construction will reduce traffic
noise, congestion and air pollution in the urban and peri-urban areas which it
serves. Special care has been taken to select an alignment that will not
disturb the archeological site at Amathus. The other project elements will
have no effect on the environment.
V.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries
5.01      The proposed new highway construction between Nicosia and Limassol
would improve the principal traffic artery in the southern part of the island
(including the first section of a bypass for Limassol) and greatly facilitate
the social and economic integration of the three most important population and
economic centers in the area under Government control: Nicosia, the capital;
Limassol, the principal port; and Larnaca, the main airport in use since
Nicosia airport has been closed. The existing road is below standard to meet
the traffic needs of these centers. In fact, this road was already inadequate
for the modest traffic volumes it carried prior to 1974; since then traffic
volumes have increased rapidly on certain sections (para. 5.09), following the
influx of population and the shift in economic activities from north to south
(Table 7). Thus, the proposed project would benefit the economic development
of the entire southern part of the island.
5.02      The proposed project would remain justified if a political settle-
ment were to restore communications between the northern and southern parts
of the island either partially or completely. These three centers would
continue to develop and to generate considerable traffic and would play an
important part in the interchange of goods, services and people between north
and south. The project road would be part of the principal north-south artery
of the island.
5.03      The principal quantifiable benefits of the proposed improvements
would be savings in transport costs of normal traffic as well as generated
traffic, where appropriate, on the main trunk road. Near the project ter-
minals of Nicosia and Limassol particularly, the project would stimulate new
industrial developments and the generated traffic benefits arising therefrom
have been included in the economic analysis. Additional benefits would accrue



- 16 -
from improved safety and comfort in driving, and some relief of traffic con-
gestion in the approach to Limassol. The principal direct beneficiaries would
be road users. However, because of keen competition in the transport industry,
it is expected that savings in transport costs accruing to truckers and other
transport intermediaries would be passed on gradually to producers and con-
sumers. Cost savings accruing to private car owners do not constitute a
subsidy since car owners pay more than their share of road infrastructure
costs (para. 2.14).
5.04      Road users are difficult to identify and classify precisely as
beneficiaries, partly because their composition varies from one section of
the road to another. While the middle sections serve practically only users
on long distance trips, the sections close to the cities serve significant
numbers of local users. In general, however, the proposed highway would serve
primarily the longer distance traffic. For example, three-quarters of the
total average daily traffic of about 12,000 vehicles on the section near
.Nicosia has its origin or destination in either Limassol or Larnaca or beyond.
Also, almost 50% of the total traffic on the highway is related to work and
business. Trucks and vans account for about 30% of the total traffic and
passenger cars on business trips for about 15% to 20%. Since trucks have
higher operating cost savings than passenger cars, a major share of the total
savings in transport cost from the proposed highway improvement would there-
fore accrue to work and business related traffic. The remaining 50% of the
total traffic is accounted for by passenger cars and buses for commuting,
recreation and personal purposes.
5.05      The proposed project would also generate additional benefits in
that it would assist the Government in determining the feasibility of improv-
ing two possible roads and, if justified, in their further preparation. It
would also assist the city of Limassol in determining measures for improving
its urban transport system and the best manner for its integration with the
planned bypass.
5.06      MCW would derive the benefits from overseas training of selected
members of its staff.
B. Economic Evaluation
5.07      A feasibility study for improving the existing highway was included
in 1973 under the previous Highway Project. At that time, the highway design
standards were judged to be low (para. 4.05) for the traffic it then carried.
Since then the need for improving the highway has become more urgent, because
of the rapid increase in traffic on certain sections following the events in
1974 and the need to develop employment and other opportunities for the large
number of people who moved into the south. Nicosia, Limassol and Larnaca have
become the main development poles of this effort and depend heavily on the
project highway. In addition to these main centers, the highway serves pro-
ductive centers along the road such as two cement factories at Vasilikos and



- 17 -
Moni; the Kalavasos mines of iron pyrites and copper concentrates; the port
of Vasiliko-Ziyi for ore exports; citrus plantations; quarrying and crushing
plants; tourism attractions; and the hinterland.
5.08      Since traffic on the highway proved to be very sensitive to political
developments, the feasibility study considered three alternative cases:
Case 1 -  Continuation of the current situation with practically no
communications between north and south;
Case 2 -  Freedom of communications between south and some cities
in the north, but with no major resettlement of popula-
tions and integration of economic activities; and
Case 3 -  Complete restoration of the pre-1974 situation.
Detailed analyses were carried out for Cases 1 and 2 but only a preliminary
analysis for Case 3.
5.09      Table 7 shows that, in 1973, the average annual daily traffic (AADT)
was almost 10,000 vehicles on the section near Limassol, 5,800 vehicles near
Nicosia and about 4,000 vehicles on the middle section Dhali-Skarinou.  In
1975, the AADT on the Limassol section was about the same as in 1973, while it
had increased to over 5,000 vehicles on the Dhali section and to over 10,000
vehicles on the section near Nicosia. Between 1967 and 1973, traffic increased
at an average annual rate of between 11% and 16%. However, these rates and
the traffic growth after 1973 cannot be used as indicators of future trends,
because of the major changes which have taken place in the structure of the
economy and the events which have influenced the traffic since July 1974. For
example, there has been no apparent traffic growth since 1975 near Limassol,
because the increase in traffic from expanding port operations and other
developments was offset by a loss of traffic due to the slump in tourism and
the departure of foreigners living in the area; such losses are not expected
to continue. Traffic forecasts have therefore been made based on the expected
economic development of the zone of influence of the highway and the changes
in traffic flows which are likely to take place under Cases 1 and 2 indicated
in para. 5.08 above. Table 11 shows the results of these forecasts. In gen-
eral, traffic is expected to grow between 1975 and 1986 at 4% to 6% annually
(Table 2). Traffic volumes would be somewhat lower in Case 2 than in Case 1,
on the section near Nicosia, because of the expected changes in the direction
of the traffic flows under Case 2.
5.10      Three alternative alignments were examined for the new facility:
(i) reconstruction of the existing highway on its present
alignment to reasonable modern design standards;
(ii) construction of a new highway close to the existing
road; and
(iii)  an alignment westward of the existing road.



- 18 -
Alternative (i) was considered primarily because its construction cost might
have been lowest. However, right-of-way costs proved to the much higher than
under the other two alternatives and its reconstruction under on-going traf-
fic would have been difficult and would have seriously hampered traffic. Al-
ternative (iii) was considered because it offered some disLdnce savings aLad
would have served some villages some distance from the existing road. This
alternative proved to be the more costly and would have provided less total
access than the other two alternatives. Therefore, Alternative (ii) was se-
lected as the best solution. Moreover, this alignment was arranged so as to
permit the greatest use of the existing highway, either for local traffic, or
to serve as reserve capacity if needed by the growth of traffic (Annex 2 for
details).
5.11      For analytic purposes as well as for subsequent design and execu-
tion, the project highway was divided into several sections to take into ac-
count differences in traffic, terrain, and construction costs (Annex 5).
Moreover, in order to determine the optimum solution and to provide a reason-
able degree of flexibility in its construction, the feasibility study examined
for each section the merits of reconstruction of the existing highway, and
construction of a new highway to two-lane and four-lane standards, including
the merits of stage-construction to four-lane standards (Annex 2).
5.12      For the economic evaluation of the project only savings in vehicle
operating costs and in time on business trips have been counted as quantifi-
able benefits. Both normal as well as generated traffic, where appropriate,
have been considered for this purpose. Benefits from improved safety, greater
comfort in driving, and savings in time for commuters and all non-business
trips have not been taken into account; the latter have been considered only
as part of a sensitivity analysis.
5.13      The economic evaluation shows that with respect to:
(a) design standards:
(i) a four-lane divided and limited access highway is
justified during the next two decades for the sec-
tions Nicosia-Kornos (25.3 km; Links 16 and 17) and
Pendaskinos River-Limassol (26.3 km; Links 12 and 13)
and the first section of the Limassol bypass (7.4 km;
Links 6 and 7);
(ii) a two-lane highway is justified during the next two
decades for the section between the Pendaskinos River
and Kornos (13 km; Links 14 and 15) and all sections
of the Limassol bypass, except the first one (11.6 km;
Links 1 to 5) and the access road (2.5 km; Link 10).



- 19 -
(b) the timing of construction:
(i)  immediate construction of the full four lanes would be
justified on the sections: Nicosia-Dahli (15.5 km;
Link 17) and Pendaskinos River-Limassol (26.3 km; Links
12 and 13) and the first section of the Limassol bypass
(7.4 km; Links 6 and 7).
(ii) only stage construction of the first two lanes would be
justified on the section Dahli-Kornos (9.8 km; Link 16);
(iii) immediate construction would be justified of the two-
lane highway on the middle section (13 km; Links 14 and
15) between the Pendaskinos River and Kornos and the
access road to Limassol (2.5 km; Link 10); and
(iv) immediate construction of any section of the Limassol
bypass, except the first one, would be premature.
5.14      The Government proposes to build all justified sections, but to
limit construction at present to staged construction of the first two lanes
only and to build the additional two lanes on the sections where four lanes
are justified at a later date. This decision is primarily due to budget-
ary constraints and a lack of additional external financing which could be
mobilized in the near future. The proposed project would, therefore, comprise
basically the construction of a two-lane highway between Nicosia and Limassol,
including the first section of the Limassol bypass and access road, with due
account being taken of the eventual need for four lanes in the design layout.
5.15      The Government's decision is reasonable.  The Economic Return (ER)
on the proposed project as a whole is estimated at 23% in Case 1 and 26% in
Case 2, with ERs for individual sections varying from 34% to 12% (Table 13).
A preliminary analysis indicates the ER of the proposed project would be
satisfactory for Case 3.
5.16      The economic analysis also included sensitivity tests for varia-
tions in the cost of construction and/or in the benefits, and to take into
account the value of time savings accruing from the project to commuters and
other road users on non-business trips.  Table 13 summarizes the results.
These tests show that, even under the more unfavorable assumptions, the ERs
for the proposed project as well as for its individual sections remain accept-
able. Rates of return, based on shadow prices, would not significantly differ
from those given in Table 13 because economic (shadow) prices coincide with
present market prices in Cyprus, excluding taxes, except for labor but the
labor component of total project costs is small. Furthermore, both cost
and benefit streams would be similarly affected by shadow price adjustments.



- 20 -
C. Other Project Elements
5.17      The Project also comprises the execution of two feasibility studies
(Nicosia-Larnaca and Limassol-Paphos roads) and an Urban Transport Study of
Limassol. Although benefits from the studies are not quantifiable, their
recommendations will assist the Government in making informed decisions with
respect to future investments. The study on the Nicosia-Larnaca connection,
would evaluate several alternatives of linking the two cities and would deter-
mine the most economic way of connecting them. The study on Limassol-Paphos
road would cover the continuation of the proposed project to the city of
Paphos, a region the Government is interested in developing, particularly to
take full advantage of its potential as a tourism center. Finally, the Urban
Transport Study of Limassol would examine the best way of integrating the
city's fast growing transport network with the planned bypass as well as other
measures for improving the urban transport system.
5.18      MCW would benefit from its staff attending overseas training courses
and acquiring further expertise.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During loan negotiations the Government, in pursuance of the agree-
ment made under the First Highway Project, confirmed its undertaking to
reorganize its highway administration according to a time table to be agreed
with the Bank by December 31, 1977 (para. 3.07).
6.02      During loan negotiations agreement was reached on the following
principal issues for the proposed Second Highway Project:
(a) adequate highway maintenance (para. 3.22); and
(b) the timing by when a road user charges and vehicle weight
regulations system and policy should be decided and a date
by which implementation of such system and policy should
begin (para. 3.05).
6.03      Following the satisfactory outcome of negotiations, the proposed
project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$10.0 million to the Government.
With an estimated construction period of three years and a 25-year economic
life of the new highway, it would be consistent that the loan terms, on proj-
ect grounds, should relate to those respective times as grace and amortization
periods. However, in conformity with the Bank's lending policy to countries
with higher GNP per capita, a 15-year loan term including three years of grace
is appropriate.
November 1976



TABLE 1
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
CYPRUS
Port Traffic, 1966-75
(Thousand m. tons)
A. Exports
Year     Limassol   Larnaca   Vasilikos 2/   Paphos   Famagusta   Karavostasi 21   Total
1966        96           3         149            89         254           826           1,417
1967       102           3         118            73         338           792           1,426
1968       137           3          87            97         336           872           1,532
1969       128           1          83            75         372           874           1,533
1970       126           -          54            95         380           867           1,522
1971       133           -          62            77         447           617           1,336
1972       169          32          22           107         462           444           1,236
1973       156          18          68            46         491           369           1,148
1974       249          41         100            91         327           190             998
1975       511         323         390            85          -             -            1,309
Annual
Growth
Rate (%)   20.4        68.2        11.3          -0.5        3.2          -16.8
B. Imports
Year   Limassol    Larnaca    Vasilikos         Paphos   Famagusta   Karavostasi 21   Total
1966     206       312 (72%)I/       1            15         434             7             975
1967     230       300 (83%)        13            16         417            15             991
1968     222       341 (81%)        16            16         411             9           1,015
1969     254       371 (79%)        12            11         605            12           1,265
1970     295       383 (86%)        15            15         691            18           1,417
1971     360       451 (82%)        23            13         643            16           1,506
1972     325       728 (97%)        -             12         712             4           1,781
1973     310       777 (94%)        -              2       1,032            -            2,121
1974     479       622 (88%)        -             -          281            -            1,382
1975     658       443 (82%)        33            -           -             -            1,134
Annual
Growth
Rate (%) 13.8      4.0             47.5         -25.0       -5.3           -8.9
1/ Percentage representing petroleum imports
2/ Bulk materials
Source: Shipping and Aviation Statistics, 1974
PWD, June 1976
November 1976



TABLE 2
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
CYPRUS
Civil Aviation Traffic, 1966-75 i/
Freight                     Passengers
(thousand m. ton)                 (thousands)
Year       Imports        Exports        Arrivals        Departures
1966          1              2                72               72
1967          1              2                91               93
1968          1              3              108               110
1969          2              4              143               143
1970          2              6              156               154
1971          4             12              218               218
1972          3              8              271               268
1973          3              7              319               312
1974          1              3              176               168
1975          1              4                87               86
Annual
Growth
Rate (%)       0            8.0              2.1              2.0
Nicosia Airport closed July 1974; Larnaca Airport opened
February 1975
Source: Shipping and Aviation Statistics, 1974
PWD, June 1976
November 1976



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHIWAY PROJECT
CYPRUS
Government Development and Transport Expenditures, 1968-74
('000 C7)
Road
Expenditure                                     Transport Expendi-
Roads                                    as Per-        Ports   Airports                 ture as Per-
Total                                             Total      centage of                                      centage of
Government                                            Roads    Governnep t                          Total       Government
Development                                       Development  Development   Total        Total   Transport    Development
Year    Expenditure    PWD    DA    Forestry  Municipal Expenditures Expenditures  Ports   Airports  Expenditure  Expenditure
1968        6,700      1,245   109        22       195         1,571          23         190        140        1,901          28
1969        8,900      1,238   108        30       287         1,663          19          840       560        3,063          34
1970       10,300        946    67        16       206         1,235          12       1,540        590        3,365          33
1971       12,800        923   114        23       164         1,224          10        2,920        700       4,844          38
1972       17,200      1,567   164        24       154         1,909          11        2,386        353       4,648          27
1973       17,700      1,359   223        14       N.A.        1,596           9        2,513        262       4,371          25
1974       13,500      1,308   133        23       N.A.        1,464          11        1,140         97       2,701          20
1968-74    87,100      8,586   918       152     1,006        10,662          12       11,529     2,702       24,89s          29
Source: Financial Report 1974 and Quarterly Statistical Digest, 1974
November 1976



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
CYPRUS
Highway Revenues & Expenditures 1968-75
('000 CL)
Revenues
Import Duties                                        Taxes & Fees                              All Revenues
Buses              Tyres                           Vehicle                                 Subtotal   Subtotal
&      Motor-      &      Vehicle   Gasoline   Licences        Vehicle       Driving      Import      Taxes
Years  Cars    Trucks   Cycles   Tubes    Parts          Tax       (Road tax)  Registration   Licences    Duties    & Fees          Total
1968   1,221    225         31        98      102       2,785       1,450         329             238        1,677       4,802       6,479
1969   1,916    293         40        95      146       2,748       1,597         444             255        2,490       5,044       7,534
1970   2,145    237         36        93      179       3,073       1,745         434             281        2,690       5,533       8,223
1971   2,875    384         33        98      180       3,446       2,528         495             306        3,570       6,775      10,345
1972   3,348    390         69      133       251       1,146       2,311         644             348        4,191       4,449       8,640
1973   5,103    475         77       133      335         898       2,626          757            423        6,123       4,704      10,827
1974   2,683    212         53        95      221         615       2,443         340             397        3,264       3,795       7,059
1975     652    109         26        99      294         781       2,183          281            465        1,180       3,710       4,890
Expenditures
Construction & Improvement                        Maintenance & Administration             Subtotal   Subtotal
Constrn.   Mtce and
PWD             DA            Forestry             PWD              DA          Forestry      & Imprvt.   Admin.        Total
1968       1,245           109                22               240                93            23           1,376         356       1,732
1969       1,238           108                30               315               105            23           1,376         443       1,819
1970         946            67                16               270               109            24           1,029         403       1,432
1971         923           114                23               276               121            24           1,060         421       1,481
1972       1,567           164                24                303              136            25           1,755         464       2,219
1973       1,359           223                14               307               124            23           1,596         454       2,050
1974       1,308           133                23                286              129            25           1,464         440       1,904
19751/    1,489            166               N.A.              N.A.              N.A.          N.A.           N.A.         N.A.        N.A.
19761/'    1,700          N.A.              N.A.               311               120            41            N.A.         472        N.A.
1/  Budget Allocated Funds.
Source: PWD, June.1976
November 1976



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
CYPRUS
Highway Network by Administration,1967-75
Kilometers
Forestry
Public Works Department    District Administration           Municipalities          Department  All Administrations
Year    Bitumen   Gravel   Total   Bitumen   Gravel   Total   Bitumen   Gravel   Total   Gravel   Bitumen   Gravel   Total
1967     1,878        98    1,976       576     2,916   3,492        573       193      766   1,178      3,027      4,385   7,412
1968     2,003        92    2,095       639     2,792   3,431        666       180      846   1,218      3,308      4,282   7,590
1969     2,047        97    2,144       679     2,792   3,471        690       156      846   1,248      3,416      4,293   7,709
1970     2,105        87    2,192       705     2,870   3,575        785       294   1,079   1,271       3,595      4,522   8,117
1971     2,164        87    2,251       785     2,753   3,538        803       291   1,094   1,506       3,752      4,637   8,389
1972     2,191        87    2,278       927     2,940   3,867        924       523   1,447   1,546       4,042      5,096   9,138
1973     2,185        87    2,272    1,060      2,959   4,019        957       489   1,446   1,604       4,202      5,139   9,341
1974     2,228 1/    88    2,316    1,136       2,896   4,032        990       504   1,494   1,662       4,354      5,150   9,504
1975     2,270 -    104    2,374       N.A.      N.A.    N.A.       N.A.      N.A.    N.A.    N.A.        N.A.       Y.A.    N.A.
% Average Annual Growth Rate
1967-74     2.5        -1,5    2.3       10.2       -0.1     2.1       8.1       14.7    10.0    5.0         5.3         2.3     3.6
Source: Statistics of Motor Vehicles & Road Accidents, 1974
PWD, 1975
For the whole island.
November 1976



TABLE 6
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
CYPRUS
Motor Vehicle Registrations 1967-75
Vans &              Sub-  M/Cycles
Year     Cars      Taxis    Buses   Pick-Ups  Trucks   Total  & Others    Total
1967    35,857    1,363    2,231    4,427    6,137   50,015   11,293    61,308
1968    40,818    1,420    2,151    4,912    6,392   55,693   12,096    67,789
1969    47,492    1,357    2,017    5,512    6,368   62,746   13,331    76,077
1970    53,730    1,426    2,029    6,090    5,603   68,878   13,765    82,643
1971    61,518    1,434    2,025    6,783    6,952   78,712   13,647    92,359
1972    74,127    1,468    2,334   10,331    5,484   93,744   14,935   108,679
1973    76,323    1,359    2,007   10,817    4,668   95,174   14,880   110,054
1974    67,482    1,254    1,853   10,797    4,656   86,042   15,274   101,316
1975    64,613    1,274    1,906    9,572    4,739   82,104   10,987    93,091
Average Annual Growth Rate (%)
1968-74   8.7      -2.0     -2.3      14.0       -5.2       7.5     4.0        6.9
Source: Statistics of Motor Vehicles and Road Accidents 1972 and 1974
PWD, June 1975
November 1976



TABLE 7
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
CYPRUS
Nicosia-Limassol Highway - Vehicle Traffic
(Average Annual Daily Taffic, AADT)
Vehicle      Nicosia-      Dhali-        Skarinou-    Yermasoyia-
Year        Type         Dhali       Skarinou      Yermasoyia      Limassol
1967     Passenger       2,206       1,281           2,237         4,469
Cars & Vans
Buses            233          122             213           398
Lorries           389         257             389           441
1967 Total               2,828       1,660           2,839         5,308
1973     Passenger
Cars & Vans    5,030        3,423           4,675         8,742
Buses             223         150             238           380
Lorries           554         573             725           789
1973 Total               5,807       4,146           5,638        9,911
1975     Passenger
Cars & Vans    8,777        4,097           5,098        8,372
Buses            580          219             233          402
Lorries        1,276          909           1,285        1,172
1975 Total              10,633       5,225           6,616        9,946
Annual Growth Rate
1967 - 1973               13%         16%             12%          11%
Annual Growth Rate
1973 - 1975               35%         12%              8%           0%
Source: PWD Planning Section, June 1976
November 1976



TABLE 8
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
CYPRUS
Design Standards for the New Nicosia-Limassol Highway
Amount
Item                        Unit         Rolling    Hilly
Geometric Design Standards
Speed                                      kph           100         80
Minimum Stopping Sight Distance            m              200       130
Minimum Passing Sight Distance             m              500       400
Desirable Horizontal Curve Radius          m              670       450
Minimum Horizontal Curve Radius            m              320       200
Maximum Gradient                           %              3-5       4-6
Maximum Superelevation                   (urban)%          6         6
(rural)%         8          8
Roadway Features
Width
Lane                           m              3.5
Pavement                       m              7.0
Shoulders                      m              3.0
Wearing Course                               Asphaltic Concrete
Pavement Design                              AASHTO/TRRL Road Note 29
Bridge Design Standard                       AASHTO HS20-44
Source: Public Works Department
Ministry of Communications & Works, June 1976
November 1976



TABLE 9
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
CYPRUS
Highway Width Classification
Pavement    Usual Shoulder   Range Shoulder!/
Class        Type           Width (m)        Width (m)         Width (m)      Remarks
A     Four lane divided-' 2 x 7.0          3.0/1.3              -         Outside/Inside
A     Four lanes.         12.2 - 14.0        2.5           2.5 - 3.0      City streets
A     Two lanes               7.3            2.0               -          Now superseded
See Table 8
B     Two lanes               5.5            2.0          1.5 - 2.0
C     Two lanes               5.5            1.0               -
D     Single lane          3.0 - 3.6         1.25         1.25 - 2.3
1/ Shoulder widths are varied occasionally depending on terrain.
2/ 5.0 m median
Source: Public Works Department, June 1976
November 1976



TABLE 10
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
CYPRUS
Estimated Project Cost Summary
Length           CE Million                   US$ Million-l/
Project Element             Km       Foreign  Local  Total          Foreign  Local  Total
A. Construction
1.  Nicosia-Dhali
Civil works             15.5         0.56   0.56   1.12             1.35   1.35   2.70
Contingencies                        0.05   0.06   0.11             0.14   0.13   0.27
Total Contract 1                     0.61   0.62   1.23             1.49   1.48   2.97
2.  Dhali-Skarinou
Civil works             22.8         1.32   1.31   2.63             3.17   3.17   6.34
Contingencies                        0.13   0.13   0.26             0.31   0.32   0.63
Total Contract 2                     1.45   1.44   2.89             3.48   3.49   6.97
3.  Skarinou-Amathus
Civil works             29.8         1.47   1.46   2.93             3.53   3.53   7.06
Contingencies                        0.14   0.15   0.29             0.35   0.35   0.70
Total Contract 3                     1.61   1.61   3.22             3.88   3.88   7.76
4.  Amathus-Limassol
Civil works             6.4          0.20   0.19   0.39             0.47   0.47   0.94
Contingencies                        0.02   0.02   0.04             0.05   0.05   0.10
Total Contract 4                     0.22   0.21   0.43             0.52   0.52   1.04
Total Construction    74.5           3.89   3.88   7.77             9.37   9.37  18.74
B. Supervision
Supervision                          0.24   0.10   0.34             0.58   0.25   0.83
Contingencies                        0.05   0.02   0.07             0.12   0.05   0.17
Total Supervision                    0.29   0.12   0.41             0.70   0.30   1.00
C. Consultants Services
Feasibility Studies                  0.15   0.07   0.22             0.37   0.16   0.53
Detailed engineering                 0.19   0.08   0.27             0.46   0.20   0.66
Contingencies                        0.07   0.03   0.10             0.17   0.07   0.24
Total Consultants Services           0.41   0.18   0.59             1.00   0.43   1.43
D.  Price Escalation of Construction          1.07   0.83   1.90            2.55   2.03   4.58
TOTAL PROJECT COST:                           5.66   5.01  10.67           13.62  12.13  25.75
1/ Cll=US$2.41
Source: Mission Estimates September, 1976
November 1976



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
CYPRUS
Projected Annual Average Daily Traffic on the New Nicosia-Limassol Highway (2 Lanes)
Case No. 1
1981                                                           1986
Passenger                                                   Passenger
Links-  Cars       Van     Trucks   Bus          Total                Cars       Van      Trucks   Bus        Total
6      3,854    1,015    1,777    261           6,907                4,719    1,224    2,250    279          8,472
7      4,386    1,155    1,876    316           7,733                5,372    1,393    2,367    338          9,470
10      2,511       547      375    258          3,691                2,980       641       476    273        4,370
12      2,987       652    1,216    176          5,031                3,677       805    1,624    188         6,294
13      3,138       685    1,187    112          5,122                3,863       845    1,588    120          6,416
14      3,286       693      924    108          5,011                4,044       857    1,230    115          6,246
15      3,391       752    1,026    116          5,285                3,969       880    1,294    117          6,260
16      3,657       875    1,115    158          5,805                4,252    1,015    1,394    157           6,818
17.1    8,721    2,296    2,411    491          13,919               10,712    2,281    3,210    524          17,267
17.2    5,413    1,287    1,439    325           8,464                6,663    1,583    1,950    347         10,543
17.3    5,472    1,309    1,496    327           8,604                6,747    1,614    2,039    350          1C,750
17.4    5,444    1,312    1,428    326           8,510                6,704    1,618    1,921    349          10,592
17.5    4,133    1,000    1,161    227           6,521                5,083    1,233    1,543    242           8,101
Case No. 2
6      4,277    1,190    2,137    251           7,855                5,869    1,832    2,969    353          11,023
7      4,832    1,372    2,238    308           8,750                6,398    2,035    3,078    408          11,919
10      2,852       663       447    253         4,215                3,686        971      669    324         5,650
12      3,375       788    1,455    174          5,792                4,598    1,209    2,068    230           8,105
13      3,494       820    1,417    109          5,840                4,820    1,272    2,012    154           8,258
14      3,593       825    1,073      96         5,587                 4,948    1,279    1,561    135          7,923
15      3,572       863    1,154    100          5,689                4,416    1,194    1,500    124           7,234
16      3,848    1,000    1?240    136           6,224                 4,777    1,396    1,620    172          7,965
17.1    6,502    1,974    2,020    294          10,790                 8,977    3,085    3,002    415         15,479
17.2    4,225    1,111    1,248    201           6,785                5,703    1,707    1,854    284           9,548
17.3    4,277    1,134    1,308    203           6,922                 5,782    1,746    1,952    287          9,367
17.4    4,249    1,136    1,231    202           6,818                 5,723    1,752    1,774    285          9,534
17.5    4,446    1,164    1,337    195           7,142                 6,129    1,812    1,960    274         10,175
Note: For the period 1986-2005, 2/3 of the growth rate for the period 1981-86 was assumed.
1V The links are defined in Annex 5.
Source: PWD and Mission Estimates (Based on Feasibility Study).
November 1976



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
CYPRUS
Annual Traffic Growth Rate, 1975-86
Links                            Average Annual Daily Traffic (AADT)-2-Lane New Road                  Annual Traffic
Existing      New Network           1975                1986 (Case 1)                     1986 (Case 2)             Growth Rate Z
Network  Exist. Road  New Road  Exist. Net   Exist. Road   New Road  TOTAL  Exist. Road  New Road  TOTAL   Case 1   Case 2
7'        7'           7         9,658         6,031         9,470    15,501    7,934        11,919   19,853    4.4         6.8
12'       12'          12         6,149         3,214         6,294     9,508    4,384         8,105   12,489    4.1         6.7
13'       13'          13         6,343         3,320         6,416     9,736    4,753         8,258   13,011    4.0         6.7
14'       14'          14         4,232           278         6,246     6,524       431        7,923    8,354    4.0         6.4
15'       15'          15         4,387           392         6,260      6,652    1,319        7,234    8,553    3.9         6.3
16'       16'          16         4,936           752         6,818     7,570    1,861         7,965    9,826    4.0         6.4
17'       17'          17        10,465         5,035        10,750    15,785    4,125         9,767   13,892    3.8         7.4-I
/  Existing links are designated with the same numbers of new links to
which they are parallel, and differentiated by prime.
2/
-   Corresponds to the period 1981-86.
Source: Public Works Department and Mission Estimates
(Based on Feasibility Study)
November 1976



TABLE 13
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
CYPRUS
Economic Returns on Nicosia-Limassol Highway (2 Lanes).V
Economic Rate of Return (%)
Links-'    A         B          C          D           E          F          C
--------------------------  Case1  ------------------------1--
6     24         25         22         22          20         16         27
7     24         25         22         22          20         18         27
12     21         22         19         19          18         16         23
13     25         26         23         23          21         19         27
14    .15         15         13         13          12         11         16
15     19         20         17         18          16         15         21
16     12         12         11         11          10          9         14
17     34         35         31         31          28         25         37
All
Links    23         24         21         21          19         18         25
--------------------------  Case2  --------------------------2
6     31         32         28         28          26         23         34
7     32         32         29         29          26         24         35
12     29         30         27         27          24         21         32
13     33         34         30         30          28         24         36
14     20         20         18         18          16         15         21
15     24         24         21         21          20         18         26
16     17         18         16         16          15         15         20
17     25         26         23         23          21         18         28
All
Links    26         27         24         24          22         20         28
Symbols:  A - Best estimate of construction cost and most likely value
of benefits.   (Time savings was only considered in
business trips.)
B - A with accident benefits
C - A with 15% increase in construction cost
D - A with 10% decrease in benefits
E - A with 15% increase in construction cost and 10% decrease
in benefits
F - A without time savings
G - A with non-business time savings
1/ Rates of return are based on economic prices, which exclude all
indirect taxes and include all subsidies. No attempt has been
made to estimate rates of return on the basis of shadow prices
because such prices would not significantly differ from the
above economic prices.
2/ The links are defined in Annex 5.
Source: PWD and Mission estimates.
November 1976



ANNEX 1
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
CYPRUS
Transportation Projects Previously Financed by the Bank
1.   Loan 628-CY, Government of the Republic of Cyprus, Ports, US$11.5 mil-
lion. Major components of this project are:
(i) construction of a new deep-water, alongside berth port at
Limassol to replace the existing literage facilities;
(ii) procurement, for the Public Port at Famagusta, of mobile
cranes, forklifts, trailers, tractors, conveyors and other
small floating mobile equipment;
(iii) consulting services for the above and for the improvement
of port administration, operation and accounting procedures
of the Public Ports of the Borrower; and
(iv) construction of an access road of approximately two miles
from Limassol to the new deep-water port and provision of
water main and electrical connections.
The project has been physically completed, except for Covenants 5.09 (b) and
(c) of the Loan Agreement concerned, which are still to be made operational.
2.   Loan 904-CY, Government of the Republic of Cyprus, Highways, US$5.4 mil-
lion. Major components of this project are:
(i) construction and construction supervision of the four lane
divided Nicosia-Morphou highway (32 km) and about 12 km of
access roads;
(ii) consultant services for:
-    a study of highway planning and organization;
-    feasibility studies of the Nicosia-Famagusta and
Nicosia-Limassol roads and of the Nicosia, Famagusta
and Limassol bypasses (170 km) and detailed engineer-
ing for the highest priority road sections (about
90 km);
-    studies of road user charges and vehicle weight
regulations; and



ANNEX 1
Page 2
(iii) training of Department of Public Works staff.
Construction has been prevented due to the events of 1974. The Government
has, with the Bank's concurrence, suspended the construction contract to
early October 1976. At that time the Government decided to terminate the
contract and asked the Bank to agree to the reallocation of about US$3.6
million from the Civil Works Category of this loan to the proposed Second
Highway Project. The Bank agreed to the Government proposal (para 4.22).
The Nicosia-Famagusta road Feasibility Study has been excised from the
project. The Nicosia-Limassol Feasibility Study has been completed. Both
the Detailed Engineering and Road User and Vehicle Regulation Study were
completed end-August 1976. Training of PWD Staff is still in progress.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
CYPRUS
Design of the Nicosia-Limassol Highway and Limassol Bypass
General Alignment
1.        The road was first constructed in the 1930's and progressive minor
realignments started in 1958. The original pavement width was 5.5 m but some
widening to 6.5 m by paving parts of the narrow shoulders is a feature of cur-
rent road maintenance. The traffic service level is reduced by substandard
sight distances (both overtaking and stopping); steep grades (particularly at
Skarinou on each side of the Pendaskinos river valley); narrow pavement and
shoulder widths; unrestricted access from roadside development at the terminal
urban fringes.
2.        Three alternative route alignments between Nicosia and Limassol
were selected for comparison by the consultants. These were:
A.   the existing alignment;
B.   a new alignment close to the existing alignment; and
C.   a new alignment between Nicosia and Skarinou, approximately
halfway to Limassol, and then following the alignment in B
(above) to Limassol.
3.        Alignment A was rejected because of:
(i)  high compensation costs along the existing, developed
right-of-way;
(ii)  the problems of restricting access to a new facility as
existing highway legislation allows access to every roadside
development along the existing route;
(iii)  the interruption penalties that would be caused to traffic
during construction; and
(iv)  the alignment is poor (stopping and passing sight distances,
etc.).
4.        Alignment C was eliminated because:



ANNEX 2
Page 2
(i)  the alignment between Nicosia and Skarinou would have involved
excessively high construction costs arising from deep rock cuts
and high level bridges as the route crossed and recrossed the
Pendaskinos river valley;
(ii) the alignnent would have imposed a distance penalty on
the developments which have already become established
along the existing road because of the separation in
distance between old and new routes; and
(iii) the alignment would have passed through a sparsely pop-
ulated area with little agricultural or economic potential.
5.        Alignment B was accepted for further detailed analysis with the
important provisos that:
(i) as much as possible of the existing alignment (A) should be
preserved to cater for local traffic and provide reserve
capacity; and
(ii) intersections between old and new alignments should be kept
to a minimum to maintain planned limited access to the new
road.
Alignment B begins at Strovolos, on the urban fringe of Nicosia and where a
four-lane urban road, now under construction, will end and continues to a
point on the west side of Limassol where the existing Limassol-Paphos road
meets the newly constructed access to the new port. That part of Alignment B
between a point east of Amathus, and the port access is the Limassol Bypass
(Map 12355).
The Limassol Bypass
6.        The Limassol Bypass would be about 13 km long; this length does
not include connectors to the town. The proposed alignment starts east of
Limassol and runs inland at a short distance from the existing coastal road,
widening of which would be impractical as it would infringe on the important
archeological site at Amathus and disturb hotels and tourist facilities along
the coast as well as certain inland residential areas. Approaching Limassol,
the proposed alignment swings inland through rural land, beyond the fringe
of present urban development. A further shift inland northward was rejected
because it would have raised construction costs as the terrain undulates more
sharply in the foothills of the Troodos mountains. The city government has
agreed to the proposed alignment.
7.        Two other alternatives for the bypass were also considered:
(i) an inner route following the alignment of a bypass selected
by the Town Planning Office in a master plan dated 1970-71;



ANNEX 2
Page 3
this route has great limitations because separate sections
have been built by private developers to serve dense resi-
dential areas; right-of-way is insufficient, access uncon-
Lrolled, and pavements and drainage ace poor,
(ii)  another route, closer to the town center and pres--'- i-
service, has also been studied and evaluated, but urban
congestion along this facility is pronounced and any recon-
struction on this location would result in a major displace-
ment problems for commercial activities.
It is thus not possible to improve these two inner routes as a real alter-
native to the outer bypass in terms of levels of traffic service.
8.        Traffic projections by the consultants show that the major role of
the Limassol Bypass would be to serve as a collector/distributor for the main
highway network in and around Limassol and the new port; only a relatively
small proportion would be through traffic to Paphos and beyond. The bypass
would have a significant impact on Limassol's overall urban transport pat-
tern; recognizing this, the project will include an urban transport study of
Limassol to define, inter alia, the positions and construction standards of
the connectors between the bypass and the Central Business District (CBD)
and make recommendations for traffic management within Limassol.
9.        At present most traffic between Limassol, including the new port,
and Nicosia and other centers to the east is channelled through a few down-
town streets and an urban highway along the coast. This esplanade, both high-
way and foreshore elements, is now under construction; its improvement will
ease traffic flows (currently about 10,000 ADT) but at the expense of channel-
ling vehicles, particularly those heavy ones destined for old and new ports,
along the recreational foreshore until they can be routed along the bypass
when ultimately completed. The eventual construction of the Limassol Bypass
will not hinder urban development, either around the city since the alignment
is beyond the fringes of present development, or eastward on the coastal
stretch since the bypass would preserve this stretch for future residential
and recreational development would isolate it from through traffic.
10.       Construction of five western links of the Limassol Bypass would now
be premature economically and postponable technically. Nevertheless, the
right-of-way for these sections (11.6 km) will be acquired soon to take advan-
tage of low land acquisition costs and to reserve the land for future construc-
tion along a fixed and realistic alignment between the limits of Limassol's
present urban growth and the foothills of the Troodos mountains.
11.       Two links of the Bypass that are economically justifiable for con-
struction will form a new connection to Limassol CBD from Nicosia via
Yermasoyia a short connector (0.6 km) near Amathus will also be upgraded to
provide access between the proposed new Nicosia-Limassol road and the old
coastal route before it joins the new esplanade (Annex 5).



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Design Concepts and Standards
12.       Detailed engineering for both the Nicosia-Limassol highway and for
the Limassol bypass sections financed from the First Highway Project is
finished. Design standards are in Table 8. The following alternatives were
considered: (i) two-lane construction; (ii) the staged construction of the
first two lanes of an ultimate four-lane divided highway when the postpone-
ment of the construction of the second two lanes was five years or more; and
(iii) straightaway four-lane divided construction. In the two earlier eco-
nomic analyses, there was an appreciable differences between two-lane and
two-lane staged construction cost estimates because the latter contained
extra quantities of excavation, rock and drainage items in recognition of the
four-lane treatment proposed for some selected embankments and rock cuts. In
the final updated economic analysis, the two-lane staged construction esti-
mates, based on measured quantities from detailed engineering, exclude the
supplementary incremental quantities originally proposed for occasional four-
lane treatment. Only minor additional works are included for staged construc-
tion, for example, omission of culvert headwalls and extensions of culvert
length to allow further lengthening at a later stage to be carried out with-
out having to disturb existing embankments; the quantities for two-lane and
two-lane staged estimates are virtually identical. Since the Government
wishes to take advantage of present day values it proposes to reserve the
land for eventual four-lane divided construction, thereby assuming control of
access to the proposed highway. The Government has prepared both two lanes
staged and four-lane designs for those road sections where simple two-lane
construction was indicated to take advantage of the availability of the con-
sultants design staff, the low additional cost per kilometer for the extra
design work and the opportunity of preparing "on-shelf" projects for the
future.
13.       The existing alignment has been preserved for local traffic and/or
reserve capacity; only two at-grade intersections of old and new alignments
will be required between Skarinou and Limassol. Two asphalt overlays are
planned at 8 and 16 years after the opening of the road or at such shorter
times as traffic wear dictates, so that pavement overdesign in the early
stages of the road life is avoided. The timing of extra asphalt overlays
would also be adjusted to take account of the maximum axle load in Cyprus
to be adopted by the Government after the implementation of a vehicle
weight regulation system and policy (para 3.05).



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
CYPRUS
e-t I.lMeutn Schedule
rTEM                   ACTIVIFY                                 ACTION BY                     19_ _     _            /9 77                        /97                         /979                         1980
-______________________________ _  A_  _ _7 - _       ElJJ      A.l  YJA_         )J D k r     A,Ll JfAi A,i, --       /1 Af.o   3 A Al  l O A.r-A,A/   5O T  r A A1 ,s, A,
1. Brak Loan            1.01 Negotiations                       Go'rt./Bank                        E
1.02 Signing Loan Agreement             Govt./ank9
1.03 Loan Agreement effective           Govt./Bank 
2. Nioosia-             2.01 Final Elogineering                 Govt./Cons.
Limheaol.           2.02 Preparation Bid Document.          Govt./Cons./Bank
Detailed           2.03 Right-of-Way Acquisition            Govt.
Engineering.
3. Construotion         3.01 Preiuerifioation end
Contract, 1        3.2Adve  iseeent                         Govt.
Nicooia-Dhali       3.02 Preparation of Bide                 Contractors                                        _
3.03 Evaluation and Awsrd               Govt.  _c                                                                                36  mo 
3.04 Conetruotion                       Govt./Contractor
4. Construction        4.01 Prequalifioation and
Contraot 2               Advertissrent                      Govt.
Dhali-Skeri.ou     4.02 Preparation of Bide                 Contranktor                                                MA
4.03 E~Valuation end Award               Govt. /.Bank                                                           ____________    ____________    __________
4.04 Conwtraotion                       Covt./Contraotor
5. Construction        5Z01 Piageefi.t o nd                    G     ::t.                                  _
Contract 3         5.02 Prepration of Bide                  Contractors
AB^thV  ~         23 EvalnstuationanAad                Govt./Bank                                                                               36-wx%             
Amsthua-            6.02 Prepara,tion of Bids               Contraotors                                                               4
Lima.sol           6.03 Evaluation and Award               Govt./Bank                                                 __4o74    
6.04 Construction                       Govt./Contraotor___                                                                                          _     __           
7. ?e.eibilitY          7.01 Preparation of Tern,e
Studies and               of Referenoe                      Govt./Bank
Detailed            7.02 Preparation of Proposals           Consultants
Engineering         7.03 Evaluation and Award                Gov-t./Bank                                                     AD-
7.04 Emeoution of Studlies              Govt:/Cone.                                                      /  
7.05 Review and Seleotion of           . 
Sections for Detailed Engineering  Govt./Bank                                                                                      12 n-TfA
7.06 Detailed Engineering               Govt./Cone.                                                           -1-       -
8. Limaceol Urban      8.01 Preparation of Per,o                                                        _
Traneport Study           of Referenoe                      CGovt./tank 
8.02 Preparation of Proposals           Consultante
8.03 Evaluation Mad Award               Govt./Bank                                              _ --M.:
8.04 Execution of Study                 Govt./Cons.
8.05 Review of Recoomaendations         Govt./tank              _
9. Constrmotion        9.01 Preparation of Terr-a                 o.                                        _       -
Super7ision              Re.erenoe                          Govt./tank
9,02 P:reparatieon of Proposals          Consultants                                                                      ____________________
9.03 Evaluation and Awead                Govt./3ank             I                                                                        ' 
9.04 Construotion Superision           Govt./Cong.                         _                                -_
November 1976



ANNEX 4
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
CYPRUS
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ thousand)
Cumulative Disbursement
IBRD Fiscal Year                         at End of Quarter
and Quarter                      Loan 904-CY     Proposed Loan
1976/77
September 30, 1976                    900
December 31, 1976                   1,100
March 31, 1977                      1,700 -
June 30, 1977                       1,700
1977/78
September 30, 1977                  2,600
December 31, 1977                   3,500
March 31, 1978                      4,450
June 30, 1978                       5,400
1978/79
September 30, 1978                                  1,350
December 31, 1978                                   2,700
March 31, 1979                                      4,050
June 30, 1979                                       5,400
1979/80
September 30, 1979                                  6,550
December 31, 1979                                   7,700
March 31, 1980                                      8,800
June 30, 1980                                       9,900 2/
1/ Includes estimated US$0.6 million maximum foreign exchange element
of termination costs for Nicosia-Morphou construction contract.
2/ The amount available for Nicosia-Limassol is, therefore, US$5.4 less
1.7 - 3.7 million compared to US$3.6 million foreign exchange balance
over loan amount of US$10 million.
Source: Mission estimates, June 1976
November 1976



APPRAISAL OFA
A  SUCa)O  IJ6IJWAY   D.ri
QY PRU- _1//i!/NICoSIA
2        /_9__
3      ___7   _
4                                      17__
64      6.3
i 6.2    4.6 (
l    17 1    o.6                         l
a7      3.5                                   *7ML
/6.4
174      6.4                           ES
i /6.4 3 2.gK4
175   2o.
l /0       2.9                         13
IMAS   41CO A- L.MASOd _
LiMir M L#4awfs
November  1976s . -L             4   16 c . 7  wC ,h 4     4 cs. c     "
November 197                                      : -4    /6./, 16.2',/6, I/ /,Z,,   7+8



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
CYPRUS
Organization of Ministry of Communications and Works
Minister of Communications
and Works
Director G~eneral
Telecommunications          Post Office        Department          Department of              Public Work         ofatet                 eatet                iesn
Authority       Department         of                  Electrical andDeatnoff
AuthorityLDepartment                           Ports               Mechanical Services        D                   Civil Aviation        Antiquities          Department
Source. Public Works Department                                                                                                                            World Bank-16379
No-vember 1976



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
CYPRUS
Organization of Public Works Department
Director
Assistant Director
Office of the Senior                      Office of the Senior                       Office of the Senior
Architect                                 Roads Engineer                             Control Engineer
Planning                  Design                          Laboratory  |es
Sect:on                   Section                         L                         Suprvi I
Five District Engineer's Offices
Responsible for Construction and
Maintenance of Roads and Buildings
N icosia
Limassol
Famagusta
Larnaca
Paphos
Source: Public Works Department                                                                World Bank-16380
November 1976



CYPRUS
TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE
Main Roads                   . Governsment Ports                                                                                                            Yie!o o
Other Roads             (P Brivote Ports                      MAf  O   TERR A NEA N            SEA                                                                      Goirnopomr
Highway ProectAipos 
Cimnslnfion             5 Mines                                                                                                           Ep5.Rok6,-
-Feasibility $ties  d   --- U.K. Sovereign Bose Area                                                                               .  -  K.ebir    Goti,
Detoied EAgmeering (Lown 904-CY)                                                                                        '\
S =   Feasibitiry &udes and5de.ed                                                                                   Akonthou                         (    -
eRkNod                            Xo   0k   Eo 4,                                                                         oI, at'
- ---- -  s on (e904- CY)                                                                                       e l   P  _ lounI,
Ar,drohkou~~ ~ ~ ~ otelothouso>~rtg 
---,Arodhes  Y                                Troodos t                                        X                                        s
. Stroumbw ~~~NAiY                                                                              S4)8/h.-ti - 71*r
l   f      gSaokorno v        Mlta  .-.                                        . S Kphnou      , .--__
cs 4' - '~ ' >' rr _ R *i LISYA  k                                                                                                  SYRAS
APISKOPI  A  A R flRI                                                             ESAN      P 2
xe,n.                                                                                                                   -.'
K.                                    0Y'.                               FAMAGUSTA~~~~~~~~~IR                    .    .5
A-s~~~~~~~~~~~~/
Tr...tkosh.                  t                                  AE                     AUI 






I BR D 12355
AUGUST 1976
ZiS-eay   'v;   S= 5;2:  '133                                  3;303 
'          t   ;I'fit';:   jS;;;: !iC      RUS:                                                                         ; *                                                          Ap. AnSd?'as Mon
GRt t Q c$Ngr:w!y :" > E  e:;;;>;ZoTRAFFIC  :LOW       2                                       DR   BOUNDARIES
rt~~~~GyR                                                    MIE  VEHIC=;nSul^vc   /tLES A-ADT   ;ap.
M/TRAAV                                                                                                                                      G I .   :  i:  7   0 t t   S  g  errot  0  ILOMTER
The                                          ; uWqfiie,rhe-e -            a                                    ; d: -   t ;:; 7onen  S<                                     /
3rn0                                           33                                        30                    MEptS y                 30 Kom Ke3
rmkt       _         3T                                   m       ; ,;
S;th-'1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W- _le                                                                                                    '-'
'> N e   i Mic   ~-1 dKamos  rvykho             )     ;tliro             q    <      S          uralmt lotEnou ~>tir   X    <        ; !;$ iii-   qh-t
i         F            r7~~~~~~~~-k.iz  Skll
\\; 4&krotiri                               K!LOMETERSi1o             20  :~~V  ONMGUST
l   32j0'         AtS d/terranean ?;.   <                 ea                     7       303e          0        Mli-e :k3 7a34-30



