CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1344 CY
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Second Highway Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 13, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 13, 1976 between REPUBLIC OF
CYPRUS (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following terms have the following meanings:
(a) "First Highway Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement
No. 904 CY (Highway Project) between the Borrower and the Bank,
dated June 12, 1973, as amended on December 13, 1976, and "First
Highway Project" means the Project carried out pursuant to
the First Highway Loan Agreement;
(b) "MCW" means the Ministry of Communications and Works of
the Borrower; and
(c) "PWD" means the Public Works Department of MCW.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to ten
million dollars ($10,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be April 30, 1982, or
such later date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the
Bank; provided, however, that if before the Closing Date no
such agreement has been reached the Bank may, by notice to the


﻿-4-
Borrower, establish such later date unless the Borrower has
notified the Bank that it does not agree to the establishment
of a later date in which event no later date shall be
established.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and seventy hundredths per cent (8.70%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement
Section 2.09. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower and
such other person or persons as the Minister of Finance shall
designate in writing are designated as representatives of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through its Ministry of Communications and Works with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the
(i) supervision of the construction under Part A of the Project,
(ii) carrying out the studies and detailed engineering under Part
B of the Project, and (iii) carrying out the urban transport
study under Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall, prior to the start of construction
under Part A of the Project, make all such arrangements,
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, as shall be required
to ensure the proper supervision of the construction under Part
A of the Project.
(c) The Borrower shall participate through qualified
professional, technical and supporting staff in the carrying
out of the supervision of construction under Part A of the
Project and of the studies under Parts B and C of the Project.


﻿-6 -
Section 3.03. i',cept as the 1ank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Bank, within four weeks after the end of each
quarter commencing not later than three months after the Effective
Date, a report on the progress of the Project, and shall furnish
to the Bank all such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.


﻿-7-
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
-eeded all such land and rights in re,pect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to
the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall select the highway sections
for detailed engineering under Part B (2) of the Project in
consultation with the Bank.
Section 3.07. Except as the Borrower and the Bank may
otherwise agree, the new Nicosia-Limassol highway to be
constructed under Part A of the Project shall conform to
the design standards set forth in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.


﻿- 8 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution o-
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if
for any constitutional or other legal reason such provision
cannot be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any
of its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower
shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿-9-
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower,
including PWD, responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.


﻿- 10                                   0
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause its highway network
to be maintained and all necessary repairs thereof to be carried
out, all in accordance with appropriate routine and periodic
maintenance practices.
Section 4.04. Taking into consideration the study carried
out under Part D of the First Highway Project and not later than
December 31, 1977, or such other date as may be agreed between
the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall, in consultation
with the Bank, adopt a road user charges and vehicle weight
regulations system and policy for its highway network and shall,
not later than January 1, 1979, or such other date as may be
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, introduce and shall
thereafter -- nement such system and policy.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date March 14,1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 12                                   0
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Nicosia, Cyprus
Cable address:
MINFINANCE
Nicosia
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
By /s/ Nicos G. Dimitriou
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Munir P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of
the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                7,500,000           50%
(2) Consultants'Ser-           1,500,000           100% of foreign
vices for super-                              expenditures
vision of con-
struction under
Part A of the
Project and for
carrying out of
the studies un-
der Parts B and
C of the Project
(3) Training                      25,000          100% of foreign
expenditures
(4) Unallocated                  975,000
TOTAL     10,000,000


﻿-15-
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicabIe
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b) expenditures under Category (1) until all amounts
allocated to Category (1) (b) of the table set forth in Schedule 1
to the First Highway Loan Agreement shall have been fully
withdrawn.


﻿-16-
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated, after consultation
with the Borrower, that the amount of the Loan then allocated to
any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage
of all expenditures in that Category, the Bank, by notice to the
Borrower: (i) will reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures; and
(ii) may, with respect to Category (1), if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under Category (1) may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the


﻿-17-
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-18                                      0
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
Construction of the first two lanes of a new Nicosia-Limassol
highway (about 75 kIn), and connecting and access roads to the
new Nicosia-Linassol highway.
Part B:
Carrying out of (1) feasibility studies for iprovement of
the Limassol-Paphos highway (about 70 km) and the connecting
highway between Nicosia and Larnaca; (2) detailed engineering
of up to 100 km of the highest priority and econanically
justified sections of the Limassol-Paphos highway and the
connecting highway between Nicosia and Larnaca; and (3)
appropriate studies relating to the transport sector to be
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
Part C:
Carrying out of an urban transport study of Limassol.
Part D:
Training of MCW Staff.
The Project is expected to be canpleted by October 31, 1981.


﻿-19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning May 1, 1980
through   May  1, 1991                        415,000
On November 1, 1991                                455,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 20                                      0
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                     Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                    1.75%
More than three years but
not more than six
years before maturity              3.50%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                    6.40%
More than eleven years but
not more than thirteen
years before maturity              7.55%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                    8.70%


﻿-21 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Contracts for civil works for Part A of the Project shall be
procured in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Part A of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.   Bidders for the above works shall be prequalified as
*      described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list
of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any
applicant for prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower
to the Bank for its comments before the applicants are notified
of the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such
additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list
as the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿-22-
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding Gocuments, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿-23-
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


﻿-24 -0
SCHEDULE 5
Design Standards for the new
Nicosia-Limassol Highway
Amount
Item                        Unit      Rolling      Hilly
Geometric Design Standards
Speed                                 kph         100          80
Minimum Stopping Sight Distance        m          200         130
Minimum Passing Sight Distance         m          500         400
Desirable Horizontal Curve Radius      m          670         450
Minimum Horizontal Curve Radius        m          320         200
Maximum Gradient                       %          3-5         4-6
Maximum Superelevation              (urban)%       6           6
(rural)%       8           8
Roadway Features
Width
Lane                         m                3.5
Pavement                     m                7.0
Shoulder                     m                3.0
Wearing Course                            Asphaltic Concrete
Pavement Design                           AASHTO/TRRL Road Note 29
Bridge Design Standard                    AASHTO HS20-44


