Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3934-VN 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Third Poverty Reduction Support Credit) 
 
between 
 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 8, 2004 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3934-VN 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated July 8, 2004, between SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF 
VIETNAM (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower: (i) its 
Comprehensive Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy (CPRGS) adopted in May 2002 
by Decision of the Borrower’s Prime Minister; and (ii) its progress report on the CPRGS 
dated November 2003, which together described a program of actions, objectives and 
policies designed to achieve poverty reduction and structural adjustment of the 
Borrower’s economy (hereinafter the Program); 
(B) 
the Association has further received from the Borrower a letter dated 
May 24, 2004, declaring its continued commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during the 
execution thereof;  
(C) 
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions 
described in Schedule 2 of this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has 
maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association; and 
(D) 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit 
as hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through May 1, 
2004) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read: 
Page  3
-
2
-
“‘Project’ means the Program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is 
made.”; 
(b) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the 
currency of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the 
Development Credit Agreement.”; 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the 
Credit from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the 
Development Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions”; 
(d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
(e) 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program referred to in the 
Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the 
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations under the 
Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes 
of the Credit.”; and 
(f) 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.  
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meaning: 
(a) 
“ASEAN” means the Association of Southeast Asian Nations. 
(b) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
(c) 
“DPP” means the Department of Public Procurement within the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Planning and Investment. 
Page  4
-
3
-
(d) 
“IAS” means international auditing standards. 
(e) 
“NOIP” means the National Office for Intellectual Properties. 
(f) 
“SBV” means the State Bank of Vietnam, and any successor thereto. 
(g) 
“SOCBs” means state-owned commercial banks, namely Bank of 
Investment and Development of Vietnam, Bank for Foreign Trade of Vietnam, Industrial 
and Commercial Bank of Vietnam, Vietnam Bank for Agriculture and Rural 
Development, and Mekong Housing Bank; and “SOCB” means any of the state-owned 
commercial banks.  
(h) 
“SOEs” means state-owned enterprises, and “SOE” means any state-
owned enterprise. 
(i) 
“WTO” means the World Trade Organization. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various 
currencies 
equivalent 
to 
sixty-nine 
million 
Special 
Drawing 
Rights                        
(SDR 69,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the 
Credit Account in support of the Program. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central 
bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into the Deposit Account. 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be 
used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the 
Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, (i) deposit into the Deposit 
Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Association shall 
so request, refund such amount to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association 
upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for cancellation. 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 
15 and November 15 commencing November 15, 2014 and ending May 15, 2044. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on May 15, 2024 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b) 
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by the Association of 
Page  6
-
5
-
the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have 
been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program. 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
Page  7
-
6
-
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including 
any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified 
copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.  
ARTICLE V 
Effectiveness  Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 6.01. The Governor or any Deputy Governor of State Bank of Vietnam is 
designated as the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower: 
 
State Bank of Vietnam 
 
49 Ly Thai To 
 Hanoi 
 
Socialist Republic of Vietnam 
 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
 
VIETBANK 
412248 
(84-4) 825 0612 
 Hanoi 
NHTWVT 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address 
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  9
-
8
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Hanoi, Socialist Republic of Vietnam, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
 
By 
/s/ Le Duc Thuy 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
/s/ Klaus Rohland 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1.  
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan; 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Association by notice to the Borrower: 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 - 
Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
 -   Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
Tobacco, manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
Radioactive and  
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
Pearls, precious and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
Page  11
-
10
-
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 elements 
(cartridges), 
 non-irradiated, 
for 
 nuclear 
reactors 
 
728 728.43 
Tobacco 
processing 
 machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold,  
 silver 
or 
platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 cases) 
and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 silversmiths’ 
 wares 
(including 
 
 set 
gems) 
 
971 - 
Gold, 
non-monetary 
 (excluding 
gold 
 ores 
and 
concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party); 
6. 
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or 
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such contract, without 
the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association 
to remedy the situation. 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Actions Referred to in Recital (C) of the Preamble to this Agreement
 
A. 
Transition to a Market Economy
1. Trade 
Integration
(a) 
Conduct of detailed preparatory work for WTO accession, including an 
assessment of the impact of various tariff scenarios on key sectors.  
(b) 
Elimination of quantitative restrictions on the imports of petroleum 
products. 
(c) 
Adoption of the Early Harvest Program to implement the Framework 
Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Cooperation between ASEAN and China, 
leading to the lowering of import tariffs on a number of agricultural and fisheries 
products. 
(d) 
Issuance of regulations directing the use of transaction value as the basis 
for customs valuation. 
(e) 
Application of the Harmonized Classification and Coding System to all 
trading partners. 
2. 
Reform of State-owned Enterprises
(a) 
Acceleration of SOE ownership transformation by following the 104 
SOE restructuring plans adopted in 2003.  
(b) 
Broadening of the equitization process to include large SOEs and 
General Corporations.  
 
(c) 
Issuance of operational guidelines for the central Debt and Assets 
Trading Company. 
3. 
Financial Sector Reform
(a) 
In preparation for WTO’s accession, formulation of a plan to strengthen 
the supervisory capacity of the State Bank of Vietnam and to level the playing field for  
banks.  
(b) 
Adoption of a new chart of accounts for banks to improve transparency 
of the banking sector.  
Page  13
-
12
-
(c) 
Issuance of instructions to the SOCBs to put into effect new credit 
manuals to improve risk management in their operations. 
(d) 
Imposition of a sixty-day time limit for SOCBs to submit their IAS 
audits to State Bank of Vietnam. 
 
(e) 
Issuance of a prime-ministerial Directive to equitize two SOCBs, namely 
Mekong Housing Bank and Bank for Foreign Trade of Vietnam, and initiation of steps to 
identify a strategic investor for Mekong Housing Bank.  
 
(f) 
Issuance of regulations for the operation of the Development Assistance 
Fund restricting its mechanisms for policy lending. 
 
(g) 
Further development of the securities market by easing listing 
requirements and creating the legal framework for securities investment funds as a new 
investment channel. 
4. 
Private Sector Development
:
(a) 
Leveling of the treatment of enterprises by unifying the corporate tax rate 
at 28% irrespective of the nature of their ownership. 
 
(b) 
Strengthening of the administration of intellectual property rights by 
designating NOIP as the central point for treatment of trademarks and intellectual 
property rights. 
 
(c) 
Issuance of a decree improving the legal framework for the organization, 
operation and management of business associations.  
5. Infrastructure
(a) 
Expansion of the Comprehensive Poverty Reduction and Growth 
Strategy to include a development policy for large-scale infrastructure. 
 
(b) 
Opening of internet and mobile telephone services to competition by 
licensing additional service providers. 
 
(c) 
Reduction of prices for international telephone and leased line services to 
regional levels. 
B. 
Inclusive Development and Environmental Sustainability
1.  
Education
(a) 
Increase of expenditure share for education and training to 17.1% of the 
2004 national budget. 
Page  14
-
13
-
(b) 
Adoption of minimum quality standards for primary schools nationwide.  
2. Health
(a) 
Establishment of Health Care Funds for the Poor in all provinces and full 
payment of the central government contribution to such Funds. 
 
(b) 
Adoption of a multi-sector action program to implement the HIV-AIDS 
Strategy, including de-stigmatization, information dissemination and provision of 
affordable care and treatment. 
3. Land
Enactment of a new Land Law providing for a unified land administration 
system, and supporting access to land for all sectors and community land use practices. 
4. Water
(a) 
Issuance of a decree providing for the transfer to water users groups of 
the management of small-scale, stand-alone irrigation and drainage systems, and 
secondary and tertiary irrigation systems. 
 
(b) 
Issuance of a decree for the conservation and sustainable development of 
wetlands.   
5. Environment
(a) 
Decentralization of the responsibility for environmental impact 
assessments to local levels according to the value of investment projects. 
 (b) 
Establishment of “polluter pays” principle and mechanism for industrial 
and municipal waste water discharges. 
(c) 
Issuance of regulations requiring the worst pollution offenders to 
upgrade their technology, move to authorized zones, or face closure. 
C. Modern 
Governance
1. Planning 
Processes
(a) 
Issuance of guidelines to roll-out the CPRGS approach to provincial 
planning and launching of the process in twenty provinces, to align policies, planning 
processes and allocation of resources with localized development targets. 
(b) 
Piloting of a medium-term expenditure framework in the Education 
sector to improve planning processes and service delivery capacity. 
Page  15
-
14
-
2. 
Public Financial Management  
(a) 
Unification of the accounting systems of the State Budget and the State 
Treasury to enable better monitoring of revenues and expenditures and allocation of 
resources. 
 
(b) 
 Completion of the overall design of an integrated Treasury and Budget 
Management Information System to support the integrity of fiscal data, transparency and 
control of public finances. 
3. Financial 
Accountability
(a) 
Enactment of a new Accounting Law and issuance of new accounting 
and auditing standards in line with international standards. 
(b) 
Issuance of a decree on Independent Audit Practice subjecting SOEs to 
independent audits, unless specifically exempted and subject to audit by the State Auditor 
of Vietnam instead. 
 4. 
Public Administration Reform
(a) 
Promulgation of the national policy of the “One Stop-Shop” mechanism 
to simplify administrative procedures. 
 
(b) 
Piloting of the report card approach to public services delivery in four 
cities to measure performance and service delivery outcome. 
5. Anti-corruption
(a) 
Strengthening of the public procurement process by establishing DPP to 
perform the functions of a public procurement agency, prepare standard bidding 
documents, issue implementation guidelines and oversee compliance; reinforcing open 
competitive bidding as the main method of procurement; and mandating the 
establishment of a Procurement Bulletin. 
 
(b) 
Strengthening of the requirement that government agencies adhere 
strictly to legal procedures, schedule and scope of inspection of businesses. 
 
