                                               Documentof
                                              The World Bank


                                      FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                                                ReportNo: 28916-VN




                    INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

                                      PROGRAMDOCUMENT

                                                    FOR

                                        A PROPOSEDCREDIT

                            INTHEAMOUNT OF SDR69.0 MILLION

                              (US$lOO.O MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                     TO

                          THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFVIETNAM

          FORA THIRD POVERTYREDUCTION SUPPORTOPERATION




                                               May 25,2004




PovertyReductionand EconomicManagementUnit
EastAsia andPacificRegion

This document has arestricted distribution and may be used by recipients only inthe performance o ftheir
official duties. Its content may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bankauthorization

                GovernmentFiscalYear
                January 1 to December31

                  CurrencyEquivalents
                   Currency unit=Dong
           OneUS$ = 15,710 Dong (May 2004)

          ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS

AAA        Analytical and Advisory Activity
ADB        Asian DevelopmentBank
AFTA       ASEANFreeTrade Area
CAMEL      Capital Assets Management, EarningsandLiquidity
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA       Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CG         ConsultativeGroup
CGE        ComputableGeneralEquilibrium
CPAR       Country ProcurementAssessment Review
CPRGS      ComprehensivePovertyReductionand Growth Strategy
DAF        DevelopmentAssistanceFund
DANIDA     Danish InternationalDevelopmentAgency
DATC       Debts and Assets Trading Company
DCA        DevelopmentCredit Agreement
DFID       Departmentfor International Development
EFA        Educationfor All
EL4        Environmental Impact Assessment
FDI        ForeignDirect Investment
GC         GeneralCorporation
GDP        GrossDomestic Product
GSO        General Statistics Office
HCFP       HeathCareFundfor the Poor
HCCS       HarmonizedClassification and Coding System
IAS         International Accounting Standards
IL          Inclusion List
IMF         International Monetary Fund
IPR         IntellectualPropertyRights
I-PRSP      InterimPovertyReduction StrategyPaper
ISP         Internet ServiceProvision
JBIC        Japan Bank for International Cooperation
JSA         Joint Staff Assessment
JSB         Joint-stock Bank
LNA         Legal Needs Assessment
LUC         Land-UseRight Certificate
LSDS        Legal System Development Strategy
MARD        MinistryofAgriculture andRuralDevelopment
MDG         MillenniumDevelopmentGoals
MFNT        Most-FavoredNationTreatment
MHB         Mekong HousingBank
MOET        MinistryofEducationandTraining
MOF         Ministry ofFinance
MOH         Ministry of Health

          MOHA                 MinistryofHomeAffairs FOROFFICIAL USEONLY
           MOJ                 MinistryofJustice
           MOLISA              MinistryofLabor, Invalids, and SocialAffairs
           MONRE               Ministry o fNatural Resourcesand the Environment
           MOT                 MinistryofTrade
           MPI                 MinistryofPlanningand Investment
           MTEF                Medium-Term ExpenditureFramework
           NDM                 NaturalDisaster Mitigation
           NGO                 Non-Government Organization
           NPL                 Non-PerformingLoan
           NSC                 National Steering Committee
           NSEP                National Strategy for EnvironmentalProtection
           NSCERD              National Steering Committee for Enterprise Reform and Development
           NT                  National Treatment
           ODA                 Official Development Assistance
           OOG                 Office of the Government
           oss                 One-Stop Shop
           PAR                 Public Administration Reform
           PCU                 ProgramCoordination Unit
           PEC                  Party's Economic Commission
           PER                  Public Expenditure Review
           PIP                  Public InvestmentProgram
           PPA                  ParticipatoryPoverty Assessment
           PRGF                 Poverty Reductionand GrowthFacility
           PRSC                 Poverty Reduction Support Credit
           PRSP                 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
           QR                   Quantitative Restrictions
           SAV                  State Audit of Vietnam
           SBV                  State Bank ofVietnam
           SFE                  State Forestry Enterprise
           SOCB                 State-Owned CommercialBank
           SOE                  State-Owned Enterprise
           SSN                  Social Safety Net
           TABMIS               Treasury and BudgetManagementInformation System
           USBTA                UnitedStates Bilateral Trade Agreement
           VAS                  Vietnamese Accounting Standards
           VBSP                 Vietnam Bank for Social Policies
           VCB                  Vietnam Commercial Bank
           VDG                  Vietnam DevelopmentGoals
           VHLSS                VietnamHouseholdLiving Standards Survey
           WTO                  World Trade Organization
         I VicePresident                         -     Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
         IlCounby Director                       -     Klaus Rohland, EACVF
           ChiefEconomistand Sector Director     -     Homi Kharas, EASPR                     II
           Task Manager                          -     Martin Rama, EASPR

This documenthas a restricteddistribution andmay be usedby recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.


                        SOCIALIST REPUBLICOFVIETNAM
                THIRD POVERTY REDUCTIONSUPPORT CREDIT

                                                  Table of Contents


I. INTRODUCTION         ...................................................................................................................................       1

11.   THE ECONOMY      ....................................................................................................................................      4
111.  THE COMPREHENSIVEPOVERTYREDUCTIONAND GROWTHSTRATEGY                                                                                        ..................7
IV.   THE REFORMPROGRAM                   .................................................................................................................       8
      A.     THE OVERALL APPROACHAND EXPECTEDDEVELOPMENT OUTCOMES.............8
      B.     KEY POLICY REFORMS.......................................................................................................                          .9
      C.
             THE CASE FORPRSC 3......................................................................................................... 16
             PROGRESSUNDER PRSC 1AND PRSC2..........................................................................                                            13
      D.

V.    THE PROPOSEDCREDIT                .................................................................................................................       19
      A.     STRATEGY AND PRIORACTIONS..................................................................................... 19
      B.     TRIGGERSFORPRSC 4.........................................................................................................                          30
      C.     TIMING AND IMPLEMENTATION......................................................................................                                    35
VI.   POVERTYAND SOCIAL IMPACTS                            ................................................................................................     37
VII.  OTHERCREDIT FEATURES                    ............................................................................................................      40
      A.     IMPLEMENTATIONAND MONITORING.......................................................................... 40
      B.     CREDIT ADMINISTRATION.................................................................................................                              41
      C.     BENEFITSAND RISKS..........................................................................................................                        42

VIII. COORDINATIONWITH DONORSAND STAKEHOLDERS                                                           ......................................................  44
      A.     THE IMF.................................................................................................................................           .44
      B.     OTHERMULTILATERAL AND BILATERAL DONORS................................................... 45
      C.     CIVIL SOCIETY......................................................................................................................                47

ANNEXES

Annex 1:     IMFLetter ofAssessment
Annex 2:     DevelopmentOutcomesand the Reform Program
Annex 3:     ProgressUnder PRSC 1andPRSC 2
Annex 4:     Policy Matrix for the PRSC Program
Annex 5:     Vietnam at a Glance
Annex 6:     Vietnam: Key economic indicators
Annex 7:     Key exposures indicators
Annex 8:      Status of Bank Group OperationsinVietnam
Annex 9:     SelectedIndicators ofBank Portfolio PerformanceandManagement
Annex 10:     Statement o f IFC and DisbursedPortfolio
Annex 11:    Letter from the Government on the CPRGS

TABLES INTEXT

TABLE 1: KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS                                                                                                                                  5
TABLE 2: SIZE OFTHE SOE SECTOR                   .........................................................................................................
                                                         ...................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                 14
TABLE 3: BANKING SECTOR INDICATORS                            .............................................................................................     15




                                                                      1

TABLE 4: TRIGGERS FORPRSC3           ................................................................................................................   18
TABLE 5: PRIORACTIONSUNDERPRSC3                                                                                                                         20
TABLE 6: TRIGGERS FOR PRSC4          ................................................................................................................
                                                      ...............................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                        32
TABLE 7: INVOLVEMENT BY DONORS                 .....................................................................................................    46

FIGURESINTEXT

FIGURE 1: KEY STEPSINTHE POLICY REFORM AGENDA                                          ................................................................ 36




                                                     Task Team

Task Team Leader: Martin Rama
Coreteam: The0Ib Larsen, Hoi-Chan Nguyen,Duc Minh Pham, VivekSuri and Thang-Long Ton.
Contributors: Ahsan Ali, Igor E. Artemiev, Soren Baunsgaard, Phillip Blylski, Amanda S. earlier, Soren
Davidsen, Viet Tuan Dinh, Quang Hong Doan, Samuel S. Lieberman, Irina Luca, Thanh Thi Mai, Edward
Mountjield, Laurent Msellati, Daniel Riley Musson, Dzung The Nguyen, Minh Van Nguyen, Behdad M. H.
Nowroozi, Cuong Hung Pham, Thomas A. Rose, James Seward, Peter L. Smith, Rob Swinkels and Carolyn
Turk.
TeamAssistants:. Hang ThuNguyenand Dung ThiNgoc Tran.
Overallguidance: Homi Kharas, Chief Economist and Sector Director, East Asia and the Paclfic; and Klaus
Rohland, Country Director, Vietnam.




                                                               ..
                                                               11

                  SOCIALIST REPUBLICOF VIETNAM:
             THIRD POVERTY REDUCTIONSUPPORT CREDIT


                          Credit andProgramSummary

Borrower:       The Socialist Republic o fVietnam,

Amount:         SDR 69 million (US$ 100million equivalent).

Terms:          Standard IDA terms: 40-year maturity with a 10-year grace period.

Description:    A third Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC 3) for the implementation
                o f Vietnam's Comprehensive Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy
                (CPRGS), approved inMay 2002 and expanded inDecember 2003.


Benefits:.      The present operation provides further support to Vietnam's reformprogram.
                It is the platform on which the donor community stays engagedwith a client
                that has delivered an outstanding growth and poverty reduction performance.
                The proposed credit strengthens the reformprogramon several fronts:

                     It promotes greater internal and external competition, endorses an
                     acceleration in the divestiture of State-owned enterprises (SOEs) and
                     State-owned commercial banks (SOCBs), improves transparency and
                     accountability in SOE operations and inthe banking sector, and supports
                     the establishment o f a sound regulatory framework for policy lending by
                     the Government. Overall, these measures should lead to a better
                     allocation o f resources, economic growth andjob creation.

                     The proposed credit also promotes human development through an
                     expanded budget appropriation and higher quality standards for
                     education, through resources to cover the health care costs o f the poor
                     and through mechanisms to complete the transfer o f land-use rights to
                     households, especially in upland and ethnic minority areas. The credit
                     supports important measures to improve environmental and water
                     resources management as well.

                     Increased transparency and accountability of public finances, simplified
                     administrative procedures, and steps towards curbing corruption are part
                     of a broader effort to build modern governance. Other actions supported
                     by the credit aim at revamping planning processes, moving away from a
                     command approach towards the alignment of policies and resources to
                     the attainment ofwell-specified development goals.
Risks:          At the same time, Vietnam faces important risks that the proposed credit
                alone may not be able to mitigate:

                     Government's decision to fully integrate with the world economy,
                     introducing competition in sectors currently dominated by General
                     Corporations (GCs), is not unanimously shared by stakeholders.
                     Similarly, there i s a perception that Vietnam can "grow out" o f its


                                            ...
                                            111

                     problems inthe financial sector, without frontally addressing governance
                     and supervision issues in SOCBs. Incomplete structural reform could
                     jeopardize growth and stability inthe longer term.

                     Haphazard introduction of market forces in the social sectors, and the
                     trend towards decentralization have put service delivery under strain. At
                     the same time, fast integration with the world economy may lead to
                     increased inequality, at least temporarily, as the benefits accrue to
                     specific regions and skills disproportionately. Growth in Vietnam could
                     become less inclusive inthe years to come.
                     Finally, there i s a fiduciary risk associated with the proposed credit, if
                     there is inadequate progress on enhancing budget transparency and
                     tackling corruption. There are indications o f a new resolve to address
                     these issues. The Government has recently embarked in a revamping o f
                     its anti-corruption strategy. But improvements in fiduciary controls and
                     fiscal transparency are also necessary. Their implementation will be
                     crucial to mitigate the fiduciary risk.

Disbursement:    The credit will be disbursed upon declaration o f effectiveness.

Co-financing:    Numerous bilateral and multilateral donors have expressed their support to
                 the PRSC process in Vietnam. Several o f them are making preparations to
                 join in time for PRSC 4. Subject to confirmation, seven intend support the
                 PRSC 3 operation through co-financing: the Asian Development Bank
                 (parallel financing for an amount to be determined), the Canadian
                 International Development Agency (CDN$ 6.3 million), Denmark (US$ 10
                 million), the European Commission (15 million euros), the Japan Bank for
                 International Cooperation (parallel financing for an amount to be
                 determined), Netherlands (4 million euros) and the UNITED KINGDOM'S
                 Department for International Development (20 millionpounds).

ProjectIDnumber: PO82759




                                            iv

                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION


                                   PROGRAMDOCUMENT
                                               FOR
                                    A PROPOSEDCREDIT
                      TO THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFVIETNAM
                                                FOR
                A THIRDPOVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORTOPERATION




                                   I. INTRODUCTION


1.       Vietnam continues to enjoy robust economic growth and impressive poverty
reduction. Vietnam's economy doubled in size duringthe last decade, while its poverty rate was
halved. The gross domestic product (GDP) per capita expanded by around 6 percent per year on
average over that period, in spite of the East Asian crisis. The growth rate o f GDP was 7.2
percent in 2003. It is expected to be similar or higher in 2004. Exports are growing by 15 to 20
percent per year invalue terms, and Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) inflows by 10 percent per
year. Savings rates rose six-fold, to around 25 percent o f GDP, with private investment
accounting for an increasingly large share of total capital accumulation. Meanwhile, the poverty
headcount fell from 58 percent in 1993 to 37 percent in 1998 and to 29 percent in 2002. The
decline in poverty was widespread as the increase in inequality has been modest so far. Social
indicators improved markedly, positioning Vietnam well to attain key Millennium Development
Goals (MDGs). The last decade was thus characterized by undeniable progress in the lives o f the
Vietnamese population.

2.       The CPRGS reflects the commitment of the Government of Vietnam to inclusive
economic and social development. Unlike previous development plans, which reflected a
"command" approach to economic management, the CPRGS is based on empirical analysis and
broad consultation. It spells out clear development goals, identifies the policies to attain them,
aligns resources to those policies, and establishes an appropriate monitoring and evaluation
system. In 2003 the CPRGS was "expanded" so as to address issues related to large-scale
infrastructure. The three main pillars o f the CPRGS are: (i)completing the transition to a market
economy; (ii)keeping development inclusive and sustainable; and (iii)building modern
governance. The CPRGS is widely recognized as a blueprint for development with strong
national ownership. The CPRGS approach will be mainstreamed into the next five-year
development plan, to be issued in2006.

3.       Implementation of the CPRGS has recorded significant successes but important
structuralissues and socialchallengesremainto beaddressed. Progressinthe implementation
o f the reform agenda was assessed by Government in November 2003, through its first CPRGS
Progress Report, and by the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in February
2004, through their Joint Staff Assessment (JSA). Overall, it appears that progress has been
significant, but important challenges remain. Regarding the transition to a market economy, the
reform agenda has relied on the restructuring of the state sector, and not on massive divestiture.
Important steps have been undertaken, especially in terms o f liberalizing trade and fostering


                                                 1

competition. But hardening the budget constraint faced by SOEs has proved more difficult to
achieve. Policy based lending has only been recently separated from the commercial banking
system. As a result, SOCBs have a sizable portfolio of non-performing loans (NPLs). The same
holds true for the Development Assistance Fund(DAF) which i s now the main vehicle for policy
lending inVietnam. Onthe social side, regional disparities may widen as Vietnam integrates with
the world economy. Also, ethnic minorities have benefited less from economic growth than the
Kinhmajority and the ethnic Chinese population. The effective delivery of social services to the
poor, especially for disadvantaged regions and ethnic groups, is essential to keep development
inclusive. But reform in the social sectors requires changes in their financing and needs to be
carefully sequenced and aligned with the decentralization process. As for governance,
institutional reform lags behind the rapid economic transition, creating opportunities for abuse
and embezzlement. An ambitious initiative to strengthen public financial management i s under
way. But there are considerable weaknesses inthe selection of public investment projects, inthe
integration o f capital and recurrent expenditures, and in the supervision o f project
implementation, especially at the local level. Weak financial management systems and
insufficient transparency create the risk o f inefficiency in the allocation of resources,
mismanagement and corruption.

4.       New initiatives launched by Government over the last few months to address the
remainingchallenges confirm its commitment to reform, but a more decisive stance in the
banking sector is encouraged. Last year has seen major movements and initiatives on a broad
range o f reforms, especially inrelation to the integrationwith the world economy, the equitization
o f large SOEs and SOCBs, and the design o f a new approach to fighting corruption. If followed
through they hold the promise for solidifying and accelerating needed reforms. But the
Government i s encouraged to adopt a more decisive stance in the area o f banking reform. A
clearer separation of the functions o f the State Bank o f Vietnam (SBV) as owner o f commercial
banks and supervisor o f the system, and further actions to restructure the SOCBs and improve
their credit culture, should be part ofthat stance. Serious progress in implementing the ambitious
decisions made by the Government in recent months on accession to the World Trade
Organization (WTO), equitization o f large SOEs and SOCBs, tackling policy lending, making
progress on the anti-corruption agenda, as well as in financial sector reform, would move
Vietnam to high-case lending.

5.       Preparations for WTO accession are accelerating. Vietnam's preparation for WTO
accession demonstrates the increase in the pace o f reforms from an initially slow beginning to
more decisive actions. While Vietnam had announced its intention to become a member of the
WTO in 1995 already, until recently there had been little progress in the negotiations. At stake
were the relatively high trade barriers protecting several sectors deemed strategic (such as
automobiles, cement, chemicals, fertilizers, steel and sugar) and obstacles to entry in service
sectors dominated by the state (banking and telecommunications in particular). Against the
background of the encouraging results o f the bilateral trade agreement with the United States of
America (USBTA), inJune 2003, the decision was made to accede to the WTO as early as 2005.
Since then, the Government has been actively working on the preparation o f roadmaps for WTO
accession for the key sectors o f the economy. A renewed offer by the Government to its trading
partners is currently on the table and under review. At present it is still too early to know if the
2005 deadline will be met. But the change in the nature o f the discussion, from whether Vietnam
would accede to the WTO to when it will do so, i s indicative o f a new resolve by the
Government. Compliance with WTO rules, in turn, would be a powerful mechanism to lock-in
reforms, especially on "behind-the-border" issues.




                                                   2

6.        Equitizationof General Corporations,includingone large SOCB, is now part of the
agenda. In December 2003, the gthPlenum of the 9'         Party Congress adopted a series of bold
decisions regarding the twin areas of SOE reform and financial sector reform. Until then, the
equitization process had focused on small, non-strategic SOEs, whereas only the smallest of
SOCBs had been singled out for association with private investors. The gthPlenum announced the
equitization o f one of the largest SOCBs, and of several large SOEs, including GCs, as early as
2005. The modalities of the equitization process, interms o f the share o f the capital to be divested
and the nature of the investors sought, are yet to be determined. There is still a risk that
equitization will be used mainly to raise capital, rather than to substantially improve corporate
governance. However, instructions to revise the key decrees related to equitization have been
issued already, so as to allow the divestiture o f large SOEs and GCs. As in the case o f WTO
accession, these decisions will lock-in the demand for better corporate governance once they are
followed through.

7.        A new anti-corruptionstrategy that may move from a mainly punitiveto a systemic
approach is under consideration. A new determination to address the challenges in the
implementation o f economic reforms i s also apparent in relation to transparency and
accountability. In January 2004, the Prime Minister instructed the State Inspectorate to take the
lead in the design o f a new anti-corruption strategy. This instruction comes at a time when the
first comprehensive diagnostic o f corruption, relying on an internationally recognized approach,
i s finally under way. The key elements o f this initiative are the drafting o f a new anti-corruption
ordinance, the set up o f an effective system to monitor the assets of public officials, and the
revision o fthe law on complaints. Most of these changes are scheduled to take place by 2006.

8.        Efforts to improvethe quality of policy lendingare also under way. In April 2004, a
new regulatory framework was approved for DAF.It puts this institution underthe supervisionof
the Ministry of Finance (MOF). It restricts its discretion to support projects, by reducing the
number of eligible sectors and emphasizing socio-economic returns as a guiding principle. The
new regulatory framework also spells out conditions for DAF support and introduces risk-
mitigating mechanisms such as the mandatory co-funding o f projects and the reliance.on interest
rate subsidies for commercial loans. The success o f this initiative to put the DAF on a sounder
footing will very much depend on its effective implementation.

9.        Increasinglydonors coalesce aroundthe PRSC as an instrumentfor policy dialogue.
The international community i s actively engaged in supporting the implementation o f the reform
agenda of Vietnam, through analytical work, technical assistance, project lending and direct
budget support. PRSCs, including the proposed operation, fall in this last category. The rationale
for direct budget support comes from the external financing requirements o f Vietnam, estimated
at roughly US$ 3.3 billion in 2004, to be met mainly through disbursements of Official
Development Assistance (ODA) and FDI inflows. Some o f the policy actions supported by the
PRSC process entail a substantial additional burden on the budget. Among them are the
recapitalization o f SOCBs, the operation o f a safety net for workers who become redundant as a
result of SOE restructuring, the expansion of budget appropriations for the education sector, and
the creation of provincial Health Care Funds for the Poor (HCFP).

10.       The support of the internationalcommunity goes beyond filling the gap in external
financing needs. Donors were substantively engaged in the preparation o f CPRGS and in its
expansion to issues related to large-scale infrastructure. They also participate in partnership
groups with Government, covering all economic policy areas. And they are instrumental in
providing factual information and analysis, thus contributing to the monitoring o f progress in
reform implementation. Thesejoint efforts, combined with the strong performance o f Vietnam in



                                                  3

terms o f economic growth and poverty reduction, have widened donor support to the PRSC
process. The number o f co-financiers has increased from four inthe case o f PRSC 1, to seven for
the proposed operation. As many as 12 donors could co-finance PRSC 4 if the reform process
stays on track. At approximately US$ 73 million, the confirmed contributions to the proposed
operation by co-financiers comes close to the credit amount itself. Once pending contributions are
determined, total co-financing could exceed the amount o fthe proposed credit.

11.     IMF and Government agree to shift to an enhanced surveillance regime as the
Poverty Reduction Growth Facility (PRGF) expires. The PRGF, set up by the IMF,
simultaneously with PRSC 1, expired inApril 2004 and will not be renewed. The third review of
the PRGF, in September 2002, was held back by the lack of agreement on safeguard measures
relatedto the external audit o f the SBV.No further disbursements took place since June 2002, yet
the macroeconomic targets set up in the PRGF have been consistently met With the expiration
                                                                             .
o f PRGF, the Government and the IMF have agreed to shift to an enhanced surveillance regime.
The IMF also remains actively engaged in the policy dialogue. IMF staff had provided an
assessment letter to the World Bank in conjunction with PRSC 2. A similar letter in conjunction
with this credit is attached, confirming that Vietnam's macroeconomic policies are prudent(see
Annex 1).

12.     The proposed credit further deepens the reforms supported by PRSC 1, PRGF and
PRSC 2. The policy actions it endorses are all firmly rooted in the CPRGS and other
development plans and strategies with a strong Government ownership. Looking forward, the
proposed credit also identifies actions to support the unfinished reform agenda, including the
preparations to accede to the WTO as early as possible, the opening o f the capital o f large SOEs
and SOCBs to private investors, further progress in planning processes and public financial
management, and the move towards a more systemic approach to fighting corruption.


                                     11.   THEECONOMY


 13.    Exemplary performance on growth and poverty reduction. Vietnam continues its
strong economic growth and poverty reduction performance. In 2003 GDP grew by 7.2 percent,
despite the SARS outbreak and international instability. This follows an annual average growth o f
6 percent during the previous three years. GDP growth could be even higher in 2004. Unless it
resurges withinthe next six months, the outbreak o f avian influenza will not have made much of a
dent. While incomplete structural reform could jeopardize the long-term prospects o f Vietnam,
relatively high growth rates can be expected over the next few years. The performance has also
been remarkable in terms o f poverty reduction: 29 percent of the population had expenditures
below the poverty line by 2002, compared to 37 percent in 1998, and 58 percent in 1993. Thus
Vietnam lifted around 20 million people out o f poverty in less than a decade. Job creation by the
private sector, formal and informal, and the increasing commercialization o f agricultural output,
are two o fthe main forces behind the broad improvement in livingstandards.

 14.    Export growth is the main driver for this strong performance. The sustained
economic expansion is led by export growth, as Vietnam becomes increasingly integrated with
the world economy. Participation in the ASEAN Free Trade Area (AFTA) and the USBTA
signed in 2001 were key milestones in this process. The ratio o f foreign trade to GDP now
exceeds 100percent and net inflows o f FDIas a share o f GDP are similar to those inChina. From
a sectoral perspective, the domestic private sector has been growing fastest. On average, each
month for the past 4 years, almost 1,600 new enterprises have been registered. Private sector


                                                 4

development has significantly increased the non-State share of investment, and provided many
new employment opportunities for the young and growing labor force.


                           TABLE1:KEYECONOMIC          INDICATORS

                                                 2000      2001      2002       2003     2004

 Real GDP (annual percentage change)                5.5       6.9       7.0        7.2     7.5

     Industrial output                             15.7      14.6      14.5       16.1    16.0

 Inflation(percent, by year end)                   -0.5       0.7       4.0        2.9     6.5

 Nominal depreciation (percent, by year end)        3.5       3.9       2.0        1.6     1.9

 Credit to the economy (percent change)           38.1       21.4      22.2       28.4    25.0

 General Government budget (percent o f GDP)

      Total revenues and grants                   21.1       22.7      22.9       22.8    22.0

      Total expenditure (including interest)       23.9      25.6      24.8       25.1    24.8

           Current expenditure                     17.2       17.3     16.6       16.7    17.1

           Capital expenditure                      6.7        8.3      8.2         8.4    7.7

      Fiscalbalance                                -2.8       -2.9     -1.9        -2.3   -2.8

 Current account balance (inUS$ billion)            0.6        0.7     -0.4        -1.9   -2.0

 Current account balance (inpercent o f GDP)        2.1        2.0     -1.1        -4.8    -4.7

 Export growth (nominal, percent change)           25.2        4.0     11.2       20.8    15.0

 Imports growth (nominal, percent change)          34.5        2.3     22.1       27.8    17.0

 Total external debt (US$ billion)                 12.8       12.6     13.4        14.3   14.9

      Total external debt (percent of GDP)         41.2       38.7     38.0        37.6   37.0

      Debt service ratio (percent of exports)       7.0        6.4      5.4         3.1     2.4

 Reserves, including gold (US$ billion)             3.0        3.4      3.7         5.6     6.1

      Reserves (inweeks of imports)                10.9        9.7      8.7        10.0     9.6

Note: Figures are rounded. They are actual, for 2000 and 2001, estimated for 2002, preliminary
        for 2003, and forecasts for 2004. The depreciation figure for 2004 i s for May, compared
        to May, 2003. For reference, the nominal GDP o f Vietnam was US$ 38.7 billion in2003;
        its populationwas 81 million and GDP per capita was US$470.
Source: World Bank and IMF basedon data provided by Government.


15.     Over the last five years exports have grown at an average annual rate o f 17 percent in
value terms and     now amount to half o f GDP, with the share of manufactured products
representing around 46 percent o f the total. Exports grew by 21 percent in 2003, despite a
lackluster global economy. The garments sector recordedthe highest growth rate (45 percent) and



                                               5

equaled crude oil as the most important export for Vietnam in value terms. At the same time,
strong growth has been accompanied by a rapid rise in imports (28 percent in 2003). The main
import categories witnessing increases were machinery and equipment, petroleum products, and
other production inputs needed for the fast expanding export industries. This rise in imports
reflects a sustained expansion inproduction capacity. The ratio o f investment to GDP rose to 35.6
percent in2003, of which about 14percentagepoints are accounted for bythe private sector.

16.      Despitea trade deficit representing7 percent of GDP by the end of2003, the current
account deficit was contained at less than 5 percent of GDP and remittances have reached
recordlevels. The SBV reported record remittances into Vietnam o f around US$ 2.6 billion last
year. If transfers operating through unofficial channels are taken into account, total remittances
from abroad are probably in the range of US$3 to 4 billion a year. This i s the equivalent o f one
fifthofexport earnings. FDIinflows are estimatedto have reached about US$1.5 billionin2003.
ODA disbursements reached US$ 1.1 billion. This helped foreign reserves to rise from US$ 3.7
billion in 2002 to about US$5.6 billion in2003. This is the equivalent o f 10 weeks o f imports o f
goods and non-factor services.

17.      Vietnam has maintainedprudentmacroeconomicpolicies duringthe PRSC process,
as assessed by the IMP. After two years of mild deflation, prices rose by 3-4 percent in 2002-
2003. Temporary forces have led to an acceleration o f inflation to 6.3 percent in early 2004.
These include increases in food prices due to the avian influenza outbreak and the associated ban
on the sale o f chicken meat and eggs, and higher steel and oil prices. But there are also deeper
economic forces behind the acceleration o f inflation. Prices in Vietnam remain very cheap by
international standards, and they are bound to increase in a context o f rapid economic growth.
The same holds true for the cost o f labor. With an actively managed exchange rate, real
appreciation i s taking place through higher domestic prices. The decline inthe value o f the dollar,
to which the dong is closely aligned, can only exacerbatethe acceleration o f inflation.

18.      Rapid growth is accompanied by an ongoing monetization of the economy. Broad
money rose by 18 percent in2002 and by 20 percent in 2003. Deposits grew at a similar pace, to
reach over 56 percent of GDP in 2003, in a sign o f growing confidence in the formal financial
sector. Credit growth expanded by 28 percent. The share going to the non-state sector continued
to increase and is now close to two thirds o f all credit extended. The quality o f lending o f the
SOCBs i s a concern however. It i s estimated that accumulated NPLs o f SOCBs represent about 4
to 5 percent o f GDP, and 10to 11percent o f all banking credit to the economy.

 19.     The new policies surroundingthe DAF are expected to improvepolicy lending. The
quality o f the fast expanding policy lending through the DAF i s a matter of concern. In 2004, its
outstanding stock of loans is expected to be equivalent to around 7 percent of GDP. A fraction o f
these loans corresponds to the on-lending o f ODA, which the DAF is not empowered to appraise.
But invalue terms, SOEs account for 82 percent of the stock. This is despite the fact that many
operational aspects o f the DAF are still at an early stage of development, including credit risk
management, accounting and reporting standards, information systems, and supervision. The
resources supporting these loans are from postal savings, pensions and social funds, and bond
issuance. Domestic capital sources o f the DAF amount to roughly 9 percent of annual GDP in
2004, making it the biggest financial institution inthe country.

20.      Budget revenue has been around 22 to 23 percent of GDP in the last few years.
Based on international definitions, the budget deficit represented 1.9 percent of GDP in2002, and
rose to 2.3 percent in 2003. This was partly due to pressure from a 38 percent increase in wages
and pensions. However, the deficit figure for 2003 does not include other debt creating flows for



                                                  6

the Government such as on-lending operations (estimated to be around 3 percent o f GDP) and the
cost o f re-capitalizing the SOCBs. The deficit is expected to widen in2004.

21.       A steady inflow of capitalwill be needed. Public debt projections point to a significant
increase in the debt-to-GDP ratio, from around 36 percent of GDP in 2002 to around 51 percent
o f GDP in 2007. Key factors driving this projected trend are sizeable on-lending operations and
debt issuance in support of public investment projects and SOCB reform. With GDP projected to
increase by 7 percent or more per year, and exports by 10 to 15 percent, Vietnam's external debt-
to-GDP ratio should remain broadly stable at around 38 percent through 2007. But given the
amortization schedules on past borrowing, and the need to build up and maintain prudent reserve
levels, a steady inflow o f capital will be needed. As inthe past, an inflow of FDIand ODA inthe
range o f US$ 2.2 to 2.6 billion per year will be the main financing source. This forecast assumes
that disbursements from the project pipeline can be maintained at least at the current rates, and
that the donor community continues to provide direct budget support.


                 111.         THECOMPREHENSIVE POVERTYREDUCTION
                                       AND GROWTH STRATEGY


22.       The CPRGS embodies the strategy for Vietnam's development. The CPRGS,
approved by the Prime Minister o f Vietnam in May, 2002, translated the vision laid out in the
Ten-Year Strategy for 2001-2010 into concrete public actions. The Ten-Year Strategy envisions a
path o f transition towards a "market-economy with socialist orientation". The CPRGS built on
this foundation. Unlike previous planning documents, however, it relied on the spelling o f clear
development targets, the identification o f the appropriate policies to attain those targets, and the
alignment o f resourcesto those policies. The Vietnam Development Goals (VDGs), which are the
localized version o f the MDGs, are among the key targets of CPRGS. Discussions towards the
preparation and drafting o f the CPRGS involved a wide range o f stakeholders. In 2003 the
CPRGS was "expanded", with a new chapter providing a thorough discussion o f the role of
infrastructure in promoting economic and social development. The inclusion o f this chapter fills
what the Government perceived as an important gap inthe original CPRGS.

23.       The CPRGS is an encompassing document. At the risk of simplifying, its contents can be
organized around three broad pillars:

    0     Pillar I:High growth through the transition to a market economy. This requires the
          implementationo f an ambitious structuralreform agenda.

    0     Pillar 11: An equitable, socially inclusive and environmentally sustainable pattern o f
          growth. This requires appropriate sectoral and social policies and programs.

    0     Pillar 111:Adoption o f a modern public administration, legal and governance system. This
          i s essential for the first two goals to be attainable.

The CPRGS pillars are not self-standing but rather connected through cross-cutting themes such
as employment generation for poverty reduction and the link between public financial
management and effective delivery o f social services to the poor.

24.       The CPRGSwas expanded in late2003 to betteraddress issues relatedto large-scale
infrastructure.The new chapter starts from the premisethat infrastructure is a necessary, but not


                                                      7

sufficient input for growth. Among the weaknesses o f public investment in Vietnam, it
emphasizes limited resources for maintenance, the lack o f a serious evaluation o f the
environmental impacts of large-scale infrastructure investments, inappropriate handling of
resettlement and compensation, poor project management potentially leading to embezzlement,
and limited community supervision. Looking forward, the chapter identifies the need to select
investment projects based on concrete analyses of impacts on each period, each region and each
sector, clearly identifying the beneficiaries and appropriately addressing potential trade-offs
between growth and poverty reduction objectives.

25.      In November2003, the Government completed the first CPRGS Progress Report.
This Report evaluates performance in terms o f economic growth and poverty reduction, reviews
policy implementation inthe period of 2002-2003, and identifies challenges ahead. The intention
to integrate the CPRGS principles into the next five-year plan i s announced in the Report.
Starting in 2003, a number o f initiatives had been undertaken to help provinces build their local
planning processesaround CPRGS principles. A more systematic effort is currently under way. It
involves collaborative work by central agencies, donors and provincial Governments to develop
plans that are more evidence-based, more participatory, more outcome-focused, better linked to
resources and more tightly monitored. The Government hopes that work such as this will improve
planning inall provinces of Vietnam by 2008.


                              Iv.     THEREFORMPROGRAM


26.      The implementationof the reform agenda outlined in the CPRGS is on track, but
efforts to address the remaining challenges should be intensified. In the two years elapsed
since the approval o f the CPRGS, there has been considerable progress in completing the
transition to a market economy, keeping development inclusive and sustainable, and building
modern governance. At the same time, progress has been unevenwithin each of these three areas.
To address the remaining challenges, new initiatives have been launched by Government over the
last few months, especially inrelation to the integration with the world economy, the equitization
of large SOEs and SOCBs, and the design o f a new approach to fighting corruption. While these
initiatives are encouraging, their successful implementation cannot be taken for granted. And
even if they were to succeed, concerns would remain in key areas, and especially in banking
sector reform.


A.       Overall Approach andExpectedDevelopmentOutcomes


27.      The development strategy of Vietnamdiffers in importantways from those of other
transition economies. Massive divestiture of state assets is not a central component of it.
Agricultural land was allocated to rural households, and urban property is also in the process o f
being transferred to its occupants. But the Government is keen to retain the control o f a large
number of SOEs in activities deemed strategic. Ownership is not seen as a critical determinant o f
economic performance. The emphasis, at least in principle, is placed on securing a level playing
field for all enterprises, regardless of their institutional nature, and on imposing a hard budget
constraint on public sector units. When the CPRGS was approved, there were more than 5300
SOEs in Vietnam. Many small ones are being divested, with the ownership often transferred to
previous directors and employees, but there could still be as many as 2100 SOEs by the end o f



                                                  8

this PRSC cycle, in 2006. The ability of Government to force competition and impose a hard
budget constraint on SOEs is still to be proved.

28.      Piloting, scaling-up and locking-in are other salient features of the development
strategy of Vietnam. Economic reforms are first tested on small-scale units, such as specific
SOEs, or levels o f local Government, and only after evaluation are they extended to the rest o fthe
economy. The success of this approach rests on the quality o f the evaluation and the willingness
to scale-up the reforms. Locking-in has operated mainly through the signature o f international
agreements, especially those aimed at integrating the Vietnamese economy with the rest o f the
world. Joining AFTA and the USBTA, and the recently announced determination to join the
WTO by 2005, are examples of the lock-in approach. These commitments have been especially
useful to foster competition in product markets. They could also help sustain the hardening o f the
budget constraint on state units. However, commitment to economic reform by stakeholders
remains key inthis area.

29.      The reform program is expected to lead to substantial improvements in
development outcomes. The current PRSC cycle covers a five-year period, much the same as the
CPRGS. While the reform program focuses on a set of strategic policy actions, its implementation
should translate into improved economic and social indicators. Accordingly, the reform program
can be summarized in terms o f the development outcomes it aims to attain. Those outcomes are
listed in Annex 2, based on the CPRGS itself, but also on a series o f other policy papers,
strategies and documents, including the VDGs. Annex 2 also reproduces some o f the progress
indicators envisioned at the time the PRSC 1operation was prepared. The development outcomes
considered can be conveniently described by referring to the three main pillars of the reform
agenda. The list o f underpinning policy actions supported by the previous PRSCs and the
proposed credit, as well as those proposed for PRSCs 4 and 5, can be found inAnnex 4.


B.       Key Policy Reforms


30.      Integration with the world economy is a tool to foster competition in product
markets but also to promote reforms behind the border. Integration with the world economy
i s arguably the policy area where reforms are most advanced is the. By the end of the period
covered by CPRGS, it i s expected that Vietnam will have joined the WTO. Quantitative
restrictions (QRs) and export subsidies will be abolished, the average tariff level will be lowered,
and there will be access to foreign enterprises in key strategic sectors, including those currently
dominated by GCs. In addition, numerous laws and regulations will have to be amended in order
to become WTO-compliant. These laws and regulations do not only concern trade in goods and
services but also, more broadly, the foundations o f a modern market economy, from the
enforcement of property rightsto the banningo f discriminatory practices.

31.      The incentives for SOEs to restructure are to be provided by competition in product
markets and the hardening of the budget constraint. A number of SOEs are being divested,
chiefly through equitization, whereby directors and employees are often among the main
purchasers of shares. But for strategic enterprises that are bound to remain in state hands, the
reform strategy has so far emphasized greater competition through trade integration and creating
a more level playing field with the private sector. The budget constraint i s being hardened by
suppression of subsidies and the introduction o f credit ceilings for SOEs. Measures are also being
taken to promote greater transparency and financial accountability. Partial evidence suggests that




                                                 9

SOEs have overall improved their performance. However, the Government still lacks the means
to exercise oversight as a shareholder.

32.      In the financial sector, the focus is on the institutionaland regulatory framework.
The Government's financial sector reform program aims at strengthening the institutional
framework, developing the capital market, enhancing financial sector transparency and
accountability, improving the financial health of the banking system, creating incentives for
banks to operate on a more commercially-oriented basis, and separating policy lending from
commercial lending. One o f the most difficult challenges inthe reform process concernsthe large
stock o f loans from SOCBs to SOEs which are not performing. Due to differences between
Vietnamese and international accounting standards (IAS) regarding loan classification, the true
volume o f NPLs remains controversial. A plan exists to restructure and re-capitalize the SOCBs.
Itextends untilthe end of the period covered by CPRGS. Butthe milestones ofthis plan are still
relatively vague. Also, future progress towards the resolution o f NPLs requires the development
o f an effective approach that could be implemented on a systematic basis over the coming years.
NPLs are a manifestation of broader problems in bank governance and supervision. Appropriate
measures to frontally tackle these problems are yet to be adopted, as there seems to be some
unwarranted expectation that Vietnam could simply "grow out" o fthem.

33.      Fosteringprivate sector developmentthroughaccomplishinga levelplayingfield. A
milestone inthe reform agenda for private sector development was the adoption of the Enterprise
Law, in 2000. This law facilitated the creation and registration of thousands o f new private
enterprises every month. But sustaining the growth of household businesses into larger domestic
private enterprises requires substantial reforms in other areas. The private sector needs to have
better access to land, through improving land-use planning, removing restrictions on allocating
agricultural land for industrial activities, and allowing private enterprises to transfer land-use
right certificates (LUC). Also, enterprises in Vietnam currently operate under various legal and
regulatory regimes, which need to be unified. Equal access to the significant market opportunities
represented by public contracts is another key element of the reform agenda. In spite o f the
constraints it faces, the domestic private sector of Vietnam has displayed a remarkable
performance. Vietnam is again becoming a major destination for FDI. The business community
agrees that the investment climate has improved considerably. But there still remain various
institutional and regulatory barriers impeding domestic and foreign enterprises' activities and
investments. A major effort towards securing a level playing field is needed.

34.      Infrastructure development needs to focus on the quality of investment, and not
only on its quantity. At more than one third of GDP, the investmentrate o f Vietnam is already
one o f the highest in the region. But as the most urgent needs are addressed, returns on new
investments can be expected to decline. Careful appraisal o f public projects is thus becoming a
priority. Also, maintenance budgets needs to expand in line with the increasing stock o f
infrastructure if the full impact o f investments is to be reaped. Vietnam has by now accumulated
considerable infrastructure assets. Keeping them in good operating conditions i s as important as
expanding them. More generally, improvingthe quality o f infrastructure services requires moving
away from a model with a single public provider to one where access and pricing are
appropriately regulated. A balance between efficiency considerations and social impacts is
needed inthis respect.

35.      Vietnam continues to improve most of its education indicators, but the coverage of
the poorest groups and the quality of the education imparted cannot be considered fully
satisfactory. Net enrollment rates in primary education are high by international standards, and
they are expanding rapidly in lower secondary education. But reaching the last group of children



                                                  10

that do not attend school is proving difficult. There is also evidence o f considerable variation in
the quality o f the education being imparted, with the lowest standards observed in poorer areas.
At the same time, the demographic transition of Vietnam is making cohorts smaller. The sector
would thus need to reallocate resources, gradually reducing the number o f teachers and increasing
the number o f full-day schools. The reform program aims at increasing the share o f education in
total public expenditures, while reducing the existing dispersion in effective spending per pupil.
The introduction of nationwide quality standards for primary schools is another key component o f
the reform strategy.

36.      Inthe healthsector, the reform'programfocuses on changing the financing of health
services. Over the last decade there has been a rapid growth o f the private health sector, a greatly
increased role o f out-of-pocket payments by households, especially the poor ones, and a
continuing process o f fiscal decentralization. Larger out-of-pocket payments are partly
responsible for lower use o f professional health care among the poor, and contribute to observed
health-care disparities between the poor and the non-poor. In line with the government's health
sector strategy o f ensuring equitable access to quality health care, a new policy to address this
concern has been the establishment o f province-level HCFPs, which should allow an increase in
health spending that is tightly targeted to the poor. Whether this funding mechanism will also be
used to influence the provision o f health services will depend on how the design o f eligible
benefits under HCFPs evolves. The reform agenda also aims at a better integration of programs to
deal with specific diseases, such as tuberculosis, into a broader policy framework and with
appropriate budgetary support. The agenda includes the adoption o f a more effective strategy to
deal with HIV-AIDSas well. The new strategy departs from the characterization o f HIV-AIDSas
the result of "social evils". In the past, such a characterization had slowed the development of
effective communication with hard-to-reach groups that are at risk o f being infected.

37.      Better use of land and water resources are central to the livelihoods of rural
households, which account for three quarters of the Vietnamese population, and more than
90 percent of the poor. The allocation of agricultural land, conducted ina remarkably egalitarian
way a decade ago, was key to poverty reduction. But the allocation has been more limited in
urban and upland areas, and a well-developed market for land does not exist yet. In urban areas,
the development of secure registration o f land titles, and the release o f land under Government
control, could help contain the dramatic increase in real estate prices observed in recent years.
Transferring the unused or underused land of state forestry enterprises (SFEs) to the local
populations is also part of the unfinishedSOE reform agenda. Recognizing the community land-
use practices o f ethnic minorities, and developing community-based LUCs is important as well.
Improvingwater resourcesmanagement will require policies at different levels. At the catchment
level, the concept o f integrated river basin management needs to be embraced inVietnam. At the
level o f individual farms and communes, the management of irrigation systems by users and user
groups has to be developed.

38.      A considerable upgrading of the legal framework for environmental protection is
needed. Environmental degradation particularly affects the poor as they are the ones who depend
most on natural resources for their livelihood. Many o f the poor live in areas subject to typhoons
and flooding and the impact o f natural disasters in Vietnam seems to be increasing. In urban
areas, waste water is generally not treated. Water pollution has already led to healthproblems in a
number of urban areas. And, in addition, public investments are not thoroughly screened for their
impact on the environment. Vietnam has extraordinary levels o f biodiversity but much o f it is
threatened, the main reason being a lack of incentives for biodiversity conservation. A large part
o f Vietnam's wetlands has disappeared with potentially disastrous consequences as natural
wetland provide many economic benefits: filtering and regulatingwater flow, providing flood and



                                                 11

storm protection and acting as nurseries for economically valuable fish and other species. At the
same time, the quality of Vietnam's forests continues to decline: currently closed canopy forest
forms only 13 percent o f forested areas. People in poor upland areas are unable to benefit much
from forest protection and forest plantation as their tenure rights to forest land are insecure and
unclear.

39.     CPRGS can be interpreted as a major turning point in the planning processes of
Vietnam. Previous plans and strategies were very much based on a command view of the
economy. By contrast, CPRGS relied on spelling out clear development goals (such as the
VDGs), using empirical evidence and consultation to identify the policies best suited to attain
those goals, aligning resources behind those policies, and setting up appropriate monitoring and
evaluation mechanisms. At the same time, the CPRGS exercise was mainly conducted at the level
o f the central Government. The reform agenda therefore includes the adoption o f the CPRGS
approach at lower levels o f Government. In a country as decentralized as Vietnam, this includes
not only the sectors, but very crucially the provinces. Eventually, the success o f CPRGS will be
to mainstream itself into the planning and policy making processes o f Vietnam, and cease to be
necessaryas a stand-alone Government document.

40.     Improvingfunding mechanismsis a cross-cuttingtheme in the reformagenda. With
decentralization, more expenditures have been assigned to local Governments. At the same time,
local tax revenue has gradually declined as a fraction of total revenue. Service delivery thus relies
increasingly on user fees, which inturn widens the inequalities between poorer and richer areas.
Budget allocation norms that redress these inequalities, commonly-agreed service delivery
standards, and incentives for local Governments to attain development objectives, are necessary
to keep development inclusive. The development o f forward-looking expenditure frameworks is
another important step towards improving the effectiveness of Government spending. To support
these objectives, the reform agenda includes an ambitious program to reform public financial
management. The fiduciary aspects o f it, including the unification of information systems and the
systematic reporting o f budgets at all levels, aim at increasing transparency. But the process
through which public investment projects are screened, approved and implemented needs to be
strengthened. And capital and recurrent expenditures need to be much better integrated in the
preparationo f a single budget.

41.      Legal reform and public administrationreform (PAR) are needed to build modern
governance.The agendafor legal reform is basedon athorough assessment of legalneeds, and is
very much influenced by the need to make the regulatory system o f Vietnam compatible with
WTO requirements. Legal transparency is improving, with an increased number o f legal
documents being published in the Official Gazette. Pilot initiatives to publish draft laws for
comments via the Internet are under way. But the extent of this agenda i s a considerable
challenge. As regards PAR, the gradual generalization o f the One-Stop Shop (OSS)model stands
out as a very practical step in an otherwise long-term endeavor. Simplification o f administrative
procedures, and clarity on fees, are among its immediate advantages. Whether the other
components of the PAR agenda will actually manage to modify the responsiveness and
accountability of the civil service remains to be seen.

42.      The fight against corruptionneeds to be based on the strengtheningof the systems
through which Government operates. While there is a perception o f widespread corruption
among domestic and international observers, there is no rigorous diagnosis o f the extent, nature
and costs of corruption in Vietnam. There i s anecdotal evidence that it affects public investment
projects and penalizes commercial businesses. On the other hand, participatory poverty
assessments (PPAs) suggest that petty corruption i s common in the education and health sectors.



                                                 12

But inthe absence of a comprehensive diagnosis, an effective anti-corruption strategy is difficult
to designand implement. However, there is at present an encouraging move away from a mainly
punitive approach towards a more systemic approach.

43.     Progress has been made in improvingthe quality of statisticaldata and improving
the legal framework for statisticaldevelopment. This will be important for tracking progress
towards the VDGs as specified in the CPRGS. However, stronger cross-sectoral and provincial
buy-inis neededboth on definitions and on the most reliable data collection methods for each(or
a subset) o f the indicators that correspond to the goals. Also, data dissemination i s yet
underdeveloped and planners, policy makers and policy researchers often still find it difficult to
access relevant and reliable socio-economic data, inparticular at the sub-national level.


C.      Progressunder PRSC 1andPRSC2


44.     PRSC 1,a two-trancheoperationfor US$250 million,was approvedby the Boardin
June 2001, based on an Interim Poverty ReductionStrategy Paper (I-PRSP). The focus o f
PRSC 1 was mainly on the structural reform agenda, with policies articulated in five main areas:
liberalizing trade, reforming SOEs, strengthening the banking sector, improving the environment
for the private sector, and improving management and transparency in public finances. PRSC 1
was co-financed by four donors with the equivalent of US$ 43 million in grants. Denmark
provided 78 million Danish Kroner, the Netherlands 15 million euro, Sweden US$2 million and
the UNITEDKINGDOM 14 millionpounds.

45.      PRSC 2, a one-tranche operation for US$ 100 million, was approved by the Board
in June 2003, based on the CPRGS. With PRSC 2 the range of economic reforms supported by
the international community was considerably broadened. In addition to the mainly structural
reforms covered by PRSC 1, this second credit included various policy actions aimed at keeping
development inclusive and building modern governance. Measures related to education and
health sectors, environmental sustainability, land management, legal development and public
financial management, were all part o f PRSC 2. This second credit inthe series was co-financed
by three donors with the equivalent of US$ 31 million in grants. The Netherlands provided 8
million euros, Denmark 19 million Danish Kroner and the UNITED KINGDOM 10 million
pounds.

46.      Progress has been achieved within most sectors, but there is still room for
improvement,particularlyinthe twin areas of SOE reform and financialsector reform. The
progress accomplished under PRSC 1 and PRSC 2 i s summarized in Annex 3. For each o f the
development outcomes in the reform program, this annex reports the situation in 2001, at the
beginning o fthe PRSC process, and in late 2003, when the preparationo f the proposed credit was
about to start. The last column in the annex provides the assessment o f the World Bank and the
co-financiers on the progress accomplished duringthis period. This assessmentreveals an uneven
extent of progress across sectors. The sharpest contrast refers to the transition to a market
economy, with considerable achievements in trade integration and infrastructure development,
butmuchmore limitedprogress inthe twinareas o f SOE reform and financial sector reform.

47.      Hardeningthe budget constraint and strengthening the incentives for restructuring
are the mainoutstandingissues facingthe SOE sector. Albeit slowly, the number o f SOEs has
declined over time. However, this indicator can be deceiving. The SOEs equitized, sold or
liquidated are relatively small. There are indications that their performance improved after



                                               13

ownership transformation, but given their size it i s unclear that this process has led to substantial
productivity gains for the economy as a whole. Larger SOEs have so far been excluded from the
equitization process. In particular, the reform of GCs has relied on the adoption o f restructuring
plans which are yet to be implemented. As for the hardeningof the budget constraint, it seems to
be increasingly effective in relation to banking credit, but SOEs' investment plans o f allegedly
strategic importance are still supported through policy lending, especially by DAF. Meanwhile,
the ability o f the Government to monitor the performance o f SOEs remains limited, despite
current efforts to enforce reporting obligations.


                           TABLE THESIZEOFTHE SOE SECTOR
                                   2:

 Indicator                                1998                            2001      2002      2003
 _____                               ~




 Total number o f SOEs                    5861                            5334      4981      4361
                                                     ~




 SOEs inindustrial output (percent)         45                             31        30        29

 SOEs innon-oil exports (percent)           62                             44        39        33

 Bank credit to SOEs (percent)              52        48                   42        39        36


Source: World Bank and IMF staff estimates based on data from NSCERD, General Statistics
         Office (GSO) and SBV.


48.     Progress on the financial sector reform agenda is uneven. The process o f
consolidating joint-stock banks (JSB) which were not in compliance with the rules is almost
completed by now. But the four large SOCBs which dominate the sector are not in full
compliance yet. The SBV still has conflicting roles as both owner and regulator o f commercial
banks. There was progress in resolving the stock o f NPLs the SOCBs had as o f 2000, but the
quality o f new loans remains largely unknown. Considerable resources have been devoted to the
recapitalization o f SOCBs, but in spite o f it the required capital-adequacy ratios have not been
met. Policy lendingwas transferred to specialized institutions, and SOCBs can in principle refuse
to extend credit to SOEs. However, policy lending by DAF has expanded very rapidly, to the
point where it has become bigger than the largest SOCB. This i s despite the fact that its ability to
assess credit risk has improved more slowly than that of SOCBs.

49.      In spite of deficiencies, available outcome indicators reveal progress on both SOE
and financial sector reform. Assessing what has been accomplished in these areas is difficult
due to the lack of readily-available information. Lack of reliable data, and more generally limited
transparency, are clear indicationsthat progress has been insufficient. At the same time, there has
been movement inthe direction o f attaining the overall development goals of the reform program.
As Table 2 shows, the total number o f SOEs has declined steadily over time. The pace is not
dramatic, but the trend is unambiguous. Progress i s even more significant when outcome
indicators are considered. Table 2 shows a considerable fall in the share o f SOEs in industrial
output, non-oil exports, and banking credit.

50.      Similarly, precise figures about the sectoral allocation and quality o f banking credit are
not available across the system. Lacking those figures, two other indicators of the share of



                                                  14

banking credit at risk are presented in Table 3. One of them considers banking credit going to the
SOE sector as a whole. The other one focuses on the so-called 200 most-heavily indebted SOEs,
whose debts with banks are monitored by MOF in agreementwith the IMF. About three quarters
o f these 200 SOEs have consistently reported their data. While none o f these two indicators can
be considered satisfactory inthemselves, they are generated independently and therefore provide
a useful cross-checking. Both indicators show that bank claims on SOEs have declined, as a
fraction o f total bank credit. They also show that the total debts of the SOE sector in general, and
of the 200 most-heavily indebted SOEs in particular, do not represent an overwhelming share o f
GDP.


                            TABLE BANKINGSECTORINDICATORS
                                    3:
                                                              I 2000       2001    2002      2003    I
  Credit to the economy (trillions of VND)                                 189      231
  Credit to the economy (percent o f GDP)                                   41       44       289
                                                                                               50    I
  Claims on SOEs (trillions of VND)                               70        80       90       104
  Claims on SOEs (percent of credit to the economy)               45        42       39        36
  Claims on SOEs (percent of GDP)                                 16        17       17        18
  Bank debts of "200 SOEs" (trillions of VND)                     30        39       47        46
  "200 SOEs" (percent of credit to the economy)                   19        21       20        16
  "200 SOEs" (percent of GDP)                                      7        9         9         8
  NPLs accordingto IAS(trillions ofVND)                           15        18      25"       31  *
  NPLs accordingto IAS (percent o f credit to the economy)        10        10      11*       11*
  NPLsaccordingto IAS (percent o f GDP)                            4        4        5 *       5 *
  NPLs accordingto IAS (percent of loans by SOCBs)                13        13      14"       15"

Notes: The "200 SOEs" considered are supposedly the most-heavily indebted ones, and they are
         been monitored as part o f an agreement with the IMF. In practice, only 146 o f these
         SOEs have reported data consistently; figures for 2003 correspond to the third quarter.
         Figures on NPLs are based on the IAS audits o f the four largest SOCBs in 2000 and
         2001, on IAS audits oftwo SOCBs and staff projections in2002, and exclusively on staff
         projections in2003. Estimatedfigures are indicated with an asterisk.

Source: World Bank and IMF staff estimates based on data from SBV, Price Waterhouse-
         Coopers, and Ernst & Young.


5 1.     It is more difficult to tell what share of those debts is actually being serviced. Table 3
reports indicators o f the NPL portfolio based on IAS audits conducted inthe four largest SOCBs.
Such audits are available for all large SOCBs in 2000 and 2001, and for only two o f them in
2002. The audit process has been characterized by protracted delays in almost all phases
(appointment, drafting, negotiation and finalization). As a result, an updated picture o f the quality
o f credit in the four main SOCBs is currently unavailable. The figures presented inTable 3 for the



                                                 15

year 2003 are obtained by extrapolation of the trends in each o f the four large SOCBs. Even the
actual figures from IAS can underestimate the true size o f the NPL portfolio, as delinquent loans
which are restructured might be counted as if they were being serviced. The bottom portion o f
Table 3 thus reflects a lower bound on the cost o f resolving the stock o f NPLs accumulated at
present. Official NPL figures, based on Vietnamese Accounting Standards (VAS), are smaller.
While Decision 1627, adopted in 2001, brought the VAS closer to IAS, there are indications that
it has been circumvented by SOCBs. Inaddition to NPLresolution, the actual cost of reforming
the SOCBs would also involve raisingthe capital o fthe banks to prudent levels.

52.      Improvingthe quality of new credit is key to ensure genuine bankingreform. While
figures based on both VAS and IAS suggest that delinquency rates have not risen, this i s partly
due to NPL "resolution" based on write-offs against provisions or Government payments.
Circular 74/2002/TT-BTC, a mechanism for revaluing the remaining NPLs established under
PRSC 2, is currently being implemented. Preliminary information indicates that the amount that
can be actually recovered i s low. The speed o f NPL resolution can therefore be expected to
decline over time, making the quality of new credit the main determinant o f future bank
profitability. The credit function is the area where banking reform has been slower. With credit to
the economy growing steadily in relation to GDP, there is a real prospect that the cost of
recapitalizing the banking system will increase. Increased competition, made possible by the
USBTA and accession to the WTO, could allow foreign banks to strip the SOCBs o f their better
borrowers, thus placing even greater pressure on their balance sheets. Accelerated reform in the
financial sector would be one o f the most important steps Vietnam could undertake to
successfully complete its transition to a market economy.


D.       The Case for PRSC3


53.      The decision to proceed with the preparation o f the proposed credit rests on the
combination o fthree basic criteria: (i) macroeconomic management must remain prudent, so as to
ensure that progress in the long-term reform agenda will not be undermined by short-term
instability; (ii)the Government's own assessment o f the progress accomplished in CPRGS
implementationhas to be deemed satisfactory; and (iii)    the reform triggers outlined at the time o f
the PRSC 2 operation needto be met, except for unforeseen circumstances.

54.      The Letter of Assessment prepared by the IMF to accompany the proposed credit
confirms the solid macroeconomic performance of Vietnam. The IMF reckons rapid GDP
growth in 2003 and a favorable outlook for 2004. Itnotes that the current account deficit widened
in spite of the rapid growth in exports, but it was more than fully financed by capital inflows.
Budget performance was strong too, and plans to tighten policy lending by DAF are welcome.
The IMF also notes that Vietnam has made significant progress with trade reform measures.
However, concurring with World Bank and the co-financiers of this operation, it points out that
reform implementation in the state-controlled sector has proven to be difficult, with SOCBs as a
strategic weak point among Vietnam's economic institutions. Going forward, the IMF remains
fully committed to an effective partnership with the Government of Vietnam to support the
implementation o f CPRGS.

55.      The CPRGS Progress Report highlights the accomplishments in reform
implementation, but points towards important structural reform bottlenecks and key
outstandingsocial issues.The first CPRGS Progress Report was completed by the Government
in November 2003. In February 2004 it was submitted to the Boards of the IMF and IDA for



                                                  16

discussion as a first Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) progress update for Vietnam. The
Report's notes that there are areas where the agenda for structural reform has been slower than
expected and where bottlenecks have occurred. This includes in particular the restructuring o f
SOEs, which inturn has implications for the overall quality o f bank credit. The Report also gives
an assessment o f progress in further opening of the economy, the promotion o f a more favorable
investment climate, and improvements in public financial management. Progress in terms o f
reducing poverty and attaining the VDGs, as well as other targets set inthe CPRGS, is evaluated
usingdata from administrative sources and from twelve PPAs conducted duringthe Summer o f
2003. The Report also makes extensive use o f new data available from the 2002 Vietnam
Household Living Standards Survey (VHLSS). The Report provides a candid assessment o f key
social issues, including growing inequalities, poverty among ethnic minorities, the problems
faced by unregistered or temporarily registered rural-urban migrants, and the challenges o f
promoting good governance and combatingcorruption.

56.      The Joint Staff Assessment of the CRPGS Progress Report concludes that it
providesa generallyfrank pictureof both accomplishmentsand challenges. However, it falls
short in adequately describing the necessary actions to address those challenges. Looking
forward, a better articulation o f linkages between the achievements and the policy actions is
needed, as well as a candid assessment of the potential risks associated with the current policy
stances. The JSA also recommends a more in-depthanalysis o f the challenges identified and the
future policy actions to address them, a clearer discussion of the macroeconomic framework
withinwhich the CPRGS will be implemented, a better analysis of how public investment andthe
annual budget link to CPRGS implementation, and a more explicit set o f actions to tackle ethnic
minority poverty and promote gender equality.

57.      At the outset of PRSC 2, a series of triggerswere establishedto monitor progressin
the implementation of the reform agenda. These triggers, reproduced in Table 4, provide
measurable benchmarks, covering the three pillars of the reform agenda. With one exception, all
o f the triggers are under Government control, so that they allow to assess the determination to
implementthe reform agenda. The exception is private sector development. Essentially private
sector development i s the combined outcome o f policy actions in many areas, from financial
sector reform to better governance and public administration. It was considered difficult to
pinpoint a policy action that could signal on its own that progress was of a significant magnitude.
Therefore, the chosen trigger was an outcome indicator, namely the speed at which new private
firms keep registering under the Enterprise Law.

58.      The evaluation of triggers is one of the indicativecriteria to decide the timing and
size of PRSC operations. Bases to evaluate the triggers and potentially launchthe preparation o f
PRSC 3 were established inthe Program Document for PRSC 2. Triggers are not conditions, and
their evaluation involves an element ofjudgment, inthe spirit of a "bottom-line" assessment. The
attainment of all triggers is considered a strong indication that Vietnam is ready to move to high-
case lending, as established inthe Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). Progress on most triggers
and no backtracking on any o f them leads in principle to the preparation of the next PRSC
operation, but most probably remaining inbase-caselending. Backtracking could lead to delaying
the next operation, which inpractice is equivalent to movingto the CAS low case.




                                                 17

                              TABLE TRIGGERS FORPRSC3
                                       4:




Private sector              More than 1200 new private enterprises registered on               HS
development                 average every month.
SOE reform                  Timely implementation o f ownership transformations under           S
                            the new SOE reform plans.
                            Actual rating o f SOEs accordingto the criteria set out inthe
                            Decision on SOE Performance Evaluation and Monitoring.              U

Financial sector            Four largest SOCBs to meet the loan-loss provisioning and
reform                      NPL resolutiontargets set intheir restructuring plans, and          PS
                            phase-in conditional recapitalization.
                            Adopt a plan with a clear timetable to enable one SOCB to
                            seek equity participation by a reputable international partner.
                            Draft a new legal document to replace or supplement Decree          PS

                            43 providing a sound regulatory framework for policy
                            lending.                                                            S




Health

Education                   Draft the regulation o fFundamental School Quality Levels.

Land                        Submission o f a bill for the revision o fthe Land Law,             S
                            supporting land-tenure security, community land-use
                            practices and access to land for all sectors.
Environmental            0  Conduct a broad consultation to support the drafting of             S
sustainability              regulations to implement the environmental impact
                            assessment (EIA).
                                                                                           I




Planning processes       0  Progress inthe implementation o f CPRGS planning                    H S
                            processes inone sector.
                            Progress inthe implementation o f CPRGS planning                     S
                            processes at the provincial level.

Public financial            Progress inthe set up o f an integratedTreasury and Budget          H S
management                  Management Information System (TABMIS).

Legal development        0  Publication o f legal documents inthe Official Gazette as            S
                            requiredby the amended "Law on Laws".


Note:    H S stands for highly satisfactory, S for satisfactory, PS for partially satisfactory, and U
         for unsatisfactory.


                                                   18

59.      Trigger assessment points towards base-case lending,given satisfactory progress in
the second and third pillars of the reform agenda, but uneven progress on the first pillar,
particularly SOE reform and financial sector reform. An assessment by World Bank staff of
progress in meeting the triggers for PRSC 3 i s reported in the last column o f Table 4. Progress
was considered satisfactory or highly satisfactory for all triggers related to the second and third
pillars o f the reform agenda, i.e. keeping development socially inclusive and environmentally
sustainable and building modern governance. On the other hand, progress was markedly uneven
in relation to the first pillar, on completing the transition to a market economy. The lowest grade
went to the ratingo f SOE performance, according to the criteria set up inDecision 271/2003/QD-
TTg, supported by PRSC 2. While instructions to implement this rating have been issued, their
actual implementation is proving slow, to the point where the trigger has not been met yet.
Triggers related to banking sector reform, inturn, were partially met. This assessment confirms,
once more, the need to adopt a more determined stance inbanking reform.


                                 V.    THEPROPOSED             CREDIT


60.      The broad sectoral coverage o f the CPRGS, and the incremental nature of an
implementation process spread over several years, make it difficult to identify a few breakthrough
policy actions supported by the proposed credit. Instead, the last year has been characterized by
steady progress across a large number of areas. The breadth of the policy dialogue i s actually
reflected in the relatively large number o f milestones that can be reported in each o f the three
pillars of the reform program. It i s also reflected in the gradual broadening o f the sectoral
coverage o f the program over time, and in the move from actions to outputs to development
outcomes along the results chain.


A.       Strategy and Prior Actions


61.      A list of key policy actions supported by this credit is provided in Table 5. Rather than
developing the individual content and nature o f these actions, it i s worth focusing on their joint
expected contribution to improved development outcomes ineach area.


Pillar I:Transitionto a Market Economy


62.      The last year witnessed steady progressin the integrationwith the world economy.
Policy actions inthis area are better viewed through a "WTO-accession lens". The preparation o f
detailed roadmaps for tariff changes, including an assessment o f sectoral impacts and a proposed
timing for implementation, is a key input for the negotiation of WTO accession terms by
Vietnam. But more importantly, these roadmaps lay out a vision for the long-term structure of
protection. This i s a vision where average tariffs are low, most non-tariff barriers have been
removed and few sectors enjoy high protection rates. Several policy actions undertaken over the
last year keep moving the economy inthat direction.




                                                   19

                           TABLE PRIORACTIONSUNDERPRSC3
                                    5:


                           Pillar I:Transition to a Market Economy

                                           Achievementsinthe Last Year

Trade          0 Conducted detailed preparatory work for WTO accession, including an assessmento fthe
integration      impact o f various tariff scenarios on key sectors

               0 Eliminated QRs on the imports o fpetroleum products

               0 Adopted the EarlyHarvest Program to implement the Framework Agreement on
                 Comprehensive Economic Cooperation betweenASEAN and China

               0 Issuedregulations directing the use o ftransaction value as the basis for customs
                 valuation

               a Applied the HCCS to all trading partners

State-         a Substantially accelerated SOE ownership transformation by following the 104 SOE
owned            restructuring plans
enterprise
reform           Broadened the equitization process to include large SOEs and GCs.

                 Issued operational guidelines for the central Debts and Assets Trading Company
                 (DATC)

Financial        Formulated a planto strengthen the supervisory capacity o f SBV and to level the playing
sector reform    field for banks

                 Adopted a new Chart o f Accounts for banks to improve banking sector transparency

                 Instructed SOCBs to put into effect new credit manuals to improve riskmanagement in
                 their operations

                 Imposed a 60-day time limit for SOCBs to submittheir IAS audits to SBV

                 Adopted a decisionto equitize two SOCBs, and took steps towards identifying a strategic
                 investor for one o fthem

                 Issuedregulations for DAF operations, restricting its mechanisms for policy lending

                 Further developed securities markets by easing listing requirements andcreating a legal
                 framework for securities investment funds as a new investment channel
                                 ~ _ _                 __
Private sector a Unifiedthe corporate income tax rate at 28 percent irrespective o f ownership
development
               a Strengthened the administration o f intellectual property rights (IPRs) through NOIP

               a Improvedthe legal framework for the organization, operation and management o f
                 business associations.

Infrastructure   "Expanded" the CPRGS to include a development policy for large-scale infrastructure

               a OpenedInternet andmobile telephone services to competition

               a Reduced international telephone and leased line prices to regional levels.

                                                                                                 (Continued)



                                                     20

                TABLE5: PRIORACTIONS UNDERPRSC3 (CONTINUED)




Sducation        Raised expenditure share o f education andtrainingto 17.1percent o fthe 2004 national
                 budget

                 Adopted minimumquality standards for primary schools nationwide

Health           EstablishedHCFPs inall provinces and fully paid central Government contribution

                 Adopted a multi-sector action program to implement the HIV-AIDS Strategy

Land             Passednew Land Law supporting access to land for all sectors, community land-use
                 practices and providing for a unified land administration system

Water            Issued a decree to transfer to water users groups the management o f small-scale, stand
                 alone irrigation and drainage systems, and secondary and tertiary irrigation systems

Environment      Decentralized responsibility for EIA to local levels according to the value o f investment
                 projects

                 Established"polluter pays" principle and mechanism for industrial and municipal waste
                 water discharges

                 Issuedregulation requiringthe worst pollution offenders to upgrade their technology,
                 move to authorized zones or face closure
              I  Issued a decree for the conservation and sustainable development o fwetlands




Planning         Issued guidelines to roll out the CPRGS approach inprovincial planningand launched
processes        the process in 20 provinces

                 Piloted a Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) inthe education sector.

Public           Unifiedthe accounting systems o f the State Budgetand the State Treasury.
financial
management       Completed the overall design o f an integrated Treasury and Budget Management
                 Information System.

Financial        Enacted a new Accounting Law and issuednew accounting and auditing standards inline
accountability   with international standards

                 Subjected SOEs to independent audits unless exempted and subject to SAV audit

Public           Promulgated the national policy o f One Stop-Shop (OSS) mechanism
administration
reform           Pilotedthe report card approach to public services delivery infour cities

Anti-            Strengthened the public procurementprocess by reinforcing open competitive biddingas
corruption       the main method and mandating the establishment o f a Procurement Bulletin

                 Required Government agencies to adhere strictly to legalprocedures, schedule and scope
                 o f inspection o fbusinesses



                                                 21

63.     QRs on the imports of petroleum products were removed. This comes after similar
measures under PRSC 1(for paper, liquor, floor tiles, construction glass, steel, vegetable oil and
passenger vehicles up to 9 seats) and PRSC 2 (for cement and clinker, remaining kinds o f steel,
construction glass, floor tiles, paper, vegetable oil and tiles). As a result, the coverage o f QRs fell
from 20 percent o f imports and 22 percent of production at the beginning of the PRSC process, to
13 percent and 4 percent respectively at present. Under PRSC 3, tariffs on 484 items imported
from China, mostly agricultural and fisheries products, were lowered as well. This move, known
as the Early Harvest Program, is a step towards the implementation o f the ASEAN-China free
trade agreement. Separately, a number o f regulations were made WTO-compliant during the last
year. They refer to customs valuation and to the application ofthe Harmonized Classification and
Coding System (HCCS) on a multilateral basis.

64.     As regards SOE reform, there has been a substantial acceleration in the
transformationof SOE ownership. Under PRSC 1, improvements inthe overall framework for
enterprise divestiture, including the set up of a social safety net (SSN) for redundant SOE
workers, had been satisfactorily completed. This allowed the meeting o f cautious targets for
enterprise divestiture by the end o f the period covered by PRSC 1. Since then the number o f
SOEs included in officially approved plans for transformation was increased substantially. The
program supported from PRSC 2 onwards i s basedon a series o f 104 SOE reform plans drawn by
line ministries, provincial Governments and GCs. Unlike previous blueprints for SOE reform,
these plans, which identified the SOEs to be divestedby name and indicated a specific year for
the ownership transformation to be carried out, were put into the public domain. The overall aim
is to equitize, sell or liquidate around 2400 SOEs, employing roughly 0.4 million workers, over a
three-year period.

65.     Progress in the planned SOE transformations is being monitored with monthly reporting
on the numbers and names o f the concerned SOEs. The monitoring scheme also puts under
surveillance the creation of new SOEs, and of joint stock companies involving SOEs. Timely
implementation of ownership transformations under the new SOE reform plans was considered a
trigger for PRSC 3. According to the National Steering Committee for Enterprise Reform and
Development (NSCERD) definition o f a completed transformation, 814 SOEs were transformed
in2003. This includes 649 SOE transformations that were approved under the 104 reform plans
and 165 that had been approved prior to the 104 restructuring plans. The corresponding figures
are somewhat smaller if transformations are only considered complete after the first shareholders
meetinghas been held and the enterprise has been registered. But the average lead time between
transaction approval and businessregistration has remainedfairly constant at around 90 days over
the past 3 years. By either measure, 2003 was by far the best year in terms of numbers o f SOEs
transformed: a 95 percent increaseover 2002 as measured byNSCERD, and a 60 percent increase
in terms of business registrations. Figures for the first four months of 2004 confirm the
acceleration in the transformation o f ownership. Admittedly, actual transformations fall short of
the targets set in the 104 reform plans. But this is partly due to slippages in the approval of the
plans, which oftentook place only by mid-2003.

66.      Other important developments in SOE reform over the last year refer to the
broadeningof the equitizationprocessand to the restructuringof SOEs bound to remainin
state hands. So far, the reform of large SOEs, includingGCs, had focused on making them more
competitive. However, the gthPlenum o f the gthParty Congress approved the equitization of large
SOEs. The sectors likely to be covered include electricity, post and telecommunications,
chemicals, metallurgy, and banking and insurance. Further, it i s recognized that shares in these
entities could be sold to outsiders and that the valuations of the enterprises should be based on
market values. InMarch 2004, the Ministryo f Planning and Investment (MPI) identifiedthe legal


                                                  22

documents to be promulgated, amended or supplemented to pave the way for the transformation
o f the larger SOEs, as well as speed upthe equitization of smaller ones. Inparallel, guidelines for
the operation o f a central DATC have been issued. The DATC was set up on a pilot basis under
PRSC 2 due to the lack o f appropriate mechanisms for NPL resolution. While SOCBs have their
own asset management companies, they currently lack the power to reach foreclosure, seizing
assets and forcing enterprise liquidation if necessary. The DATC has a planned chartered capital
o f VND 2 trillion. It i s to be operated on a pilot basis first, covering 20 SOEs with bad debts
amounting to about VND 1.5 trillion. O f these 20 SOEs, 12 will be equitized, 6 will be
transformed into one-member limited liability companies, one will pass on to the ownership o f its
workers and one i s to be merged.

67.      Progress has been slower regardingthe monitoring o f SOE performance. Inthe past, few
SOEs complied with existing reporting obligations. Decision 271/2003/QD-TTg, issued under
PRSC 2, establishes administrative sanctions for lack of compliance and instructs the
classification o f SOEs in one of three categories dependent on their earnings, returns on state
equity, and ability to service their debts. Actual classification is expected to start in July 2004,
when the new SOE law becomes effective. Enterprises that are classified as bad performers two
years in a row are inprinciple subject to reorganization, including changes inmanagement. SOEs
which do not submit their financial reports in a timely manner will be submitted to fines. These
sanctions on delayed reporting will in turn serve as a basis to evaluate and classify their
performance.

68.      During the last year, a series of measures have been taken to reinvigorate the
implementation of the Government's financial sector reform program.A plan was issued for
the international integration o f the banking sector and the reform of the SBV, in light o f WTO
accession. The plan seeks to amend, supplement, revise and eliminate legal documents and
policies unsuitable with international integration commitments. It envisages actions to strengthen
the supervisory capacity of SBV and move the supervision o f banks closer to international
practices, including the implementation o f a rating system based on capital assets management,
earnings and liquidity (CAMEL). It also foresees the completion of modern payment and
financial information systems in the sector. In parallel, the four largest SOCBs have developed
new credit manuals, which will provide the banks with the critical foundation to improve credit
and overall risk management upon implementation

69.       Other policy actions inthis area aim at increasing transparency and accountability. A new
Chart of Accounts for Banks was adopted. This new chart, as well as new regulations on
accounting and bank reporting policies, are close to IAS. A 60-day limit was imposed on the
"negotiation" o f IAS audit by SOCBs. The four largest SOCBs have been subjected to IAS since
PRSC 1. However there have been delays in releasing those audits, sometimes exceeding nine
months, resulting from negotiations with SOCBs about the qualifications o fthose audits.

70.       Equallysignificant are the plans to equitize two SOCBs, with a strategic investor for
one of them. The Government had already announced its intentionto equitize the smallest o f all
SOCB, Mekong Housing Bank (MHB), under PRSC 2. This equitization is scheduled to take
place by 2005 and will involve the participation o f an international strategic investor. More
recently, the Prime Minister's Directive No. 11/2004/CT-TTg, on the acceleration o f SOE
restructuring, also directed the SBV in coordination with the MOF to submit draft equitization
plans for the Vietnam Bank for Foreign Trade (VCB) and MHB by June 30,2004. VCB is one of
the largest and most profitable SOCBs. Whether the equitization will aim at raising capital only,
or will also serveto strengthen corporate governance, remains to be seen.




                                                  23

71.      Progress towards achieving a more sound regulatory framework for policy lending.
Policy lendinghad been formally separatedfrom the commercial banking system under PRSC 1,
but it continuedto grow at a rapid pace. The DAF expanded considerably over the last three years
and remains a significant vehicle for routing financial support to SOEs. The issuance of Decree
106/2004/ND-CP, which regulates the operation of DAF, i s an important step towards providing
a sound regulatory framework for policy lending. The Decree states that only projects that are
capable o f direct repayment, have socio-economic efficiency, and have feasible business or
production plans, are eligible for DAF support. The Decree also stresses that project assets are to
be used as security, and those assets cannot be assigned, disposed, mortgaged or pledged until
loans are fully repaid. An element of risk-sharing, through co-payments by other Government
bodies or by commercial banks, i s also built into the Decree. Total support by DAF, all
mechanisms combined, cannot exceed 85 percent o f the total investment capital o f a project.
Investment lending cannot exceed 70 percent. The new framework would limit the number o f
support mechanisms and would lead to a partial reliance on commercial lending. Those
mechanisms are project loans, interest rate subsidies and credit guarantees. Only the former will
be extended by DAF itself. Both interest rate subsidies and guarantees apply to financial support
by commercial banks. And subsidies apply only to projectsthat have been completedand put into
commercial operationand whose debts have been fully repaid. Success inputtingDAFoperations
on a sounder footing will crucially dependon the effective implementation o f these measures.

72.      Steps have been taken over the last year to give a boost to the fledgling securities
market. InNovember, 2003 the Government issued Decree 144/2003/ND-CP, easing the listing
requirements for firms. The minimumcapitalization requirement for firms was halved to VND 5
billion. JSBs with a charter capital of VND 70 billion or more, at least five years inoperation and
two consecutive years o f profits in the last two years, and an NPL ratio below 3 percent, can be
listed as well. A new regulatory framework for security investment funds was approved, and in
March 2004 the Vietnam State Securities Commission licensed the first o f those funds, creating a
new investment channel for bothdomestic and foreign investors.

73.      Reforms related to private sector development aim at building the legal foundations
of a market economy and securing a level playing field. A step towards the equal treatment o f
enterprises regardless o f their institutional nature has been the unification o f the corporate tax
rate, irrespective o f ownership. The new tax rate o f 28 percent lowers the tax rate on domestic
private enterprises from 32 percent and increases from 25 percent the tax rate previously levied
on foreign invested enterprises. At the same time the supplementary income tax for domestic
enterprises has been eliminated, and so has the profit remittance tax for foreign invested
enterprises. The policy o f phasing out dual pricingfor public utilities is another welcome move in
this direction. Under Decree 164, there is also a harmonization ofthe tax incentivesto foreign and
local companies. The strengthening o f the administration o f IPRs substantially shortens the
processing time from application to actual registration or rejection.

74.      A new legal framework for the organization, operation and management of
associations was adopted during the last year. Decree 88/2003/ND-CP                      signals the
Government's stronger interest inthe role and development o f business associations in Vietnam.
Although a number o f legal documents existed to govern civic activity, the overall legal
framework was restrictive, complex and fragmented. Decree 88 provides a more comprehensive
and transparent legal framework. Onthe other hand, it is not clear that this decree is well suitedto
the needs of all Non Government Organizations (NGOs). Further consultation and legislative
work may be neededinthis area.




                                                  24

75.     In infrastructure, the "expansion" of CPRGS to large-scale infrastructure
represents a change in the Government's approach to public investment. In the past, the
Public Investment Program (PIP) was a compilation o f projects by line ministries, provinces and
SOEs, without much screening or overall coherence. While feasibility studies were conducted in
the case o f large projects, an assessment of costs and benefits, not to mention growth and poverty
reduction impacts, was missing. The separation between capital and recurrent expenditures
usually resulted in poor maintenance. Environmental impacts were not systematically conducted,
the handling of resettlement was controversial at times, project management raised considerable
fiduciary risks, and community participation and supervision was limited in the case o f local
projects. The new chapter on large-scale infrastructure, added to the CPRGS in 2003, is expect to
serve as the basis for a gradual strengthening o f the institutional mechanisms supporting public
investment.

76.      An encouraging shift towards modern regulation of competition and pricing policies
in the telecommunication sector. Across infrastructure services, Vietnam needsto move from a
model with a single public-provider, sometimes leading to highuser costs, to a modern regulation
o f competition and pricing. The regulation of sectors with network externalities is bound to raise
difficult policy trade-offs between efficiency and coverage across a variety o f sub-sectors (power,
water and sanitation, and telecommunications). To some extent, this is a new area in policy
reform, barely touched by CPRGS. However, over the last year there have been encouraging
signs o f a move away o f the monopoly model, especially in telecommunications. The Internet
Service Provision (ISP) sector was opened by licensing new entrants. In mobile telephony,
competitive entry by a new mobile operator was authorized. And staged price reductions were
implementedfor these services. As o fJanuary, 2004, telecommunication prices inVietnam are in
line with ASEAN norms.


Pillar 11: Social Inclusionand Environmental Sustainability


77.      In education, progress towards increasing overall spending, improving resource
allocation and raising the quality of teaching. The overall approach inthis area is captured in
the Education for All (EFA) framework, approved by the Prime Minister and adopted under
PRSC 2. Measures adopted over the last year hinge on the combination o f two elements: quality
standards and resource allocation mechanisms. The expenditure share of education and training
was increased to 17.1 percent of the budget for 2004, which is close to the 18 percent CPRGS
target for 2005. This share was 13.8 percent in 2002, and was increased to 15.8 in 2003. In
parallel, minimumstandards for primary schools were adopted nationwide. A survey covering all
districts has been launched to assess the current situation relative to the standards. The standards
will not only guide resource allocation, but will also serve as a lever to facilitate monitoring, both
at the central and the provincial levels. These standards refer to physical infrastructure, teaching
staff, school organization and management, social participation in education, educational
activities and quality, and expected educational outcomes.

78.      This overall approach is to be complemented by a targeting strategy. An index o f
educational disadvantage has already been developed, combining net enrollment rates, the
percentageof 6-year-old children having access to schooling, and completion rates. This targeting
mechanism allows to identify a substantial number o f districts that have their indices well below
the national average. A fundamental upgrade in management practices is expected under
subsequent PRSCs subsequent to the piloting o f an MTEF for the education sector. The Ministry
of Educationand Training (MOET) has been selected as a pilot sector for this exercise.



                                                  25

79.      To redress the imbalances in health outcomes, the reform program focuses on
changingthe financingof health. An important policy action under PRSC 2 was the adoption of
Decision 139/2002/QD-TTgYwhich made more funding available for health services for the poor
at the provincial level. HCFPs are to receive sufficient funding to reimburse outlays o f VND
70,000 per poor beneficiary per year, with 75 percent o f this amount provided by the central
Government and the remaining 25 percent covered through community and individual
contributions. In January, 2004 the Government produced an assessment of the first year of
implementation o f the program which noted important achievements as well as problems
encountered in implementation. As an indicator of progress, all provinces and cities directly
under central Government have set up HCFPs and have established fund management
committees. Initial estimates place the number of target beneficiaries at 14.6 million. Nearly 37
percent of the target beneficiaries are located in the Northern Mountains region. The central
Government's portion to the HCFPs has been paid in full. While Decision 139 has increased the
flow o f government health fundingto the poor, some problems remain. These include provinces'
preference for directly reimbursing providers instead o f purchasing health insurance cards,
inadequate funding provided per beneficiary, and the absence o f additional financial support to
facilities to cover the un-reimbursed cost o f providing services to beneficiaries. Other issues
relate to the slow pace o f identifying eligible beneficiaries and extending partial benefits to near
poor households. All of these issues point to the need to follow up closely the implementation o f
this crucialreform.

80.      A National Steering Committee (NSC) for the Prevention of AIDS, Drugs and
Prostitution was recently established by the Prime Minister to prevent the spread of
HIV/AIDS. A policy framework for HIV/AIDS is being developed to identify critical needs,
challenges and opportunities. It will be important that the future HIV/AIDS prevention agenda
linksHIV/AIDSto other social and economic development plans, increasesGovernment's human
resource capacity and financial commitment to HIV/AIDS, scales-up successful pilot programs.
More broadly, HIVIAIDSneed to be recognized as a gender issue and the approach to HN/AIDS
needs to become a program o f harm prevention, rather than elimination o f a "social evil". Under
PRSC 3, this NSC issued a draft ten-year strategy for slowing and halting the spread of
HIV/AIDs, approved by the Prime Minister in December 2003. The adoption of a set o f action
plans to implement the strategy is an important signal o f the Governments' recognition o f the
need for decisive action in the face o f the emerging AIDS epidemic in Vietnam. The action
program includes steps to de-stigmatize those who are HN-positive and resolve policy
inconsistencies between the public health approach and the "social evils'' approach. Information
dissemination, and provision of adequate and affordable care and treatment are also key
components ofthe action plan.

81.      A new Land Law was passedin late 2003, supporting access to land for all sectors,
addressing land-tenuresecurity, recognizingcommunity land-use practices and developing
a unifiedlandadministrationsystem. While some ofthe specifics will depend on implementing
decrees, circulars and decisions currently under preparation, the new Land Law in itself
represents an important step forward. The law specifies that all LUCs must bear the names o f
both spouses, thereby filling a gap o f the older version. The law also expands into areas such as
the re-renting of land, and the use of LUCs as capital contribution intojoint ventures. It stipulates
that the valuation o f land for purposes such as taxation, registration or payment o f compensation
should be in line with market prices. Investors operating under the Foreign Investment Law
would still need to acquire LUCs by leasing them from the state. However, those who pay the
entire amount o f rent in a single lump sum upfront are allowed to sub-lease, assign or sell their
LUCs duringthe lease term. Paying the rent as a lump sum thus gives foreign land users similar
rights as domestic land users. The issuance o f LUCs has been decentralized to district and


                                                  26

provincial governments, and a unified system of land administration agencies will be set up. In
addition, more transparent mechanisms for resolving land disputes have been promulgated with a
greater role o f People's Courts.

82.      The process o f allocating upland to local people and local communities needs to be
strengthened. Many among the poor depend on upland, including forest land, for their livelihood.
Inthis respect, the Government has issuedresolution28/NQ/TW for the accelerated restructuring
o f SFEs. This resolution promotes the allocation o f under-utilized land and forest currently under
the control of SFEs to the local population, local communities, or private enterprises. Further, the
revised Law on Forest Protection and Development, submitted to the National Assembly in May
2004, provides the overall framework for the move towards more social and community-based
forestry. For the first time, it recognizes the forest use right o f households, communities and other
sectors as well as their ownership of plantation forest. And it proposes to assign an economic
value to each forest production area as the basis for their allocation or leaseto forest managers. In
parallel, key stakeholders have also started the consultation process to revise the Forest Sector
Development Strategy, which is expected to produce a long-term broad positive impact not only
on poverty reduction but also on sustainable management o f forest, land, water and environment
inuplandareas.

83.      In the water resources sector, an important policy action undertaken over the last
year is the involvementof usersin irrigation management. Decree 143/2003/ND-CP transfers
the management o f small-scale, stand-alone irrigation systems, as well as tertiary and secondary
canals, to cooperatives or groups o f water users. Irrigation services which were until recently
under the control o f state-owned irrigation management companies, will thus become more
responsive to the needs o f local populations. It has long been recognizedthat improved quality o f
irrigation services i s critical for further agricultural intensification and diversification, which are
among the main drivers o f agricultural growth and poverty reduction in the rural areas o f
Vietnam.

84.      Improved environment safeguards for public investments and introduction of the
"polluter pays" principle. EIAs of public investment projects have been delegated to a large
number of provincial governments, particularly inthe regions that are currently driving economic
growth, such as Ho Chi MinhCity, Hanoi, DaNang and BinhDuong. The EIA capacity o f those
local governments has been considerably strengthened, in parallel with their increased
empowerment to make investment decisions. Amendments to the regulations guiding the
implementation of the Law on Environment Protection were recently submitted to the
Government for approval.` These amendments, basedon consultations held in2003, aim at further
decentralizing EIA responsibilities. The control of pollution by existing firms has been
strengthened as well. "Polluter pays" fees on industrial and municipal waste water discharges
were introduced by 67/2003/ND-CP and multi-ministerial circular 125/2003/TT-LB BTC-
BTNMT. These fees apply to all discharges independently from enterprise ownership. Decree
64/2003/QD-TTg, in turn, forces establishments that cause serious environmental pollution to
either upgrade their technology or move to authorized zones. Non-compliant establishments are
to be closed. Equally important, decree 109/2003/ND-CP promulgates the conservation and
sustainable use of wetlands. It regulates detrimental human activity inwetland areas while taking
into account the sustainability o fthe livelihoods o fthe rural poor.




                                                    27

Pillar HI:Modern Governance


85.      The CPRGS approach increasingly incorporated into provincial planning. Due to
increased decentralization, resources from the central budget only represent a fraction (sometimes
minor) o f total public expenditure at the local level. While the CPRGS sets national objectives,
policy making at the provincial level needs to take into account the local dimensions o f economic
growth and poverty reduction. Such alignment o f planning processes to localized development
targets i s still new to many local officials, who are not fully used to the idea of setting
development targets based on evidence and consultation, gearing policies towards attaining those
targets, aligning resourcesaccordingly, and monitoring the results. Duringthe last year, however,
there has been progress inincorporating the CPRGS approach inprovincial planning. The process
has involved three main activities: i)regional workshops to discuss the approach and its
implication for sector and local planning processes; ii)regional poverty assessments focusing on
specific dimensions o f poverty in each region; and iii)support by donors to 19 pilot provinces to
integrate the CPRGS process into local and sector planning. Crucially, M P I has issued guidelines
to prepare provincial five-year plans and annual plans that incorporate the CPRGS approach.

86.      MTEFsto be pilotedin key socialsectors. Moreneedsto be done at the sectoral levels
as well. The trend towards increased decentralization, with the associated reliance on local fees
and out-of-pocket payments, makes the allocation of resources key to the improvement o f service
delivery. A plan was put inplace to develop MTEFs in sectors that play a direct role in reducing
poverty and keeping development inclusive: education, health, agriculture and transport. The
MTEFsare part of a broader effort to improve transparency and efficiency inthe management of
the budget. They should lead to a better integration of capital and current expenditures, with a
forward-looking perspective. The MOET has been selected to pilot a "shadow" MTEF, under
improved accounting systems and control procedures by MOF. Once implemented, this MTEF is
expected to leadto a fundamental upgrade inmanagement practices.

87.      The implementationof the revised Law on the State Budget, which became effective
in 2004, is one of the cornerstones of the public financial management reform program. It
clearly delineates the roles o f the National Assembly and the Provincial People's Councils in
budget approval, it streamlines budget execution processes, and it assigns the Treasury
Department as the lead agency responsible for budget execution and for financial management
information. An obstacle to perform this task i s the reliance on three separate accounting systems
for the State Budget Department, the State Treasury Department and spending units. Extra-
budgetary funds, on-lent ODA and much commune-level spending are currently not consolidated
into the budget or recorded inthe State Treasury Department's main accounting system. The lack
of a fully consolidated and integrated budget makes it difficult to monitor total revenues and
expenditures, to assess how resources are being allocated, and to compare plans with outturns.
One step undertaken last year towards the implementation of the new Budget Law was the
unification of the accounting systems o f the State Budget and the State Treasury.

88.      The design of an overall Treasury and Budget Management Information System
(TABMIS) was completed. The TABMIS is based on modern principles o f public financial
management, such as the World Bank-IMF Treasury Reference Model. The TABMIS will replace
the current systems that are fragmented technologically and have overlapping and conflicting
functionality. Implementing TABMIS should lead to a vast improvement in the integrity in
overall fiscal data, transparency and control at all levels of Government. A decree has also been
submitted on the implementation of accounting standards set by the new Accounting Law in
spending unitsthat use State budget resources.



                                                28

89.      Vietnam has made significant progress in laying the foundation for public and
private financial accountabilityin recent years. To strengthen legislative oversight o f public
accounts a legal mandate was issued for the State Audit of Vietnam (SAV) to operate outside o f
the executive branch of Government and report its audit results to the National Assembly on a
routine basis. A new Accounting Law, mentioned in the previous paragraph, was issued in
accordance with international practice. Since then, 16 accounting standards and 27 auditing
standards have been issued. A new decree to implement the Accounting Law in industries and
business activities has been drafted and submitted to the Government for approval. The decree
specifically refers to the use of the new standards by SOEs. Another decree subjects thousands o f
SOEs to independent audits by specialized audit firms, as opposed to the SAV. It also deals with
issues such as the ownership of audit firms, qualification of auditors, rotation o f auditors, the
association o f accountants, and sanctions.

90.      A new decree to guide the implementation of the Law on the Promulgation of Legal
Normative Documents (or Law on Laws) is about to support further legal development. This
decree stipulates that the sanction for non-publication o f legal normative documents in the
Official Gazette i s non-effectiveness. While the requirement to publishinthe Official Gazette had
been made in the Law on Laws, the implications of non-publication were not explicit. Also, this
new decree sets clear guidelines for the collection o f comments from stakeholders directly
affected by legal normative documents. A minimumperiod o f 20 working days i s stipulated for
consultation. The latter can take place through mass media or through the Internet. The decree
was not issued intime to be formally counted as a prior action for the proposed credit. However,
its preparationand submission for approval reflect the extent o f the progress being accomplished
on the legal front.

91.      The adoption of the One Stop Shop model at the nationallevelis an important step
in public administrationreform. The PARMaster Program 2001-2010 represents an ambitious
policy agenda aiming at making the civil service more responsive, transparent, efficient and
accountable. A first step inthe implementation o f this agenda has been the adoption o f a plan for
simplification of administrative procedures. The OSS model was promulgated as a national policy
under PRSC 3, through the issuance o f Decision 181. The OSS aims at providing a clear,
accessible and recognizable entry point for people in need of administrative services, increasing
transparency on fees and procedures, improving the quality o f services, and streamlining
procedures. As of January 1,2004, the OSS had been implemented in35 out o f 64 provinces, 483
out of 654 districts and 695 out of 10,709 communes. Subsequent PRSCs will monitor
implementation interms o f both quantity (the number o f unitsimplementing OSS) and quality.

92.      Over the last year there was also a noticeable change inthe opennessto feedback by users
o f public services. To enhance delivery, the Ministry o f Home Affairs (MOHA) supported a
report card survey on a pilot basis infour urban localities (Ho Chi MinhCity, Danang, Nam Dinh
and Haiphong). This is the first ever opinion survey o f this sort. It signals a stronger focus on
performance management and service delivery outcome. The report card survey is expected to
enhance transparency and accountability, to generate user feedback on specific services, to
facilitate comparisons across units, and to foster a dialogue on practical problem-solving in
service delivery.

93.      Towards a more systemic anti-corruption strategy. Moving successfully towards a
rules-based market economy requires a strengthening of institutions and mechanisms for
accountability, thereby reducing the scope for corruption. At .present, the understanding of
corruption in Vietnam i s predominantly based on anecdotal evidence. To address this the
Government has recently launched a diagnostic study o f corruption the results o f which will feed


                                                 29

into the amendment o f the Ordinance Against Corruption. The Government has signaled its
serious intent to tackle corruption through other recent actions. Among them is the establishment
of an Inspectorate to enforce laws and regulations related to public investment, under MPI. A
decree to strengthen the public procurement process has also been issued. Public procurement is
an important part o f Government's ongoing efforts to improve public expenditure management.
This decree makes open bidding the main method o f procurement, mandates standard bidding
documents and introduces the padfail system as an alternative to the merit points system. To
enhance transparency in the public procurement process the decree mandates a Procurement
Bulletin, to be publishedon paper and electronically. The decree strengthens provisions relatedto
inspections and handlingo f violations.


B.       Triggers for PRSC4


94.      As in the case of PRSC3, the decision to launchthe preparationofPRSC 4 will rest
on an assessment of whether the implementationof the reform agenda is on track. Such an
assessment will combine the CPRGS Progress Report to be producedby the Government by late
2004, the JSA by the World Bank and the IMF o f such Report, and the evaluation of a set o f
indicative triggers agreed upon with Government. Progress across all triggers will lead to the
considerationo f high-case lendingfor PRSC 4. Progress across most of them and no backtracking
in any sector would keep Vietnam inthe base-case lending scenario. Limited progress or serious
backtracking in various sectors could move Vietnam to low-case lending, which in practice
means that the PRSC 4 operation could be delayed until the reform process regains momentum.
However, it is important to emphasize that triggers are not conditions. Their assessment involves
an element o fjudgment and must be conducted from a "bottom-line" perspective.

95.      The selected triggers for PRSC 4 refer to policy actions that are directly or
indirectly under Governmentcontrol, and can be easily linked to the results chain. These
actions cover all three pillars of the reform agenda, but not necessarily all sectors within each o f
these pillars. Their identification as critical indicators o f the commitment to reform was
conducted in close collaborationwith the co-financiers of PRSC 3. These triggers actually refer to
policy areas where the World Bank and the co-financiers are actively involved, through their
policy dialogue, technical assistance, analytical work or lending. In choosing the triggers, the
trade-off between ambitious objectives and feasibility was carefully assessed. All triggers are
considered attainable by end-2004 ifthe reform momentum is sustained.

96.      Transparent import licensingin accordancewith WTO requirements.Previous steps
inthe reform agenda includedthe suppression of import licenses issuedbythe MinistryofTrade
(MOT). However, line ministries continue to allocate licenses, based on alleged health
considerations or safety concerns. Whether licenses o f this sort could be serving a protectionist
purpose is a matter of debate. Proper regulation o f import licenses i s a prerequisite for WTO
accession. The Government o f Vietnam plans to issue regulations on import licenses that are in
accordance with WTO to become effective by the end o f the calendar year. This decision reflects
the willingness to meet the 2005 deadline for WTO accession.

97.      Establishing a legal framework for the equitization of large SOEs and General
Corporations. One o f the key constraints in the reform o f the state sector has been the lack of
incentives for SOEs (and especially the large ones) to effectively restructure. As a follow-up to
the gthPlenum of the 9th Party Congress, the Prime Minister listed several decrees and legal
instruments that are to be amended in order to accelerate SOE reform. The list includes Decision



                                                30

58/2002/QD-TTg7 identifying the sectors in which SOEs are to be transformed; Decrees
103/1999/ND-CP and 49/2002/ND-CP, on the transfer, sale and lease o f SOEs; Decree
64/2002/ND-CP, on the transformation o f SOEs intojoint stock companies; Decree 41/2002/ND-
CP, on the policy applicable to retrenched SOE workers; and Decree 63/2001/ND-CP on the
transformation of SOEs into one-member limited liability companies. The amendments are aimed
at establishing a legal framework for the equitization or other types of ownership transformation
o f large SOEs and GCs. The revision o f Decree 41 also raises the prospect o f adopting
appropriate compensation mechanisms for farmers affected by the restructuring or divestiture o f
coffee-trading SOEs.

98.     Clear acknowledgementof the current situation of SOCBs is a prerequisiteto their
raising of additional capital through the issuance of equity and equity-like instruments.
Recapitalizing the SOCBs through the issuanceo f shares or similar instrumentswould relieve the
fiscal burden o f financial sector reform and could also, potentially, help strengthen the SOCB's
corporate governance. Due to the high savings rate o f Vietnam, and the limited range of long-
term savings instruments available to the population, the issuance of shares or convertible bonds
could allow the SOCBs to raise a considerable amount of resources in order to meet prudent
capital-adequacy ratios. But the protection o f shareholders requires that reliable information be
provided on the situation o f the SOCBs, and that plans be devised to redresstheir most important
weaknesses be devised, especially inrelation to their stock o fNPLs. A comprehensive evaluation
o f the SOCBs is thus a pre-condition to their listing in the stock market or their issuance o f
convertible bonds.

99.     Unified enterprise and investment laws level the playing field. To stimulate private
sector development, the Government has decided to create a single Investment Law for both
domestic and foreign firms, and to amend the Enterprise law in order to expand its application to
all types of firms. The Guiding Principles and Contents for these laws were approved by the
Prime Minister in April, 2004. Committees led by MPI are currently developing drafts o f these
laws which are expected to be passed by the National Assembly in late 2005 or early 2006. Ifthe
spirit of the Guiding Principles is reflected in the laws, this would portent a significantly
improved business environment governed by a modern company law and investment regime. But
ifthese principles are narrowly interpretedwith, for example, only limited applicationto SOEs,
then the aims and the impact ofthe amendments will be greatly compromised.

100.    Developinga sound regulatoryframework for the electricitysector. In infrastructure,
the long-term challenge faced by Vietnam is to develop appropriate access and pricing policies
for electricity, telecommunications, water and wastewater. The power sector i s among the most
advanced in this direction. The Electricity Law currently under preparation should facilitate the
restructuring of the power sector, including the separation o f generation, transmission and
distribution. It should also allow for greater diversity o f ownership and financing o f power sector
assets, as well as create the conditions for greater competition inthe power sector generation and
supply markets inthe longer term. Crucially, the law should also establish a regulatory agent for
the sector to ensure more transparent oversight o f existing operators and new operators, as well as
establish rules on pricing, investment, quality o f service and operation.




                                                  31

                              TABLE6: TRIGGERSFORPRSC4




                                  Issue regulations on import licensing in a transparent manner in
                                  accordancewith WTO requirements

 State-owned enterprise reform    Revise key decrees to establish a legal framework for the
                                  equitization o f large SOEs and GCs

 Financial sector reform          Requirea comprehensive evaluation o f SOCBs and a plan for
                                  NPL resolution as pre-conditions to issuance o f equity or equity-
                                  like instruments
 Private sector development       Draft new (unified) Enterprise and Investment Laws inaccordance
                                  with the Guiding Concepts andPrinciples dated April 26,2004

                                  Submit for approval by the National Assembly the Electricity Law
                                  which includes provision for a regulatory agency for the sector




                                0 Finalize a Primary Teacher Profile to be used as the standard for

I                                 career development and compensationpurposes

 Health                         0 Prepare a draft strategy to implement an effective and sustainable
                                  National Tuberculosis Program
 Land                           0 Issue a decree on the restructuring o f SFEs, including transfer o f
                                  under-usedlandto households, communities and the private sector
 Water                          0 Submit for approval a decree on integratedriver basin
                                  management, laying out the policy and institutional arrangements
                                  to support it
 Environment                    0 Submit for approval by the National Assembly the Amendment to
                                  the Law on Environmental Protection




 Planning processes             0 Expandthe implementation o f the MTEF pilot to the health sector
                                  for better coordination o f capital and recurrent expenditures

 Public financial management    e Improve the evaluation ofthe socio-economic returns o fpublic
                                  investment projects

 Legal development              0 Approve a Legal System Development Strategy (LSDS) based on
                                  the LegalNeeds Assessment (LNA)

 Anti-corruption                0 Issue a decree supporting community participation in investment
                                  projects leadingto increased disclosure and participation
 Informationavailability        0 Submission for approval of revised criteria to measure poverty and
                                  to target the poor more inline with common international
                                  practices




                                               32

  101.     Enhancing the quality of education. Low teaching skills and content knowledge are
  major constraints for enhancing student achievement, as demonstrated by a recent study o f
  academic performance at the end o f the primary school cycle. The introduction o f clear
  professional standards is needed as an assessment tool to improve teaching competencies, to
  guide professional development and to set up a remuneration-related grading system. The teacher
  profile is expected to consist o f three dimensions (attitudes, knowledge and pedagogical skill)
  definedthrough four levels of competency (beginning, regular, senior and lead).

  102.     Demonstrating commitment to comprehensive, health financing reform. The
  National Tuberculosis Program, one o f ten major national health programs, i s emblematic o f an
  organization o f the sector basedon relatively independent "bastions". While this approach served
  Vietnam well in the past, programs o f this sort need now to be better linked with other health
  interventions. In the case of tuberculosis, there is a growing interaction with HIV-AIDS which
  requires the coordination of policies inthe two areas. These major national programs also need to
  be regionalized, so that they can be managed by the provinces in conjunction with their targeted
  programs (including the HCFPs). And their funding, which for now i s heavily dependent on
  donor programs, needs to better integrated into the overall financing of the health sector. Making
  progress in implementing these changes in the case of the National Tuberculosis Program would
  be a clear indication of commitment to reform inthis area.

  103.     Restructuringof SFEs. InVietnam, SFEs currently control 40 percent o f the 11million
  hectares o f land classified as forested, which are often located inthe poorest parts o f the country.
  SFEs generally have contracted-out all forest management activities to local households. But
  because tenure security is weak and arrangements lack clarity, the local population benefits only
  marginally from forestry activities. A clear separation between the public service provision role
  o f SFEs and their business activities is needed to improve the wellbeing o f those whose
  livelihoods depend on forest land. Such separation, in turn, requires that practical criteria be
  established for the transformation o f SFEs into either commercially viable wood businesses or
  effective public service entities (inparticular, for forest protection). In the process, LUCs for all
  under-used land and scattered forest land should be transferred to households, communities and
  other users, includingprivate sector enterprises.

  104.     Integrated river basin management. The water resources sector has been affected by
  some degree o f confusion regarding the roles o f the Ministry of Natural Resources and the
  Environment (MONRE) and the Ministry o f Agriculture and Rural Development (MARD),
  compounded by the coordination between provinces over decisions affecting common river
  basins. In an effort to improve policies relatedto land and natural resources, the Government has
  instructed MONRE to prepare a decree on integratedriver basin management in accordance with
  the Law on Water Resources. One o f the main objectives o f this decree is to lay out a clear
  institutional arrangement to support this policy. In particular, the National Water Resources
  Commission will become responsible to preside and coordinate with related ministries, agencies
  and provinces the studies and planning for all major river basins inthe country. River basin plans
  will then serve as the basis for ministriesand provincesto developtheir own planning.

  105.     Amended environment protectionlaw. Vietnam's development over the last decade
  has created challenges that are not appropriately addressedby the existing legislation. MONRE is
  currently developing amendments to the 1993 Law on Environmental Protection to improve the
  policies, tools and incentives for environmental protection. These amendments should lead to
  improvements in two main areas. First, they should clarify line ministries' responsibilities for
  environmental protection and decentralization o f responsibilities within MONRE to its'
' departments at the local and regional levels. And second, they should enable new policy tools and



                                                    33

remedies for various environmental issues such as pollution prevention and cleanup, adjustments
to cover the private sector, improvements in financial mechanisms for environmental protection,
and initiatives for raising public awarenessand support for environmentalprotection.

106.     Better coordination of planning of capital and recurrentexpenditure between MPI
and MOF through MTEFs.Insufficient integration of capital and recurrent expenditures is one
o f the main weaknesses of the budget process inVietnam. This weakness i s compounded by the
insufficient integration of planning and spending processes. While there is currently a single
budget, and the implementing guidelines o f the Budget Law establish a coordination mechanism
between M P I and MOF, the preparation o f the two main pillars o f the budget remains largely
disconnected. The consideration o f a longer term horizon, as well as the explicit identification of
the maintenance requirements associated with public investment projects, should provide a
stronger foundation for the integration o f planning and recurrent expenditures. MTEFs, in
particular, introduce a forward-looking dimension that should be more conducive to proper
consideration o f operation and maintenance costs. Currently, only the education sector has piloted
an MTEF.Looking forward, the MTEFpilot will be extended to the health sector. Preparations to
request the submission o f the budget on a rolling three-year basis represent an additional step in
the direction o f a forward-looking preparationof the budget.

107.     Improve the process of selection of public investment projects through enhanced
appraisaland evaluation. Public financial management reform has focused on budget processes
and budget information systems, but less so on the mechanisms to screen eligible capital
expenditures. The current legal normative on the preparation, appraisal and management o f such
projects does not require a comparison o f costs and benefits. The methodology for estimating
future operationand maintenance costs is still insufficiently institutionalizedand future budgetary
implications o f each capital investment are not well considered in the project appraisal stage.
This is a matter of concern given the sizeable amount of resources channeled every year to large
public investment projects. The concern is reinforced by the fact that some o f those projects are
commercial by nature, and take place in sectors whose long-term level o f protection is bound to
change as a result of WTO accession. Strengthening the process through which large public
investment projects are approved requires enhanced appraisal and evaluation mechanisms,
including an identification o f the rationale for public (as opposed to private) investment and an
assessment o f economic and social impacts.

108.     Legal System Development Strategy. The foundation for Vietnam's legal development
was laiddown with the LNA o f 2002. The LSDS i s basedon the findings o f the LNA and touches
on the judicial, legislative and executive branches o f the state. The Strategy represents outlines
the vision and steps for a rule o f law society. It identifies five specific components whose
objectives are: to reform and systematize the law-making process, to strengthen judicial
independence and access to justice, to institute mechanisms for effective law implementation, to
enhance legal transparency and information dissemination, and to build capacity for these steps
through a comprehensive training program inthejudicial branch.

 109.    Combating corruption through stronger community participation in investment
projects. While a comprehensive diagnostic o f corruption in Vietnam is finalized, and a
revamped anti-corruption strategy is developed, measures inthis area should aim at strengthening
the systems through which the Government operates and at increasing transparency and
accountability. One Government activity that i s particularly exposed to embezzlement i s local
infrastructure. An ambitious program (known as Program 135) exists to support small investment
projects across thousands o f poor communes. But despite its allegedly participatory nature, it is
not clear that communities have much say in the design and supervision o f the projects, often



                                                 34

resulting in considerable resource waste. To remedy these problems, and better address local
needs and preferences, communities will be put in charge o f supervising the investment projects
that concern them. This move is expected to lead to increased disclosure, potentially mitigating
forms o f corruption that mostly affect the poor. It should contribute to the redesign of Program
135, widening the scope for participation. It should also be compatible with the promotion of
grassroots democracy as defined inDecree 79/2003/ND-CP o f 2003.

110.     Better poverty measurement. Building a reliable system o f indicators to monitor
progress in relation to key development outcomes i s an essential component o f the CPRGS
agenda. Information availability is hampered, however, by the confusion surrounding poverty
measurement and the targeting o f the poor. While Vietnam has already produced several high-
quality household surveys and some preliminary poverty maps based on accepted international
practice, policy decisions continue to be guided by other poverty metrics, o f various qualities.
Recent analytical work reveals that the current practices to target the poor at the local level are
particularly effective, while the poverty rates computed by aggregation o f these local
classifications are unreliable. Recognizing this problem, a task force has been appointed to
propose a system o f indicators for poverty measurement and poverty targeting to be reviewed by
the National Assembly in2005 and to be adopted nationwide subsequently.


C.       TimingandImplementation


111.     Vietnam's overall approach to economic reform can be seen as a distillationof the
CPRGS and other development strategies and plans, aimed at identifyinga sequenceof key
policy actions over the mediumterm. An important step in this process was the preparation o f
the so-called Haiphong matrices, in October 2002. In a consultation involving hundreds o f
stakeholders, comprehensive lists of policy actions were discussed for each sector. Further steps
inthe process focused on policy actions that were consistent with nationally-owned development
strategies and plans, sensible from an economic point o f view, capable to make a considerable
difference in practice, and concrete enough to be adopted and implemented within a relatively
short period o ftime. The process leadingto the set o f actions to be supported by the current series
of PRSC operations is based on a continued policy dialogue with the Government. The process
has been influenced by analytical work carried out in recent years, including the World Bank's
analytical and advisory (AAA)program.

112.     The identificationof the policy actions to be supported through the PRSC process
has also involved consultations with NGOs, as well as the participation of other donors.
Among them, those who co-financed PRSC 1 and 2 (Denmark, the Netherlands, Sweden and the
UNITEDKINGDOM) have beenassociatedwith the preparationofthe proposed reform program
from its initial stages. Other donors (the Asian Development Bank (ADB), Canada, the European
Commission and Japan) are considering supporting PRSC 3 and subsequent operations. And still
others are aiming to join for PRSC 4 or 5. As part o f their involvement, these donors have
actively participated inthe policy dialogue with Government inthe areas o f interest to them




                                                 35

        0:"II.I
    A
-b   .
      4-

 b


      1




      .


       1

113.    The reform program supported by the current PRSC cycle covers a five-year
period, much the same as the CPRGS. The sequence o f strategic plans, policy actions, and
analytical work to be undertaken in Vietnam over this period i s summarized in Figure 1. This
figure also highlightsthe interplay between policy lendingand project lending when the latter is
key to move forward the policy reform agenda. The list of policy actions supported by the
previous PRSCs and the proposed credit, as well as those proposed for PRSCs 4 and 5, can be
found inAnnex 4.

114.    Lending under the PRSC is aligned with the budget cycle, with operations taking
place annually and disbursements occurring towards the middle of the Vietnamese fiscal
year. CPRGS Progress Reports will continue to be discussed at the Consultative Group (CG)
Meetings in December o f every year. The associated JSA will be submitted to the Board in
February. Jointly with the CPRGS Progress Report and the assessment o f the triggers, the JSA
serves as the basis to determine whether to proceed with the preparation o f the following PRSC,
and whether to consider base-case or high-case lending.


                         VI. POVERTYAND SOCIAL IMPACTS


115.    An ambitious reform program like the one Vietnam has embarked on has the
potentialto sustain economic growth and povertyreductionin the mediumterm. But there
is also a risk of creatingwinners and losers in the short run. Potential losers from economic
reforms can be identified in at least four areas. First, the process o f restructuring and divesting
SOEs is expected to lead to considerable labor retrenchment, given their considerable over-
staffing o f the state sector. Second, the gradual liberalization o f foreign trade could lead to job
destruction incurrently protected sectors o f activity, and also affect the livelihood of suppliers to
those sectors, including workers in cottage industries. Third, the restructuring o f SOEs trading in
agricultural commodities, such as coffee, could also be associated with less lenient terms for
farmers. Subsidies to these SOEs and the freezing of farmers' debts considerably mitigated the
impact of the decline inthe price o f coffee. Ina more competitive market, the livelihoods o f rural
households would have been more closely linked to international price fluctuations. The fourth
area o f risk has to do with distress sales o f land. As the development o f a land market gains
momentum, it will be increasingly important to think through possible ways to cope with distress
sales o f land. At present ,access to land i s only weakly correlated to the household attributes
which are usually associated with higher consumption, such as education. The development o f a
land market will probably increase this correlation. As a result, land ownership could gradually
become more concentrated amongthe wealthier households.

116.     Poverty and social impact analysis has been thorough in relation to the restructuring and
divestiture of SOEs. It is ongoing inrelation to the distributional impacts o f trade integration, the
restructuringof the coffee sector, and the development o f a land market. The World Bank and the
co-financiers will need to take to fruition the work inthese three areas ifthe assessment o f future
policy options is to be fully informed. This section outlines the analyses carried out to date and
describes the ongoing work.

117.     Identifying potential losers is relatively easy in the case of SOE reform. If a hard
budget constraint was imposed on the state sector, many enterprises would employ a smaller
number of workers. According to a study based on enterprise-level data across sectors, as much
as half of the SOE workforce could be redundant, although the fraction could be negligible in


                                                 37

sectors such as garments, or footwear, and much higher in coal mining or transportation. The
restructuring o f SOEs does not imply that half o f their workforce will become redundant,
however. The state share of capital often remains important, even after equitization, meaning that
profitability is not the only objective of the firms. Also, workers often acquire some o f the
divested capital, if not all, implying that employment will remain one o f their objectives,
alongside with profits. Last but not least, a considerable portion o f the redundancies can be
handled through natural attrition and early retirement. Butjob losses could still be considerable,
possibly inthe order of 20 percent o fthe workforce o fthe restructured SOEs

118.    Under PRSC 1, the Government set up a special SSN Fund for redundant SOE workers.
The Fund is managed by MOF. Workers who are either separated from theirjobs or volunteer to
leave are offered two months o f basic salary per year of service, plus a training allowance
equivalent to six months of salary, plus six months o f salary to support theirjob seeking process,
plus a lump-sum o f 5 million VND. The design of this compensation package was aimed at
minimizing the expected welfare loss o f separated workers, with a special focus on women, as
they are one of the groups who stand to lose more from retrenchment. Workers who are rehired
by SOEs have to reimburse the assistancethey received to the fund. The fundalso assistsworkers
who opt for early retirement. The assistance package does not vary depending on whether the
SOE is equitized, sold or liquidated. It is also available for redundant workers in SOEs that
remain in state hands, provided that these enterprises are included in the restructuring list under
the Government's reform program. The fund can also be used to assist workers who become
redundant during the first 12 months following equitization. This i s to encourage private sector
participation inthe equitization process, even inthe case o f heavily over-staffed enterprises.

119.    The SSN Fundhas been in operation since mid-2002. At the time o f its evaluation, under
PRSC 2, it had assisted 14,500 separated workers from 374 SOEs, paying an average
comp'ensation package of 28.8 million VND. A tracer survey o f 2,600 workers, randomly selected
among those assisted by the Fund, was completed in the Summer o f 2003. The survey revealed
that separated workers made a sound use of the relatively large amount o f money they had
received. Most of the package was used for physical or financial investments, including housing,
starting or expanding a household business, and repayment of debts. The rates o f return on these
investments appear to be quite high. The tracer survey also reveals a gradual increase in
employment rates over the months following separation. Labor earnings tend to be lower, but due
to the compensation received, the overall level o f satisfaction i s quite high. About two thirds o f
the workers assisted by the Funddeclared that their well-being was similar or higher to the one
they had when working for the state sector. Satisfaction rates were highest among the two groups
that were potentially most vulnerable: women and old workers. Based on this diagnosis, the
operation o f the Fund i s continuing without major changes. Currently the Fund is actively
approaching the SOEs bound to be divested over the next few years according to the 104
restructuring plans.

120.    Identifying potential losers is not so easy in the case of trade integration. One
commonly voiced concern is that trade integration may have an adverse impact on rural
households. Exposure to world markets could lead to higher variability in the price of their
products, hence affect their earnings. Itmust be noted, however, that trade barriers usually protect
the manufacturing sector, and penalize the agricultural sector, so that liberalization could turn to
the advantage o f rural households. A recent study found large reductions in child labor to be
associated with increases in the price o f rice. The study estimated that rice price increases alone
accounted for almost half o f the decline in child labor that occurred inVietnam in the 1990s. The
extra household income from higher rice prices particularly benefited older girls, who
experienced the largest declines in child labor and the largest increases in school enrollment.


                                                 38

121.     An assessment of the poverty and social impacts of WTO accession which is
currently under preparation includes a combination of analyses at three levels. At the
highest level of aggregation, a computable general equilibrium (CGE) model is used to predict
the changes inthe prices of goods and servicesthat would result from further integration with the
world economy. At an intermediate level, "regional" models are used to determine the resulting
change in the prices of factors o f production which are not mobile across regions, including
unskilled labor and land. At the lowest level, the estimated changes in the prices o f goods and
factors o f production allow to estimate the impact on consumption at the household level.
Introducing the intermediate level i s key to capture the regional heterogeneity o f impacts. In
Vietnam, it can be expected that the regions of HCMC and Hanoi will benefit the most from
WTO accession, while poverty alleviation impacts inmountainous areas could be more modest.

122.     A prototype of such a study is being undertakenin Vietnam's Northern Mountain
Region. The ten poorest provinces o f Vietnam are among the fourteen comprising this region,
with poverty rates ranging from 55 to 78 percent. Poverty reduction inthis region will dependon
the ability o f small farmers to participate in the wider process o f agricultural diversification.
Thus, it is important to more fully understand existing patterns of rural income generation,
constraints that prevent farmers from adopting these strategies to raise their incomes, and the
options available to the Government and international partners for relieving these constraints.
Preliminary results from this study will be available shortly, and will inform the preparation of
PRSC 4.

123.     Analyticalwork is also going on in the coffee sector. This work is being conductedon
two tracks. An overall diagnosis o f the sector is being completed, from a rural development
perspective. In parallel, a series o f restructuring plans for GCs are currently being implemented.
These plans were developed under PRSC 1, and adopted by Government under PRSC 2. One o f
them refers to Vinacafe, the main parent company o f SOEs trading in coffee. As part o f the
restructuring work, a series of options are being considered to compensate farmers for their
increased exposure to commodity price fluctuations. The transfer o f land and bushes currently
owned by SOEs trading in coffee to the farmers i s one o f the options. The revision o f the decree
that created the Safety Net Fund for redundant SOE workers, decided after the gthPlenum o f the
9" Party Congress to facilitate the restructuring and divestiture o f large SOEs, is expected to
institutionalize the preferred compensation option.

124.     As regards the potential implications of the development of a land market, two
studieswill be conductedin preparationfor PRSC 4. One of them will use household survey
data with national coverage, while the other will rely on focus group discussions intwo regions.
The main issue in both cases i s to disentangle the effects o f "push" and "pull" factors behind
landlessness. In recent years, many rural households have voluntarily sold their land and moved
into non-agricultural activities associated with higher standards o f living. At the same time,
distress sales of land also appear to be common in some regions, and especially in the Mekong
Delta. In this case, a move to casual agricultural labor is frequently observed. The household
survey analysis will analyze whether lack o f land and poverty are becoming more or less
correlated over time, and why. The focus group work will aim at reconstructingthe recent history
of households interms of land use and time allocation. The findings o f these two studies should
serve as the basis for policy recommendations to be implementedunder PRSC 4 and 5.




                                                   39

                            VII. OTHERCREDITFEATURES


A.      ImplementationandMonitoring


125.    The NSC for implementation of the CPRGS and PRSCs was established in 2002. It is
chaired by the first Deputy Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung, and consists of heads of 20
relevant line ministries. SBV is assigned as the agency responsible, inclose collaboration with the
World Bank, for preparation and implementation of PRSCs. A Deputy Governor of SBV acts as
Standing Vice Chairman of NSC. This quasi-advisory body has several representativesfrom key
economic ministries, such as MOF, MOT, SBV, Office of the Government (OOG), Party's
Economic Commission (PEC), The Ministry of Labor, Invalids, and Social Affairs (MOLISA)
Ministry of Justice (MOJ), MARD, MOET, etc., representing the policy reform areas under
PRSC 3 and subsequent PRSCs.

126.    Given the intensive and complex coordination that is required to manage this very
comprehensive reform program, SBV has created a Program Coordination Unit (PCU) with
dedicpted staff from SBV. This PCU will deal with the program agenda, including monitoring
and reporting types of work to reform awareness raising, capacity building and reform outcome
dissemination. The PCU will have frequent interactions with the World Bank and the co-
financiers of the PRSC. It will be funded by co-financiers over the PRSC cycle. The Department
for International Development (DFID) has agreed to provide financial support during the
preparationof PRSC 4.

127.    An inter-ministerial working group and a secretariat to implement and monitor the
CPRGS has also been established at MPI. The inter-ministerial working group includes
representativesfrom key economic ministries, such as MOF, MOT, SBV, OOG, PEC, MOLISA,
MOJ, MARD, MOET, etc., representingthe policy reform areas under PRSC 3 and subsequent
PRSCs. The first Annual Progress Report on the implementation of the CPRGS was preparedby
the CPRGS secretariat under the guidance of the inter-ministerial working group. Among the
goals of the inter-ministerial working group is the implementation of CPRGS at sub-national
levels. The CPRGS Secretariat at MPI supports provincial Governments in adapting the CPRGS
to their own context, and reformulating plans and budgets accordingly. At present, 19 provinces
are going through this process, with financial support from donors.

128.     Monitoring Arrangements. Vietnam continues to make good use of information and
analysis in its policy making and the development of individual components of the PRSC
program. This third PRSC continues to build on this experience, streamlining the numerous
ongoing monitoring and evaluation initiatives. Key sources of monitoring information for poverty
and program outcomes include the proposedbiannual household living standard survey, periodic
PPAs, the small business registration survey, public expenditure tracking survey, as well as the
quarterly progress reports from the relevant sector ministries and committees implementing the
reform program. Inaddition, the strengtheningof managementinformation systems for SOEs and
for all public spending, both led by MOF, is an integral part of the PRSC program. Efforts to
implement CPRGS at the provincial level rely on the development of appropriate monitoring
indicators as well. Gradually, the number of indicators has been narrowed to around forty,
roughly one hundred less than when the process started. Many of the indicators in this narrower




                                                 40

set will be generated using the new household living standard surveys to be conducted bi-
annually from 2002 onwards.


B.      Credit Administration


129.    Borrowerand Credit Amount. The Borrower is the Socialist Republic of Vietnam and
this operation is a one-tranche Credit ofUS$ 100millionequivalent that would be made available
upon credit effectiveness.

130.    Disbursement, Reportingand AuditingArrangements. The Credit will follow IDA'S
disbursement procedures for adjustment operations, and the Credit proceeds will be disbursed in
compliance with the stipulated release conditions. Various measures have been taken to ensure
that the overall fiduciary policies and institutions are adequate to proceed with support from IDA
and other development partners. The analytical underpinnings for the operation are largely
complete: (i) the cross-cutting assessment o fthe country's development policies (social, structural
and sectoral) covering the policy reforms and institutional development priorities for sustainable
growth and poverty reduction has been discussed with the Government in a number o f recent
joint reports; (ii)an assessment o f the country financial accountability arrangements has been
made inthe Public Expenditure Review (PER), the Country Financial Accountability Assessment
(CFAA) and the Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR). Disbursement will not be
linkedto any specific purchasesand noprocurement requirements will have to be satisfied.

 131.    Deposit Account. The Borrower will open and maintain in SBV a dedicated Deposit
Account in U S dollars for the Borrower's use once the Credit i s approved by the Board. If after
deposit in the Deposit Account the proceeds of the Credit or any part thereof are used for
ineligible purposes, as defined in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), the Bank will
require the Borrower to either return that amount to the Deposit Account to be used for eligible
purposes, or refund the amount directly to IDA.

 132.    Through SBV, the Borrower will (1) report the exact sum received into the Deposit
Account; (ii) insure that all withdrawal are for "eligible" expenditures; (ii)
                                                                             indicate to IDA details
o f the Treasury account to which the Vietnamese Dong equivalent o f the Credit proceeds will be
credited; (iv) submit a report on receipts and disbursements for the Deposit Account. These
processes and controls are intended to provide assurance that IDA funds have arrived at their
intended destination and are being used for their intended purposes, and are subject to the
Borrower's rules and regulations.

 133.    Country FinancialAccountability Assessment. The CFAA on Vietnam, conducted in
partnership with ADB (completed in 2002) concluded that the public financial management
 system compares well with other countries, but nevertheless represents a level o f fiduciary risk.
The Government has agreed with the main recommendations of the World Bank's CFAA,
 including the provision of more timely information for closer monitoring and capacity-building
for strengthening institutional accountability, and an action plan was prepared by the CFAA
report which complements the one by the PER. Under the PRSC program, the Government has
 advanced the implementation of the CFAA action plan, as described in previous sections o f this
 document.

 134.    Public Procurement. Vietnam's public procurement system underwent rapid changes
 recently. Nationwide open competitive biddingwas introduced by a Government decree in 1996.



                                                  41

This system was improved in 1999, by the introductionofthe concept of the "responsive lowest
evaluated bid". The new Decree 61/2003/CP, adopted under PRSC 3, establishes a department of
public procurement and strengthens the procurement process by mandating standard bidding
documents, introducing pass-fail criteria as an alternative to the merit point system, enhancing
provisions for inspections and the handling of violations, and mandating the establishment o f a
Procurement Bulletin to advertise public procurement opportunities. A ProcurementOrdinance is
foreseen under future PRSCs, bringing Vietnam closer to international standards. The
Government has indicated its strong concern about corruption, and has instructed the State
Inspectorate to design a new and more effective anti-corruption strategy. The CPAR is completed
and lays out the needs for capacity buildingover the coming years inpublic procurement.

135.     EnvironmentalIssues. The proposed PRSC 3 is a structuraladjustment credit in support
o f a collection o f diverse reform and policy activities and the requirements o f OD 8.60 apply.
Initiatives in private sector reform, SOE reform, trade integration, and public sector management
have potential implications for environmental quality as well as Government's capacity to address
future environmentalrisks.

136.     The Government has developed a regulatory framework for environmental assessment,
standards and compliance monitoring with the overall responsibility now under MONRE. But
additional work i s still neededto improve this framework. Though its present field level capacity
is limited, the Government o f Vietnam appears committed to undertaking a substantive program
o f environmental capacity building, institutional strengthening, environmental and land use
planning as well as physical investment projects addressing environmental issues. Donor support
for national environmental programs i s strong and covers a diverse range o f initiatives across
many sectors.


C.       Benefits and Risks


137.     To move forward the comprehensive structural reform agenda laid out inthe CPRGS, the
present operation will provide further support to Vietnam's policy and institutional reforms to
maintain high growth and poverty reduction. It will promote greater internal and external
competition and improve efficiency and resource allocation in the economy. It will improve
transparency and accountability in SOE operations and in the banking sector. It also supports the
establishment of a sound regulatory framework for the DAF, thus reducing fiscal risks associated
with policy lendingby imposing limits on Government support and relying more on commercial
lending vehicles. Overall, the increased efficiency should be reflected in increased private
investment and exports. This economic expansion should be associated with additional job
creation, thus providing employment opportunities for the young and growing labor force.

 138.    The proposed credit will also promote human development through improved access by
poor people to education and health care, and more secure asset ownership in the form o f a new
land law. The new land law provides a uniform land administration regime. PRSC 3 addresses
some of the key challenges facing Vietnam in the attainment o f the health and education VDGs.
Analytical work carried out as part of the preparation o f the CPRGS emphasizes the importance
o f addressinginequalities inhealth and education outcomes across regions and population groups.
The actions undertaken in PRSC 3 and proposed in the roadmap for future reforms tackle an
underlying problem o f resource allocation mechanisms in the social sectors to ensure a stronger
pro-poor focus. The credit also encourages important policy measures leadingto more sustainable
managementof water resourcesand the environment.



                                                 42

139.     The proposed credit will increase transparency and accountability o f public finances and
improve legal transparency and accessibility, thus layingthe foundations for a state ruledby law.
Lack o f transparency undermines effective resource allocation and service delivery at national
and local levels of Government. Actions included in PRSC 3 complement the ongoing public
financial management reform initiative and address a number o f gaps inthe original Budget Law.
Later actions support fuller accountability in the planning and budget process at the lowest level
o f the administration, the commune. Inaddition, important initiatives inthe legal reform area are
recognized in the PRSC 3 operation, supporting the implementation o f the Government's
comprehensive and ambitious legalreform agenda.

140.     Some o f the most important risks accompanying the proposed credit relate to slippage,
especially in the areas o f trade integration and financial sector reform. There i s a possibility that
political support ineach o f these areas might erode, or momentummight slow, as implementation
proceeds. This is particularly so when benefits from the reform program are shared unequally, or
when certain groups bear disproportionate costs, or when certain groups and sectors are denied
rent seeking positions. On the trade integration front, the cumulative impact o f these risks could
be a less than acceptable offer to the WTO Working Party group, thereby delaying membership.
This riskis partly addressedbythe dynamics generatedbythe reform process, which are "locking
in'' the changes and gradually expanding a constituency that supports them. The strengthening of
public investmentpolicies, and particularly the appropriate appraisal o f projects, supported by the
PRSC process, should also reduce the incentives to support inefficient sectors.

141.     The reform costs could also be higher than estimated if SOE reform proceeds at a slow
pace and the servicing o f existing SOE debts deteriorates. There could be a significant increase in
the costs o f re-capitalization o f SOCBs if the quality o f new lending does not improve. As
anticipated, the I A S audits o f SOCBs reveal weaker positions than under local accounting
standards. This may lead to a higher fiscal burden than estimated earlier. Continued progress in
procedures to resolve existing NPLs and to strengthen the credit function are fundamental steps
towards reducing this risk. Increasingly, the need to adopt an ambitious reform o f the banking
sector, going beyond the incremental steps undertaken so far, appears as a fundamental priority.
The Government is strongly encouraged to translate this priority into decisive policy actions
underfuture PRSCs.

142.     Another important risk i s that growth in Vietnam may become less pro-poor than in the
past. The haphazard, introduction of market forces in the social sectors, and the trend towards
decentralization, have put service delivery under strain. At the same time, fast integrationwith the
world economy may lead to increased inequality, at least temporarily, as the bounty benefits
specific regions and skills disproportionately. The development of a landmarket, while increasing
overall efficiency, could also undermine the equal allocation o f agricultural land that was at the
roots of inclusive growth in the 1990s. Reforms aimed at improving the financing o f education
and health are a key component o f the PRSC process. They should help improve the delivery o f
social services to the poor and attain the VDGs. Also, the agenda for poverty and social impact
analysis set out in this document should allow the Government to consult with key stakeholders
and to assessthe trade-offs impliedbythe reform agenda inan informedmanner.

 143.    Finally, there i s a fiduciary risk associated with the proposed credit, ifthere is inadequate
progress on enhancing budget transparency and tackling corruption. There is undoubtedly
commitment at the highest level to tackle corruption. The Government has finally launched the
first comprehensive diagnostic study of corruption, based on a recognized methodology. It has
also instructed the State Inspectorate to design a more systemic strategy to fighting corruption,
thus driftingaway from a more punitive approach. Improvements infiduciary controls and fiscal



                                                   43

transparency are also fundamental for some co-financiers. Actions in PRSC 3 and in future
operations are intendedto addressexactly these issues.

144.     Policy risks are mitigated by an expanded program o f AAA work, undertakenjointly with
Government and other donors. An example is the Integrated Fiduciary Assessment that is
currently underwayjointly with a PER. This work, and accompanying technical assistance in key
areas, will ensure that the underlying analytics for the PRSC program are well understood and
articulated. The monitoring framework for the CPRGS provides an opportunity for these results
to be shared transparently with donors and civil society groups, and for any issues or slippages to
be brought to the attention o f senior policymakers in a timely fashion. If the implementation o f
reforms is impaired, or outcome indicators prove to be unsatisfactory, the program for future
years would need to be readjusted.


           VIII. COORDINATIONWITHDONORS STAKEHOLDERS          AND


A.       TheIMF


145.     The 2001 PRGF arrangement with the IMF expired on April 12, 2004. Under the
PRGF program, two reviews were successfully completed in 2001 and 2002. However, the third
review was delayed and eventually cancelled due to an impasse between the SBV and the Fund
concerning compliance with the IMF's safeguard policy on audit and publication o f the SBVs
foreign reserves position. Consequently, disbursements under the PRGF have been held up since
late-2002 by efforts to reach agreement on measuresto enable Vietnam to meet the IMF'sgeneral
policy in regard to audit and accounting arrangements for central banks o f borrowing member
countries. Measures proposed by IMF staff were considered by the Government to be
incompatible with the legal framework inVietnam. It was therefore agreed that the PRGF would
expire without additional disbursements.

146.     The IMF remains fully committed to continuingan effective partnershipwith the
Government of Vietnam to support the implementationof the CPRGS. The IMF intends to
maintain a regular policy dialogue with the Government, through missions and its resident
representative office in Hanoi; it will supplement this dialogue with technical assistance in areas
of core Fund expertise, including tax policy and administration, budget management, monetary
and financial sector policy, and macroeconomic statistics; and will seek to build capacity through
training activities in Vietnam and abroad. The IMF will continue to cooperate closely with the
World Bank in Vietnam, and to contribute actively to the broader dialogue between the
Government and its development partners. In relation to the proposed credit, it provided the
Letter of Assessmentreproduced inAnnex 1.

147.     While the World Bank has taken the lead in supporting the Government's structural and
institutional reforms in a number of sectors, the IMF has taken the lead in the policy dialogue on
macroeconomic policies. Inthe areas o f fiscal and structural reform the IMF and the World Bank
have been working closely together since April 1998. Under the framework of enhanced
collaboration, the staffs o fthe two institutions have shared information and consulted closely with
one another across a broad range of issues, and have sought to maintain appropriately-aligned
positions in their areas o f policy engagement. Joint missions and tripartite discussions on policy
withthe Government were employedduringthe early stages ofthe PRSC/PRGF process.



                                                  44

148.    The IMF has assumedresponsibility for advising on the monetary policy functions o fthe
SBV and the fiscal implications of the restructuringof SOCBs, includingNPL resolution and the
resultingre-capitalization. Included inthis has beenwork on minimizingdirected lending, interest
rate liberalization, and the process and timing o f the re-capitalization of SOCBs. The direct
involvement o f the IMF in some of the structural areas such as SOCB/SOE reform and trade
reform wasjustified becauseo ftheir potential impact on macroeconomic stability.


B.       Other Multilateraland Bilateral Donors


149.     Seven bilateral and multilateral donors are expected to co-finance PRSC 3, and
others could support later stages of the PRSC process. The first two PRSC operations were
co-financed by three bilateral donors, namely Denmark, the Netherlands, and the United
Kingdom. These co-financiers together with Sweden contributed a total of US$ 43 million to
PRSC 1. For PRSC 2, a total o f US$31 million was provided as grant finance by these donors to
supplement the World Bank's US$ 100 million. In addition to these three, ADB, Canada, the
European Commission and Japan are considering mobilizing resources in support o f PRSC 3.
Pledges by some of the bilateral and multilateral donors still need to be finalized. But the co-
financing by those who have already announced their support, if confirmed, amounts to US$ 73
million. It is expected that the total amount of resources mobilized by the co-financiers, once the
pendingcommitments are made, could exceed the amount o f the proposed credit. Details on the
amounts contributedby each donor, and the modalities for disbursement, are provided inTable 7.

150.     The co-financiers o f the first two PRSCs have played an important role not only in
providing grant financing as a complement to IDA loan funds, but also through their involvement
inthe policy dialogue with the Government. Inpreparation for PRSC3, significant resources have
been devoted to coordination and consultation with co-financiers on various aspects o f the
program at an early stage. The involvement of, and interaction with, co-financiers has varied
across the different areas o f the program reflecting the heterogeneous set of priorities of donors.
Bilateral meetings between the World Bank and specific donors have proved useful for
information sharing and putting to good use the combined insights and knowledge o f co-
financiers and the World Bank. These meetings provided the common ground on sectoral
priorities and broadtimetables for the present PRSC and planned subsequent ones.

151.     In parallel the co-financiers divided the task of engagement in tripartite meetings
with the World Bank and the Government amongst themselves according to their interests
and comparative strengths. For example, Japan's main involvement has been in the areas of
public financial management and the improvement o f the business environment; the latter i s the
cross-cutting issue across Japan's participation in the policy dialogue in areas such as trade
integration, private sector development, legal development, land, etc. A more detailed description
of the main areas o f involvement o f each o fthe co-financiers can be found inTable 7.

 152.    Preparations for PRSC3 have built on the foundations o f the existing strong donor
commitment to support Vietnam's reform agenda through nationwide implementation o f the
CPRGS, and further galvanized interest for the reform program among many donors. This is most
clearly reflected in the intense meeting frequency o f the different working groups that were
establishedto coordinate views of co-financiers and share information pertaining to PRSC3. Joint
working groups of donors, Government and international NGOsthat meet on a regular basis have
helped carry the discussions on Government's plans for reforms to a wide group o f stakeholders.
With the formation o f working groups on banking, SOEs, trade, and public expenditure, donors



                                                 45

have the opportunity to engage in discussions on reform with Government counterparts on an
ongoing basis. Such an arrangement is also helping to ensure coherence across donors' programs
of support, andto mobilize funding for high priority tasks ineach area.


                           TABLE INVOLVEMENTBYDONORS
                                     7:


                       Mainareas of involvement                   PRSC 3 co-financing
 Donor                    inthe policy dialogue         Amount                Modality

 ADB                  Trade integration                  To be     3ependingon fund availability
                      Financial sector reform          determined  mdsubject to Government's

                      Private sector development       later inthe eequest. Ifconfmed, it will
                                                          Year     xobably take the form of
                      Education                                    mallel financing, with a single-
                      Health                                       ranche program loanbased on

                      Environment                                  ;he PRSC Policy Matrix.

                      Planning processes
                      Legal development
                      Public administration reform
                      Anti-corruption

 Canadian             Education                        CDN$6.3     Subject to approval, a total o f
 International                                           million   CDN$ 19 million will be
 Development          Health
                                                         (About    contributed to PRSCs 3 to 5,
 Agency (CIDA)        Environment                                  evenly spread over the years.
                      Legal development                  US$5
                                                        million)

 Danish International Water                               About    To be disbursedaround October.
 Development          Public administration reform       US$10     Planto support the subsequent
 Agency (DANIDA)                                         mi11ion   PRSCs as well.

 Department for       Trade integration                 20 million The same amount is expected
 International                                             GB      for each o fPRSCs, 4 and 5.
 Development          SOE reform                         Pounds
 (DFID,UNITED         Private sector development         (About
 KINGDOM)             Infkastructure                     US$35
                      Education                          million)
                      Planning processes
                      Public financial management
                      Financial accountability
                      Anti-corruption

 European             Trade integration                    EUR     Subject to approval. Also plan
 Commission           Financial sector reform           15 million to commit a total o fEUR 15

                      Private sector development          (About   million for PRSC 4 and 5, with
                                                                   the split between the two to be
                      Education                          US$18
                                                         million)  determined later.
                      Health
                      Public financial management

                                                                                        (Continued)



                                                 46

                     TABLE INVOLVEMENT BYDONORS
                               7:                               (CONTINUED)


                       Mainareas of involvement in                PRSC 3 co-financing
 Donor                       the policy dialogue        Amount                  Modality

 Japan Bank for        Trade integration                  To be     A pledge will be made on an
 International         Privatesector development       determined annualbasis, dependingon the
 Cooperation(JBIC)     Infrastructure                      after    extent to which the PRSC
                                                          Board     programreflects the views and
                      Planningprocesses                 approval    priorities ofJapan.
                       Public financialmanagement      ofPRSC 3
                      Legaldevelopment
                      Public administrationreform
                       Anti-corruption

 Netherlands           Health                              EUR      Are planningto co-finance
                       Water                            4 million    PRSCs 3 to 5 onannualbasis,

                       Environment                        (About     for the same amount. Could
                                                                     supplementwith environment-
                       Public financialmanagement         U S $ 5
                                                         million)    relatedcontribution
                       Anti-corruption




C.      Civil Society


153.    Documentation related to the proposed credit was shared with NGOs during its
preparation.With the support and cooperation o fthe NGO Resource Centre, a meeting was held
with civil society organizations (including both international and localNGOs) at an early stage of
program design. The timeframe for project preparation was presented and the draft matrix o f
possible prior actions was distributedand discussed. There was a discussion on the strengths and
weaknesses o f recent Decree 79 on Grassroots Democracy and Decree 88 on local organizations.
At the suggestion of a NGO working in the health sector, the team pursued the possibility of
including actions which would accelerate implementation o f the Government's National Tobacco
Control Policy and the international Framework Convention on Tobacco Control. Subsequent
discussion with Government officials indicated that these actions could not be achieved within
the timeframe of PRSC3.

154.    Consultationswith business associations centered on issues related to private sector
development. They involved checking whether decree 88 was seen indeed as a step in the right
direction. More structured exchanges took place with regardto the guiding principles to produce
a unified enterprise law as well as a unified investment law. It is hoped that the multi-year
sequence o f PRSCs can support the Government in the development of a vibrant local civil
society, supporting the investment climate, poverty reduction, and transparency. MOHA expects
to evaluate the effectiveness of Decree 88 in facilitating the work o f local organizations, but this
assessment has not yet been carried out. At present, it i s not possible tojudge whether Decree 88


                                                47

constitutes a significant step forwards in supporting the work of local organizations active in
development work. The development of mechanisms for systematic consultations and
engagement with local organizations working on poverty reduction will be an important
dimension of strengtheningthe legal framework in future and, in particular, in the drafting of a
Law on Local Organizations.




                                              48

                                                                                      ANNEX 1


    Vietnam-IMF       Staff Assessment of Recent Developments and Near-term Outlook

Contact person: Mr.BrianAitken (baitken@,imf.org, 623-8369)

Macroeconomic developments and policies

Macroeconomic performance hasbeen strong in2003, with real GDP growth at 7 percent,
fueled by strong export performance as well as domestic investment. The rapidexport
expansion was drivenby the exceptionally strong growth o ftextile andfootwear exports
(mainly to the U S benefitingfrom the U S Bilateral Trade Agreement) as well as strong
exports of crude oil reflectinghigher oil prices.

The current account deficit widenedto around 5 percent of GDP in2003, butwas more than
fully financed by capital inflows-amix of Official Development Assistance, foreign direct
investment, andthe shift ofbanks' foreignassets into domestic assets. Together with sizeable
conversions o f dollar holdings into dong by non-bank residents, these inflows haveenabled
the State Bank of Vietnam to increase its holdings of foreign reservesby US$l.9 billion
reaching a total stock o f US$5.6 billion. The current account deficit, though large, does not
yet raise medium-termsustainability concerns, but currency switchingby residents could
quickly reverse, potentiallyputtingpressure on the dong.

Inflationincreasedinrecent months to about 6 percent, reflecting a combination o f domestic
supply shocks (avian flu, unfavorable weather conditions) andthe effects ofrising
international commodity prices. Monetary policy to date has been appropriate, butmonetary
conditions may needto betightened ifinflationary pressurespersist. Inaddition, the high
pace of credit growth, 28 percent for 2003, continues to be a concernbecause of uncertain
loan quality andthe implications for bankbalance sheets.

Budgetperformance in2003 was strong, withrevenues exceedingtargetsby a substantial
margin. Strong revenuesprovidedroomfor increased outlays, butpreliminaryresults
indicate the deficit still came inwell belowthe targeted 3 percent of GDP. Upcoming
changes (scheduled to take effect inJuly) to the personal income tax are an important budget
reform measure, simplifying the existing tax code andsubstantially loweringmarginaltax
rates for Vietnamese citizens. The recent enhancementsto fiscal decentralization (effective
2004) present potential risks to national expenditure and domestic debt management.

Plans to tighten eligibility for, and limit subsidies on, policy-based loans from the
Development Assistance Fundare welcome, and underscore the needto provide loans only to
projects with provensocio-economic returns.

The growth outlook for 2004 appears favorable. However, meeting the ambitious growth
target of 8 percent per year for 2004-05 set at the ninthPlenum of the Communist Party of
Vietnam Central Committee (the ninthParty Plenum) inJanuary will be a major challenge.
Measuresto simplify the regulatory and administrative burdenon firms, strengthen the




                                                 49

                                                                                      ANNEX 1


workings o f landmarkets, and implementrecent initiatives to improvebusiness environment
couldhelp significantly inthis regard.

Structural reforms

To date, reformimplementation inthe state-controlled sector hasprovento be difficult. But
the pace o f equitizingstate-owned enterprises (SOEs) hasbegunto pick up recently, and
should be givenfurther impetusby initiatives following the ninthParty Plenum. Additional
action is neededto improve the efficiency o f SOEs that will remainunder state ownership
and to addressthe problems of loss-making SOEs, whose current lossesrepresent a future
burdenonthe budget.

The state-owned commercial banks are a strategic weak point among Vietnam's economic
institutions, burdenedwith weak balance sheets and low profitability, multiplemandates
from the government, complex decentralized institutionalstructures, under-trained staff, and
weak informationsystems. A comprehensive strategy is needed to address these weaknesses
andprevent rapidly growinglendingfrom leadingto additional future lossesfor the public
sector. Such a strategy would combine: (i)  measuresto ensure lending is basedon sound
appraisal of repayment capacity; (ii)  commercially-focused mandatesfor the state-owned
banks; (iii) recapitalization to rebuildbalance sheets; and (iv) resolution of non-performing
loans, requiring inmany cases the restructuring of loss-makingstate-owned enterprises.
Actions on these measure should be synchronized, since recapitalization without fundamental
managementreforms couldprove counterproductive.

Progress i s beingmade inimplementingsome of these reforms. But recapitalization to date
has been insufficientto adequately compensate for loanportfolio weaknesses. Bank decision-
making, includingbothcredit andpricingdecisions, appearsto be significantly influencedby
non-commercial objectives, and resolution o fnon-performing loans seems to have stalled.
Initiativesto equitize Vietcombank andthe MekongHousing Bank could give impetusto
reform, provided that they ultimately shift these banks' operations to a more commercial
basis.

Vietnamhasmadesignificant progresswithtrade reformmeasures, includingthe scaling
back o fnon-tariffbarriers, the implementation o f AFTA commitments, and a bilateral
agreement withthe US. Inaddition, WTO accessioni s a keypriority for the political
leadership and apre-requisite ifVietnam i s to sustain its strong export expansion over the
medium-term.

Status of Fund relations

The IMF's three-year loan arrangementwith Vietnamunder the PovertyReductionand
GrowthFacility (PRGF) expiredon April 12,2004. O fthe total SDR 290 millioninfunds
made available under the arrangement, some SDR 124millionwere disbursedbetween April
2001 andJune 2002. Since June 2002, no disbursementswere made following an impasse
over compliance with the IMF's safeguards policy.




                                                50

                                                                                    ANNEX 1



Going forward, the IMF remains fully committedto an effective partnershipwith the
government o fVietnam to support the implementation o f its Comprehensive Poverty
Reduction and Growth Strategy (CPRGS). The IMFwill seek to maintaina regular policy
dialogue with the Government, through missions andthe residentrepresentative office,
providing analysis andpolicy assessments on macroeconomic and financial sector issues. It
will supplement this advisory role with focusedtechnical assistance inareas ofcore Fund
expertise, includingtax policy and administration, budget management, monetary and
financial sector policy, capital markets development and macroeconomic statistics. The IMF
will continue to cooperateclosely with other international financialinstitutions, and
contribute actively to the broader dialogue betweenthe government and its development
partnersinthe Consultative Groupprocess.




                                               51

                                                                                     ANNEX 2

             DEVELOPMENT      OUTCOMESAND THE REFORMPROGRAM




Trade          Ratio o fexports to GDP is 47 percent     D Ratio o f exports to GDP is 55 percent
integration    Share o f manufacturedproducts in         D Share ofmanufacturedproducts in
               total exports is 37 percent                 total exports is 70 percent
               Share o f private sector exports intotal  D Share o fprivate sector exports intotal
               exports is 56 percent                       exports is 85 percent
               QRs remain on many products               B All QRs have beenremoved
               Customs procedures are burdensome         b Modern customs procedures are in
               and cause delays                            place
               Slow progress inWTO accession               Vietnam becomes a member o f the
               negotiations                                WTO

SOEreform




Financial      Many delinquent JSBs and no bank in         Delinquent JSBs closed or merged; all
sector         full compliance with regulations            banks compliant with regulations
reform         NPL represent about 15 percent o f          Low NPL ratio and appropriate
               credit and there is weak systemic           mechanisms inplace to prevent N P L
               capacity for NPL resolution                 resurgence
               Conflicting responsibilities o f SBV as     SBV focused on supervision and
               owner andregulator o f financial            regulation, with progress on the
               institutions.                               divestiture o f SOCBs.
               Large volume o fpolicy lending inthe        Policy lendingtransferredto the
               commercial banking system, and              budget, with well-specified eligible
               discretion inpolicy loan allocation          sectors and terms o f support.
               Most financial intermediationtaking          Increased intermediation through
               place through the banking system




                                                                                      (Continued)


                                             52

         DEVELOPMENT     OUTCOMESAND THE REFORMPROGRAM(CONTINUED)




nfrastructure    b State monopoly intelecommunication           Free entry intelecommunication and
                   and IT services                              ITservices

                 D Provision o f infrastructure services is  1  Improved infrastructure provision and
                   often inefficient                            operations

                 B Infiastructure services are more             Rationalpricing policies for
                   expensive than inthe region                  infrastructure services




Zducation        D Net primary school enrollment rate i s     D Net primary school enrollment rate
                   88 percent (as o f 1998)                     attains 98 percent
                   School quality is uneven, and is             Scholl quality has improved, with a
                   especially low inpoor areas                  substantial catch up o fpoor areas
                   Net secondary school enrollment rate         Net lower secondary school
                   is 62 percent (as of 1998)




Land               Not all land has been titled, especially      All landhas beentitled, and landhas
                   for households inurban and upland             beenallocated to almost all
                   areas                                         households inupland areas
                   Community land-use practices are not          A legal framework exists for landuse
                   legally recognized                            according to community practices.
                   The landmarket is underdeveloped              A functioning landmarket is inplace
                   andnon-transparent, and registration          and a legal environment for secure
                   o f landtransactions is partial               land-tenure has been developed
                   Limitedaccessto water, sanitation,            Increased population access to water,
                   and waste services                            sanitation and waste services




                                                                                          (Continued)


                                                  53

        DEVELOPMENT  OUTCOMESAND THE REFORMPROGRAM(CONTINUED)




Environment    Forest cover stands at 35 percent      Forest cover expands to 38 percent
               Degradation o f highly bio-diverse     Nofurther degradation o fhighlybio-
               forest and wetlands                    diverse forest and wetlands
               Environmental impacts o f large        A framework is inplaceto assess
               investment projects not assessed.      environmental impact o fprojects
               Urban pollution is unchecked and       Mechanisms inplace to handle waste
               affects mainly the poor                discharge and pollution offenses

Gender         Low percentage o f LUCs issuedinthe    95 percent o fLUCs have been re-
               name o f both spouses                  issued inthe name o fboth spouses




Planning       Socio-economic planning is not         A number ofprovinces and sectors
process        evidence based, and not geared         have pro-poor socio-economic
               towards attaining development goals    development plans
               PIP is a compilation ofprojects with   Criteria based on growth and poverty
               limited assessment o f impacts         reduction impacts guide the selection
                                                      ofpublic investment projects




                                                       Accounting norms inaccordance with
                                                       international practice and increased




                                                                                (Continued)


                                             54

          DEVELOPMENT    OUTCOMESAND THE REFORMPROGRAM(CONTINUED)




Information        Limiteddevelopment o fthe statistical 0 Reliable, publicly available economic
availability       system, with some data unreliable and   andsocial data, allowing the
                   difficult to access by the public       evaluation ofpublic policies

                0  Poverty measuring and targeting       0 Poverty measurement and targeting
                   based on methods that are unreliable    on the poor more inline with
                   at aggregate levels                     common international practice
*   Expectedoutcomes as envisionedinthe PRSC 1Memorandumofthe President and Letter of
    Development Policy, in the VDGs, and in other strategies, plans and policy papers issued
    subsequentlybythe Government.




                                                 55

                                                                                    ANNEX 3




rrade        Ratio o f exports to GDP        47 percent             49 percent           S
ntegration         is 55 percent
              Share o f manufactured
             products intotal exports is     37 percent             46 percent           S
                    70 percent
               Share o fprivate sector
             exports intotal exports is      56 percent             65 percent          H S
                    85 percent
                All QRs have been
                     removed                QRs onmany          QRs only on sugar       HS
                                              products            andpetroleum
                 Modem customs
              procedures are inplace     Customs procedures       Modernization         HS
                Vietnam becomes a          are burdensome      project inpreparation

               member o f the WTO         Slow progress in      Serious preparation
                                         WTO negotiations       for WTO accession       H S




Financial    Banks infull compliance     N o commercial bank      Consolidation of
sector       with bankingregulations      infull compliance             JSBs             PS
reform       Highestimated NPLratio       NPLs represent 15     Progress is difficult
                 inbanking system          percent o f credit        to assess           --

                  SBV focused on           Conflicting SBV
             supervision and regulation   responsibilities as     Limitedprogress        U
                                         owner and regulator

                Sound regulation o f      Policy lending still Policy lending shifted
                  policy lending                                                         PS
                                         done through SOCBs      to DAF and VBSP
                                                                butgrowing rapidly

                                                                                      (Continued)


                                            56

                  PROGRESSUNDERPRSC 1AND PRSC2 (CONTINUED)




IInfrastructure          Free entry in          State monopoly in     Telecommunication
                 telecommunication and IT      telecommunication        sector open to        H S
                            services             and IT-services          competition

                   Improved infrastructure         Provision o f
                  provision and operations    infrastructure services Better infrastructure   HS
                                                 often inefficient

                  Rational pricing policies       Infrastructure      Gradual convergence
                  for infrastructure services      services are                               H S
                                                    expensive          to regional prices




                  enrollment rate attains 98   88 percent (in 1998)   90 percent (in2002)      PS
                            percent
                      School quality has         School quality is
                   improved, especially in      uneven and low in     Progress is difficult    _ _
                          poor areas                poor areas              to assess

                    Net lower secondary
                    school enrollment rate     62 percent (in 1998)   72 percent (in2002)      H S
                       attains 80 percent




                                                                                            (Continued)




                                                   57

                PROGRESSUNDERPRSC 1AND PRSC2 (CONTINUED)




              All landallocatedwith all   Not all landallocated LUCs for 35 and 60
               upland allocatedto locals   especially inurban   percent o furban and     S
                 and ethnic communities     and uplandareas      forest land users
              A functioning land market    10 percent of rural
               i s inplace and landtenure   households with     15 percent (in2002)      S
                     has been secured     leased land (in 1998)
                   Increasedpopulation     41 and 17percent
                    access to water and   with clean water and   49 and25 percent        HS
                    sanitation services     latrines (in 1998)       (in2002)




IEnvironment     Forest cover expands to                        Progress is difficult    _ _
                        38 percent              35 percent           to assess
               N o further degradationo f
               highlybio-diverse forests       Degradation       Pilot programs on       S
                       and wetlands                                  wetlands

                 A framework inplace to
                   assess environmental     Assessments are      Limitedprogress         U
                    impact o fprojects            limited

                 Mechanisms inplace to     Urbanpollution is
                 handle waste discharge      uncheckedand        Limitedprogress         U
                 andpollution offenders      affects the poor




                                                                                      (Continued)




                                              58

                  PROGRESSUNDERPRSC 1AND PRSC2 (CONTINUED)




Planning           A numbero fprovinces       Planning is not well-
process           and sectors have pro-poor      geared towards      Provincial CPRGS       S
                   socio-economic plans        development goals     "roll-out'' started

                  Criteria based on growth     Appraisal of public  Expansion o f CPRGS
                   and poverty reduction     investment projects is   to infi-astructure    S
                   guide project appraisal           limited         issues under way




                                              Accounting practices  Gradual convergence
                                                differ from inter-     to international     S
                                               national standards         standards




                      Progress towards            Cumbersome         The One-Stop-Shop
administration         administrative            procedures and      model adopted in35     S
                                                murkypayments             provinces




                                                Limited statistical  Statistical Law for
                                             development and data      data quality and     S
                         social data            dificult to access     access adopted

Note:   Assessments are by the World Bank and co-financiers. H S stands for Highly Satisfactory, S
        for Satisfactory, PS for Partially Satisfactory, andUfor Unsatisfactory.



                                                  59

0




0




0




0




0  0  0   0  0   0  0


 i




0         0    0    0




          0




                                                                                                                                               Annex 5
                                                                                                                                             Page 1 o f 2


                                        Vietnam at a glance                                                                             5/25/04


                                                                          East
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                        Asia B        Low-
                                                               Vietnam   Pacific    income       Developmentdiamond'
2002
Population,mid-year (millions)                                     80.4   1,838       2,495    I              Life expectancy
GNIper capita (Atlas method, US$)                                  430      950        430
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                   34.8   1,740       1,072

Average annual growth, 1996-02
Population(%)                                                       1.3     1.o         1.9
Laborforce (%)                                                      1.7     1.2         2.3      GNI
                                                                                                 Per
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199662)                                             capita
Poverty (% ofpopulationbelownationalpoverty line)
Urbanpopulation(% of totalpopulation)                               25       38          30
Lifeexpectancy at birth (yeafs)                                     70       69          59                          -
Infant mortality (per 1,000live births)                             30       33          81
Child malnutrition(% of children under5)                            34       15                        Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)                  77       76          76
Illiteracy(% ofpopulation age 15+)                                    7      13          37            -
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-agepopulation)                106     106          95                    Vietnam
    Male                                                            109     105         103             ~.     Low-incomegroup
    Female                                                          102     106          87

KEY ECONOMICRATIOS and LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                   I982            1992   2001         2002
                                                                                                 Economicratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                                  9.9    32.5        35.3
Gross domestic investmenffGDP                                      17.6    31.2        32.1     ,
Exportsof goods and serviceslGDP                                   34.7    54.6        55.5                        Trade
Gross domestic savingslGDP                                         13.6    28.8        28.1
Gross nationalsavingslGDP                                          10.7    31.3         33.5

Currentaccount balancelGDP                                         -0.8     2.1         -1.o
InterestpaymentslGDP                                                0.4      1.1         0.8
Total debffGDP                                                    246.6    38.7         37.8
Totaldebt service/exports                                           7.1      6.7         5.9
Presentvalue of debffGDP                                                   33.6                                      -
Presentvalue of debffexports                                               60.8
                                                                                                                Indebtedness
                                        1982-92 1992-02            2001    2002      2002-06
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                         5.2      7.4            6.9      7.0                         -Vietnam
GDP per capita                              2.9      5.8            5.6      5.8                                 Low-incomegroup
                                                                                                           ~
Exportsof goods and services


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                   1982            1992    2001        2002      Growth of Investmentand GDP ( X )
(% of GDP)                                                                                                                                      I
Agriculture                                              ..        33.9     23.2        23.0
industry                                                           27.3     38.1        38.5
    Manufacturing                                                   15.4    19.8        20.6
Services                                                 ......    30.8     38.6        38.5

Privateconsumption                                       ..        80.7     64.8        65.7             91     88    89      00      01    02
Generalgovernmentconsumption                                        5.8      6.3         6.2                                                    I
 Importsof goods and services                            ..        38.0     56.9        59.5                -GDI            - O ' G D P

                                                                                                                     ___
                                                1982-92 1992-02            2001        2002
 (averageannualgrowth)                                                                           Growth of exports and imports (%)

Agriculture                                          3 1            4 2      3 0         4 1     2 -

 Industry                                             5 0           112     10 4         9 4
    Manufacturing                                     1 9           113     11 3        11 6     1 -
 Services                                            7 9            6 7      6 1         6 5

 Privateconsumption                                                 5 0      5 6         7 9
 Generalgovernment consumption                                      3 4      6 6         5 4
 Gross domestic investment                                          13 6    10 8        10 6
 Importsof goods and services

 Note 2002 data are preliminary estimates
 * The diamonds show four key indicatorsin the country (in bold) compared with its income-groupaverage If data are missing,the diamond will
     be incomplete
                                                                        68

                                                                                                                                Annex 5
                                                                                                                               Page2 of 2



                                                                                                                      Vietnam

PRICESand GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                         1982   1992     2001     2002       Inflation (%)
DomesUcprices
(% change)                                                               1 1 0 7

Consumerprices                                   37.7     -0.4      4.0
lmplict GDP deflator                             32.6      1.9      4.1

Governmeni finance
(% of GDP, includescurrentgrants)
Current revenue                                  19.0     21.4     22.0
Current budget balance                            0.0      5.4      6.2
Overallsurplus/debl                                       -2.8     -1.9

TRADE
                                         1982    1992    2001     2002
(US$ millionsj                                                               Export and import levels (US$mill.)

Total exports (fob)                            2,475    15,027  16,706       25.000
  Rice                                            300      625     726
  Fuel                                            756   3,126    3,270
  Manufactures
Total imports (ci9                              2,950   16,162   19.733
  Food                                             82
  Fuel and energy                                 616    1,828   2,017
  Capitalgoods                                    950
                                                                                     96   97     98      90     00    01     02
Export price index (19951100)
Import price index (79951100)                                                                Exports            Imports
Terms oftrade (19951100)

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                         1982    1992     2001     2002
(US$ millions)                                                                Currentaccount balanceto GDP (%)

Exportsof goods and services                    3,199   17.837   19,656       6 1
Importsof goods and services                    2,950   17,782   21,179       4
Resource balance                         -659     249       55   -1,523       2
                                                                              0
Net income                                -85    -384     -635     -741       -2
Net current transfers                      90      59    1,250    1,896       -4

Current account balance                  -654     -76      670     -368       -6
                                                                              -8
Financing items (net)                     458     538     -476      832      -10
Changes in net reserves                   196    -462     -194     -464      -12 1
Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US$ millions)
Conversion rate (DfC, kxaVUS$j            0.9 11,202.2 14,806.0 15,207.0

 EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                         1982    1992     2001     2002
 (US$ millions)                                                               Compositionof 2002 debt (US$ mill.)
 Total debt outstanding and disbursed      43  24,332   12,584   13,332
   IERD                                     0        0        0       0
   IDA                                     35      57     1,344    1,715                          786        B 1715

 Total debt service                         0     232     1,213    1,174
   IBRD                                     0        0        0       0
   IDA                                      0        1       10       13

 Compostion of net resourceflows
   Officialgrants                          67     113      263      265
   Officialcreditors                       17     248       993     686
   Privatecreditors                         0     140      -591    -641
   Foreigndirect investment                13     385       900    1,100
   Portfolio equity                         0        0        0        0  I                  E 7,635
 World Bank program
   Commitments                              0        0      739      558      A - IBRD                            E - Bilateral
   Disbursements                           16        0      279      261      B .IDA      D - Other multilateral  F Private
                                                                                                                   -
   Principalrepayments                      0        1        2        2    j C - IMF                             G .Short-term
   Net flows                               16       -1      277      259
   Interest payments                        0        0        a       11
   Net transfers                           16       -1      268      248


 DevelopmentEconomics                                                                                                     5125104

                                                       69

                                                                                                           Annex 6
                                                                                                         Page 1of 4



                         VIETNAM: KEYECONOMIC INDICATORS,2000-2006

                                                  Actual                Prel.        - Projected
                                                                                     Est.
                                               2000         2001       2002        2003    2004    2005    2006

Growth Rates (%)
 Real GDP                                         5.5          6.9        7.0         7.2      7.5   7.5      7.5
 Real GDY                                         7.8          8.8        8.5         7.4      7.7   7.7      7.7
 Real GDP per capita                              5.8          5.5        5.6         5.6      5.6   5.6      5.6
 Consumer price index (Dec. to Dec.)             -0.5          0.7        4.0         3.2  6.0-7.0   4.0      4.0

Public Debt Service (1)
 Debt service/XGS (%)                             7.0          6.4        5.4         3.1      2.4   2.4      2.4
 Debt serviceiGDP (%)                             4.2          3.7        3.3         2.0      1.6    1.6      1.6

Ratios to GDP (current prices) (%)
 Investment                                      29.6        31.2        32.1       33.8     32.9   32.4     32.7
 National savings                                31.7        33.3        31.0       29.1     28.3   29.2     29.8
 Domestic savings                                28.8        31.4       27.7        25.8     24.5   24.7     25.0

 Government revenues (inc. grants) (%)           21.1        22.7       22.9        22.8     22.0   22.5     22.5
 Government expenditures (inc. int.)             23.9        25.6        24.8       25.1     24.8   25.0     25.0
 Overall deficit (cash basis) (YO)               -2.8         -2.9        -2.0       -2.4     -2.7  -2.5      -2.5

Other Items
 Export growth rates (nominal) (%)               25.2          4.0       11.2        20.8     15.3  15.0     15.0
 ExportdGDP (Yo)                                 46.4        46.2        47.3        52.2    55.6   59.0     62.7
 Export growth rates (real) (YO)                 15.1        17.1          7.4       16.3     12.7  12.7     12.8
 Import growth rates (nominal) (%)               34.5          2.3       22.1        27.8     17.2  14.4     14.3
 Imports/GDP (%)                                 45.1        44.3        49.8        57.2    61.9   65.4     69.0
 Import growth rates (real) (%)                  15.1        13.1        19.8        22.5     14.9  12.1     12.1
 Current account balance (US$ million)
  - before official transfers
                         e?)                     506          520       -520       -1,850  -2,040   ,610   -1,490
  - after
     *percent o f GDP                             1.6           1.6       -1.5        -5.1    -5.0   -3.5     -3.2
          official transfers                     642          670       -390       -1,720  -1,900   ,460   -1,340
     *percent o f GDP (YO)                        2.1          2.1        -1.1        -4.7    -4.6  -3.2      -2.9
 Gross reserves inweeks o f
    imports                                      10.9          9.7         8.7         9.7     9.9  10.0     10.1

NoFFigures are rounded.
Source:
  Actual data: The Government and World Bank estimates; Projection: World Bank estimates.
(1) excludesprivatedebts




                                                                    70

                                                                                                             Annex 6
                                                                                                           Page 2 of 4



                               VIETNAM: FISCAL SUMMARY, 2000-2006


Indicator                                                       Est.                   Projected
                               2000        2001       2002         2003        2004         2005       2006

Public finance (YOo f current GDP)

Government Revenues (i          21.1        22.7       22.9         22.8       22.0         22.5       22.5

Current expenditures (ac         17.2       17.3       16.6         16.7        17.1         17.3       17.3
            Wages and :           6.5        6.5        6.3           8.1        8.0          8.0       8.0
            Others               10.7       10.8       10.3           8.6        9.1          9.3       9.3

Capital Expenditure               6.7        8.3         8.2          8.4        7.7          7.7       7.7

            On-lending            2.0        2.2        0.8           1.2        1.3          1.7        1.7

Surplus (+) or Deficit (-)       -2.8       -2.9        -2.0        -2.4        -2.7         -2.5       -2.5

Surplus (+) or Deficit (-)       -4.8       -5.1        -2.8        -3.6        -4.0         -4.2       -4.2

Source:
  Actual data: VietnameseauthoritiesandBank andFundstaffestimates. Estimatesandprojections: World Bank.




                                                    71

                                                                                                         Annex 6
                                                                                                       Page 3 of 4



                              VIETNAM: BALANCEOFPAYMENTS,2000-2006
                                              (US$ Billion)
                                                    Actual          Prel.Est.                Projected
                                                 2000    2001      2002    2003      2004      2005    2006


Exports (fob)                                     14.4     15.0     16.7    20.2       23.3     26.6    30.6

Imports (fob)                                      14.1    14.4     17.6    22.5       26.3     29.5    33.7

Trade Balance                                       0.4     0.6     -0.9    -2.3        -3.0     -2.9   -3.1

Non-Factor Services                                -0.6    -0.6     -0.7    -0.8        -0.6     -0.5   -0.5

Services (Net)                                     -0.6    -0.6     -0.7    -0.9        -0.6     -0.5   -0.5

Transfers(Net)                                      1.5      1.3     1.9     2.1         2.2      2.3    2.6
 of which:
 - Official Transfers                               0.2     0.2      0.1     0.1         0.1      0.2    0.2
 - PrivateTransfers (net)                           1.3      1.1     1.8     2.0         2.1      2.1    2.5


CurrentAccount Balance(after Grants)                0.6      0.7    -0.4    -1.9        -2.0     -1.6   -1.5


CapitalAccount                                     -0.8     -0.3     1.8     3.8         2.5      2.5    2.5
 Medium and Long-Term
 - Disbursements                                    1.4      1.o      1.1    1.5         1.5      1.7    1.8
  of which:
     *IDA                                           0.2      0.2     0.4     0.3         0.3      0.3    0.3
     *Other ODA                                     1.2      0.8     0.6     0.9         0.9       1.o   1.o
     *Non-concessionalLT Borrowing                  0.1      0.0     0.1     0.3         0.3      0.4    0.6
 - AmortizationsPrincipals (1)                      1.3      1.2      1.o    0.8         0.8      0.9    1.1


Short-Term                                         -1.7     -1.0     0.6      1.6        0.2      0.2    0.2


Direct Investment                                   0.8      0.9      1.1     1.5         1.5      1.6    1.6


Errors and Omissions                                0.2     -0.2    -0.9      0.0         0.0     0.0    0.0


Overall Balance                                     0.1      0.2      0.5     1.9         0.5      0.9    1.o


Financing                                          -0.1     -0.2     -0.5    -1.9        -0.5     -0.9   -1.0


Note: Figuresare rounded.
Source:
  Actual data: The Governmentand World Bank estimates; Projections: World Bank staff estimates.
(1) includesFDI loanrepayments




                                                           72

                                                                      Annex 6
                                                                    Page4 of 4


          VIETNAM: EXTERNALFINANCING REQUIREMENTS,2003-2006
                                  (US$ billion)




FinancingNeeds                             4.6    3.3    3.5   3.8

 Current Account Deficit                    1.9   2.0    1.6   1.5
 Medium& Long-Term Amortization (1)        0.8    0.8    0.9   1.1
 ReserveRequirements                        1.9   0.6    0.9   1.2

FinancingSources                           4.6    3.3    3.5   3.8

 Official Grants                            0.1   0.1    0.1   0.1
 ODA Financing                              1.2   1.2    1.3   1.2
 Non-Concessional LTborrowing               0.3   0.3    0.4   0.6
 Direct Foreign Investment                  1.5    1.5   1.5   1.6
 Short-Term Capital (net)                   1.6   0.2    0.2   0.2
 Use of IMF credit (net)                   -0.1   -0.1   0.0   0.0
 Arrears Accumulations (net)                0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0
 Debt Relief                                0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0

Note: Figures are rounded.
(1) includes FDI loanrepayment




                                            73

                                                                                                Annex 7




             VIETNAM: KEYEXPOSUREINDICATORS,2000-2006 (I)
                                              (US$ Billion)

                                                  Rev.                Est.       Projected
                                          2000      2001      2002    2003  2004    2005   2006

Public and Pub. Guaranteed                 11.6      11.4     12.3    13.3   14.0    14.2  14.2
1. Official Creditors                      8.7        9.2     10.7    11.9   12.7    13.1  13.2
 a. Multilaterals                          1.9        2.2      2.8     3.3   3.6      3.9   4.1
 b. Bilaterals                             6.8        7.0      7.9     8.7   9.1      9.2   9.2
   Concessional                            6.1        6.2      7.1     7.9   8.4      8.5   8.5
   Non-concessional                        0.7        0.7      0.7     0.7   0.7      0.7   0.7
2. Private Creditors                       2.9        2.3       1.6    1.4    1.3     1.1   1.o
Total Long-Term DOD                        11.6      11.4       2.3   13.3   14.0    14.2   14.2
Use of IMF Credit                          0.3        0.4       0.3    0.2    0.2     0.1   0.1
Short-Term Capital                         0.9        0.8       0.8    0.8    0.8     0.8   0.8
Total DOD (LT+IMF+ST)                      12.8      12.6       3.4   14.3   14.9     15.1  15.1

Key debt Service Indicators (%)
 Public Debt servicesRGNFS                  7.0       6.4       5.4    3.1    2.4     2.4   2.4
 Public Debt services/GDP                  4.2        3.7       3.3    2.0    1.6      1.6   1.6

Source: World Bank estimates, basedon information providedby the Govemment.
(I)excludesprivate debts




                                                        74

                                                                                   Annex 8
                            StatusofBankGroup OperationsinViet Nam
                      IBRD Loansand IDA Creditsinthe OperationsPortfolio
                                         (as of April 30.2004)




date is SDR at month end exchange rate.
Total now held by IDA                                                   4.761.1 1
Amount sold                                                                 0.00
Total Disbursed                                                         2.402.97
of which repaid                                                            17 98
Total undisbursed                                      75                           2363.00

                                                                                                                   Annex 9

              Vietnam: Selected Indicators of Bank Portfolio Performance and Management

Indicator                                                                  2000          2001        2002   2003       2004

Portfolio Assessment

Number of ProjectsunderImplementation a/                                      21            25         27     25         26
Average ImplementationPeriod(years) bl                                        3.0          3.4        3.4    3.7         4.0
Percentof Problem Projects by Number ai c/                                    0.0          8.0        7.4    16%       19%
Percentof Problem Projects by Amount a/ cl                                    0.0          5.5        2.6    11%       16%
Percent of Projectsat Risk by Number ai d/                                    0.0          8.0       11.1    16%       23%
Percent of Projectsat Risk by Amount a/ d/                                    0.0          5.5        3.4    11%       19%
Disbursement Ratio(%) e                                                     12.0          11.9       14.5    15.1       15.0

Portfolio Management

CPPR duringthe year (yesfno)                                                                                             Yes
Supervision Resources(Total US$million)                                                                          3.077(proj .)
Average Supervision(US$/project)                                                                                     99,258




Memorandum Item                                                                  Last Five FYs

ProjectEvaluatedby OED by Number                                                             10
Project Evaluatedby OED by Amount (US$million)                                           1,215
YOo fOED ProjectsRatedUor HUby Number                                                         0
%ofOED ProjectsRatedUor HUby Amount                                                           0



Note:
a. As shown in the Annual Report on Portfolio Performance(except for current FY)
b. Average age of projects inthe Bank's country portfolio.
c. Percentof project rated Uor HUon development objectives (DO)and/or implementation progress (IP).
d. As definedunder the Portfolio Improvement Program.
e. Ratio of disbursementsduring the year to the undisbursedbalanceof the Bank's portfolio at the
    beginning of the year; investment projects only.
* All indicators are for projects active in the Portfolio, with the exception of Disbursement Ratio,
    which includes all active projects as well as projects which exited during the fiscal year.




                                                                     76

                                                                                                 Annex 10




                            Vietnam: Statement of IFC's Held and DisbursedPortfolio
                                             (as of March2004)
                                                                                     (inMillions US Dollars)

                                                Committed                             Disbursed
     FY
Approval Company                     Loan     Equity     Quasi      Partic    Loan   Equity    Quasi      Partic
   2003 ACB-Vietnam                   0.00      5.02       0.00      0.00      0.00    5.02      0.00       0.00
   2002 AZIAGF Vietnam                0.00       1.32      0.00      0.00      0.00    1.32      0.00       0.00
   2002 CyberSoft                     0.00       1.25      0.00      0.00      0.00    1.25      0.00       0.00
   2002 Dragon Capital                0.00      0.00       2.00      0.00      0.00    0.00      2.00       0.00
   2002 F-V Hospital                  5.00      0.00       3.00      0.00      5.00    0.00      3.00       0.00
   2003 Glass Egg                     0.00       1.75      0.00      0.00      0.00    0.63      0.00       0.00
   1998 MFL Vinh Phat                 0.15      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.15    0.00      0.00       0.00
    1997 Nghi Son Cement             15.93       0.00      0.00      10.79     15.93   0.00      0.00      10.79
   2001 RMITVietnam                   7.25       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00      0.00       0.00
    1996 SMHGlass Co.                 5.56       0.00      0.00      0.00      5.56    0.00      0.00       0.00
 2003104 Sacombank                    0.00       2.05      0.00      0.00      0.00    1.14       0.00      0.00
 2002103 VEIL                         0.00       8.00      0.00       0.00     0.00    8.00       0.00      0.00
    1996 VILC                         0.00       0.75      0.00       0.00      0.00   0.75       0.00      0.00



         Total Portfolio             33.89     20.14       5.00      10.79     26.64  18.11       5.00     10.79



                                       Approvals Pending Commitment

                                     Loan                Equity               Quasi             Partic

   2002 F-VHospital                    1.50                0.50                 0.00              0.00
   2000 Interflour                    8.00                 0.00                 0.00              5.00
    1999 MFL Chau Giang               0.00                 0.00                 0.00              0.00
    1999 MFLMinhMinh                  0.00                 0.00                 0.00              0.00
    2000 MFLMondial                   0.00                 0.00                 0.00              0.00
    2000 MFL-AA                       0.00                 0.00                 0.00              0.00

         Total PendingCommitment      9.50                 0.50                 0.00              5.00




                                                      77

                                                                               Annex 11
                                                                               Page 1 o f 4




                            STATE BANK OFVIETNAM
                              47-49 LyThai To Street, Hanoi, Vietnam
                           Tel: (844) 934 3366/1; Fax: (844) 825 0612
                                       E-mail: fdsbv@fDt.vn


                                                               Hanoi, May 24,2004

Mr.James D.Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
Washington D.C.


Dear Mr.Wolfensohn,


        The Government o f Vietnam has been implementing a social and economic
reform program that is firmly integrated with its Ten-Year Socio-Economic
Development Strategy 2001-2010, its Five Year Plan 2001-2005 and its
Comprehensive Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy (CPRGS). To date this
program has been supported by two Poverty Reduction Support Credits from the
International Development Association with co-financing from other bilateral and
multilateral donors.

       The reform program envisions a path of transition towards a market-
economy with socialist orientation, with the aim o f doubling GDP by 2010 and
substantially reducing poverty. The CPRGS translates that vision into concrete
actions. I t spells out clear development targets, identifies appropriate policies to
attain those targets, and seeks to align resources to those policies. The Vietnam
Development Goals, which are Vietnam's version o f the Millennium Development
Goals, are among the targets o f the CPRGS. The policies considered encompass
three main areas: high growth through completion o f the transition to a market
economy; an equitable, socially inclusive and environmentally sustainable pattem
o f growth; and the modemization of governance systems.

       The CPRGS, approved by the Prime Ministerin May 2002, was presented
inJuly 2002 to the BoardofExecutive Directorsofthe InternationalDevelopment
Association who received it very favorably. In2003 the CPRGS was "expanded"
to include a development policy for large-scale infrastructure and its role in




                                          78

                                                                              Annex 11
                                                                              Page 2 o f 4


promoting economic and social development. The inclusion of this chapter fills
what the Government o f Vietnam perceived as a gap inthe original CPRGS.

        Since the adoption o f the CPRGS, the Government o f Vietnam has pursued
its reform agenda steadfastly. We recently completed the first "Vietnam Growth
and Reduction of Poverty Annual Progress Report o f 2002-2003" (hereafter, the
Report), which was discussed by the Board o f Executive Directors of the
Association in February 2004. The Report indicates that implementation o f the
reform agenda is on track, with considerable progress in completing the transition
to a market economy, keeping development inclusive and building modem
governance, Progressin economic growth and poverty reduction i s noted. But we
recognize that important challenges remain ahead.

        Over the most recent twelve-months period, we have adopted many
substantive actions in the implementation o f our socio-economic reform agenda.
Inrespect of the transition to a market economy, we have taken steps for further
trade liberalization in pursuit o f WTO accession and integration with the world
economy. We have substantially acceleratedthe pace o fownership transformation
o f state-owned enterprises, improved the transparency and accountability in the
financial sector, strengthened the regulatory framework for policy lending by the
Govemment, unified the corporate tax rate and encouraged competition in the
telecommunication sector. These actions can be traced to Part I11sections Iand 11,
andPart IV o fthe CPRGS,

        In respect of social inclusion and environmental sustainability, we have
ensured appropriate budget allocation for education and for contribution to all the
provincial Health Care Funds for the Poor; raised the quality standards o f primary
education and adopted a multi-sector action program to implement our national
HIV-AIDS strategy. To improve environmental management, we have put into
effect the "polluter pays" principle, issued regulations to handle the worst
pollution offenders, strengthened the environmental assessment capacity o f local
levels o f administration. The new LandLaw, which will become effective on July
1,2004, supports access to land for all sectors and recognizes community land-use
practices, an important issue for upland and ethnic minority areas. Actions inthese
areas are related to Part V section I,Part 111sections Iand 111, and Part IV section
IV inthe CPRGS.

       In respect of building modem governance, we have taken measures to
increase transparency in public finances and improve financial accountability and
to ensure dissemination o f our legal documents and consultation with
stakeholders. We continue to move forward on public administration reform by
simplifying administrative procedures through our "One Stop Shop" policy. And
we have taken steps to strengthen the public procurement process, and to curb




                                        79

                                                                             Annex 11
                                                                             Page 3 o f 4


abuses inbusiness inspections. These actions correspond to Part VI1section I,and
Part I11sections Iand I1in the CPRGS. The intention to integrate the CPRGS
approach into future five-year and one-year planning processes is presentedin the
Report.

        In developing our strategy for poverty reduction and growth, we have
benefited from assistance from the Association and a widening support from the
donor community. The Association supportedthe earlier stages of implementation
o f our strategy through the first and second Poverty Reduction Support Credits.
We request the Association's assistance through a Third Poverty Reduction
Support Credit in recognition o f our steady progress inthe implementation o f the
CPRGS.

       As noted in the Report, many challenges remain. Inthe months ahead, we
will pursue our reform agenda and plan on key actions to broaden and deepen the
reforms. We, together with the Association and the donor community, will be
monitoring our course. In this connection, we will fbmish to the Association for
its review and comment an updated Report on achievements in carrying out the
program. We have also discussed and agreed with the Association on a set o f
indicators to measure our progress in implementing the reforms. Those indicators
are summarized inthe attachment to this letter.

       We are determined to pursue our poverty reduction and growth strategy.
We request the Association's assistance and look forward to its continued support,.


                                     Yours Sincerely,




                                        Governor




                                         80

     I

h                                                                                                       Annex 11
                                                                                                        Page 4 o f 4




                                     w1 rI:TransttSpnto aMarketEconomy                           . I


                       Sector                                   Venfiable indicator                y   .




          Trade integration               Issueregulations on unport licensing ma transparent manner m
                                          accordance wthWTO requirements

          State-owned enteqxise reform  a Revise key decrees to establish a legal framework for the
                                          equitlzation o f large SOEs andGeneral Corporanons

          Financial sector reform         Requve a comprehensive evaluation of SOCBs anda plan for
                                          NF'L resotuhonaspre-conhtions to issuance o fequity or equity-
                                          llke instruments

          Private sector development      Drafinew (unified) Enterprise and Investment Laws      111accordance
                                          with the Guiding Concepts and Pnnciples dated April26,2004

          Infrastructure                  Submit for approval by the Naaonal Assembly the E l e c ~ c i t Law
                                                                                                          y
                                          which lncludes provlslon for a regulatory agency for the sector
                            PiarTI: So4
                       Sector
          Education                       Finalize a Pnmary Teacher Profile to be used as the standard for
                                          career development and compensahon purposes
          Health                          Prepare a draft strategy to implement an effective and sustainable
                                          NauonalTuberculosis Program
          Land                            Issue a decree on the restructuring o f SFEs, includingtransfer o f
                                          under-used landto households, communities and the private sector

          Water                         a Submit for approval a decree on integrated river basin
                                          management, laymg out the policy and instituhonal arrangements
                                          to support it
          Environment                     Submit for approval by the National Assembly the Amendment to
                                          the Law onEnvironmental Protection
                                        Wlar IIkModernGovernance
                       Sector                                   Verifiable indicator

          Planning processes              Expand the implementation of the MTEFpilot to the health sector
                                          for better coordination o f capital and recurrent expenditures
          Public financial management     Improve the evaluation o f the socio-economic returns o f public
                                          investment projects
          Legal development               Approve a Legal System Development Strategy based onthe
                                          LegalNeeds Assessment
          Anti-cormption                a Issue a decree supporting community participation ininvestment
                                          projects leading to increased disclosure and participation
          Informationavailability         Submission for approval o frevised criteria to measure poverty and
                                          to target the poor more inline with common international
                                          practices




                                                           81


