Page  1
 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT for the Vietnam PRSC 3                                      
28947
 
 
 
Project Name 
 
Viet Nam-Poverty Reduction Support Credit 3 (PRSC 3) 
 
Region  
 
East Asia and Pacific 
 
Sector   
 
Macroeconomic - structural adjustment; Poverty Reduction policies 
 
Project ID 
 
P082759 
 
Borrower(s) 
 
Socialist Republic of Vietnam 
 
Implementing Agency 
State Bank of Vietnam 
   47-49 
Ly 
Thai 
To 
   Hanoi 
 
 
 
Tel:    84 4 9343361/6 
 
 
 
Fax:    84 4 8250612 
 
 
 
Contact: Mr. Le Duc Thuy, Governor 
   State 
Bank 
of 
Vietnam 
 
Environment Category 
 
C  Not required 
 
Date PID Prepared/Revised 
April 16, 2004 
 
Projected Appraisal Date 
May 12, 2004 
 
Projected Board Date 
 
June 2004 
 
Background 
Vietnam’s economy doubled in size during the last decade, while its poverty rate was halved. GDP per 
capita expanded by around 6 percent per year on average over that period, in spite of the East Asian 
crisis. The growth rate was 7 percent in 2003, and is expected to be similar or higher in 2004. Exports are 
growing by 20 percent per year, and FDI inflows by 10 percent per year. Savings rates rose six-fold, to 
around 25 percent of GDP, with private investment accounting for an increasingly large share of total 
capital accumulation. Meanwhile, the poverty headcount fell from 58 percent in 1993 to 37 percent in 
1998 and to 29 percent in 2002. The decline in poverty was widespread as the increase in inequality has 
been modest so far. Social indicators improved markedly, putting Vietnam in a good position to attain key 
Millennium Development Goals. The last decade was thus characterized by undeniable progress in the 
lives of citizens.   
 
Project Objectives 
 
The proposed Credit of US$ 100 million equivalent is a Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) that 
would support the implementation of Vietnam’s poverty reduction strategy as outlines in the 
Comprehensive Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy (CPRGS) completed in May 2002, and updated 
in the annual Progress Report of the CPRGS in December 2003. 
  
Project Description 
 
Page  2
 
 
The proposed operation is the third in a series of Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs).  It builds 
on the strong performance of Vietnam over the last decade, and its commitment to further economic and 
social development, as outlined in the CPRGS and the annual Progress Report in 2003. It also reflects 
the engagement and support of the international community in addressing the challenges currently faced 
by Vietnam.  The proposed credit further deepens the reforms supported by the first two PRSCs and the 
Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) of the International Monetary Fund (IMF). The policy 
actions it endorses are all firmly rooted in the CPRGS and cover the following areas:  (i) enhancing the 
integration with the world economy through concrete actions on tariff and trade liberalization measures to 
meet the WTO requirements; (ii) continuing SOE reforms aimed to put SOEs on reasonable financial 
footing for better competition while hardening further their constraints; (iii) deepening financial sector 
reforms for better international integration and sound banking practices, including transparency and steps 
toward equitization of SOCBs; (iv) private sector development in tax and intellectual property rights; (v) 
infrastructure development in energy, transportation, power, communications and large-scale 
infrastructure projects; (vi) improvement in education; (vii) health care; and (viii) continuing land reforms. 
Other areas include measures to insure environmental sustainability, improve public financial 
management and public administration, reform in legal development, anticorruption actions, and 
introduction of better planning processes and financial information reporting. 
 
Project Financing 
 
The proposed credit amount would be a US$ 100  million equivalent.  The credit would be disbursed in 
one tranche at effectiveness subject to the fulfillment of the conditions listed in the Policy Matrix. 
 
Project Implementation 
 
The State Bank of Vietnam will be responsible for monitoring the implementation of the program. 
 
Sustainability 
 
Vietnam has continued on a road of slow but steady reform with few reversals of policy.  It has committed 
to some key principles of policy like integration with the rest of the world and rapid growth with social 
stability and equity.  It takes a long time to develop a consensus on policy-reform, but once agreed, the 
country has generally implemented such changes. If the new reforms promote growth and reduce 
poverty, they are likely to be sustained. 
 
Environmental aspects 
 
In accordance with Bank guidelines, the proposed operation has been placed in Category C and will not 
require an environmental assessment. 
 
Poverty Category 
 
The PRSC supports the implementation of Vietnam’s current poverty reduction strategy as summarized in 
the Government’s CPRGS. 
 
Program Objective Categories 
 
The project is a structural adjustment operation. 
 
Contact Points: 
 
 The 
Infoshop 
 The 
World 
Bank 
 
1818 H Street 
Page  3
 
 
 
Washington D.C.  20433 
 
Telephone: (202) 458-5454 
 
Fax:       (202) 522-1500 
 
 
Mr. Martin Rama 
 Task 
Manager 
 
Hanoi Field Office 
 
Telephone: (84-4) 9346600 
 
Fax:       (84-4) 9346597 
 
Note: This is information on an involving project. Certain components may not be necessarily included in 
the final project. 
 
Processed by the InfoShop week ending _______. 
 
