Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12274-HA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MALAYSIA
SECOND RUBBER INDUSTRY SMALLHOLDERS DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORITY (RISDA) PROJECT
DECEMBER 23, 1993
MICPOGRAPHICS
Report No:         12274 MA
Type: SAR
Agriculture and Natural Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not othenvise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of June 1993)
Currency Unit     =      Ringgit (M$)
US$1.00           =      M$2.55
M$1.00            =      US$0.39
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)            =    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       =    0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)         =    2.47 acre (ac)
1 kilogram (kg)        -    2.2 pound (lb)
1 metric ton (ton)           1,000 kg = 2,200 lb
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CPO         -  Crude Palm Oil
ERR         -  Economic Rate of Return
ESPER       -  Estet Pekebun Kecil Sdn Bhd
FELCRA      -  Federal Land Consolidation and Rehabilitation Author I.ty
FELDA       -  Federal Land Development Authority
ffb         -  Fresh Fruit Bunches of Oil Palm
GOM         -  Government of Malaysia
LITS        -  Low-Intensity Tapping Systems
MAMPU       -  Malaysian Administration Modernization Planning Unit
MARDEC      -  Malaysian Rubber Development Corporation
MIS         -  Management Information System
MRELB       -  Malaysian Rubber Exchange and Licensing Board
NARSCO      -  National Rubber Smallholders Cooperative
PK          -  Palm Kernel
PORIM       -  Palm Oil Research Institute of Malaysia
PORLA       -  Palm Oil Registration and Licensing Authority
RISDA       -  Rubber Industry Smallholders Development Authority
RRIM        -  Rubber Research Institute of Malaysia
GOVERNMENT OF MALAYSIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
MALAYSA
IACOND RUBBKR INDUSTRY SMpLLNOLDERS DEVELOPMENT AUTEORITY IRISDA) PROJECT
Loan and Proiect summary
Borrow rs              Malaysia
BeneficLary            RISDA
Loan Axmounts          US$70.0 Million
Termss tRepayable in 15 years, including five years of grace at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Onlendina Terms:       Prom %.he Borrower to RISDA:  US$69.0 million equivalent
as grants and USS1.0 million equivalent onlent at 40 p.a.
interest rate, repayable in 25 years, including a 10-year
interest-free grace period.
Proiect Obiectlj:,   The project would build on the overall positive results
of RISDA I Project (Ln. 3139-MA) and continue to puraue
the objectives of increasing the productivity and
efficiency of the rubber smallholder subsector, improving
RISDA's institutional effectiveness, and helping develop
human resources and the private sector in rural areas.
Proiect Description:  The  three-year  project   (1994-96)   would  supports
(1) replanting of 90,000 ha of old rubber; maintenance
during immaturity of this area and an additional 200,000
ha replanted prior to the project; and rehabilitation of
5,000 ha; (ii) upgrading and maintenance of about 1000 km
of  agricultural  access  roads;  (iii) extension  and
smallholder training; (iv) applied research by RRIM; (v)
mini-estate development and improvement, mainly through
the introduction of low-intensity tapping systems (LITS);
(vi) strengthening and restructuring of cooperatives; and
(vii)  institutional  strengthening  through  further
development  of  computerized  MIS;  human  resource
development; and improved monitoring and evaluation.
Benefits and Risks:   The project would increase the productivity and incomes
of about 150,000 rubber smallholders who constitute
Malaysia's biggest poverty group. The project would also
help raise export earnings, primarily from rubber;
broaden popular participation and help develop the rural
private sector through strengthening of cooperatives;
improve public sector management by increasing RISDA's
operational efficLency; and enhance income-earning
opportunities of women smallholders and workers through
trai:4ing. The main project risk relates to effective
introduction of LITS. This labor-saving technology is
critical to the long-term viability of the rubber
subsector in Malaysia but is new to RISDA and the
smallholders.    Its  successful  introduction  would,
therefore,   require   closely-supervised   and   phased
implementation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcia duties Its contents rosy not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- il -
Estimated Cost
Local      Forgn          TotJ
--------- (U8$ mLllion)    -
Replanting and Maintenance                     150.0        80.8         230.8
Rehabilitation                                   2.3         1.2           3.5
Infrastructure Dev. and Maintenance              4.0         1.9           S.9
Extension and Smallholder Training               5.3         0.6           5.9
Applied Research (RRIM)                          0.8         0.2           1.0
Mini-ENtate Development & Improvement            3.0         0.5           3.5
Strengthening of Cooperatives                    0.5          -            0.5
Computerized MIS                                 0.3         1.0           1.3
Human Resource Development                       0.2         0.2           0.4
Monitoring and Evaluation                        0.1          -            0.1
DBae Costs                               166.5         86.4         252.9
Physical Contingencies                           -           0.1           0.1
Price Contingencies                              0.1         0.1           0.2
Total Proiect Costs 1166,                              8.           253.2
rinancina Plan
ZERD                                            -           70.0          70.0
Government of Malaysia                          84.6        16.6         101.2
Rubber Smallholders VJ                          82.0          -           82.0
Total                                    166.6         86.6        2532
Estimated Disbursements
BankY                       1994       l99S       1
…$-------------(US$ million)…
Annual                      0.3        11.7       21.0      32.0       5.0
Cumulatlve                  0.3        12.0       33.0      65.0      70.0
Sconomic Rate of Returns        14%
Poverty Cateoorvs               The project belongs to the Program of Targeted
Interventions since the incidence of poverty
among  the  project  beneficiaries  (42%)  is
substantially higher than the poverty incidence
in all of peninsular Malaysia (14%).
Ma2    1BRD 25169
J/ Including taxes and duties of US$O.4 million equivalent.
VJ Through replanting cess payments.



- iii -
MALAYSIA
SECOND RIJB2ER INDUSTRY MM.LtHOLDERS DEYELOPMENT
AUTHORITY (RISDA) PROJECT
Table of Contents
race No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUIMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
I.    SECTORAL CONTEXT ..        .  . .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .1
Agriculture in the Malaysian Economy  . . . . . . . . . . .     1
The Tree Crop Sector  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     1
Bank Sector Experience and Strategy  .  .  .  ..      . . . .   3
Rubber Smallholder Subsector   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
II.    RUBBER INDUSTRY SMALLHOLDERS DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (RISDA)      5
RISDA's Mandate and Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . . .     5
Financing    .  .  . .   .  .  . .   *.  *.  *. . * . 9  *  .. ...... .   .  .  .  6
Replanting Grant   .....   ...........  ...... .                7
Syvtems of Replanting ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ............  .  8
Replanting Performance   . .....   ......... ...  .             9
Performance of Bank-Financed RISDA operations . . . . . . .     10
Lessons Learned from RISnA I Project  . . . . . . . . . . .     10
III.   THE PROJECT  . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . .     10
Project Origin   .  *.  . .  .       . . ......  .   .  *       10
Rationale for Bank Involvement   ..    . . . . . . . .  . .9    10
Project Objectives   .  . . ....   .  . . ..   . . ....         11
Detailed Project Description   . . . . . . . . . .  . . . .     11
Project Costs .  .  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . .        18
Financing .. .       .  . . . .   *         . . .     . .       19
Procurement .9. .*.  ** . .  .  .  .  .  . .      . . . . . . . .     . .  20
Disbursement   . . . . ..*  . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . .  21
This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission to Malaysia
in June 1993. The mission comprised Messrs. S. Z. Husain (Economist),
K. Templeton (Tree Crops Specialist), P. Boyer (Tree Crops Specialist),
C. Maguire (Training specialist), V. Raswant (Consultant -- Financial Analyst)
and J. M. Eschbach (Consultant -- Tree Crops Specialist). Ms. Yun Sun
provided the statistical analysis for the report. Peer reviewers were Messrs.
D. Meadows (Tree Crops Specialist), A. Byrne (Financial Analyst) and C. Rees
(Ecologist). Mr. C. Madavo (Director, EA1) and Ms. Pamela Cox (Chief, EAIA")
also endorsed the project. Nmes. Brenda Phillips and Sandra Ginyard provided
secretarial support.



- iv -
IV.   PROJECT ImpLEMNTATION                       ..................  22
Status of Preparation and Implementation Arrangements  . . .   22
Project Coordination and organization . .  . . . . . . . .     22
Accounts and Audit  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    23
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting  . . . . . . .    .       23
V.    AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION. MARKETING AND PRICES . . . . . . .     24
Crop Production, Processing and Marketing . . . . . . . . .    24
International and Domestic Market Prospects . . . . . . . .    24
Commodity Prices                      ..                       25
VI.   PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  . . . . . . . . . . . .     25
Benefits  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  25
Financial Analysis               .  ..                         26
Economic AnaLysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    26
Environmental Effects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    27
Risks          .        ........... . . . . . .  28
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION . ....   . . . . .   .   28
TEXT TABLES
Table 3.1  Project Cost Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    19
Table 3.2  Procurement Arrangements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    21
Table 6.1  Farm Income  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  . . . . .   26
ANNEXES
1.    RISDA's Organization Chart  ..  . . . . .  .  .   .  ... .   .  31
2.    RISDA's Financial Condition. .                    . . . . ...    33
3.    Tax/Subsidy Implications of Replanting
Cess/Grants and Export Duties . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   42
4.    RISDA's Replanting Program:  Achievements and Targets  . .      47
5.    Breakdown of Grant Payment by Crop .  . . . . . . . . . . .     57



PAaN N2o
6.    Processing Steps for RISDA's Field Program  . . .  . . . .     58
6.1  Flow Chart of Processing Steps for Replanting . . . . . .     58
6.2  Flow Chart of Rehabilitation Process    . . . . . . . . .     S9
7.    Rubber Nursery Improvement  ......... . ....... .. .  .   .    60
8.    CloneChoiceandLITS  .................. .                       73
9.    Extension lntensification Program . . . . .   . . . . o .      76
10.   RRIM Research Component  ............         . ...            81
11.   Introduction of Low-Intensity Rubber
Tapping Systems (LITS)  . . . . . . .   .84
12.   RISDA's Mini-Estates in Production: Production and
Financial Aspects                                          90
13.   Strengthening/Rationalisation of Cooperatives  . . . . . .     106
14.   Computerization of RISDA's HIS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    123
15.   Human Resource Development Conmponent      . . . ..135
16.   Project Cost Tables . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      152
17.   Financing Plan, Bank Loan Disbursement Categories and
Disbursement Schedule                                      154
18.   Supervision Plan: Bank Supervision Mission Schedule  . .       157
19.    CropYieldProfiles ...........                                 158
20.   Comnodity Prices  . . . . . . . . .  . * . .    *...  . .    *..  160
20.1 Derivaticn of Rubb-r Economic Farmgate Prices . . . . . .     160
20.2 Derivation of Oil Palm Economic Farmgate Prices . . . . . .   161
21.   Economic Costs and Benefits . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . .   .  162
22.    Supporting Documents Available in Project File  . . . . .   .  163
M^P IBRD 25169



MALAYSIA
SECOND RUBBER INDUSTRY SMALLHOLDERS DFIVELOPMENT
AUTHORITY (RISDA) PROJECT
I. SECTORAL CONTEXT
4 riculture in the MalayRian EconomV
1.1       Malaysia's agricultural sector continues to play a key role in the
economy, although its relative importance is naturally declining as the country
proceeds towards industrialization. In 1992, agriculture's share of GDP was 152,
down from 24% in 1980. However, the sector still employs 25S of the workforce
and contributes 102 to direct export income, while also providing raw materials
to other export industries. Malaysia's long-run agricultural growth rate has
been high by international standards. During the 1960s and most of the 1970s,
the growth in sectoral output at cons ;ant prices averaged 72. This declined to
a lower, but still very respectable, 52 during the 1980s as expansion of the land
frontier slowed.   The sector (including forestry and fisheries) has slowed
further in the early 19909, growing rc about 2.62 in 1992.
1.2       About one-third of Peninsular Malaysia and 52 of East Malaysia (5
million ha' are under cultivation, with the remaining area under forest or scrub
regrowth. Abc_. 862 of the cultivated area is planted with tree crops, mainly
rubber and oil palm. About 1.8 m ha were estimated to be under rubber in 1992.
Rubber's share of cropped area has thus declined from 66Z in 1960 to about 362
in 1992.  Oil palm has overtaken rubber as the largest crop because of its
greater profitability in the last two decades and relative ease of management
(though its price prospects are now much less attractive than for rubber). Cocoa
has also expanded rapidly from only 2,000 ha in 1960 to 370,000 ha in 1992. Most
of the balance of the area under cultivation is devoted to rice, Malaysia's main
food crop. Food production jumped as a result of the spread of irrigation and
high yield varieties of rice during the 1970s, but has since stabilized.
1.3       The 1990 Household Expenditure Survey estimates the number employed
in agriculture to be about 1.84 million. Of the approximately 850,000 households
involved, the largest number are rubber smallholders (155,000), followed by paddy
farmers (116,000), oil palm growers (1009000) and estate workers (81,000), vith
the rest divided among mixed farming and fishing. There &re also large numbers
of undocumented immigrant laborers, particularly in the tree crops estate sector.
The Tree Crop Sector
1.4       Present Performance.  Malaysia's climate and soil conditions provide
a strong natural comparative advantage for tree crops. The country has long been
the world's largest producer and exporter of oil palm, and, until recently, of
rubber, and is one of the major producers of cocoa. In 1992, Malaysia provided
1.22 million tons of the world output of 5.2 million tons of rubber and 6.4
million tons of the total world output of 12.5 million tons of palm oil.
Malaysia remains the industry leader for palm oil in terms of area, yields,
production, technology and downstream processing. For rubber, this position has



changed over the past decade, as decreasing wcorld prices and increasing real
labor costs have begun to erode relative profitability. Although Malaysian
rubber production has been on a gradual long-term decline, high prices in some
years evoke a strong output and a resurgence of interest in replanting. Par from
being a sunset industry, indications are that a firming of long run prices,
improvements in production and processing technology, and maintenance of high ant
consistent quality will ensure that Malaysia remains a major force in the world
rubber market.
1.5       Malaysiant tree crop yields are high, both on total planted and mature
areas. Overall, yield of rubber is about 760 kg/ha compared with 400-500 kg/ha
for Malaysia's two neighbors. By planted areas, the overall yield of oil palm
fresh fruit bunches (ffb) averages 18 tons/ha, compared with 9.5 tons/ha for
Indonesia and 11.9 tons/ha for Thailand. However, these average figures do not
reflect the higher yields of mature plantings: in Malaysia, average yields for
mature estate oil palm are about 25 tons ffb/ha, for estate rubber about 1,400
kgiha,  and  for smallholder rubber about  1,000 kg/ha.   Malaysia's yield
superiority reflects the good institutional performance of research, extension
and marketing based on individual comodity specialization.
1.6       Tree Crop Strateat.   Government sector policy aims to ensure the
supply of food and agricultural commodities for industry and export, while
eradicating rural poverty. The tree crop subsector is seen as the principal
vehicle for achieving the non-food objectives. The development strategy has been
to provide high quality support services, replanting programs and settlement
schemes, as well as to set and regulate product quality standards. The results
of strong Government support to institutions serving the tree crop sector have
been recognized internationally. Of note is the Rubber Research Institute of
Malaysia (RRIMh, which has a long history as a world leader in advancing rubber
production technology. The Rubber Industry Smallholders Development Authority
(RISDA), through a replanting program of 30,000-40,000 ha per annum, has ensured
the availability of advanced clones in the smallholder subsector. The Federal
Land Development Authority (FELDA) has resettled over 100,000 smallholder
families in estate-type schemes planted to rubber, oil palm and other crops to
close the gap between smallholder and estate performance levels. As the supply
of new land for FELDA schemes has diminished, Government policy has emphasized
intensive rehabilitation of existing smallholdings through a group development
approach by the Federal Land Consolidation and Rehabilitation Authority (FELCRA),
which had developed some 240,300 ha (of tree crops) by the end of 1990. The
Second Outline Perspective Plan (1991-2000) confirms that the policy emphasis for
the future will continue to be on consolidation and rehabilitation of existing
smallholdings, rather than on the settlement of new lands.
1.7       Diversification.  Both the private and public sectors are actively
involved  in  crop  and  product  diversification.    Rubber  is  increasingly
manufactured into final products before export. Little palm oil is now exported
in crude form, and even refined oil is increasingly exported as manufactured
products. Government agencies are also involved in the expansion of pepper,
pineapple, fruitw and vegetables among smallholders, as well as the increase of
small animal production. Strong private sector investment has resulted in high
growth rates for poultry, pork, mutton and beef. The Malaysian Agricultural
Research and Development Institute (MARDI) concentrates on widening the rauge of



- 3 -
crops adapted to the local environment and on Improving crop processing
technology.
Bank Sector Exoerience and Stlategy
1.8       The Bank has consistently supported the Government's growth and income
objectives and strategies in the agricultural sector in Malaysia.   For the
future, the Bank will continue to assist smallholder programs aimed at
eliminating pockets of poverty and productivity improvements to help maintain
Malaysia's international competitiveness.   This assistance will emphasize
institutional deve3opment and support for the devolution of management activities
to farmer beneficiaries, and the privatization of activities which no longer need
to be carried out by the public sector
1.9       To date, the Bank has made 33 loans for agriculture and rural
development, amounting to US$1,050.6 million, or nearly 40X of total lending to
Malaysia. Within the food crop sector, the most successful was the MUDA I
Irrigation Project (Ln. 434-MA) which led to a doubling of croppinj intensity,
increased yields and strong institutional development.  Within the treecrop
sector, seven loans have been made to PELDA to assist implementation of its land
settlement schemes.   Six of these have been completed,  and five Project
Performance Audit Reports (PPARS) and an Impact Evaluation Report (IER) by the
Operations Evaluation Department (OED) concluded that all these FELDA projects
were quite successful in meeting their objectives.   Achievements in land
development, crop yields, income and economic returns were satisfactory. The
Bank has also made four loans for FELCRA-led development, of which three achieved
or exceeded targets and were considered successful and sustainable, and the
fourth is under implementation. The Bank made one loan to RISDA under the RISDA
Project (Ln. 3139-MA), which was satisfactorily completed in 1992 (para. 2.17).
Rubber Smallholder Sub-sector
1.10      Characteristics.  Rubber production in Malaysia grew rapidly in the
sixties and through the mid-seventies. Thereafter, from 1977 to 1985, both
production and exports stagnated at about 1.5 million tons annually. However,
because of the upturn in world rubber prices, Malaysia's rubber production
increased to 1.58 and 1.65 million tons in 1987 and 1988, respectively. Since
then the production has declined and was about 1.22 million tons in 1992. Over
the past 25 years, there has been a significant change in the relative importance
of the large private rubber estate sector vis-a-vis rubber smallholders. The
estates' contribution to national Tubber production fell from about 60Z in 1965
to about 292 in 1992, while the contribution of the rubber smallholder sector
increased from 40S to about 71X over the same period.
1.11      The rubber smallholder sector is defined to include all holdings up
to 40 ha. However, about 612 of smallholders applying to RISDA for replanting
grants have farms of less thsn 2 ha, with the majority having holdings of less
than 1.2 ha, and own 34X of total land devoted to smallholder rubber; 29% have
farms betweea 2 and 4 ha and own 372 of total land; and only 101 have farms over
4 ha and own 29X of total land. The total number of smallholder households which
derive their living primarily from rubber is 155,000 (para. 1.3), thus makinc
rubber .mallholders the largest group in agriculture. They are also the biggest



poverty group in the country, accounting for about one-third of the rural poor.
The total area under mmallholder rubber in 1992 was about 1.2 million ha in
peninsular Malaysia and about 0.3 million ha in Sabah and Sarawak. The majority
of rubber smallholders operate their own farms; however, part-time, seasonal of f-
farm jobs and sharecropping are common.
1.12      Institultonal Framework.  The Ministry of Primary Industries is the
main Federal policy-making body for rubber, oil palm, cocoa and some other
exported primary commodities.   It also controls technical and regulatory
institutions such as the Malaysian Rubber Researeh and Development Board (M BDS),
Rubber Research Institute of Malaysia (RRIM), Malaysian Rubber Exchange and
Licensing Board (MRELB), Palm Oil Research Institute of Malaysia (PORIM) and Palm
Oil Registration and Licensing Authority (PORL).   However,  the principal
implementing institutions in the primary commodities sector viz. RISDA, PELDA
and FELCRA are under the Ministry of Rural Development (MRD).
1.13      nlIM.   The BRIM, established  in 1975, is the largesi research
institute in the world devoted to a single crop. The RRIM conducts research ani
development on all aspects of natural rubber cultivation, production, processing
and product manufacturing. In more recent years, it has given special attention
to adaptive agricultural research for the rubber smallholder sector. It has a
staff of about 190 research officers and 1,780 support staff, and comprises 17
research, development snd advisory divisions, two experiment stations in Selangor
and Johore with a total area of 3,041 ha, and a field station in Pahang of 1,039
ha run as a commercial rubber mini-estate. Funding for the RRIM is provided by
a research cess on rubber exports which currently accounts for about 50Z of total
budgetary requirements of k$50 million, the shortfall being met by an annual
allocation from the Government. With the recent decline In Malaysian rubber
production and exports, and the consequent decline in research cess collections,
the RRIM is facing financial problems. The RRIM is represented on the RISDA
Board of Directors and takes a lead role in RISDA's Transfer of Technology
Committee,p which reviews and selects promising innovative technology for adoption
by small farmers or group farming systems and arranges for its testing and
demonstration by RISDA under RRIM guidance.
1.14      Future Prosnects. Given the present and projected relative prices of
rubber and palm oil, the rate of conversion from rubber to oil palm in the estate
sector may be slowee. Rubber is generally the crop choice for areas of broken
terrain and less fertile soils, and, therefore, is the most appropriate crop for
replanting in the northern areas of the Peninsula. It also has the advantages
of familiarity for many smallholders and less price volatility than palm oil.
Finally, rubber is also more suitable for smallholder marketing than is oil palm,
which is a plantation-type crop requiring nearby processing facilities.
Malaysiats comparative advantage in rubber ia expected to continue: costs of
production are estimated at US$700-750/ton (for RSS 1), compared to the average
1992 world price of US$1,OOO/ton and projected year 2000 and 2005 prices of
US$1,231 and 1,220/ton, respectively, in 1993 constant dollars. Labor costs,
which account for 60-70X of rubber production costs (compared with about 301 of
crude palm oil production costs), would be the major issue for rubber in Malaysia
over time.   To avoid the possibility that real wage increases may erode
Malaysia's competitive edge in rubber in the foreseeable future, utmost emphasis
has to be placed on capturing potentially important cost reductions which can be



- 5 -
realised (e.g. through the adoption of low-intensity tapping systems with
stimulation). Government strategy for the rubber subsector, particularly the
smallholder subsector served by RISDA, now fully supports this efficiency thrust.
11. RUBBER INDUSTRY SMALHLOLDERS DEVELOPME.  AUTHORITY (RISDA)
RISDA'S Mandate and Ormanization
2.1       Concerned  about  the  relatively  large  number  of  poor  rubber
smallholders, the Government initiated efforts to improve their socioeconomic
status by establishing the Rubber Industry Replanting Board (RlB) in 1952. RIRB
assisted rubber producers to replant their low yielding and debilitated trees
with higher yielding materials, and through 1972, about 600,000 ha of old rubber
had been replanted. Efforts to alleviate poverty among rubber smallholders were
intensified by the establishment of RISDA in 1972, which took over the duties sad
functions of RIRB beginning January 1, 1973.
2.2       RISDA's mandate is exceptionally broad and it hae undertaken a wide
range of activities, which inter alia, have included developmental activities
(assistance   for  replanting,   development   of  mini-estates,   extension,
infrastructure construction, provision of smallholder credit and admiuistration
of input supply schemes); commercial activities (marketing of rubber, rubber
processing, and product factories, rubber smokehouses, palm oil processing, and
refining mills, planting material nurseries, and oil palm and rubber production
on estates); and social activities (cooperative development, scholarships for
smallholders' children, nursery schools, hostels, education loans, insurance
schemes, etc.). The organizational structure to handle these diverse tasks is
complex, including not only RISDA itself, but also subsidiaries and cooperatives.
Under the RISDA I Project (Ln. 3139-MA), RISDA'. commercial activities were hived
off to subsidiaries, its developmental and social activities narrowed down and
focussed on rubber and rubber-related activities, and its cradit activities
stopped (except for mini-estate loans).
2.3       Head Office and Field Ortanization and Staffina.  Management of RISDA
is vested in a Board of Directors appointed by the Minister of Rural Development.
The Director General (DC) reports to the Board and has the overall responsibility
for implementing policy and for the day-to-day administration. He is supported
by two Deputy Director Generals (DDGS) for Operations and Planning and Corporate
Services, and 11 State Directors (Annex 1). The responsibility for planning,
monitoring, and supervision of RISDA's field programs rests with the State
Directors (SDs). Under the RISDA Project, implementation responsibility was
transferred to the District Offices, which became Responsibility Centers
(currently 60 in number). District Officers reporting to the State Directors are
responsible for coordination of field activities through Station Officers, each
of whom supervises on average seven to eight Extension Officers. There is thus
a four-tier field structure involving 11 State Offices, 60 District Offices, 179
Stations (or one District Office supervising every two Stations), and 1,300
extension staff. As of June 1993, RISDA's total staff strength stood at 4,865,
of which 677 (14%) were located in the Head Office and the balance 4,086 in the
field and 102 in the subsidiaries.



2.4       Subsidiaries.  RISDA has three subsidiaries, the most important being
Estet Pekebun KRcil Sdn Bhd (ESPEK). ESPEK is a management company, managing
plantations and planting material production on RISDA's behalf. The plantations
generate about M$40 million in profits annually.
2.5      Co"oeratives.    Having  initiated  64  smallholder  District  level
cooperatives, RISDA maintains very close operational linkages with the apex body
to the cooperatives - the National Rubber Smallholders Cooperative (NARSCO),
which reports to the Department of Cooperatives under the Ministry of Land and
Cooperative Development. NARSCO, though technically not a subsidiary of RISDA,
is very closely aligned with it: RISDA is a shareholder of NARSCO; the Director
General of RISDA is the Chairman of NARSCO's Board of Directors; and the Deputy
Director General, Planning and Corporate Services, of RISDA is NARSCO's Managing
Director. NARSCO's activities are diverse. While NARSCO is engaged in input
supply and marketing, its subsidiaries are engaged in real estate development,
insurance and travel, and rubber glove manufacturing. RISDA's rubber purchasing
activities and operation of rubber smokehouses were transferred to NARSCO in
1990.
Financing
2.6       RISDA's sources of funds include a rubber replanting cess, accounting
for about 50% of all replanting expenditures, and direct government budgetary
allocations. The cess of M$99/ton (and also a research cess of M$38.50/ton) is
levied on all rubber exports. In 1992, replanting cess collections were about
M$89 million. Of these, about M$20 million were to be refunded to the estate
sector, leaving about N$70 million for replanting by smallholders. Government
grants covered the remaining 50% of replanting grants and the full cost of
RISDA's agricultural inputs program, rehabilitation, smallholder development
center, infrastructure development, extension, vehicles and equipment and RISDA's
administrative costs. Government loans to RISDA, at 4% p.a. interest for 25
years including a 10-year interest-free grace period, cover supplementary
mini-estate development costs and mini-estate housing schemes.   Government
budgetary allocation for RISDA's development program was about M$162 million in
1993 (excluding expected cess collection) and for the operating budget about M$80
million. RISDA's financial condition is discussed in detail at Annex 2 and the
financing of RISDA's operating budget in para. 3.25.
2.7       Since the present value of the replanting cess paid over the
productive life of trees exceeds the present value of the replanting grant (Annex
3), theoretically there should be no need for Government contributions and ;-he
cess fund should be self-financing. However, the cess fund was established in
1952 when significant rubber areas already needed replanting, although no cess
had previously been paid.  Therefore, initial funds were contributed by the
Government. By 1977, RISDA had achieved a highly liquid positions 802 more was
collected from the replanting cess than was paid to rubber producers for
replanting. But RISDA's subsequent investments in a variety of undertakings and
loans to smallholders (which were mostly not repaid) in late 1970s and early
1980s resulted in deficits which had to be covered by Treasury subventions. At
about the same time, the Government decided to increase the replanting rate to
eliminate the backlog of areas never replanted, and this also increased the
extent of RISDA's operating deficit. The annual replanting rate increased from



- 7 -
an average 20,000 ha in the late 19709 to about I1,000 ha over 1981-88 and
further to 40,000 ha p.a. over 1990-92.
2.8       As of end-1992, there were about 355,000 ha of registered smallholder
rubber which had never been replanted. In addition, 255,000 ha were ready for
second and third-round replanting. An acceleration of the replanting rate to
about 40,000 ha p.a., with provision for up to 30,000 ha p.a. for first-round
replanting and the balance for second and third-round replanting, should enable
the backlog of never replanted areas, for which the owners may still maintain an
interest in rubber production, to be cleared by year 2009 (Annex 4).  However,
since rubber exports are projected to grow to only about 1.5 million tons by year
2000 (compared with 1.1 million tons in 1991) and assuming that the replanting
cess rate remains at its present level, the replanting cess collections would be
inadequate to cover 40,000 ha p.a., or even the lower 30,000 ha p.a. assumed for
the RISDA II Project (para. 3.4(a)).  The current replanting program would,
therefore, necessitate continued Government contributions early into the next
century.
Reglantina Grant
2.9       The system of replanting grants, funded by a replanting cess levied
on all exported rubber (para. 2.6), was established to ensure replanting of old
and low yielding rubber and thereby the continual rejuvenation of the industry.
Smallholder areas are eligible for the grant at a frequency of not less than 20
years, provided they are registered as rubber growing areas. The grant may be
utilized for replanting old rubber, either with rubber or any of 18 other crops
(Annex 5), among which oil palm is the most popular alternative. As they no
longer pay cesses, farmers choosing crops other than rubber lose the r_..ght to
future replanting grants and RISDA services three to four years after planting
vhen grant payments for those crops are completed.
2.10      The grant is paid in installments of both cash and kind over the
development period of the crop (7-8 years for rubber, 4 years for oil palm and
4-5 years for other crops). The grant finances the average estimated costs of
the standard agricultural inputs over the immature period of the crop and A part
of the imputed labor costs. Currently the value of the grant for replantb up to
4 ha i8 M$6,l78/ha for rubber and M$4,448/ha for oil palm and other crops,
reflecting the considerably shorter imaturity period of the latter. Details are
given at Annex 5. There are 17 defined processing steps prior to the first grant
payment.   A flow chart is given at Annex 6.   Installment payments depend
initially on the stage reached in land preparation and planting. and later on the
stage of growth of the crop, each stage being subject to coniLrmation by RISDA
field inspectors and their report of a satisfactory standard of field conditions,
particularly in respect to the maintenance of the crop.
2.11      The replanting cess/grants system has worked well in Malaysia over the
years compared to other countries, which have relied on alternative approaches
to financing of replanting programs from general Government revenues or by
credit. It has played a significant role in ensuring replanting of large areas
of old rubber (para. 2.14), in improving smallholder productivity (para. 2.15)
and in alleviating poverty in the smallholder sector. A significant feature of
the Malaysian system is the choice available to farmers to replant old rubber



- 8 -
with any of the 19 eligible crops, subject to agro-climatic suitability. The
resulting crop mix has, therefore, been responsive to market signals (para. 2.14
and Annex 4). Another important point to note is that the system results in full
cost recovery over the productive life of trees (about 25 years) since the
present value of payments of replanting cess and rubber export duties exceeds the
present value of the replanting "grant" (Annex 3).
Systems of Replantina
2.12      RISDA's smallholder replanting program for old and low yielding rubber
is implemented through several different systems of land development, which are
distinguished by the degree of RISDA's involvement  in implementation and
management at the development and production stages: (a) individual replanting;
(b) simultaneous replanting; (c) group replanting; and (d) mini-estates.
Individual reylanting was the only system operating until 1973, but has accounted
for about 502 of RISDA's annual replanting in recent years. Individual owners
approved by RUSDA for a replanting grant take full responsibility for
implementation of their replanting.   The simultaneous revlanting system was
introduced in 1986 and was about 152 of total RISDA replantings in 1992. The
system was developed by RISDA to increase the efficiency of replanting operations
through better programming of RISDA field staff.   Simultaneous replanting
involves organizing farmers on scattered holdings into groups which follow the
same replanting schedule under RISDA guidance. RISDA arranges the contracting
of all land preparation and the schedules and implementation of subsequent works
covering the initial six months of maintenance after planting, as well as the
delivery of inputs, as an integrated operation for all participating farmers in
the scheme, thereby achieving benefits of scale for them. Once the planting
contract has been completed, including the first six months of field maintenance
after planting, the group participants assume responsibility for all further
maintenance and other work in their holdings throughout the crop immaturity
period. Group renlantina was the first type of group operation introduced (in
1973) by RISDA into the smallholder sector. This system accounted for about 352
of total replantings in 1992.  This replanting is by a group of farmers on
contiguous land of at least 20 ha with RISDA taking responsibility for
implementation of the first two years of land development through contractual
arrangements on behalf of farmers. (For replanting by FELDA and FELCRA, which
is included in the group replanting category, RISDA only makes the grants
available and has no implementation role). Afterwards, RISDA withdraws from
further direct management of the field works and encourages members to continue
functioning as a group. RISDA, however, closely supervises the standards and
timing of work for the remainder of the immaturity period. Like simultaneous
replanting, this system facilitates more concentrated RISDA extension services.
2.13      Mini-estates.  Mini-estates, the most organized of the RISDA group
farming systems, were developed to bring the benefits of estate-type technology
and management to smallholders through the formation of large centrally-managed
units of production. Mini-estates were initiated by RISDA in 1979, and some 391
units with an area of about 41,800 ha (33,000 ha of rubber and 8,800 ha of oil
palm) had been developed through 1992.  Of these, 269 (30,240 ha) were in
production. In this system, farmers agree to combine, for operational purposes,
contiguous or near contiguous lots of land, scheduled for replanting, into a
single and integrated estate unit under direct RISDA management. The minimum



- 9 -
size of estate at formation is 20 ha - the average size of existing mini-estates
is about 107 ha. RISDA organizes and assures the operation of each mini-estate
entity through the transfer in trust of the individual land titles to RISDA
(title caveats) for the period of land development and for such further period
as necessary for recovery of development expenditures over and above the
replanting grant entitlement of the participants. Unlike participants of other
replanting systems, mini-estate participants are given loans by RISDA for
supplementary development costs to cover terracing, drainage, development of
vacant pocket areas, internal roads and perimeter fencing. Recognizing some of
the problems in mini-estate development and operation (para. 2.15), RISDA decided
in February 1989 that its main emphasis will be on group and simultaneous
replanting and only in areas where these replanting systems are not feasible will
the mini-estate approach be adopted. As a result, no new mini-estates have been
developed over the last two years. Improvement of the viability of existing
mini-estates would be a major thrust of the project (para. 3.14).
Rellantina Performance
2.14      Since the inception of the cess-funded rubber replanting program in
1952, some 1.16 million ha of old smallholder rubber have been replanted (Annex
4), of which about 934,000 ha was first time replanting, representing about 70S
of the total registered smallholder rubber aroa in the Peninsula. Most of the
balance is second round replanting. The annual replanting rate has varied from
10,000 ha to 46,000 ha, subject mainly to rubber price fluctuations. Rubber has
accounted for about 77% of all replantings since the inception of the program
compared to about 121 for oil palm and 11% for other crops, mostly fruits
(non-citrus). Annual proportions have varied considerably in response to market
signals (Annex 4).
2.15      Replanting of old low-yielding rubber with improved clones and better
production technology has helped raise the average yields in the smallholder
sector (in peninsular Malaysia) to about 1,000 kglha in 1992, compared to the
400-500 kg/ha for unimproved smallholder rubber.   However, there is little
systematic data on the relative efficiency of RISDA's various replanting systems.
Available information about mini-estates suggests that their performance has been
rather mixed. Some mini-estates show yield averages for both rubber and oil palm
much below expectations. On the other hand, there are individual mini-estates
with good yield performance more in line with estate-organized production.
Although a number of possible factors related to management could help explain
the cases of unsatisfactory mini-estates, the most serious problem is that of
incomplete and protracted establisbment of the crop at planting, leading to a low
percentage of producing trees in the early production years. The development
cost of mini-estates is high, averaging M$10,000/ha for rubber and M$7,000/ha for
oil palm for those rubber and oil palm mini-estates which entered into production
by the end of 1992. These costs are significantly above those estimated for the
other replanting systems and above replanting grants of M$6,178/ha for rubber and
M$4,448/ha for oil palm. High costs are partly the result of intensive inputs
including terracing, fencing and roads, and partly that of above average planting
losses requiring repeated supply plantings. In view of the above factors, RISDA
decided to de-emphasize mini-estates (para. 2.13).



- 10 -
Performance of Bank-Financed RISDA Ooerationc
2.16      In addition to the free-standing RISDA Project (Ln. 3139-NA), the Bank
has financed RISDA components under four area agricultural development projects
coordinated by other Government agencies (starting from 1980 and expected to
continue through 1994): Kelantan Land Schemes Rehabilitation (Ln. 1899-MA),
Malacca Agricultural Development (Ln. 2A47-MA), Kedah Valley Agricultural
Development (Ln. 2220-MA) and Second Western Johor Agricultural Development (Ln.
2740-MA). Project completion reports (PCRs) have been issued for three of the
above projects with RISDA components: Kelantan, Malacca and Kedah Valley. The
PCRs point to satisfactory performance of RISDA.
Lessons Learned rrom RISDA I ztoiect
2.17      The RISDA I project, for which a Bank loan of US$71 million was
approved on December 12, 1989, was satisfactorily completed in December 1992.
The replanting target of about 40,000 ha p.a. was met. Marketing and processing
activities of RISDA were divested and institutional development initiated. A
significant achievement of the project with respect to the women-in-development
(WID) component was the development of a gender-specific database and an almost
doubling of the number of women smallholders trained from about 19% of the total
trainees in the pre-project year (1989) to about 32% in 1992. The only project
component which could not be implemented successfully was that for transforming
the 64 district cooperatives formed by RISDA into self-financing entities. Only
36 cooperatives had become self-financing by end 1992. The economic rate of
return of the project is provisionally estimated at about 12%. The following
important lessons learned from the project have been incorporated in the design
of the Phase II project:   (a) development of cooperatives is a complicated
process and needs more focussed attention; and (b) RISDA needs more intensive
support for the improvement of mini-estate management and the development of the
computerized MIS.
TII. THE PROJECT
Proiect Oriain
3.1       The Government and the Bank began discussions on the Phase II project
in 1992, the last year of the RISDA I Project (Ln. 3139-MA). RISDA prepared a
draft project proposal which was briefly reviewed by a Bank mission in May 1992.
The first Bank preparation mission visited Malaysia in September/October 1992.
Appraisal took place in June 1993.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.2       The project would be consistent with the Bank's agricultural sector
lending strategy for Malaysia which emphasizes reduction in rural poverty by
raising smallholder productivity and incomes, institutional improvements,
development of human resources and the private sector in rural areas, nd
progressive privatization of schemes and activities handled by agricultural
parastatals.   There is a need for continued Bank involvement with RISDA to
address some of the problems in the rubber smallholder subsector, including
shortage and high cost of labor, availability of high-quality planting materials,



- 11 -
development of cooperatives, and improvement of mini-estate management.  A
follow-on project can help address the above problems and continue the
institutional development process initiated under RISDA I. For the first time
since the Bank started lending for the agricultural sector in Malaysia, the Bank
can help implement a reorientation of rubber research in the country through the
proposed Rubber Research Institute of Malaysia (RRIM) component for clonal
reevaluation (para. 3.13).   Moreover, after having introduced low-intensity
rubber tappl.ng technology on FELCRA schemes (para. 3.15), the Bank is in a unique
position to widen this technological change through RISDA and benefit hundreds
of thousands of rubber smallholders in the long term.
Prolect Objectives
3.3       Building on the overall positive results of RISDA I Project (Ln. 3139-
MA), the Phase II project would continue to pursue the objectives of increasing
the productivity and efficiency of the rubber smallholder subsector, improving
RISDA's institutional effectiveness, and helping develop human resources and the
private sector in rural areas.
Detailed Proiect DescriDtion
3.4       The three-year project (1994-1996) would cover the entire peninsular
Malaysia and would have the following components:
(a)  cron development (934 of project costs):  replanting of about 90,000
ha of old rubber with rubber and other crops, and improvements in
rubber nursery operationsa maintenance during immaturity of areas to
be replanted under the project and an additional 200,000 ha replanted
prior to the project; and rehabilitation of about 5,000 ha of young
replanted areas;
(b)  infrastructure development  (2% of project costs);  upgrading and
maintenance of about 1000 km of agricultural access roads;
(c)  extension  and  smallholder  training  (2%  of  project  costs):
reorientation and strengthening of extension and smallholder training
programs, with continued emphasis on training of women smallholders
and workers;
(d)  applied  research  (0.4%  of  project  costs):    mainly  a  clonal
reevaluation by the RRIM to test the responsiveness of its various
clones to stimulation with low-intensity tapping systems (LITS);
(e)  mini-estate develot  .t and improvement (1.4% of project costs):
increased viability   mini-estates through the introduction of LITS,
transfer of management mainly to cooperatives, expanded tappers'
training, and Improvement of data base and the monitoring system for
mini-estates;
(f)  strenathenina and restructuring of RISDA cooperatives (0.2% of project
costs): implementation of a rationalization/restructuring plan for



- 12 -
cooperatives and provision of technical assistance and training for
plan implementation; and
(g)  institutional develoiment (1% of project costs)t further development
of RISDA's computerized MII8 a reoriented human resource development
program for RISDA; and support for monitoring and evaluation (M&X)
activities.
Crol Develotment
3.5       Reolantino.  The project would support replanting of about 90,000 ha
of ole rubber over the project period.   This target includes cess-financed
replantings by FELDA and FELCRA (about 15,000-18,000 ha).   This target is
considered feasible on the basis of demand for replanting from farmers as well
as RISDA's implementation capacity. Based on recent experience, replanting is
expected to be approximately 80% with rubber, 12% with oil palm and 8% with other
crops. Crop choice would continue to be the prerogative of the replanters,
except in cases where such choices are agroclimatically unsuitable, and RISDA
would recommend alternative choices in these cases. Assurances to this effect
were obtained at neaotiations. In line with current Bank policy, development
costs of any cocoa planting chosen by smallholders would not be eligible for
reimbursement. However, cocoa plantings have been virtually nil in the last two
years (Annex 4, Table 5) and are expected to remain so during the project period
due to unfavorable price prospects.
3.6       Rubber Nursery Improvement.  To ensure provision of quality planting
material to the smallholder replanters, the project would provide for the
supervision and training costs of rubber nursery improvement. The current
arrangement whereby planting material is produced on cooperative nurseries
scattered throughout the country has made it extremely difficult to ensure high
quality (quality being defined not only in terms of clonal integrity but also
vigor and uniformity of the plants ensured through culling of slower-growing and
other undesirable plants at each stage of preparation).   RISDA management
subsidiary, ESPEK, is currently responsible for the quantitative and qualitative
aspects of planting material supply but has faced problems in ensuring proper
supervision and quality control of nurseries not located on its 7 existing
central sites (approximately 60% of rubber planting material production is
currently outside the 7 central nurseries). Quality nursery production requires
high-level technical skills and management, which are more easily provided on
large production units. The project would initiate a program for rubber nursery
improvement (details are at Annex 7) including, inter alia, refresher training
courses in planting material production and management to be conducted by RRIM
for MSPEK, RISDA and cooperatives nursery staff. Training of a cadre of seed
inspectors would also be provided. The followinG agreements were obtained at
neotiations:
(a)  The rubber planting material production by RISDA or its subsidiary
ESPEK would be confined to about 15 sites. cooperatives would still
get contracts from ESPEX for planting material production but the
nurseries would be under ESPEK supervision and control. Since nursery
contracts to 28 cooperatives have already been given for the 1994
planting season in line with normal practice, the reduction in nursery



- 13 -
sites to about 15 would be implemented for the 1995 planting season,
that in, from 1994. Thereafter, the number of nursery sites would be
agreed with the Bank.
(b) To ensure the highest-quality planting material production on about
15 nursery sites, RRIM (o- another institution acceptable to the Bank)
would agree with RISDA under a contractual arrangement to carry out
an asseement of performance at each critical stage of planting
material preparation. The reports produced by the MRIM (or another
institution) after each visit to the nurseries would be sent to ESPEK
and RISDA, with copies to the Bank, Ministry of Rural Development and
any  other  interested  Government  agencies.       The  contractual
arrangements between RISDA and MRIM (or another institution) would
incorporate the guidelines shown at Annex 7.
(c) Since ESPE$ has the responsibility for planting material production,
it would have the authority to take appropriate action should the
cooperatives fail to comply with ESPEX's standards for nursery
management. ESPEK's incremental costs foL' enhanced supervision would
be met by increasing its own share of planting material production to
about 20% (cooperatives getting 80% of the contracts).
(d) Since the improved nursery arrangements, particularly more rigorous
culling of low-quality material, may lead to increased cost of
production, the cost-price relationship for rubber planting material
would be kept under review by the Government and RISDA and price
adjustments would be made, if and when required.
3.7       Clonal Composition.   The clonal composition of RISDA's replanting
program would be reoriented under the project. First, RISDA's regular replanting
program would be with Class I and II clones only, with the percentage of Class
1_ clones not more tha7a that recommended by RRIM from time to time (currently
50%). Class III clones would be recommended by RISDA for use by smallholders
only under RRIM and RISDA supervision and control, as these clones are still in
the experimental and observation stage.    Second, since the need for the
introduction of LITS (see para. 3.15 for details) as a means to overcome the
growing shortage of tappers has already been recognized by RISDA, RISDA would
reorient its replanting program beginning with the 1996 plantings and
increasingly use clones which are known to be responsive to stimulation with
LITS, as determined by MRIM and satisfactory to the Bank. Only nine clones are
at present in this category (details are at Annex 8) while further information
on clonal responses to stimulation with LITS would be generated over the next few
years through the tapping trials included in the research component (para. 3.13).
It is possible that some smallholders will choose clones which are not or not yet
known to be responsive to stimulation with LITS. In this case, RISDA would
explain to the smallholders the risk that these clones may be unhelpful to them
in case of labor shortage. RISDA would attempt to keep the use of these clones
not yet tested for responsiveness to stimulation with LITS to less than 20% of
its replanting of rubber with rubber. Aareements on the above clonal 1olicv were
obtained at neaotiationg.



- 14 -
3.8       Crol Maintenance.  The project would support crop maintenance of all
existing smallholder replant areas (excluding cocoa) on which grant installments
would be paid during the project period. Total area under maintenance would
change yearly as the earlier planted areas mature and would range from 202,280
ha in 1994 to 198,800 ha in 1996.
3.9       Rehabilitation.  The project would provide rehabilitation assistance
for failed replantings or those with unsatisfactory field conditions due to
events outside the control of farmers (e.g., natural disasters like fire, floods,
wind damage, etc.), and for which grant payments are deferred within the first
two years after planting. The cost of assisted rehabilitation may not exceed the
amount of grant paid up to the time of deferment. It is estimated that some
5,000 ha would be rehabilitated during the project period.
Infrastructure Development
3.10      The project would provide for upgrading and maintenance of minor
agricultural access roads, estimated at about 1000 km, including bridges and
drainage works, in support of the replanting program. Under the RISDA I Project,
the very low level specifications which were earlier being used for access roads
and which often resulted in the roads being unusable after a single rainy season,
were generally upgraded to those for agricultural roads (such as those
constructed by FELDA). The same specifications would be generally followed under
the RISDA It project. Agricultural access roads would be constructed to minimum
geometric standards following contour lines. Gravel pavement would be 4.2 m wide
and 15 cm thick, for an average of 630 m3 compacted material per km. The road
sub-base and gravel surface would be rolled over 3 to 4 times by passing a 6-ton
roller. Bridges would be built mostly of timber and cement pipe culverts would
also be provided where needed. 30 cm wide ditches would be cut alongside the
roads as required. As the condition of existing roads varies, the extent of
upgrading required and the costs also vary. However, average cost of upgrading
under the RISDA I project ranged from M$10,000 to 13,000/km and is expected to
remain at that level under the RISDA II project.  For reasons of construction
standards, RISDA access roads are not accepted as part of the State network and,
therefore, do not qualify for State maintenance funding. To ensure that the
access roads remain in operative condition, a specific allocation of about M$1.0
million was added to RISDA's development budget under the RISDA I project for
maintenance of roads and other infrastructure constructed by RISDA.   This
arrangement would continue under the RISDA II project.
Extension and Smallholder Trainina
3.11      The project would help reorient and intensify RISDA's extension
program  for  rubber  smallholders.    The  key  feature  of  this  extension
intensification program is that it devotes about two-thirds of the extension time
and budget to mature rubber and thus orients RISDA's extension services for the
first time towards increases in productivity of mature rubber (details are at
Annex 9). The other notable feature of the program is that for the first time
it lays down a target number of rubber farm operators (defined to include active
smallholders and/or hired tappers) in mature rubber areas to be reached every
year by RISDA's extension program. The initial target is 20,000 operators every
year. This target is based on an assessment of RISDA's current capability in the



- I5 -
field. The target will be adjusted upwards in future .5 experience with the
initial target accumulates and as field extension time and capability increase.
If the conservative target of 20,000 operators a year is met, RISDA should be
able to extend interalia TS technology to 40-50% of omallholder mature rubber
areas by the turn of the century. Acreement was obtained at neaotiations that
RISDA would reorient its extension services as described above. The extension
component would finance equipment and materials for demonstration plots and pilot
projects, and expenditures incurred in organizing field workshops, demonstrations
and meetings for smallholders.
3.12      Both formal and in-situ training programs for smallholders would be
restructured to correspond to the priority extension topics included in the
extension intensification program (Annex 9, Tables I and 2). The project would
also provide agricultural training for women smallholders and workers. Women as
a group make an important input into rubber production in the smnallholder sector
and up to 40% of tappers in certain States are women. Under the RISDA I Project
(Ln. 3139-MA), RISDA began to record number of trainees by gender at its Training
Institutes as well as in the field and met the project target of increasing the
number of women trainees to about 30% of the total smallholder trainees in formal
and in-situ training courses by the end of 1992. Assurances were obtained at
necotiations that this proportion of women trainees would be generally maintained
under the project, with fine-tuning of the target according to women's role in
rubber in different States and women's needs for different types of training.
Amolied Research
3.13      The project would provide for materials, equipment and incremental
operating costs for clonal reevaluation by RRIM to test the responsiveness of its
various clones to stimulation with LITS; development of physiological/biochemical
parameters as early warning indicators of stress in rubber trees under
stimulation; a study of nutritional aspects in relation to low-frequency tapping
systems; a survey oW the performance of Class II clones on progressive
umallholdings; and research on mixed cropping systems using rubber with fruit
trees (details are at Annex 10).
Mini-Estate Development and Improvement
3.14      The project would provide for supplementary development costs of mini-
estates initiated prior to the project and not yet in production (averaglng 4,000
ha p.a. over the project period), and initiate a program to improve the
performance of mini-estates in production (about 30,000 ha). The supplementary
development costs are over and above the participating smallholders' replanting
grant entitlement  (para. 2.13).   They would be charged to participating
smallholders as loans (para. 2.6), which would be repaid to RISDA as the estates
come into production. The major initiative to improve the performance of mini-
estates in production would be LITS, which is expected to have a significant
impact on the financial viability of mini-estates through reduced labor costs and
by bringing currently untapped areas into production. Other initiatives include
transfer of management of an increasing number of mini-estates mainly to
cooperatives,   increased  tappers'   training,   database   improvement   and
implementation of an improved monitoring system.



- 16 -
3.15      Low-Intensity TaplLna SYvtems (LITS .  The project would introduce
LITS on all mini-estates facing tapper shortages and reorient RISDA's extenoion
program for introduction of LITS to emallholdings in the post-project period
(para. 3.11). Compared to the current labor-intensive alternate day tapping
(d/2), LITS can reduce labor requirement by 33% with third day tapping (d/3), by
50% with fourth day tapping (d/4), or even more with lower Lntensities of
tapping. The feasibility and benefits of LITS have been demonstrated by the
results of the pilot program launched by FELCRA in 1991 and supported by the Bank
under the Second and Third ?ELCRA projects (Loans 2917-MA and 3484-MA). Ths
technique has been successfully used in West Afrlca for about 20 years.
3.16      Experience with LITS in other countries and in Malaysia points
inexorably to the need to start carefully with LITS under very controlled
conditions.  Although the technology is simple in principle, its successful
application requires high management inputs, close coordination and monitoring,
and high tapping quality. Replication of LITS on a wider scale would, therefore,
be done only after experience has been gained in a pilot program on seven
selected mini-estates in the firot year. LITS is considered critical for the
future viability of the rubber smallholder subsector in Malaysia and, as such,
utmost care has to be taken to ensure successful introduction of the system.
Annex 11 provides a detailed description of LITS, an action plan for its
introduction, names of mini-estates to be included in the pilot phase, and
coordination and monitoring requirements.   More intensive training is also
required for the introduction of LITS and a proposal has been included in the
training program for the project. The followina agreements were obtained at
(a) The coordinator for LITS already appointed at RISDA head&uaf:ers would
be full-time, with full authority on the technical aspects of the
program, assisted in every State by a full-time field officer,
responsible for the coordination and monitorLng of the program in the
State. Since the introduction of LITS is now part of RISDA's long-
term extension program, the Extension Division would continue to have
the overall responsibility for this program, even while it was being
implemented only on mini-estates;
(b)  A phased program satisfactory to the Bank would be followed for the
introduction of LITS (Annex 11, para. 2); and
(c)  Appropriate allocations in RISDA's operating budget would be made for
the operating expenses of the LITS program and for LITS training.
3.17      Transfer of Mini-Estate Manaaement.  The project would help transfer
mini-estate management, mainly to cooperatives, by assisting development of the
management capability of cooperatives (para 3.19). Two mini-estates have so far
been transferred to ESPEK and one to a cooperative for management. About 50
mini-estates are expected to pay off their debts by 1996, the end of the project
period.  This group and some other mini-estates would be considered prime
candidates for transfer of management from RISDA, particularly to cooperatives.



- 17 -
3.18      Other Initiatives.  Other initiatives to improve the performance of
mini-estates would include increased tappers' training (para. 3.21), database
improvement and implementation of an enhanced monitoring system. The database
improvement is particularly required since many mini-estates are shown to have
huge operating losses and it la not clear why such huge operating losses are
being incurred (Annex 12). Agreement was_ obtained at negotiations that by the
end of 1994 RISDA would develop a consistent, reliable set of data on mini-
estates and implement an improved monitoring system for mini-estate performance
with respect to production, dividend payments, debts and debt repayment, etc.
Strenothening and Rationalization of Cooperatives
3.19      Thw project would strengthen cooperatives by helping implement a
rationalization/restructuring plan, and by providing training for cooperative
staff and Board members and technical assistance (details are at Annex 13). The
rationalization plan is based on the principle of specializations  about 15
cooperatives would specialize in nursery management, 11 in input supply and 38
in infrastructure works (including land development contracts for group
replantings) to generate a minimum of Z$50,000 in net profits per cooperative
annually. Assurances were obtained At neaotiations that the draft plan (Annex
13) would be refined and discussed further by RISDA and NARSCO with the
cooperatives and implementation of a firm action plan would commence by July 31,
1994.  Technical assistance (about 24 person-months) and training has been
included in the project in support of the rationalization plan. Draft terms of
reference for technical assistance are at Annex 13, Appendix 1.
lnstitutional De-veloprent
3.20      Comouterized MIS.  The project would support further development of
RISDA's computerized MIS initiated under RISDA I project by providing hardware
and software, training and consultancy. A phased program for the development and
implementation of various modules has already been drawn up by the Information
Technology Unit (ITU) of RISDA. Most modules would be operational by early 1994
Annex 14) and would provide the basis for a significant improvement in RI8DA's
institutional efficiency. Consultant services (about 12 person-months) would be
employed for specific tasks from time to time, as the need arises.  It is
anticipated that the following applications would require consultant supports
(a) smallholders information systems on personal computers with local area
network (4 person-months); (b) financial application for cost centers (4 person-
months); (c) communications (1 person-month); (d) graphical interface programming
(1 person-month)i and (e) geographic information system (2 person-months).
specific terms of reference would be drafted by the ITU for Bank review before
consultants are hired.
3.21      Human Resource Develongent. The project would support three major new
thrusts in training:  (i) training of ESPEK, RISDA and cooperative staff in
improved nursery techniques and management, to be done in collaboration with RRIM
(para. 3.6(c)); (ii) training of a large number of staff in LITS (para. 3.16);
and (iii) a comprehensive training program for cooperative staff and Board
members (para. 3.19). In addition, the training in infrastructure upgrading an'.
maintenance, improved communication skills of extension staff, and improve*
training management at the State level, initiated under RISDA I project, would~



- 18 -
be continued; computer training would remain a high priority; and tapping
training would be increased. The women-in-development (WID) component initiated
under RISDA I Project would be maintained under RISDA II (para. 3.12). The
project would also provide equipment and materials and technical assistance
(about 18 person-months locally hired) to develop and institutionalize a human
resource management system in RISDA and to strengthen the graphics capability of
its communication unit. Draft terms of reference for consultants are at Annex
15, para. 26. The management of training in RISDA would be improved by the
provision of a modular In-house Training Management course for six Training Unit
staff and four Directors of Training Institutes. In addition to the technical
assistance, overseas training for staff, smallholder training, and training
equipment and materials included in project costs (Annex 15), the incremental
costs of local training for staff amounting to about M$l.5 million over 1994-96
(including training for nursery ataff, LITS, infrastructure, communications
skills, etc.) would be met from RISDA's operating budget.
3.22      Monitoring and Evaluation.  The project would provide for 8 person-
months of consultancy (locally hired) for monitoring and evaluation (Man),
specifically for a study of the agricultural performance of RISDA's replanting
and extension programs in immature rubber areas in terms of tree girting rate,
tree survival rate for the first two years after planting, time elapsed from
planting to  first  harvesting,  etc.    under  different  replanting  systems
(individual, simultaneous, group and mini-estates). This study will be based on
the data generated from the computerized modules currently being developed (see
further para. 4.6) and will include all responsibility centers. Assurances were
obtained at necotiations that detailed terms of reference for the study would be
drafted by RISDA for Bank review by end-September 1994 taking into account the
quality of data and coverage of the computerized modules and that the study would
be completed by July 31, 1995.
Project Costs
3.23      Total project costo over 1994-96 amount to M$645.9 million (US$253.2
million),  including  a  foreign  exchange  component  of  M$221.1  million
(US$86.6 million) equivalent to about 34% of total costs. Identifiable taxes and
duties amount to M$l.1 million (US$0.4 million). Base costs were estimated using
1993 prices. Physical contingencies of 10% were included for equipment only.
Price contingencies at 2.8% p.a. for foreign costs and 4.5% p.a. for local costs
were included for equipment, applied research and technical assistance.
Contingencies for other items were not included since, in the case of replanting
and maintenance, grant rates are fixed and not expected to change during the
project period, and in other cases, expenditures are small, will be undertaken
only when needed, and will be limited by the budget. Project costs exclude
RISDAs annual operating budget, which covers salaries, supplies, travel, local
training for staff, etc. (para. 3.25 and Annex 2, Table 4). Project costs are
detailed at Annex 16 and summarized in Table 3.1 below:



- 19 -
Table 3.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  X     X
Copnent                   (..MS million)---      .. -----US* million)---   Foreign  Base
Replanting & Maintenance  382.7   206.1   588.8  150.0  80.8  230.8   35   91.3
Rehabilitation              5.8    3.2    9.0   2.3   1.2   3.5   35    1.4
Infrastructure             10.0    5.0   15.0   4.0   1.9   5.9   33    2.3
Ext. & SmalIholder Training  13.5    1.5   15.0   5.3   0.6   S.9   10   2.3
Applied Research            2.1    0.5    2.6   0.8   0.2   1.0   20    0.4
Nini-Estate Development     7.6    1.4    9.0   3.0   0.5   3.5   15   1.4
and lIprovement
Strengthening of Cooperatives  1.2  -      1.2   0.5            O.S     3    0.2
Computerized IS             0.8    2.4    3.2   0.3   1.0   1.3   74    0.5
Humn Resource Development   0.5    0.5    1.0   0.2   0.2   0.4   51    0.2
Monitoring and Evaluation   0.2     -      0.2   0.1    -       0.1     -    -
TotalE ase Costs          624.   220.6  64.AQ  166.5  86.4  252.9    a   100
Physical Contingencies      0.1    0.3    0.4    -       0.1   0.1   80
Price Contingencies         0.3    0.2    0.5   0.1   0.1   0.2   30
Totat Project Costs la    424.8   221.1   645.9  166.6  fl.4    253.2   34
La Includes taxes and duties estimated at USS0.4 million equivalent.
Financina
3.24      The proposed Bank loan of US$70.0 million to the Government of
Malaysia (GON) would finance 812 of the estimated foreign exchange component and
about 28X of total project costs, exclusive of taxes and duties. The Bank loan
amount was determined on i1a basis of the Government request. The GOM would
contribute US$101.2 million equivalent through annual development budget
allocations to RISDA. The contribution of rubber smallholders through replanting
ooes payments would be US$82.0 million equivalent. The financing plan is shown
at Annex 17, Table 1. Transfer of Bank loan proceeds to RISDA would be on the
same terms and conditions as currently followed by the Government (para. 2.6) and
consistent with arrangements under the RISDA I Project (Ln. 3139-MA).
3.25      The  current  Government  policy  of  increasing  self-financing  of
parastatals has resulted in severe cuts in the budgets of agricultural
parastatals, including RISDA, for which the earlier approved 1993 operating
budget of M$80 million was about 202 less than the 1992 budget of M$102 million
(Annex 2, Table 4). This budget would not have covered even RISDA's personnel
costs. RISDA has been drawing on sources other than Government grants to meet
its  operating expenses  (Annex 2,  paras.  8-9).    However,  this  is not  a
satisfactory situation since, on the one hand, it has eroded budgetary control
and, on the other, it has reduced funds available for replanting. RISDA's 1993
operating budget was subsequently increased to H$101.8 million. Since problems
with the operating budget could seriously affect RISDA's ability to carry out its
development activities during the project periodt, assurances were obtained at
negotiations that, beginning with the 1994 budget, the Government would provide
adequate financing of RISDA's operating budget.



- 20 -
Procurement
3.26      Works.   Works  for replanting,  maintenance,  and  rehabilitation,
amounting to some US$163.4 million equivalent would be undertaken by the
beneficiaries themselves. RISDA has established procedures for selection of
beneficiaries, processing of grant payments, and monitoring of work performed
(para. 2.10, and Annexes 6.1 and 6.2). Works for agricultural roads, bridges and
drains, at an estimated U$2.0 million equivalent, would be procured through local
competitive bidding (LCB) procedures which have been reviewed by the Bank and are
considered acceptable. These contracts, all relatively small, geographically
widely dispersed and scattered in time over the project period, would be of
little interest to foreign bidders who would, however, be eligible to compete.
Agricultural works for mln-estates (non-major maintenance works during crop
immaturity costing less than US$20,000) totalling about US$3.5 million equivalent
and non-major works (costing less than US$20,000) for agricultural roads, bridges
and drains totalling about US$3.9 million equivalent would be procured by limited
tendering involving bid invitations from at least five contractors of good
standing.
3.27      Goods and Services.   Computer equipment (US$1.3 million) would be
procured through international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance
with Bank Guidelines. A margin of preference equal to 152 of the c.i.f. bid
price of imported goods, or the amount of customs duties and taxes, whichever is
less, would be allowed for domestic manufacturers for bid evaluation purposes.
Fertilizers (US$49.0 million) and chemicals (US$3.5 million) will not be financed
by the Bank since the Government may continue with the current sole-source
procurement arrangements for these items. Planting materials valued at about
US$17.0 million would be procured from ESPEK and cooperatives through direct
contracting, and other inputs and training equipment would be procured through
LCB in which foreign suppliers would be eligible to participate. Small tools,
Inputs and materials costing less than US$20,000 each and totalling not more than
US$1.0 million would be purchased under the prevail'wg procedures of limited
tendering involving quotations from at least five suppliers.   All goods
procurement would be grouped to the extent practicable. Consultant services
(US$1.0 million) would be procured according to Bank Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants, with terms of reference, qualifications, and contract terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
3.28      Procurement Review.  All ICB and single-source consultant contracts,
other consultant contracts above US$100,000 equivaleat per contract, any other
contract exceeding US$2 million, and all overseas traiuing proposals, would be
subject to prior Bank review. Other contracts would be subject to selective
post-award review. Procurement rrrangements are summarized in Table 3.2.



- 21 -
Tabte 3.2:  PROCURUEMET ARRANGEtNTS
(USS Million) Lr
Doj                                          ice         LCD           Other        N.G.F./b       Total
'- Yorks
1.1 Replanting3  Maintenance                                -        163.4/c           -             163.4
and Rehabilitation                         -            -        (56.3)            -             (56.3)
1.2 Mini-Estate Development                    -            -         3.5/d            -              3.5
and laprovement                            -             -        (1.2)            -              (1.2)
1.3 Agr"tultura1 Roads,                        -            2.0       3.9/d                           5.9
Bridges, etc.                              -            (0.7)     (1.3)                           (2.0)
2. Goods
2.1 Coaputer and Training                      1.3          0.2         -              -               1.5
Equfpment                                 (1.1)         (0.1)       --                            (.2)
2.2 Fertilizers and Other Inputs               -             -        18.0/e         52.5/f           70.5
-            -        (6.2)                           (6.2)
3. Consultancies                                -            -         1.0                             1.0
-            -        (0.9)                           (0.9)
4. Niscellaneous
4.1 Extension and Training                     -             -         6.3             -               6.3
(2.2)            -             (2.2)
4.2 Research                                    -            -                        1.1              1.1
Total                                          1.3           2.2      196.1           53.6           253.2
(1.1)        (0.8)     (68.1)           -             (70.0)
Percentage of Procurement                      0.5           0.9       77.4           21.2           100.0
La  Includes physical and price contingencies. Figures in parentheses show
Dank financing.
- Not Bank-financed.
Lg Undertaken by rubber smallholder beneficiaries.
:d  Limited tenderfng procedures (equivalent to ushopping").
e  Includes limited tendering (shopping) of US$1.0 million for small tools
and materials and direct contracting of about US$17.0 mitlion for planting
moteriat from nurseries.
Lf Reserve procurement of fertilizers and chemicals.
Disbursement
3.29         Disbursement  of  the  proposed  loan would  be  as  follows:  (a)  271  of
expenditures on works, goods and services for crop replanting and asintenance
through maturity, rehabilitation of replantings, infrastructure, extension and
smallholder training, and supplementary costs of mini-estate development; (b) for
computer and training equipment, 1001 of the foreign exchange cost of directly
imported items, 1002 of the ex-factory cost of locally-manufactured items net of
taxes and 801 of the cost of items procured locally; and (c) 902 of the cost of
overseas training and consultants (Annex 17, Table 2).
3.30         Disbursements   for   (a) all   expenditures   on   crop   replanting   and
maintenance through maturity, rehabilitation of replantings, and extension and
amallholder training; and (b) oxpenditures under contracts valued less than
US$200,000 equivalent for mlni-estate development, infristructure, and equipment
would be made on the basis of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs); documentation



- 22 -
supporting these withdrawal applications would be retained by RISDA for review
by Bank supervision missions. All other disbursements vould be made against full
documentation.
3.31      The loan is expected to be disbursed over four years in accordance
with the schedule of disbursements shown at Annex 17, Table 3. Since the project
is an expenditure time-slice of an ongoing development program, disbursements are
projected to be significautly faster than the standard profile of Malaysian
agricultural projects. This is borne out by the experience under the RISDA I
Project (Loan 3139-MA), also a time-slice operation, where the entire loan has
been disbursed within three and a half years of loan effectiveness. Loan closing
date would be December 31, 1997.
IV. PROJECT IHPLHEVTATION
Status of Preparation and Implementation Arrangements
4.1       Since the project covers a time-slice of RISDA's ongoing development
program, no significant pre-project implementation arrangements are required.
RISDA has over 20 years' experience in the implementation of its programs and is
fully geared up for the planned 1994-96 program.
4.2       For the replanting program of 30,000 ha in 1994, implementation
arrangements were reviewed at the time of appraisal and were found to be
satisfactory. Preparation and processing of 1995 and 1996 programs would be
initiated up to one year before field implementation. All maintenance work on
immature areas established prior to the project would continue on a routine
basis, using contracts or smallholder family labor. The physical implementation
targets for the remining two years or the project would be set by budget
allocations for those years. Assurances were obtained at neRotiations that, by
September 30 of each year, the Government and the Bank would review and agree to
RISDA's annual work program, including training program, and its funding for each
following  year  of  the project.   The processing  steps  involved  in  the
implem' atation of the replanting and maintenance component and the rehabilitation
component are shown at Annex 6.
Proiect Coordination and Organization
4.3       The Ministry of Rural Development would be responsible for overall
project performance and the Director General, RISDA, would have implementation
responsibility. Specifically, RISDA's Replanting Division would be responsible
for implementing the replanting and maintenance, rehabilitation, and mini-estate
components; Extension Division for the extension, training, and infrastructure
components; and Supplies and Procurement Division for the procurement of
equipment (in consultation with the Computer Steering Committee for office
tecbnology equipment) and agricultural inputs. The Planning and Development
Division would assist in the supervision of consultants. The Finance Division
would be responsible for preparing withdrawal applications for loan disbursements
and would maintain all documentation supporting withdrawal applications.



- 23 -
Accounts and Audit
4.4       Accounts.  RISDA's financial accounts are in the process of being
computerized.  Project disbursement categories are designed to coincide with
RISDA accounts, which eliminates the need for separate project accounting. RISDA
will, however, maintain records on the uses of project funds which would trace
and relate project expenditures to its overall financial accounts.
4.5       Audit.   The Office of the Auditor General is responsible for the
annual auditing of RISDA's accounts through  1992.   However,  auditing is
considerably behind schedule because of serious management problems in the early
1980s. RISDA has submitted its accounts through 1992 and accounts through 1991
have so far been audited. Starting with the 1993 audits, auditing will be done
by a leading private international auditing firm, which will be expected to
follow the normal official schedule of completing the audit within nine months
of the close of the fiscal year. Assurances were obtained at neftotiations that
audited accounts for 1992 would be available to the Bank by June 30, 1994 and,
thereafter, audited financial statements would be available to the Bank within
nine months of the close of the fiscal year. The audit reports of 1994 and later
years would include a separate opinion as to whether funds disbursed against SOEs
were used for the purpose for which they were provided. The audit reports on
SOEs under the RISDA I project were timely and unqualified.
Monitorina. Evaluation and Reportina
4.6       Monitorint and Evaluation (M&E). While monitoring of the physical and
financial implementation of RISDA's development programs is generally
satisfactory, monitoring of field performance in terms of planting and
maintenance standards achieved, yields of rubber and other crops, relative
efficiency of different replanting systems, effectiveness of different RISDA
programs, etc., is very weak. The project, by supporting further development of
a computerized MIS (para. 3.20), would improve monitoring of development
programs.   The computerized replanting modules 1, 2, and 3 (Annex 14) will
generate the necessary data for improved monitoring.   In addition, the M&E
module, based on the M&E study completed under RISDA I Project, would provide the
framework for qualitative monitoring of RISDA's programs. Under the project,
physical monitoring at the headquarters would continue to be performed by RISDA's
various implementing Divisions and the financial monitoring by the Finance
Division. However, the Planning and Development Division (PDD) would assist the
other Divisions in improved physical and financial monitoring and, in addition,
concentrate on qualitative monitoring using the M&E module. In this connection,
the PDD will be responsible for the study of the agricultural performance of
RISDA's programs in immature rubber areas (para. 3.22).
4.7       Reporting.  RISDA would prepare and submit to the Bank semi-annual
progress reports on project implementation using the same general format as under
the RISDA I Project (with some adjustments for the new project components). The
reports would be submitted by March 1 and September 1 in each year. The Bank's
Supervision Plan is shown at Annex 18.



- 24 -
V. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION. MURKETING AND PRICES
Crop Production. Processing and Marketing
5.1       Rubber.  Production from the replantings under the project would peak
at about 112,000 tons around year 2009. This is based on the crop yield profiles
at Annex 19. This production would be about 72 of Malaysia's projected rubber
production at that time. Rubber latex would be sold in the liquid form, as cup
lump or processed into sheets for air or smoke drying, the choice depending on
the market facilities available to the producer and the prices of the different
forms of the commodity.
5.2       Palm Oil.  Production from the replantings under the project would
peak at about 205,000 tons of ffb, which would yield some  41,000 tons of crude
palm oil (CPO) at an average extraction rate of 202, and 9,200 tons of palm
kernels (PK) at 4.5Z recovery rate, around year 2007. This production would be
less than 0.52 of Malaysia's CPO and PK projected production at that time. Fresh
fruit bunches would be sold individually or under contract to local processing
mills either of the private or parastatal sector. Mill facilities are generally
adequate throughout the country.
International and Domestic Market Prosoects
5.3       World consumption of natural rubber is expected to rise from 5.2
million tons in 1992 to about 7.6 million tons by year 2005, with supplies coming
mainly from established producers.   Increased demand for natural rubber,
particularly in developing economies, relative to that for synthetic rubber,
comes from recent technological developments and availability of more types and
grades of natural rubber of stringent specifications. Much will depend on the
economic performance of Asian ard East European countries with high income
elasticity for rubber products. Malaysia's production is expected to regain
recent levels of 1.5 million tons through technology innovations, including low--
intensity tapping and replanting with high performance clones, and its market
share will remain at about 252. World demand for palm oil is expected to grow
at about 4S per annum through the year 2005.   Malaysia's share of world
production is expected to decrease from about 502 in 1992 to 472 in year 2005,
and exports from 56Z to 50X during the same period.   In absolute terms,
Malaysia's national production and gross exports of palm oil are expected to
reach 11.0 million tons and 8.6 million tons, respectively, in fear 2005 compared
to the actual 6.4 million tons and 5.8 million tons, respectively, in 1992. The
above projections for rubber and palm oil by the Bank's International Economics
Department (IEC) include incremental production from RISDA's  replanting programs.
5.4       Domestic absorption of rubber was only about 150,000 tons in 1992.
The Government is assessing the prospects of making Malaysia a major exporter of
tires which will help achieve the objective of reaching local consumption of
300,000 tons of rubber by the year 2000.   Domestic market prospects for
Malaysia's palm oil are bright due to a quickly expandlng local downstream
processing and considerable ongoing research, principallv at PORIM, in new uses
of palm oil. The most promising development of the industry is in the area of
oleo-chemicals. Since 1984, Malaysian palm oil processing has moved downstream
and an estimated 200,000 tons of oleochemicals (fatty acids, mothyl esters and



- 25 -
glycerines) were produced in 1992. The projection for the end-1990s io 600,000 -
700,000 tons a year.
Commodity Prices
5.5       As projected by the Bank, rubber prices would be about 171 higher in
real terms in year 2000 compared to 1993, palm oil prices about 202 lower and
palm kernel prices &bout 151 higher. For economic analysis, the Bank's projected
prices, converted to 1993 constant terms on the basis of the HUV index, were
used. Rubber, palm oil and kernel are exportables and economic farmgate prices
were, therefore, estimated from f.o.b. prices (Annexes 20.1 and 20.2).
5.6       Domestic  rubber prices  follow  the NRELB  daily  quotations with
appropriate deductions for transport, processing charges and duties and cesses.
The financial farmgate prices for rubber are lower than economic farmgate prices
due to exclusion of export duties and replanting cess from the latter. Financial
farmgate prices for oil palm ffb also diverge, though to a much lesser extent,
from economic farmgate prices due to export duties on CPO, with graduated duty
exemption on processed palm oil according to the stage of processing. Domestic
ffb prices are based on PORLA gazetted price,J/ less processing. CPO and PK
transport cost and other incidental costs.
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Benefits
6.1       The main project benefits would be:  (a) improved productivity and
farm incomes for rubber smallholders, who are the biggest poverty group in the
country and many of whom are at present earning less than the poverty income of
M$380 (US$150) per month per family of five; (b) increased export earnings,
primarily from rubber, and increased production of diversified crops; and
(c) increased institutional efficiency of RISDA in delivery of services to the
rubber smallholder subsector. Some 150,000 rubber smallholders are expected to
benefit from the project, including new replanters and those who replanted prior
to the project, but whose farms would receive early maintenance support from the
project. At full development around the year 2009, net foreign exchange earnings
and savings from project incremental production (including production only from
new replantings under the project and using projected world market prices for the
year 2009 in 1993 constant dollars) would be about US$110 million per year. The
improvement in RISDA's effectiveness as an institution would be an important
contribution to the government's poverty alleviation program and would improve
the productivity of governmont expenditures. The project would also directly
benefit women smallholders and workers in the rubber subsector, and broaden
popular participation and help develop the rural private sector through
strengthening of cooperatives.
1/    POLA gazetted price is published monthly based on the industry-wide
average price of traded CPO in the preceding month.



- 26 -
Financial Analysis
6.2       Smallholder Incomes.  Since replantings would be overwhelmingly for
rubber and, to some extent, for oil palm, farm income analysis has been done for
these two crops only. The farm model, based on individual and simultaneous
replanting, assumes that about two ha would be replanted and labor during the
production phase would be provided by the family. Net monthly farm incomes from
rubber would peak at M$542 in the 16th year after planting and from oil palm at
M$183 in the 14th year after planting. These incomes from replanting, compared
to the alternative of abandoning the old rubber areas, would provide incentive
to smallholders to participate in the replanting program. Net farm incomes would
be lower if hired labor is used, as is common on group replantings. It should
be stressed that household incomes, as distinct from the above farm incomes,
could be higher depending on the availability of additional farm land and off-
farm employment opportunities.
Table 6.1: FARM INCOME
(M$)
Averate Annual                    Aver&ae Monthly
Year of Develonment                 Year of Development
10       11-20       21-30         10       11-20        21-30
Rubber            3,082      5,657      3,708         257        471          309
Oil Palm          2,128      2,075      1,718         177         173         143
6.3       Cost Recovery.  As discussed in para. 2.17 and Annex 3, the export
duty and replanting and research cesses on rubber, compared to the replanting
grant, imply full cost recovery over the life of the rubber trees.
Supplementary mini-estate development costs (para. 3.14) are to be fully
recovered from participants after mini- estates reach the production stage.
Economic Analysis
6.4       Economic Rate of Return {ERR).  The ERR for the project is estimated
at about 14S (Annex 21) with the following methodology: (a) only replantings
from 1994 onwards are included. If prior plantings to be maintained under the
project were included, the ERR would increase to about 25X, assuming costs before
1994 as sunk costs; (b) the economic costs and benefits of diversified crops were
not included since together they would be less than 10% of the project
replantings; (c) sale of rubber wood has been added to the benefit in the first
year; (d) the benefits of LITS introduction on mini-estates in terms of reduced
tapper costs and an assumed 15S increase in yields due to improved tapping and
reduced bark consumption have been added to the benefit stream; (e) the adoption
of LITS and consequent reduction in tapper costs on smallholdings (mainly group
replantings) is conservatively assumed to reach 100,000 ha or 10X of mature
smallholder rubber areas in Malaysia by the year 2002; (f) costs are estimated
in 1993 constant Malaysian ringgits and benefits from rubber and oil palm are
calculated on the basis of economic farm-gate prices (Annexes 20.1 and 20.2)



- 27 -
derived from the Bank's price projections of May 1993, adjusted to 1993 constant
US dollars using the MUV ine..x, and converted to ringgits at the official
exchange rate; and (g) market wage rates have been used as no significant
distortions in the labor market are evident.
6.5       Sensitivity Analysis. The results of a sensitivity analysis show that
the project remains viable across a range of assumptions on costs and benefits.
The switching value test shows that costs would have to increase by 21% or
benefits decrease by 18% to lower the project ERk from 14% to 102, the estimated
opportunity cost of capital in Malaysia. While the probability of cost increases
is low, a decline in benefits, particularly if prices turn out to be lower than
projected, cannot be ruled out. However, a price level 18% lower than projected
for both rubber and palm oil, while possible in some years (particulalgy for palm
oil, given its high price volatility), appears unlikely over the entire 30-year
period of analysis. The project can also withstand a three-year delay in the
benefit stream without the ERR going below 10%. If there is no adoption of LITS,
the project ERR would still be about 112. On the positive side, if the adoption
rate of LITS on smallholdings reaches 20S of mature rubber areas by the year
2002, the ERR would be over 16%.
Environmental Effects
6.6       The project poses no major environmental risks.  Since the project
provides for replanting of existing cultivated areas, no deforestation is
involved.   The small access roads component of the project includes only
upgrading and maintenance, which would not have any adverse environmental impact.
Indeed, the project would have a positive environmental benefit in that the
timber from the felling of old rubber trees could be utilized by the wood
industry, thus taking some of the pressure off the natural forests. Moreover,
the development of tree crops is basically protective of soils in equatorial
climates due to the standard practice of establishing legume cover crops
immediately after land clearing, which rapidly cover the soil surface with a
thick protective mat of vegetation, and due to the protection of fully closed
tree canopies within a few years after planting. Areas planted to crops other
than rubber, and especially oil palm, will almost always be on gentler terrain
with a low risk of erosion. However, under the project, RISDA would put greater
emphasis on conservation-related activities. In hilly areas in particular, RISDA
would promote the establishment of vetiver hedges, which are effective in
controlling surface erosion on steep slopes. Vetiver grass would also be
promoted to protect road cuttings. Though maintenance of rubber and oil palm,
particularly in their immature years, routinely involves the use of herbicides,
Malaysia has strict and effectively-implemented regulations on the use of
agricultural chemicals and, therefore, risks from the use of herbicides under the
project are considered minimal.2/   For farmers receiving chemicals, RISDA
arranges training sessions on the safe application of chemicals. The project
will not construct any crop processing facilities; production will be channeled
2/        Malaysian law bans the use of harmful chemicals and pesticides, and
none of those currently used by RISDA is included in the Bank's
Checklist of Pesticides not Recommended for Use in Agriculture or
Suitable only for Restricted Use (OPN 11.10).



- 28 -
to existing public and private sector factories which are subject to stringent
and well-enforced pollution control laws.
Rlsks
6.7       The main project risk relates to effective introduction of LITS (pars.
3.16). This labor-saving technology is :ritical to the long-term viability of
the rubber subsector in Malaysia but is new to RISDA and the smallholders. Its
successful introduction would, therefore, require closely supervised and phased
implementation, placing considerable demands on RISDA and Bank superF.sion
resources,
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1       The execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the (sovernment
and RISDA and the Project Agreement between RISDA and the Bars would be
conditions of effectiveness.
7.2       During negotiations, agreement was obtained on the followings
(a) crop choice will continue to be the prerogative of replanters (para.
3.5);
(b) rubber planting material production by RISDA or its subsidiary ESPRE
would be confined to no more than 15 sites; RRIN (or another
institution acceptable to the Bank) would regularly assess the
performance of these nurseries and the contractual arrangements
between RISDA and RRIM (or another institution) for this assessment
would be satisfactory to the Bank; ESPEK would have the authority to
take appropriate action should the subcontracting cooperatives fail
to comply with ESPEK's standards for nursery mangements ESPEK's
incremental costs for improved nursery management would be met by
increasing its own share of rubber planting material production to
about 202; and the Government and RISDA would keep under review the
cost-price relationship for rubber planting material and make price
adjustments, if and when required (para. 3.6);
(c)  RISDA's rubber planting would be with Class I and II clones only, ivth
the percentage of Class II clones not more than that recommended by
RRIM from time to time; Class III clones would be recomended for use
only under RRIM and RISDA supervision and control; and beginning with
the 1996 plantings, RISDA would increasingly use clones which are
known to be responsive to stimulation with low-intensity tapping
systems (LITS) (para. 3.7);
(d) RISDA would reorient its extension services towards increases in
productivity of mature rubber (para. 3.11);
(e) RISDA would maintain the present overall proportion (302) of women
trainees (para. 3.12);



- 29 -
(f) the coordinator for LUTS already appointed at RISDA headquarters would
be full-time, with full authority on the technical aspects of the
program, assisted in every State by a full-tim  field officer; a
phased program would be followed by RISDA for the introduction of
LITS; and appropriate operating funds would be allocated by RISDA for
the expenses of the LITS program and for LITS training (para. 3.16);
(g) by the end of 1994, RISDA would develop a consistent, reliable set of
data on mini-estates and implement an improved monitoring system for
mini-estate performance with respect to actual production, dividend
payments, debt repaid, debts outstanding, etc. (para. 3.18);
(h) implementation of a plan for strengthening and rationalization of
cooperatives would commence by July 319 1994 (para. 3*19);
(i) RlSDA would draft detailed toems of reference for a study of the
qualitative results of RISDA's programs in Immature rubber areas for
Bank review by end-September 1994 and have the study completed by July
31, 1995 (paras. 3.22 and 4.6);
(j) beginning with the 1994 budget, the Government would ensure adequate
financing for RISDA's operating budget (para. 3.25);
(k) the qualifications, terms of reference and conditions of employment
of consultants would be satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.27);
(1) by September 30 of each year, the Government and the Bank would review
and agree to RISDA's annual work program and its funding for each
following year of the project (para. 4.2);
Sm) RISDA's audited accounts for 1992 would be available to the Bank by
June 30, 1994 (para. 4.5); and
(n) RISDA would prepare and submit to the Bank a semi-annual progress
report on project implementation (para. 4.7).
7.3       With the above assurances, the proposed project would be suitable for
a Bank loan of US$70.0 million to Malaysia. The loan would have a repayment
period of 15 years, including a grace period of five years, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.



0
MALAYSIA
RISDA 11 PROJECT
RISDA ORGANIZATION CHART
|       ~BOARD        
I     Z                ~~~~~Commrdees
DirectorGeneral
Inpcoae& Internil
AdtDlvisi
eratons)                       (g            nt
1. Planrng & Development Division
2. Cowpotate Development Unt
3. Public Relatons Unit                                           -
4. Legal Advisory Unit
5. RISDA Infomfation Technology Uni
RePbnthg           Supply and Engineerhg          Extenslon                        Estate               Adrministraton             Fia
Dvisonn                  Oivision                Dvision                         Division                Dvision                  Division
RSO            RSO            N| RO                    ll    RO       ll     RO       ll    RO       1l PS                  S              S              S  
Johor         Malaoca        SemSlan    |  Selangof  1|   Pexak    1|  PenarX    1|   Pers                Pahang          Kedah         Kelntan       Te engaC
Note: RSO R RISDA State Oftrce
saeWvS4572



- 33 -
ANX 2
Page I of 4
MbLAysIA
RISDA SI PROJECT
RISPb'S FINANCIAL CONDITION
1.          RISDA's audited accounts for fiscal years ending December 31, 1991
and 1992 are not available for the following analysis although the 1991 accounts
have now been audited (December 1993). The following analysis is, therefore,
preliminary but nevertheless indicative of RISDA's financial condition.
2.          As of December 31, 1992, based on provisional accounts, RISDA's total
assets amounted to M$1156.9 million (Table 1). Of this, fixed assets (M$215.3
million) and investments in plantations (MS210.3 million) accounted for about 19%
and 18% respectively; smallholder and staff loans ({$315.7 million) for 27%; and
bank deposits (X$308.9 million) for 27%.  About M$297 million of the bank
accounts were in fixed deposits. The remaining M$106.7 million (9% of total
assets) is accounted for by other net current assets. The accounts indicate that
RISDA continues to remain reasonably liquid.
3.          Of the MS315.7 million in loans, approximately M$220 million was
granted in long-term loans to smallholders (of which approximately M$140 million
was lent to smallholders under the mini-estate program and M$80 million under
income maintenance loans called SEPENTAS), while the balance represents loans to
taff.
4.          RISDA's assets have been largely financed through subventions from
the cess fund, which is recorded under two subheadings, namely the smallholder
cess account and the estate cess account. These two accounts represented some
38% (M$444 million) and 7% (X$77 million) respectively of the total resources as
of end 1992. The staff housing loan revolvirg fund (M$l00 million) and loans
from the Government (M$204.2 million) accounted for 26% of the total resources.
5.          As of December 31, 1992, Government had committed a total of N$258
million in loans to be made available under the various loan schemes outlined
above.  As of the same date, RISDA had drawn down K$204 million of this amount.
The terms and conditions of the loans are given in Table 2.
6.          The total payments for amortizing the debt on the amounts drawn down
so far and for which the loan repayment terms have been fixed do not exceed M$7.5
million in any year between 1993 and 2000. In previous years this would not have
proved problematic as RISDA earned over X$40 million on its plantation
investments. However, since 1991, RISDA has faced occasional difficulties in
securing an adequate operating budget.  The shortfall between the allocated
budget and operating expenditures is being met from the cess account to which the
plantation profits are credited. As long as plantation profits were large enough
to offset occasional charges, RISDA was in a reasonably safe financial condition.
However, the charges are now getting large enough and RISDA may actually begin
to dip into cess funds to meet its expenses -- a situation that will begin to
adversely affect the replanting program.



- 34 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 4
7.          The annual allocations for the development expenditure, inclusive of
cese, have varied between M$290 million and M$330 million (Table 3). The sources
of funds have been the cess, Government grants for replanting and other
smallholder schemes, and Government loans.   In recent years the proportion
financed through the various sources ham altered. In 1989, for example, coos
accounted for 56% of resources, grants for 36%, and loans for the balance 8%.
In 1993, cess funds will finance 45% of the development budget, grants 53%, and
loans the remaining 2%.
8.          The annual operating budget has rlsen sharply between 1991 and 1992
from M$90.3 million to X$107.4 million. As already mentioned, the allocation
from the Government is usually below this amount and RISDA has financed the
shortfall from the cess account. In 1990 RISDA charged M$10.8 million to the
cess account. In 1991, RISDA received X$87.0 million in budgetary allocations
while the expenses were M$9S.4 million. similarly, there was a budget deficit
of M$4.5 million in 1992. These shortfalls do not include expenditures that are
recurrent in nature but are separately charged to the cess account (staff medical
expenses, allowances to farmers, and interest on loans). If adjustments are made
for these expenditures, RISDA's operating expenses would have risen by an
additional M$2.8 million in 1992.
9.          For 1993, the picture was worrying.  RISDA's recurrent expenses,
inclusive of interest payments on loans, were projected to be M$122.5 million.
Against this the Government had originally allocated MS80.0 million, leaving a
shortfall of M$42.5 million which RISDA would have met from the profits on
plantations (cess account). The budget allocation was later increased to M$l0l.8
million.
Issues
10.         The various financial and accounting issue are:
(a)   delays in accounting and auditing;
(b)   under/overstated assets8
(c)   improper matching of liabilities and assets;
(d)   repayment of Government loans; and
(e)   weak operating controls.
11.         (a)  Delays in Accounts and Audit:  As of December 1993, accounts
through December 1991 had been finalised and audited. RISDA had also completed
and submitted the 1992 accounts to the auditors.  Accounting problems arose
because of uncleared backlog of accounts since the early 1980s. The auditors
also found it difficult to complete the audits becauae it was not easy to
reconcile the control and subsidiary ledgers due to lack of supporting documents
dating from the early 1980s.
12.         In 1986, following the audit of RISDA's 1979 accounts, the Government
established two committees: (a) the Jawatankuasa Harta Tetap (Assets Committee)
and (b) the Jawatankuasa fapuskira Wang RISDA (the Write-Off Committee).  These
committees were to help reflect the proper value of RISDA's assets and to
reconcile the accounts and write off the difference in assets that could not be
reconciled.  Substantial work has been done and a more reasonable picture of
RISDA's balance sheets is expected to be reflected in future accounts.



- 35 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 4
13.         The number of qualifications in the auditors' reports has been
reduced. It is expected that the backlog of audits will be cleared by December
1993. Realizing the problem of delayed audits, the Government has appointed a
private auditing firm to audit RISDA's accounts for 1992 and later which is
expected to result in more timely audits in the future.
14.         (b) Under/Overstated Assp_U. The discrepancies have arisen because
of (i) changes in accounting procedures; (ii) lack of reconciliation between
control and subsidiary ledger accounts; and (iii) inadequate provisions for
losses either for loans granted to smallholders or accounts receivable.
15.         With respect to (i) above, prior to 1984, RISDA, in compliance witl
Government regulations, followed the practice of charging all capital assets
regardless of size as an expense in the year of purchase. The only exceptions
to this accounting procedure were land and factories purchased for marketing or
the properties managed by ESPEK. These procedures were modified in 1984. Under
new accounting practices, RISDA is to expense all purchases below M$5,000 while
capitalizing all the assets above this amount. The Assets Committee (para. 12),
comprising the Accountant General, the Auditor General, an Audit Company and the
Inspectorate Division of RISDA was established to look into the recording of all
assets. The Committee concluded its investigation in 1988 and recommended that
some M$136 million in assets should be written back into RISDA's books. However,
audited accounts do not yet reflect this asset write-up.
16.         Wich respect to para. 14 (ii), due to problems in the early 1980s,
it has been difficult to reconcile control and subsidiary accounts resulting in
the qualification of opinion in auditors' statements. The auditors could not
verify the accuracy of balances amounting to about K$260 million for the year
ended 1990, which involved differences in balance of about M$26.7 million between
the control record and the 35 subsidiary records. The Write-Off Committee (para.
12) was established to examine these accounts and recommend either adjustments
to the stated values or write off the assets as deemed necessary. The Committee
has concluded its deliberations and adjustments to the various accounts are
expected to be reflected in the future audited accounts.
17.         With respect to para. 14 (iii), little, if anything, has been done
to reflect losses on loans granted to smallholders under SEPENTAS scheme, on
loans granted to subsidiaries, or on goods sold on credit which may now be non-
recoverable. The Write-Off Committee remains active to make periodic adjustments
to RISDA's accounts, but it must now seriously look into making provisions for
non-performing loans so that RISDA's balance sheet reflects its true financial
condition.
18.         (c)   ImproDer Matching of Liabilities with Assets.   RISDA has
occasionally drawn down funds earmarked for specific purposes for different uses.
In particular, the Estate cess collections are used for RISDA's expenditures.
Similarly, smallholder cess funds were used to provide housing loans to staff.
In future, RISDA should attempt to match its assets with liabilities to avoid a
potentially problematic situation of having to settle claims in excess of the
assets.



- 36 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 4
19.         (d)  Repayment of Loans to the Government.  RJSDA has considerable
non-performing assets on its books. These include some N$80 mi.lion in SEPENTAS
loans and other smaller loans to subsidiaries or in accounts receivable that may
now be non-recoverable. In particular, the SEPENTAS loans have been financed by
loans from the Government. It is not clear how RISDA will repay these loans.
As mentioned earlier, theoretically RISDA could easily repay the loans out of
earnings from estates but in practice this may prove difficult as RISDA
increasingly relies on these  funds to meet operating expenses.    In all
probability, the Government will have to write off some of the non-performing
assets. The auditors recommended that a provision for doubtful debt of M$81
million should be made on the loan balances as of December 31, 1990.
20.         (e)  Weak Operating Controls.  There are a number of areas where
RISDA's operating controls could be improved. In particular, budgetary control
and stock control procedures need to be streamlined.   However,  prior to
considering any of these aspects seriously, it would be necessary to bring the
accounts up to date and develop a suitable computerized m3nagement information
system. The operationalization of the latter, in particular, would be necessary
prior to developing a meaningful control system.



- 37 -
Table I
Y :allaX 01 M
RSDA'. Financial Condition
December-31. 1989-199
..-----Adited -.....   .......sudited--
1989       1990        1991        1992
kbMw Inwm~y fud.
Smtlholders Casa Account                          448.9      386.6       48.6         444.6
Estate Cess Account                               133.7      140.9        76.8         77.3
_nexped  Devltqmnt Fund                            17.5       12.1        20.6          15.8
unexwded Opereting Fu                               0.5      (10.8)
mtlIholders Credit Schea (Rwolving Fumd)           1S90       15.0        1S.0         21.3
lousing Loan Revolving Fund                       100.0      100.0       100.0         100.0
Vehicle Loon Revolving Fund                         S.9        5.9         S.9          5.9
3taff Loans a  Store tNot Allocated                19.0       19.0        21.0         21.0
3ini-Estate Loa                                     4.8        6.S
EISDA Prfnting Facility an Trafning                 -          0.7         0.2          0.7
Instf tute
R-er Marketing Fund                                37.1       26.2        24.3         24.3
G rnent Loan for R1nI-                            167.8      192.6       196.4        200.0
Estate and Sepentes
C=omitted Funds                                     -        138.5       157.0        215.3
Replanting Furds -- RISOA Estates                  12.3       18.1        24.5         30.7
TOrAL RwS                                           964.5    1,051.3    1,090.3        1,156.9
Representd nbys
Fixed Assets - Not                                112.5      138.S       157.1        215.3
Ptlntation Developmnt - E3591                     195.3      208.1       208.7        210.3
Investwant in Subsidlries                          6.3         7.2        8.4           8.8
Lo*-Term Leas: SelIholders                        214.2      221.2       223.0        220.4
t Stff                              75.2        81.9        89.3         95.3
Trust Fund                                          -                      -            8.8
OaTe AMets:
Sundry Debtor, Desits nd Acca                     119.9      167.7       229.1        130.2
Stocks                                             13.5        8.6        11.1          9.9
Bank fixed deposits                               24S.3      259.7       200.9        27.0
Dank current account                               26.?       11.9        18.3         11.9
Current Liabilities                                  (44.4)     (53.6)      (SS.6)       (1.0)
~ .~,                                               u&.A   It -los A      In.



- 38 -
Table 2
NALAYSIA
RISDA II PROJECT
Purpose            AmaMt             Interest     Repayment     Grace        Anal        Repayment
_(WmillMon)__        Rate (Z)      Period      Period    Installment       Perfid
(Years)     (Years)
Committed    Drawn
RarketingA         11.3       11.3         4.0           15           3            12        1987-1998
3.0        1.9         4.0           15           3            12         1990-2001
Subtotal       14.3       13.2
Nini-Estates       6.6        6.6          0.0           25           10          15         1994-2008
3.1        3.0         0.0           25           10           15         1995-2009
4.1        3.8         4.0           25           10           15         1997-2011
3.9        3.9         4.0           25           10           1S         1997-2011
11.6       11.6         4.0           25          10           15         1997-2011
20.8       9.0          4.0           25          10           15         1998-2012
30.0       29.4         4.0           25          10           15         1998-2012
4.9        4.9         4.0           25           10           15        2004-2014
27.6       27.0         4.0           2S          10           1S        not fx
3.3         -          4.0           25           10           15       not fir @
30.0       5.2          4.0           25          10           15        not f   @
Subtotal         145.9      104.4
Sepentav           43.4       43.4         0.0           25           10           15        1994-2008
33.1       33.1         0.0           25          10           1S         1995-2009
12.8       5.4         0.0           25           10           15         1997-2011
2.7         -          0.0           25           10           1S       not fix a 
Subtotal        92.0       81.9
Kg. Terauau         1.7        0.8         4.0           25           2           23         1991-2013
Purchase of        3.9        3.9          4.0           10                        10        1992-2003
KTENXG,
EqpR ty
Total             257.8      204.2
1/              The marketing loan was used to purchase plant and equipment, mostly
rubber  smokehouses,   to  market  smallholder  produce.                      The  smokehouses  were
transferred to NARSCO in 1990.
v               The  Government  generally  follows  the  procedure  of  fixing  loan
repayment annuities only when the funds have been fully drawn down.
31              Sepentas means income maintenance  loan  to  smallholders during the
immaturity phase of the replanted crop.
it              Represents purchase of the equity share of the partner in a palm oil
mill, which was jointly owned by RISDA and the State of Terengganu.



- 39 -
ANNEX 2
lable 3
Page 1 of 2
RISDA II PROECT
RISDA's DEVELOPMEN BUDGET
1982-1993
1989                                1990                                  1991
Cesa     6OV.    Gov.   TotaL   Ctos         GOv.    Gov.   Total    Coss        Gov.    Gov.    Totat
Grant    Loan                      Grant    Loan                       Grant   Loan
Replanting-               104253   72000             176253   112075   68658             180733   69303   103051             172354
Smai tholders
Reptanting-Private        5500o                      55000   S0000                       50000   S5C00                       50000
Estates (Cesa refund)
Rehabf ftatfon                      3000              3000              3000             3000               4851              4851
infrastructure                      3000             3000              12750             12750             10077             10077
Extension Services         253      2500              2753     217      4150              4367      108     3754              3862
Production tnewntives               15000            1S000              17000            17000              178B23           17823
(Agricultural Inputs)
Smaltholder Servce                  3200              3200              5147              5147              200               2000
Center
Mini-Estate (N.E.)-                          27800   27800                      27589   27589                        14345   14345
Supplementary Dev.
Cost
N.E.-Uorkers  Housing                        2100    2100                         146     146                200              200
N.E.-Privatizetion                                     0                                   0       376                        376
Cost
N.E.-Perfmster Survey                                  0                                   0                1200              1200
Management Facilities               7584              78                25188            25188              23915            23915
Overseas Staff                                         a                                   0                 308              308
Training
Studies &                                              0                800               800               280               2800
Consultancles
Poverty Eradication                                    0                1440              1440               400              400
Atltoance for Key          880                        880      881                        881      1800                       1800
Farmers (PPPK)
Land Premium Credit         58                         58      1950                       1950                                 0
Income Guarantee           1000                       1000     415                        415      212                        212
Schm
Staliholders Training                                  0                                   0                3100              3100
Administrative Program      72                         72       92                         92      700                        700
TOTAL                     161516   106284   29900  297700   165630   138133   27735   331498   122499   173479   14345   310323



- 40 -
Page 2 of 2
MALAXIA
RISDA 11 PROJECT
RISDA a DLOPMM    MET
1982-1293
1992                             1993
Ceo     Gov.    Gov.   Total   Coss    Gov.   Ow.   Total
Grant   Loan                     Grant   Loan
Replentin-Smtaltholders           65925   113592           179517  76600   118328            194928
Replantin-Private Estates         49500                     49500   30                       38000
(cess refud)
Rehabilitation                             4500             4500             439             4639
Infrastructure                             8077             807'             7919            7919
Extension Servfces                 108      4600            4708             3580             358
Production Imeentiwes                      16123            16123            6226             6226
(Agricultural Irpts)
Sallholder Service Center                   924              924              300             300
Mini-Estate       Supplemantery                     5152    5152                      7489    7489
Development Cost
M.E.-Workers  Housing                       200              200              600             600
M.E.-Privatfzation Cost             176                      176     370                      370
N.E.-Perimeter Survey                       990              990              639             639
Management Facilities                      10637            10637            11169           11169
Overseas Staff Training                     m                m                                 0
Studies & Consultancies                     7153            7153              111             111
Poverty Eradication                         40               400              400             400
Alloae for Key Farmers CIPK)   1800                         1800    1800                      1800
Land Premium Credit                                           0                                0
Inome  uarantee Schm                                         0                                 0
SnusIholders Training                       300             300               600             600
Administrative Progrm              700                       700    15000                    15000
Total                             118209  168273   5152   291634  131770  154511   7489   29370



- 41 -
Table 4
RISDA II PROJECT
RISDA's OPERATING BUDGET (1990-1993)
(MS ' 000
1990                1°.91                 1992         1993
Budget   Actual   Budget   Actual   Budget    Actual    Budget
50000    50000    54124    52795       64200     63795      54356
Salaries
Fixed Allowanems                   5564      5564      5568     5550      6200       5642       5100
Employees Provident Fund           7639      7639      8070     8113      10550     10834       8500
Overtim Allowance                    729      729       725      675        400       740        350
Other mnefits                         27       27        44       27         30        31         30
Trawl Allowance                    6345      6345      7029     7137       4800      6554       1800
Transportation AlLowance            259       259       300      172        IS0       373         63
Utilities and Co.mmuications       3030      3030      3211     3227       2800      3432       1000
Repair and Maintenance              1339     1339      1576     1519       1300      1414        500
Naterials
Other Supplies                      1270     1270      1429     1379       1200      1760        600
Repairs and Naintenanme Costs      3947      3947      3799     4580       2900      3506       1320
Professional and Other Services    4831      4831      5326     5174       3700      5281       2000
Rental                              1558     1558      1660     1488       1300      1557       1858
Other Expenses                     3729      3729      4179     3531       2505      2453       2523
Total                             90267    90267    97040    95365    102035    107372         80000
Note: Actual expenditures shown above exclude nnual interest payments to the Government (1$0.5 million) and
staff medical expenses CNM15.0 mi llion in 1992 shon under Administrative Program in Anrex 2, Table 3) charged
to the cess account.



- 42 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3
MALAYSIA
RISDA II PROJECT
Tax/Subsidy Implications of Replanting Ces8/Grants
and Export Duties
1.          Two-thirds of the applicants to RISDA for replanting assistance own
less than 2 ha. More specifically, 61S of smallholders are in the 0-2 ha group,
with an average holding size of 1.2 ha. It is perhaps reasonable to assume that
the larger the holding, the greater the ability and likelihood of undertaking a
replanting program in stages, and the smaller is the problem of the prolonged
period (6-7 years) of loss of income which accompanies replanting.1 Through
1992 , a total of 1.16 million ha had been replanted by smallholders. Of this
replanted area, approximately 412 and 44Z was replanted by smallholders owning
less than 2 ha and between 2 to 6 ha respectively, while the rest was by holding
of over 6 ha. Because of the large concentration of smallholdings in the smaller
size group, it a#pears that replanting assistance was indeed Provided to the
smallest of smallholdinrs. despite the fact that farmers in this troup are less
able to suffer losses of income over a proloneed period and. therefore. less
prone to replant their plots. This is perhaps explained by the fact that off-
farm income accounts for a substantial proportion of household income in
smallholdings.
2.          The welfare issues arising from government assistance schemes need
to be examined in relation to the system of replanting cess collections,
replanting grants and rubber export duties.   The first implication of the
replanting cess is that smallholders who do not replant because of individual
circumstances relating to loss of income or lack of land titles are perpetually
subsidizing those who undertake replanting and avail themselves of the government
replanting grant.  A more important question that arises is whether the net
effect of the replanting cess and "grant" scheme finally represents a tax or
subsidy to producers. In the very few cases where the producers had not paid any
cess and were newly planting to rubber, the initial planting grant could be
thought of as a loan, for which the future payments of the cess could be regarded
as ex post amortization.  In this uncommon case of an initial planting, the
scheme may well imply a subsidy, especially if the productivity of the rubber is
low.   For the more typical smallholder producers who did not start with a
Note that this is a loss of income from land, but not necessarily
from labor, if alternative employment opportunities are available during the crop
development period.



- 43 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 3
planting grant,2 the scheme has the character of an (enforced) savings scheme
into which payments are made in the form of the cess, and interest accrues until
the final withdrawals are made.
3.          The calculation of whether the farmer has been taxed or subsidized
by the scheme is relatively easy in the above case.  It merely requires the
comparison of the implicit yield or interest rate of the scheme with the farmer's
own time preference rate, or with the interest rates to which he is exposed in
rural financial markets. Calculations of this sort (see Table 1) reveal that
even for interest rates substantially lower than those typically c.curring in
rural areas, and even for those producers with relatively low rubber yields (who
have thus made far less than average cess payments), the scheme has represented
a tax. Using a real interest rate of 52, the break-even average yields below
which a farmer is subsidized and above which he is taxed, is only 600 kg/ha; for
yields of above 600 kglha, which epply to all but the most inefficient
smallholders, a net tax is implied. This analysis assumes that trees have a
productive life of 25 years prior t  replanting.  If the trees have been in
production longer, so that the cess aas been paid for more than 25 years prior
to replanting, the break-even yield is even lower. Since the replanting grant
is the same on a per hectare basis, regardless of the size and duration of cess
payments, the more productive farmers, and those who delay replanting, are
particularly heavily taxeu by the scheme. An additional issue that arises in the
welfare context is that the estates receive annually the full refund of paid out
replanting cess (although without any accrued interest payments), instead of
receiving the grant spread out as yearly installments, with a stipulated per
hectare maximum, as in the case of smallholders. However, in an analysis of
equity considerations of rubber smallholder assistance, it is necessary to give
due recognition to the many RISDA schemes which operated in the past or are
continuing, such as the interest-free income maintenance loans, the K5A programs
which paralleled the above schemes for smallholders who did not have title to the
land, and the mini-estate program. All these were at least partly funded from
the replanting cess fund, and in some measure contributed to alleviating poverty
amongst rubber smallholders on a selective, individual basis. But many of these
programs were costly and the number of smallholders benefitting was very small
relative to the rubber replanting program.  Only the mini-estate management
program is still continuing, while the development of new mini-estates has been
virtually discontinued.
4.          Table  1 takes  into account  only  replanting  cess  collections
(M$99.20/ton) compared to the replanting grant. When export duty collections are
2      From 1953 through 1992, only about 52,229 ha or 42 of the total
replanted area of 1.16 million ha were newplanted and eligible for cess
assistance. About 935,000 ha or 812 of the total replanted area were first round
replantings and 148,000 ha or 13Z were second round replantings. An additional
21,200 ha (2% of total) were not eligible for cess assistance but included for
replanting as extensions of eligible rubber areas.



- 44 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
taken into account, in addition to replanting cess,3 subsidies even for
producers with low rubber yields and at lcr  interest rates may disappear,
depending on the amount of export duties.   Given the present export duty
structure (see Table 2) and world prices of rubber (about M$2,200/ton average for
RSS 3 and SMR 20 in May 1993), rubber producers pay virtually no export duties.
However, in years with relatively good world rubber prices, such as in 1988,
rubber producers vere paying export duties amounting to M$140-160/ton (4 to 52
of f.o.b. prices). Thus, though export duties can be zero or negligible with low
world rubber prices such as in 1985-1987 and 1990-1993, rubber export duty
collections vere as higb as M$1.1 billion in 1979/1980 and even in relatively
unfavorable years (1982-:.984) averaged M$180 million annually compared to average
annual replanting cess collections of M$140 million in the 1980s and M$110
million in early 1990s. Adding export duties in the years with relatively good
world rubber prices to replanting cess collections in Table 1, therefore, would
result in a net tax cn rubber producers, even those with low yields and at low
interest rates. In the case of smallholders, this net tax is lowered through
some current RISDA programs such as free inputs for mature rubber, infrastructure
construction, construction of central and group processing centers, etc.,
financed from Government budget.
S.          A question arises whether rubber producers are overtaxed in some
years and whether export duties on rubber should be removed. Available estimates
show that, in absolute terms, rubber export duties in Malaysia are not excessive
even in years with relatively good world rubber prices. The optimal export tax
that would maximize short-term revenues from rubber exports (based on short-run
import demand elasticities) could be as high as 35Z of the export price, whereas
the optimal export tax based on long-run import demand elasticities has been
estimated at about 8X of the export price.4 Thus the export duty of 4-5Z of
f.o.b. prices even in a relatively good year like 1988 did not exceed the
estimated optimal level based on long-run elasticities. However, relative to its
main competitor at the farm level, oil palm, rubber was taxed significantly in
1988 since export duties on processed palm oil were suspended in August 1986 due
to extremely low world prices of palm oil. The issue of relative taxation of
rubber and palm oil is non-existent at this time and will remain so unless world
rubber prices improve significantly in the near future.
3     Rubber producers also pay a research cess of M$38.5Olton, which has
not been included in the present analysis.
4      Mudassar Imran and Ron Duncan, "Optimal Export Taxes for Exporters
of Perennial Crops", International Economics Department, The World Bank, WPS 10,
June 1988.



- 45 -
AEx 3
Table 1
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER - REPLANTING CESS AXD GRANT a/
Rate of    Present value                 Present value of cess payments (1)
interest   of replanting               at alternative rubber yields (kg/ha) d/
(1) b/     grant £/                -_-
500    600     700     800     900     1,000   1,100   1,200
3         1171             629    755    88l       1,006   1,132   1,258   1,384   1,510
5          684             523    628     732        837     941   1,046   1,151   1,255
8          312             411    .93    575         658     740     822     904     986
10          187             356    427     498       570      641     712     783     854
Ml    Combinations to the right of the heavy line represent net taxation of smalIholders;
to the left net subsidization. The table excludes research cess (N$38.50/ton) and
export duties, which fluctuate from year to year with world prices (see Table 2).
If these were included in the analysis, the net taxation will be higher and the net
subsidization lower.
hL    As future payments of both the cess and grant are stated in 1993 ringgits (co.stant
value), this interest rate should be considered to be a "real" rate. In 1993, real
deposit rates in financial institutions were 1.5-22. Lending rates ranged from 9
to 13S (for eommercial bank lending). Real lending rates in the informal credit
sector (mainly shopkeepers and traders) were estimated to range between 102 and 302
p.a.
eL    Replanting grant: M$6,177.62/ha (M$2,500/acre) for holdings of 4.05 ha (10 acres)
or less; ES4,200.78/ha for smallholding of more than 4.05 ha.
AL    Replanting ceoss: M$99.20/ton (4.5 sen/lb).  For the purpose of calculations in this
table, it was assumed that while the economic life of a rubber tree is 32 years, the
replanting cess is only paid during the years of maturity (25 years). Yields are
average yields for the 25 year production cycle.



- 46 -
ANNEX 3
Table 2
RUBBER EXPORT DUTY STRUCTURE
Gazetted Price               Rate of Export Duty
On the first M$2.10/kg                 Ad valorem nil
Plus on the next M$0.40/kg             Ad valorem 102
Plus on the next M$0.O5Ikg             Ad valorem 20%
Plus on the balance                    Ad valorem 30%
NOTE: All duty is to be calculated in Malaysian cent (sen) per kg to the nearest
118 of a sen according to the formulae shown below (where "P" represents
the gazetted price):
Gazetted Price               Exoort Duty Formulae
(sen/kg)
210 and below                                -0-
210 118 - 250                        0.10 P minus 21.00
250 1/8 - 300                        0.20 P minus 46.00
300 1/8 and above                    0.30 P minus 76.00
The various grades of rubber are classified into one dutiable category.  A
"Gazetted Price", which is used for the calculation of duty, is gazetted and
published in the press. The "Gazetted Price" is derived by averaging the prices
of the RSS 3 and SNR 20 grades for the period between the 16th day of the month
preceding the previous month, and the 15th day of the pervious month.   The
effectiveness of the "Gazetted Price" commences on the first day of the month for
a period of one calendar month.



- 47 -
AMEX 4
Page 1 of 6
IMALAYSIA
RISDA II PROJECT
RISDA's Replanting Program
Achievements and Targets
1.        Replanting of rubber provides for the replacement of areas of old,
low yielding trees with trees of modern clones of enhanced growth vigor,
higher yield potential and improved disease and pest resistance. It enables
the industry to take advantage of the latest results of research in a
structured way and particularly of the new clone recommendation which are
triennially issued to the industry by the Rubber Research Institute of
Malaysia. Old rubber trees continue to yield at low levels for many decades
but at that stage their exploitation is not economic. Thus the annual rate of
replanting of old rubber is a useful indicator of the vigor and, to some
extent, the productivity of the industry. The industry norm for rubber is a
crop production cycle of about thirty years, equivalent to an annualized
replanting rate of about 3S. Under good field conditions, this 30 year crop
cycle comprises some 5 years of immature crop and 25 years of production. In
the smallholder sector, however, the average immaturity period is about 7
years and plantings often remain in production, at a low level, for thirty or
more years.
Renlanting Performance to Date
2.        From its inception in 1953 up to the end of 1992, Malaysia's cess-
financed rubber replanting program has supported the replanting of a total of
1,156,293 ha of smallholder rubber (this figure includes small areas of new
plantings on vacant land within smallholder areas). The replanting
performance for each year of the program is given in Table 1. The annual rate
has fluctuated quite widely over the years. Prom a moderate beginning in
1953, it climbed within a few years to more than 20,000 ha/year and remained
above 30,000 ha/year during most of sixties. The all-time annual peak of
46,041 ha was in 1965. Through the seventies, annual replanting levels were
generally lower but they rose again in the eighties. Since 1987, the annual
rate has remained consistently above 35,000 ha. In the RISDA I project period
1989-1992, annual replanting was above 37,000 ha and exceeded 40,000 ha in
1992. By totals, the first half million hectares was replanted by 1973 while
the million hectare mark was passed in 1988 (Table 2).
3.        Eliaibilitv for Renlanting.  To be eligible for replanting grants,
smallholders must have registered their rubber holdings with RISDA, have
ownership title to the holdings, and at registration the areas must be growing
a specified, low minimum number of rubber trees per hectare, regardless of
condition or whether they are in production. Holders are eligible to replant
with rubber or any of 18 other crops but areas planted with the assistance of
the replanting grant to other crops become ineligible for future assistance
and are eliminated from the register. Areas replanted with rubber are



- 48 -
AM    4
Page 2 of 6
eligible for repeat replanting grants on a 20 year minimum cycle although
longer intervals would be more normal.
4e        Catories of Replantinx.  Each registered rubber area is recorded
as a first, second or, to date, third round replanting according to the number
of times it has been replanted under the grant program. RISDA has also
assisted smallholders with grants or credit for the planting of rubber or
other crops in pockets of land on which they also have title; these areas are
usually located within or close by the main holding and without replanting
assistance, would remain out of production. RISDA's total performance across
these various categories, as at end 1992, was as follows:
- total replanted area                     1,156,293 ha
- first round rep:antings                    934,761 ha (811)
- second round replantings                    148,112 ha (131)
- third round replantings                           2ha
- new plantings, eligible for grant           52,229 ha (42)
- other plantings, not eligible for grant*   21,189 he (21)
* program terminated from 1985
5.        At the end of 1992, the total area replanted at least once was
934,761 ha. This compares with the 1,289,678 ha of old rubber registered with
RISDA up to the end of 1991. Thus it would appear that some 355,000
registered hectares remain to be replanted, or about 272 of the total;
however, many of the registrations date back to 1972 and many of the areas may
ave been converted out of agriculture. Even though the replanting program
has been operating for 40 years, first round replanting continues to be a
major feature of the annual replanting program. Thus in each year of the
RUSDA 1 project, there were 24,000 ha or more of first round replantings,
about 601 of the total. In 1992, the area of first round replanting reached
309908 ha, 751 of the total and the largest annual area since 1973. These
high levels of first round replanting reflect the focus and emphasis given by
RUSDA to first round replanters in an effort to clear the substantial backlog
of never replanted old rubber on smallholdings, and also indicate the
continuing interest of these smallholders to replant. The earliest incidence
of second round replanting of rubber, that is of rubber which had been
replanted once under the grant in the early years of the program, was in 1974
with 474 ha. This was 21 years after commencing the replanting program in
1953, just over the minimum 20 year period for eligibility. This early
replsnting indicates that the trees were in a less than satisfactory
condition, whether due to poor quality of the original plantings or subsequent
poor field maintenance. The annual area of second round replantings increased
to around 10,000 ha by 1982, but despite an increasing demand for second
grants, RISDA has stabilized the annual rate of second round replanting to the
10-12,000 ha range to ensure adequate funding for the priority first round
replanting program. The first occurrence of third round replanting, involving
only about 2 ha, was in 1992, just 40 years after launching the replanting
program*



- 49 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 6
6.        Replantinr by Cron.  Replanters have the choice of replanting their
old rubber with rubber or any of 18 other eligible crops. The choice is
vigorously exercised, largely in response to fluctuating commodity prices and
market perceptions, but agroclimatic considerations in certain arcas of the
country also affect decisions. To date, rubber has been the crop for about
772 of the total replanted area with most of the balance planted in oil palm.
The distribution of the total replanted area by principal crops is :
- 893,281 ha (772)   of rubber,
- 144,682 ha (12.52) of oil palm,
- 54,498 ha ( 52)   of fruits (non-citrus), and
-  63,832 ha ( 5.51) of other crops.
Details are given in Tables 1 and 2. Table 1 reveals that for the years 1953
through 1966, but excepting 1954 for which data does not appear reliable,
rubber accounted for about 902 of the total annual area of replanting. In
1967, the combined annual percentage for other crops jumped to 202 and has
stayed largely above that mark since that time. The rubber proporticn fell to
682 in 1972 when the planting of oil palm started to assume importance. The
rubber share then remained in the 60-70S range through to 1985 when it
suffered a further major decline. In the three years 1985-87, the rubber
share vent below 502 of RISDA's replanting program, reaching its lowest point
in 1986 at 412. Since then, however, the rubber replanting percentage has
increased to about 802 as a result of erratic palm oil prices and most
importantly, RISDA's efforts of encouraging smallholders to stay with rubber,
giving highest priority to applications for replanting rubber with rubber and
favoring applications from the predominately rubber growing northern and
eastern states.   Table 2 shows the planting levels of other crops over
various years.  Oil palm is now well established as the most important
alternative crop to rubber but it did not feature in the early years of the
progrsm. It has lost significant relative importance in the last 2-3 years.
Non-citrus fruits have been fairly consistently favored by smallholders
throughout the span of the program and recently have had iz'reasing
popularity. The demands for coconut and cocoa have fluctua,.ad widely over the
years but these two crops are now almost totally neglected; the period of
active replanting with coconut was in the first twenty years of the program
while for cocoa the interest was a 1980's phenomenon. The demands on RISDA
over the years for crops other than rubber, and particularly oil palm and
cocoa, have been largely driven by co-modity price differentials with rubber,
along with the perception in very recent years as a result of the severe
shortages of agricultural labor, that rubber production is a sunset industry.
The recent strong demand for replanting with fruits may be an indication of
the uncertainty that smallholders have as to the future of agriculture in the
country, the direction of crop commodity prices and the longer term viability
of rubber.
7.        Reglantint Performance and Rubber Crornint Cycles. The normal
thirty year crop cycle for rubber assumes that the planted stand remains
economically productive throughout the period. To ensure this condition, the
trees must be of good provenance, remain as a relatively high density stand,
be healthy and vigorous, and have a history of careful exploitation so that
there is an adequate reserve of good quality renewed bark available for



- 50 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 6
tapping. These conditions have not generally prevailed over large areas of
smallholder replantings, particularly those replanted in the first two decades
of the program when there were shortcomings in the provenance of the planted
trees and a generally low level use of production technology. From 1953 to
1971, seedlings were used in 165,000 ha or 362 of re1lantings (Table 3) as
they were readily available and easy to distribute and use under smallholder
conditions. However, the seedling provenance had only a very moderate yield
potential which is unsatisfactory by current standards, and further, it waa
difficult to assure their provenance because of difficulties of supervising
seed collection and distribution. In hindsight, from the generally less than
satisfactory production levels of those areas, it is believed that many of the
plantings were not true to label, being seeds of unselected stocks. Even
yields of areas planted with genuine seed were below those of the clones being
distrib,ited and well below the best clones being widely adopted at that time
by the estate sector. With low yields and little profitability, smallholders
opted for minimal field maintenance and large areas of seedlings were either
abandoned or allowed to revert to a rubber jungle. For the purposes of
estimating the replanting requirements of these old seedling areas, their
productive crop cycle is assumed to be only twenty years after which the areas
should be replanted. In 1972, the Replanting Board, anxious to improve the
potentials of smallholder production, ceased distribution of seedling rubber
for replanting in smallholdings.
8.        In the period up to 1971, 295,000 ha were planted with clones.
Most of the clones were first generation with a lower yield potential than
those of the more modern series which started to replace them from about 1971.
Further, as for seedlings, many of the smallholder areas planted with clones
in those years were subject to low levels of field technology resulting in
trees of generally poor vigor and badly tapped. Their economic life,
therefore, was shortened and many areas, if not already replanted, are likely
to have gone out of production. It is RISDA's view that farmers should
replant these stands as soon as possible. For planning purposes, all these
pre-1972 areas are assumed to have a 25 year crop cycle.
9.        From 1972, clonal materials of increasingly better quality became
available and were distributed to smallholders. Standards of field technology
also Improved. However, RISDA considers that the production potential of many
of the plantings of the seventies is unsatisfactory relative to those with
more recently distributed clones and thus many of the areas will almost
certainly be in need of replanting after about 25 years. A generalized thirty
year economic life for these plantings would not, therefore, be appropriate
for planning purposes. In estimating the scope of RISDA's future replanting
program, the post-1972 replants are considered as several groups to take
account of gradually improving provenances and technology. For the 1972-1976
plantings, it is assumed that 50Z should be replanted after 25 years and 502
after 30 years, while for the 1977-1980 plantings, the percentages are 25% and
75X respectively. For all plantings from 1981, the full thirty year
replanting cycle is taken as appropriate. On the basis, some areas would be
ready for third round replanting from 2003. In practice, there will be many
variations as evidenced by the first and tiny area of third round replanting
completed in 1992 after a minimum of two 20 year cycles. Based on the above



- 51 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 6
assumptions, the estimated annual areas falling due for replanting and the
cumulative totals by year, for the period 1973-2020 are shown in Table 4. The
figures are derived from the annual areas of first round replanted rubber (the
very considerable first round areas replanted to other crops are not eligible
for further replanting grant assistance). Estimates indicate that half a
million hectares will be due for second round replanting by the year 2000;
75,000 ha will be due for third round replanting by 2020.
Future Levels of Renlantinz
10.       First Round Replanting.  At the end of 1992, the estimated
registered area of old rubber still to be replanted was of the order of
355,000 ha (para 5). However, the agricultural condition and current land use
of these areas is not known. Many of the plantings may have been abandoned to
urbanization or industrial estates, or other civil works and there may also be
significant areas of disputed title. In planning for the replanting program
in the years ahead, priority must be accorded to all the unimproved areas
which remain in agriculture. Additionally RISDA believes that there may be as
many as a further 150,000 ha of old rubber, particularly on lands of disputed
or no title, which have not yet been registered. A portion of them may
qualify for replanting grant assistance. However, in the absence of data on
these latter areas and without any clear action program for bringing non-
titled, but settled, areas into the replanting cycle, these unconfirmed
150,000 ha have not been taken into account in estimating the scope of RISDA's
future replanting program.
11.       Current policy gives replanting grant priority to areas in need of
first round replanting and up to 1992, RISDA achieved about 30,000 ha per
year, leaving funds available for 10,000 ha of second round replanting. This
rate is expected to continue through 1993. For 1994/5 the annual replanting
rate is expected to be reduced to about 30,000 ha due to insufficient funds
available in the last two years of the Sixth Malaysia Plan, so that first and
second round replantings on a proportionate basis would be about 22,000 ha and
89000 ha respectively. Although the program could continue high annual levels
of first round replanting until the backlog of never replanted rubber is
cleared, it is likely that the quantum of such areas coming forward each year
would diminish as the size of the core area reduces. In estimating future
performance, it has been assumed that after 1994-5, total annual replanting
will return to 40,000 ha/year but that the levels of first time replanting
would ease down to 28,000, 22,000, 15,000 and 10,000 ha per year over the
following 13 years. The replanting of about 300,000 ha, 852 of the backlog,
by that time should virtually complete that phase of the program. Thus from
year 2009, replanting should be able to go over totally to second and third
round needs. The scenario would have to be reviewed from time to time in
light of replanting performance and evidence on outstanding registered lands
remaining in agriculture.
12.       Second Round Replanting.  Table 4 shows that up to 1992, only
148,115 ha or 37% of the total estimated area of 402,797 ha due for second
round replanting had been replanted. The estimated backlog was a little over
a quarter of a million hectares. Table 4 indicates the future scope for



- 52 -
ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 6
second round replanting predicated on the priorities assumed for first round
replanting up to year 2009.   The backlog for second and third round
replantings would continue to increase for a few years, peaking at around
275,000 ha in 1996, and thereafter slowly decline and be finally eliminated in
2016. At that time, the total cumulative area of completed second and third
round replanting would be about 772,000 ha, some 624,000 ha more than at
present. After 2016, the scope of the annual replanting program would be
determined by the annual rubber area falling due for replanting which in turn
would reflect the replanting levels of one and two planting cycles earlier.
The program could decline to below 30,000 ha/year for a year or two (the low
point would be about 21,000 ha in 2017) but would strengthen again because of
the higher replhating rates of the late eighties and would soon return to
annual levels of about 40,000 ha/year. This fluctuating program could leave
RISDA with an excess of staff resources for a few years.
Future Reilantina Poliev
13.       Although Government's replanting policy is to rejuvenate old rubber
expeditiously, agreed implementation rates are determined by availability of
replanting cess funds and budget and, at the margin, RISDA's operational
resources. Cess collections have fallen with declining national rubber
production and the rapidly increasing consumption of local manufactured rubber
on which cess is not levied; budgets are increasingly constrained by the many
competing demands of the industrial sector, while recent replanting rates are
considered to be close to RISDA's operational capacity. Under the Sixth
Malaysia Plan an annual replanting rate of 40,000 ha has been defined but
budget realities indicate that the rate will have to be reduced to about
30,000 ha/year for 1994-1995. The rate for the Seventh Plan has not yet been
decided but under current economic conditions in Malaysia it is not likely to
be expanded beyond 40,000 halyear. Thus the impact of the Sixth Plan is
likely to be a reduced area awaiting first round replanting but an increased
backlog of area requiring second round replanting. It is not clear how policy
will be translated into action to rejuvenate the more than 750,000 ha
currently in need of second round replanting. Decisions will be taken in the
framework of the perceived importance of rubber in the future economic
condition of the country, the welfare of the smallholders concerned, and the
comparative returns to investments in rubber and industry. Other critical
factors that will have to be taken into account include the severe labor
shortages in rural areas, particularly in the rubber sector, and declining
cess collections. An action plan of accelerated replanting could be
considered to -duce the backlog of replanting as quickly as possible so as to
rapidly increase the productivity of the industry. Thus if the annual
replanting rate were increased to 60,000 ha, the combined backlog of never
replanted rubber and overdue second round replanting could be eliminated by
the year 2005. Conversely an annual program of just 30,000 ha would prolong
the backlog for many years beyond 2020. The formulated policy as it affects
the replanting rate and the extent and condition of the smallholder sector,
will be in the context of moulding the future rubber industry to suit national
objectives.



- 53 -
Malaysia                             ANNEX 4
Table I
RISDA II Project
Replanring Performance 1953-1992
Area (ha)          Area (ha)                               Rubber
Planted            Planted             Total               as %
with               Other              Area (ha)           Total
Year         Rubber              Crops            Planted By Year       Planting
1953          11923                 55               11978                99.6
1954          9144                3073               12217                74.8
1955          10226                 44               10270                99.6
1956          18690               1347               20037                93.3
1957          20163               1278               21441                94.0
1958          24131               1192               25323                95.3
1959          29884               1166               31050                96.2
1960          30896                703               31599                97.8
1961          26930                687               27617                97.5
1962         31337                 958               32295                97.0
1963          37729               1756               39485                95.6
1984         36958                2792               39750                93.0
1965          41407               4634               46041                89.9
1966          21263               1694               22957                92.6
1967          32251               8555               40806                79.0
1968          15838               4961               20799                76.1
1969          15147               3434               18581                81.5
1970          21531               3990               25521                84.4
1971          23257               7480               30737                75.7
1972          23383              10919               34302                68.2
1973          28563              12295               40858                69.9
1974         23621                9427               33048                71.5
1975          21099              12559               33658                62.7
1976          14301               5519               19820                72.2
1977          12878               5474               18352                70.2
1978          13315               6038               19353                68.8
1979          14225               8228               22453                63.4
1980          15325               7694               23019                66.6
1981          22207               6867               29074                76.4
1982          23418               7783               31201                75.1
1983          22737               8980               31717                71.7
1984          17398              10959               28357                61.4
1985          10715              12516               23231                46.1
1986          12905              18628               31533                40.9
1987          16809              18418               35227                47.7
1988          22617              14116               36733                61.6
1989          25662              11955               37617                68.2
1990          29064               8659               37723                77.0
1991          31499               7782               39281                80.2
1992          32497               8287               40784                79.7
Total        892943             262902             1155845
Average       22324               6573               28896                77.8



- 54*-
MALAYSIA                                   ANNEX 4
Table 2
RISDA 11 Project
Total Area (ha) Replanted and New Planted by Crop, 1953-1992
Year          Rubber       Oil Palm       Fruits'    Cocoa     Coconut       Other        Total         Total
Non-Rubber       All Crops
1889-6        124161            0          1992          0        2238       3925            8155        132316
1960-69       289757         7845          5656          0        5340      11384           30175        319932
1970-79       196173        43597         15985        443        9865      12039           81929        278102
1960-89       189793        77191         22802      14747        1271       1906          117917        307710
1090-92        93397         18049         8063        399          42        283           24836        118233
ToW           893281        144682        54498      15589       18756      29487          263012       1156293
77%        12.5%            5%       1.5%        1.5%       2.5%             23%
Detai for Yearm 1988-92
1096           12905        11635          3219       3591          58        125           18628         31533
41%          37%           10%        11%                                    59%
1967           16809         10673         3252       4240          53        200           18418         35227
48%          30%            9%        12%                                    52%
168B           22617         8183          2911       2691          59         273          14117         36734
62%          22%            8%         7%                                    38%
106            25662         8131          2667        932          35         190          11955         37617
68%          22%            7%         2%                                    32%
1000           29064         6130          2205        214          20         90            8659         37723
77%          16%            6%         1%                                    23%
1001           31499         4959          2549        143           13        118           7782         39281
80%          13%            6%                                               20%
1902           32834         4960          3309         42           9         75            8395         41229
80%          12%            8%                                               20%
Non-citus



- 55 -
Malaysia                                          ANNEX 4
jbbe 3
RISDA II Project
Rubber Replanting 1953-1998
Area (ha) by Crop Cycle of Replanted Clones
Area (ha)            Cumulatfve
Planted               Area (h)         Seedlings          Old Clones           New Clones
Year           with Rubber             Planted           20 Years           25 Years             30 Years
1953              11923                 11923                3041                6882
1954               9144                 21067                7088                2056
1953              10226                 31293                9866                 360
1956              18690                 49983               14232                4458
1957              20163                 70146               13171                6992
1958              24131                 94277               14458                9673
1959              29884                124161               16949               12935
1960              30896                1550S7                9241               21655
1961              26930                181987                9346               17584
1962              31337                213324                9748               21589
1963              37729                251053               11172               26557
1964              36958                288011                8540               28418
1965              41407                329418                8450               32957
1966              21263                350681                6146               15117
1967              32251                382932                3355               28898
1968              15838                398770                5276               10562
1969              15147                413917                4545               10602
1970              21531                435448                6181               15350
1971              23257                458705                3862               19395
1972              23383                482088                                   11691                 11692
1973              28563                610651                                   11781                 11782
1974              23621                534272                                   11810                 11611
1975              21099                555371                                   10549                 10550
1976              14301                569672                                    7150                  7151
1977              12878                582550                                    3219                  9659
1978              13315                595865                                    3329                  9986
1979              14225                610090                                    3556                 10669
1980              15325                625415                                    3831                 11494
i196              22207                647622                                                         22207
1982              23418                671040                                                         23418
1983              22737                693777                                                         22737
1984              17398                711175                                                         17398
1985              10715                721890                                                         10715
i986              12905                734795                                                         12905
1987              16809                751604                                                         16809
1988              22617                774221                                                         22617
1989              25662                799883                                                         25662
1980              29064                828947                                                         29064
1991              31499                860446                                                         31499
1992              32834                893280                                                         32834
1993              32000                925280                                                         32000
1994              24000                949280                                                         24000
1985              24000                973280                                                         24000
1996              32000               1005280                                                         32000



-56 -
Malaysia                                     ANNEX4
Table 4
RISDA II Project
2nd/3rd Replantlng 1973 - 2020 (all areas In ha)
Newv               New            Cumubtive           Area         Cumulative          Area
Area due           Area due          Area due         replanted      Area Replanted    waiting for
Year    for 2nd             for 3rd        for 2nd/3rd         2nd/3rd         2nd/3rd         2nd/3rd
Replanting         Replantin         Replanting         time             Time          Replanting
1973     3041                                 3041                 0               0            3041
1974     7008                                10129               424             424            9705
1975     98W                                 19995              1820            2244            17751
1976    14232                                34227              1699            3943           30284
1977    13171                                47398              2671            6614           40784
1978    23340                                70738              3603           10217           60521
1979    19006                                89744              5175           15392           74352
1960     9601                                99345              5914           21306           78039
1981    13804                               113149              7617           28923           84226
1982    16740                               129889              9226           38149           91740
1083    20845                               150734             10098           48247           102487
1984    21475                               172209             10081           583k8.  113881
1985    30105                               202314              9086           67414           134900
19W6    23730                               226044             12141           79555           146489
1987    24944                               250988             12070           91625           159363
1988    31833                               282821             12345          103970           178851
1989    32963                               315784             12899          116869           198915
1090    39138                               354922             11022          127891           227031
1991    18979                               373901             10039          137930           235971
1992    28896                               402797             10185          148115           254682
1093    10562                               413359              7885          156000           25s359
1094    10602                               423961              8000          164000           255961
1995    15350                               439311              8000          172000           261311
1998    19305                               458706             12000          184000           268706
1997    11691                               470397             12000          196000           268397
1998    11781                               482178             18000          208000           268178
1099    11810                               493988             18000          226000           261988
2000    10549                                504537            18000          244000           254537
2001     7150                               511687             25000          262000           243687
2002    14911                               526598             25000          287000           233598
2003    15111                                541709            25000          312000           223709
2004    15637                 321           557397             30000          337000           214397
2005    14381                1177            572955            30000          367000           199955
2008     7151                1318           581424             30000          397000           178424
2007     9659                2004           593087             30000          427000           160087
2008     0968                2428           605501             40000          457000           142501
2009    10689                3183            619353            40000          497000           116353
2010    11494                3573            634420            40000          537000            91420
2011    22207                5430           662057             40000          577000            79057
2012    23418                6100            691575            40000          617000            68575
2013    22737                6050            720362            40000          657000            57362
2014    17398                4489            742249            40000          697000            39249
2015    10715                2877            755841            40000          737000            12841
2018    12905                3441            772187            29187          772187                0
2017    16809                4298            793294            21107          793294                0
2018    22617                6179            822090            28796          822090                0
2019    25662.               7506            855258            33168          855256                0
2020    29064                6950            891272            36014          891272                0



-57 -
ANNEX S
MALAYSIA
RISDA II PROJECT
Breakdown of Grent Payment by Crco 1/
Installment per Ha (M$)
TOTAL
Crop Type                                                  M___                            IM$)
First     Second     Third     Fourth     Fifth     Sixth   Seventh
Rubber     (A)   1828.57      1013.13    741.31    741.31    741.31    617.76   494.23   6,177.62
(B)   1359.07     617.76    555.98    555.98     432.43    432.43   247.13   4,200.78
Oil Palm   (A)   1729.73      1359.07    864.86    494.23                     .           4,447.89
(a)   1482.63     988.42    691.89    296.53                                 3,459.47
Cocoa      (A)   2100.39      864.86     741.31    741.33            .             .      4,447.89
(B)   1729.73     593.05    568.34    568.35                                  3,459.47
Cloves,    (A)   1482.63      741.31     741.31    741.31    741.33                       4,447.89
Nutrnags,    CS)   1235.52    617.76     617.76    494.21    494.22       .               3,459.47
Coffee,
and Non-
Citrus
Fruifts_ _ _ _ _ ___ _ _                                           _ _
Coconuts   (A)   1729.73      741.31     741.31    617.78    617.78                       4,447.89
and         (B)   1482.63     543.63     543.63    444.78    444.80                .      3,459.47
Sago
Pepper      (A)   1976.84     1482.63    494.21    494.21                                 4.447.89
(9)   1729.73     988.42    370.65    370.67                 .                3.459.47
Padi       (A)   1482.63      1235.52    864.86    864.88                                 4,447.89
(B)   1235.52     741.31    741.31    741.33       .          .        .      3,459.47
Citrus      (A)   2100.39     864.86     741.31    741.33                                 4,447.89
Fruits.    (B)   1729.73      593.05     568.34    568.35            .        .           3,459.47
Tea,
Pineapple,
and
Manmil
(A b aca)__        _ _ _ _ ___                                                    _ _ _  __ _ _ _ _
Sugarcane   (A)   1976.84     1235.52   1235.53                                           4,447.89
(a)   1729.73     864.86    864.88                 .              .          3,459.47
Orchid     (A)   1976.84      1606.18    864.87      .          .         .        .      4,447.89
(B)   1729.73    1111.97    617.77       .         .         .         .     3459.47
Ginger &    (A)   1976.84     1482.63    988.42      .          .                         4,447.89
Fodder      (B)   1729.73     1111.97    617.77      .          .         .        .      3,459.47
Crops
.1I Effective Januery 1, 1991.
(A)  For owners of 4 ha (10 acres) or less.
(B)  For owners of more then 4 he (10 acres).



-58 -
A  6.1
RISDA II PROJECT
iLOW OaT OF PR            SPS    RWUNTM
Applicatt ei
R0Iegletretion of Application                                                           1-2
rRept applilection or 0-10
Cech Greant Index, Lot, Now- I
I    -    ~~Not In O"ordvsie2r
«IOoli ln  or       Prept  visit formsa          21-80
Itnitial Visit                                           aNd "be visit
1  |8a;tion of  ldity        14-0
Lamination of S/SW fom                                   carried out sisuita-
partersbip p8p0r,                                        neacalY with visit
lndxities  f InecessaY
7Evaluate aN  advise         30-46
Accotemset for payment film                app licat and
F      "All If appropriat er                          opation of It
(Fund A)
Change of crop   imitation (oncarried out elsuita-                      30-135
title) it nocoomry                     aou~~~neoly git).
8960CU1 e t  for Fund 'A'
lEvaluate visit rport                                                                  2-3
Eotify approval of application                                                         12
rLan  prearation by fanor                                                              90120
Notification that land is
ledy
Ezaination (InspOction)
Great visit                                              of Land after farer          10-14
advises land Is ready
0   Evaluate Great Visit Report   |otponsM j                                               2-3
Ii' 
Preparo romrd card, inden,                                                             4-5
P lot and no and transfer for
U   IIPIrat Vogr  r, ant           |
INotify PaysontI
Order matoriols, prpaPre
:f                                            w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~owehara and areon  lT-2C
Ordor planting eaterlale,                               vouchlg of cderralne at
*   fortilieors, Prepao payment                              sending of pestrii t
p_Esatt vouchor
Succeeding great processing                              Elapse  time (total) Is     2349
sad p.yma*a                                              & 5-1/2 to 7-1/2 omaha      238-29
8SP  I                    if nO legal difficulties
Pr_o   Coploted                        Applicetion
Rejted



- 59 -
KALiYLA                                AUEU 6.2
RISDA II PROJECT
P1wo Chart of                zProcoao
Occurrence of Disoater
Farmer reports disaster
and applies for Rehbblitation
Regietration of Application j
JISDA inspector
visits subject area
tIspector iseues report & est-
imtad cost of rebab. (F.?181)
Application approved by                         AppliCation approvod by Re-
State Officer for rehab. at                     g1anal Officer for rehab. at
2adi3rd replant. 8rent otag                     4  th-7th replant. grant stage
fIssue of Provisional Approval to
Farmr (Form T27)        to
Farmer accepts rehab. assistanoe
by return of Form TSS8
_  _    ~~~~~~~~I
Inputs of Rehabilitation
eoomeDce
State Off. reports_
applications & ap-
provals xnathly to_
HQ (Form TS55)     Every trimester
State Office re-
ports on status
of all rohab.
approvals to HQ
(Form TS92)
Replanting Division regularly
reports an status of rehab.
program to RISDA Board.
Completion of rehabilitation attested
by Inspector's report
Parmer continues replant under reg. grant
program from stage disaster occurred



- 60 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 6
MALAYSIA
RISDA 11 PROJECT
Production of Oualitv Planting Materials and Rubber Nursery Improvement
The Concept and Achievement of Oualitl
1.        Trees of a good field planting of rubber are vigorous and uniform
in size. The key to achieving a good stand is the planting of quality
planting material regardless of its type (budded stumps, young buddings etc).
Without quality there will be higher planting losses, less uniform tree
growth, a longer immaturity period, fewer productive trees and reduced yields.
2.        The Characteristics of Oualitv.  Good planting material consists of
uniform, healthy, vigorous and desirable plants of the same age. If they are
not of the same age, uniformity of vigor of the plants cannot be assured
despite being of the same size. To ensure uniformity of vigor of budded
rubber, the rootstock and scion components must each be of similar age.
Nursery plants are normally supplied at the same stage of scion growth (2-
whorl) and so to that extent, appear uniform. Commonly, however, the
rootstock section of the plants are very variable in size (thickness of the
stem) and thus are of variable vigor. But even if uniform in size, they may
not be similar in vigor because of age differences. Big stocks do not
necessarily equate with vigorous stocks - they may be older, slower growing
plants of low vigor. Quality planting material of uniform vigor is only
assured when the rootstocks and scions in a population of budded plants are
each of uniform size and of similar ages. To be rigidly avoided is the mixing
of populations of stocks or scions of different ages to achieve similarities
in sizes particularly in field consignments as these will inherently be of
mixed vigor and would become apparent in subsequent unevenness of tree growth.
3.        Technologv of Oualitv Production.  Nursery operators must know more
than the basic techniquei ot raising budded plants if they are to produce
quality materials. They must understand the concept of quality, know the
necessary production techniques for it and have the objective (and incentive)
to produce it. Achieving quality requires appropriate nursery production
technology and management with a strong emphasis on plant selection which must
be rigorously applied at all stages of the nursery cycle and particularly at
germination, during growth of the seedling, budgrafting and during the growth
of the budding. At each of these stages, the plants must be examined and
selected for uniformity of vigor and all plants not meeting the criteria must
be discarded. A list of critical criteria in the production of quality
material is given in Appendix 1.
4.        Training for Quality Production.  Nursery production is a skilled
process. It looks fairly simple but unless properly done, the results,
especially after field planting, can be very adverse with important
implications for the economic life and productivity of the plantings. Success
requires knowledge of appropriate technology and adequate physical resources.
These essentials are generally more available in large-. nurseries than in
small scattered nurseries particularly at the village lerel but there is a
dearth of operators at RISDA nurseries who have been well trained and have the



- 61 -                                      7
Page 2 of 6
skills to produce quality plants. It is equally essential that RISDA staff
concerned with the program of production and distribution of planting
materials understand quality of plantiog materials and carry out meaningful
monitoring for quality during their routine supervisions of nurseries and
field deliveries - it is not just a matter of checking plant numbers and plant
size (2-whorl plants). To these ends, the project will include a
comprehensive training program for all concerned in the production of planting
materials. An outline of the proposed training course is given at Appendix 2,
while further details of the categories and numbers of trainees and costs are
given in Annex 15, Table 2.
Nursery Production in 1992
5.        Ouantitv of Production.  Over the past few years, the production of
RISDA's planting materials has been decentralized from the Scheme 56159
nurseries to ESPEK nurseries on RISDA lands and, increasingly, to cooperative
nurseries in line with RISDA's policy to support the development of RISDA
cooperatives. The cooperative nursery managements, in turn, have contracted
out considerable volumes of production to their individual members to be
produced on their own holdings under the umbrella nursery concept. The total
number of nurseries involved is not precisely known but including the many
small umbrella nurseries was probably in excess of 150 in 1992. ESPEK
coordinated production from their own and main cooperative nurseries but they
were not responsible for ensuring production levels from other cooperative
sources. Details of 1992 production are given in Table 1.
Table 1: Supply of Planting Materials 1992
(millions of plants)
TVDO of Planting Material
Polybag        Polybag
Budded          Young        Budded   Core
Stump          Budding       Stump    Stump    Total    Z
Nursery Source
RISDAI/SPEK nurseries   4.06            0.85                           4.95   37
Cooperative nurseries   5.88            0.64                           6.52   50
Others                                                1.65    0.05    1.70   13
Total               9.94           1.49          1.65    p.O5   13.13   100
76             11           13        1      100
Class of Clone Used
Class I                  4.73           0.53          0.80    0.01    6.07   46
Class II                 5.19           0.93          0.83    0.04    6.99   53
Class III                0.02           0.03          0.02             0.07    1
Total              9.94            1.49          1.65    0.05   13.13
X                 76              11            13             100



- 62
ANX 7
Page 3 of 6
Cooperative nurseries produced at least half of the requirements. About 762
of the supplies were in the form of budded stumps in polybags with most of the
balance going out as polybag young buddings or bare-root budded stumps, often
to cooperative nurseries for polybag production. Quantity and quality of the
polybag young buddings has been critically inadequate (para 7). By clones,
nearly all the production was from Classes I and II with little more than half
from Class 11.
6.        Quality of Production.  With the rapid and large increase in the
number of nursery sites, RISDA's overall supervision of the program became
more difficult, less intensive and less effective. Adequate technical
production skills at the nursery level were not assured and the overall
quality of plants supplied to smallholders declined significantly. Sample
observations on the quality of polybag budded stumps, the standard planting
material produced, revealed that it ranged from very good to very bad
according to management arrangements. In central nurseries operated and
managed by ESPER, where production techniques and facilities are generally
adequate, quality has been decidedly better than in cooperative nurseries.
One very serious shortcoming, however, is that there has been very little
plant selection and thus it cannot be assured that the plants received by
smallholders are of high vigor even though they are otherwise generally
healthy and up to size. In the cooperative nurseries and particularly in
their umbrella offshoots, the basic production techniques are generally not in
place and there is little evidence that there is any significant selection of
plants on vigor of growth and overall quality is far from satisfactory. The
losers in this system are the smallholder replanters who receive planting
material of very variable quality, who are not sensitive to quality issues and
who are not aware of the potential production losses from use of such variable
materials.
7.        The Production of Polvbaa Younit Buddings.  In the last 2-3 years,
RISDA has promoted pilot programs through the cooperatives for the production
of polybag young buddings, a relatively new and more advanced type of planting
material. Its production involves new production skills and more stringent
physical facilities, especially for watering which, if not in place, generally
result in poor quality plants.   The unit plant production cost is also higher
than for standard materials. The results of RISDA's young budding program,
both in the ESPEK and cooperative nurseries, have been unsatisfactory,
particularly in the cooperative nurseries and their umbrellas. Plants have
been poorly grown and highly variable in vigor and losses have been high.
Production levels have severely underrun targets. The problems have arisen
from a lack of understanding of the new production system and the skills and
physical inputs needed for its successful implementation. These deficiencies
can only be rectified through a comprehensive training program. Meanwhile, to
protect the interests of the smallholder replanters, young buddings should not
be part of RISDA's regulae planting material production and distribution
program. Further, their production must be centralized and restricted, at
this stage, to those few ESPEK nurseries which have the production skills,
necessary nursery infrastructure and resources to produce materials of
quality.



63                                 ANX 7
Page 4 of 6
Production Arrantements Under the Proiect
8.        A move to more centralized production arrangements where
appropriate levels of skills, input facilities, management and RISDA
supervision could be provided is *uecessary to ensure that RISDA's nursery
production targets vill be achieved and, most importantly, to reverse the
decline in quality of planting materials going to smallbolders. To this end,
production will be refocussed on central nurseries under the project.
9.        ArranBements for 1993.  RISDA has made ESPEK responsible for
arranging production of the year's requirements of about 14 million plants.
For most of the production, contracts will be awarded to cooperatives to
maintain their strong role in the program. Most of the production in the
ESPEK nurseries will be undertaken by selected cooperatives or consortia of
cooperatives under contract working under the supervision of ESPER
supervisors. There will also be contracts for production at specified
cooperative nurseries which will be subject to some ESPEK supervision. The
cooperatives will continue to have the facility to subcontract production to
umbrella nurseries which will not be supervised by ESPEK. The total number of
nurseries for the year will remain large but fewer than in 1992. There will
be about seven large central nurseries on RISDA/ESPEK lands, about 19
nurseries on cooperative lands and an undetermined number of umbrella
nurseries. The seven nurseries will be in the States of Kedah, Perak, Johore,
Pahang, Terengganu and Kelantan. An ESPEK nursery may also be developed in
Melaka. These ESPEK managed central nurseries are targeted to produce around
5 million plants or 352 of RISDA's requirements. Production in the 19
cooperative nurseries in various States and in the umbrella nurseries will
amount to about 60Z of RISDA's requirements (Table 2). All production in
Negeri Sembilan will be from umbrella nurseries. The balance of RISDA's
requirements will be produced directly by ESPEK who will also produce an
additional amount of about 201 of RISDA's total requirements to provide a
buffer for supply shortfalls from the cooperative and umbrella nurseries.
Table 2: Planned Type and Source of Planting Materials for 1993
(millions of plants)
Cooperatives at         Other
Type of         RISDAIESPRK         RISDA/ESPEK          Cooperative
Material         Nurseries          Nurseries             Nurseries      Total
Polybag budded
stumps             1.70               0.95                 3.61          6.26
Polybag young
budding.           0.30                3.57                4.75          8.62
Others               0                  0.15                 0.87          1.02
Total           2.00               4.67                 9.23         15.90



- 64 _
ANNEX 7
Page 5 of 6
10.       Arranaements for 1994 Onwards.  The number of nursery sites will be
further centralized and decreased to about 15 total. These will consist of 9
or 10 nurseries on ESPEK sites but operated by consortia of cooperatives, and
a few cooperative nurseries in areas not well served by the proposed
ESPER/cooperative nurseries. The actual number in these remoter areas will
depend on RISDA logistics of being able to distributu plants to smallholders
in all parts of the country and particularly in areas of difficult access such
as Ulu Kelantan and North Perak (Grik). A list of the proposed sites is gliven
in Appendix 3. ESPEK will be responsible for the production of RISDA's total
requirements and will keep all sites under supervision. ESPEK will have
management responsibility for performance of the contracted cooperatives on
ESPEK sites, the large production areas, and will maintain full time
supervisors on site who will be closely involved in day to day operations. In
the remoter nurseries on cooperative member lands, ESPEK will supervise
periodically but will not be involved in the daily operations. In addition to
the buffer supply of planting materials, ESPEK will also get 20X of the
regular planting material contract and use the profits from the contract to
cover its incremental cost of supervision of improved rursery arrangements.
11.       Consultant Assessment of Nursery Operations.  In a move to assure
quality of planting materials, RISDA will contract with RRIN as consultant to
provide an independent assessment of performance of the nurseries. The
consultant will regularly monitor nursery operations at each critical stage in
the plant production cycle and will report observations and recommendations to
RISDA and ESPEK as well as official agencies. There would be about 8 visits
to each nursery in the production cycle. The proposed schedule of visits in
relation to stages of growth of the nursery materials and the critical
criteria for assessing the quality of nursery performance are at Appendix 4.
Choice of Clones
12.       RISDA/ESPEK nurseries maintain a total of about 854,000 clone
source bushes for use in budgrafting. At a conservative estimated production
of 25 buds per bush per year, total production would be about 21 million buds
which, after allowances for losses, would be sufficient for program needs.
This assumes, however, that virtually all clones represented would be
desirable for smallholders. A fairly large but unknown number of source
bushes are also available in cooperative nurseries but with general concern
over the reliability of their labelling, they will not be used in the ESPER
managed program starting 1994. The ESPEK nursery source bushes comprise all 6
of the Class I RRIM recommended clones and 17 out of the 20 Class II clones.
There is a small selection of 16 Class III clones but none of this category is
recommended for smallholder use other than for trial purposes under controlled
conditions. In light of the RRTM's view that future plantings should be with
clones suitable for LITS exploitation cystems, it is necessary to e"aluate the
source bush numbers in respect to snitable clones for the technology. The
distribution of source bush numbers by clone classes and suitability
categories for LITS are shown in Table 3.



_ 65 -
ANNEX 7
Page 6 of 6
Table 3: Clone Source Bush Numbers in ESPEK Nurseries
(thousands)
Suitable for
Clone     Suitable for        LITS with            Not
Class         LITS          Restrictions       Classified      Total        S
I            195               90                 0          285          33
II              0              290               258          548          64
III              0                0                21           21           3
Total     195              380              279           854         100
2          23               44               33           100
13.       Although 97% of the source bushes comprise Class I and II clones,
only 67% of the bushes are of clones suitable for LITS, indicating that there
is a potentially serious program supply problem. The potential undersupply is
particularly serious for Class I clones. The numbers of source bushes of
Claos I clones recommended for LITS without limitations (195,000) meets only
23Z of total requirements, a very inadequate proportion in relation to the
recommendation that smallholders should be planting not less than 50X of their
area with Class I clones. For the 50% balance of area, smallholders may use
all Class II clones; these should be suitable for LITS but in the case of
progressive farmers, 20S could be speculative clones in that they have not
been evaluated for LITS. The nursery population of 548,000 source bushes of
Class II clones includes 290,000 source bushes of the three Class II clones
suitable for LITS with restrictions; these could provide about 33% of total
Class II replanting requirements. Therefore, there is a deficit in the Class
1I category to cater for general smallholders requirements. There would be no
difficulty in meeting the additional clone requests from progressive farmers.
Clearly ESPEK will need to adjust their source bush nursery clone populations
as a matter of priority to meet project requirements. In particular, the
numbers of Class I clones without restrictions need to be increased and
proportions changed smong the Class II clones, particularly stressing those
clones which have already been provisionally identified as suitable for LITS.
Numbers of other Class II clones should not be expanded without signals from
the RRIM as to their performance with LITS. There should be no further
expansion of Class III clones.



_ 66 _
A=7
hooedix I
Page 1 of 2
MALAYSI
RISDA II PROJECT
Critical Technical Factors in
Production of Qualitv Rubber Plantinft Materials
Production Stage               Critical Factors
Seeds                          Use seeds of clones CT I, ERIM 605, 623, 712 and
901, PB 5151, 217 and 235. Avoid seeds of
clones RRDH 600 and PB 260.
Use fresh viable seed only.
Germination                    Transplant seedlings as soon as radicals emerge.
Discard all seedlings with twisted roots.
Discard all seeds germinating after 15 days.
Young Seedlings                Discard genetic yellows, runts and unhealthy
plants.
Seedlings up to                Carry out regular selection rounds.
budgrafting                    Eliminate undesirable seedlings to produce
population of uniform and vigorous plants
(discarding 30 - 40% at this stage is normal).
Use only slow release fertilizer for polybag
seedlings and young buddings.
Budgrafting                    Bud only well-grown stocks.  Discard all
unbudded or unsuccessfully budded stocks in
ground nursery or polybags ifter two budding
rounds.
Cutback                        Cut short snags for green buddings, long snags
for young buddings.
In green budded stumps, cut back sna& to below
stem bud clusters (nodes) where pructical.
Cutback first and second round buddgrafings at
the same tim for more even growth of buddings.



- 67 -
A 7
A&pendix I
Page 2 of 2
Production Stage              Critical Factors
Clear col _ marking system for all plants of
each clone.
Polybags                      Avoid re-cycled polythene.  Fill bags with
quality soil. Do not over-crowd bags in nursery
- double rows of bags preferred.
Install sprinkler watering system.
Planting of Stumps            Use only stumps with straight taproots.  All
twisted roots must be discarded.
Cut back tap root to about 20cms long. Insert
firmly into polybag with wet soil to the full
length of the root to ensure lateral root zone
covered by soil.
Maintain frequent inspection rounds for stock
shoots (twice per week) and remove.
Eliminate all plants with weak or undesirable
scions.
Budding. in bags              Remove plants with weak, abnormal and semi-
dieback scions.
Maintain selection pressure on population and
remove all plants lacking vigor.
Firm soil around the plant collar.
Have clones verified as appropriate.
Field planting                Tail polybag plants suitable for field planting
at least one week before.
Transplant only uniform and vigorous plants with
two or, at most, three whorls of hardened,
healthy leaves, not counting any short first
whorl with yellow or fallen leaves.



_ 68 -
Appendix 2
Page 1 of 2
RISDA II PROJECTT
Trainina in Production of Planting Materials
1.        Training of key personnel is a first and critical step in the
program to upgrade quality of rubber planting materials produced for RISDA's
replanting program. All will be required to undergo a broad and intensive 10-
day course on the production of rubber planting materials to be provided by
the RRIN. They include ESPEK nursery managers and supervisors, cooperative
nursery managers and supervisors involved in the production of planting
materials under cooperative contracts in central and cooperative nurseries and
the few cooperative umbrella nurseries in isolated areas, and selected RISDA
staff involved in the overall performance of the program. RISDA staff will
include extension staff concerned with monitoring of production and supply of
materials in individual nurseries and in the overall program, and for
refresher training, the RISDA trainers in planting material production at the
RISDA training institutes. The focus of the course vill be on understanding
the full meaning of quality planting material, particularly in respect to
uniformity of vigor, and the technologies required to produce such materials
of the types used by RISDA. In this, there will be a strong emphasis on plant
selection as the key tool in the process.
2.        The outline schedule of the proposed RRIM course is given on the
following page. In format, it is a combination of lectures, discussions, and,
in most morning sessions, hands-on practicals. A visit to a commercial
nursery is also included. The courses will be conducted at Sungai Buloh and
for training effectiveness, they vill be limited to about 15 participants
each. Fees charged cover tuition, lodging and food, and transport.



_69 _
ANNEX 7
Anpendix 2
Page 2 of 2
Outline and Curriculum of Training course
Day       Subject Matter
Day I     Assemble
Day 2     Course orientation
Rubber seed collection and identification
Seed selection
Seed germination, seedling selection and planting
Day 3     Types of planting materials
Principles of selection
Preparation and planting of ground nursery
Day 4     Establishment of polybag nurseries
Production of budded stumps in polybags
Day 5     Production of young polybag buddings
Production of core stumps and other advanced planting materials.
Day 6     Establishment and maintenance of source bush nursery
Source bush production
Harvesting and packing of budsticks
Day 7     Free
Day 8     Manuring of nurseries and polybags
Clones and clone recommendations
Day 9     Visit to commercial nurseries
Day 10    Chemical weed control in nurseries
Pest and disease control.
Day 11    Departure



- 7O0
ANNEX ?
Appendix 3
Page 1 of 1
MALAYSIA
RISDA II PROJECT
ProDosed Central and CooDerative Nurseries from 1994
No    State                 Nursery Location                       Management
1.    Kedah                 Bukit Perak                            ESPEK
2.    Kedah                 Baling                                 Cooperative
3.    Perak                 Gunung Tunggal, Sitiawan               ESPEK
4.    Perak                 KS.Changkat Sulaiman                   ESPEK
5.    Perak                  Crik                                  Cooperative
6.    Melaka                Kesang Pajak                           ESPEK
7.    Johore                Kg. Sekijang                           ESPEK
8.    Pahang               KR. Awak                                ESPEK
9°.   Pahang                Gambang                                ESPEK
10.   Terengganu            Bt.17, K.Berang                        ESPEK
11.   Terengganu            Proposed, Kemaman                      (Cooperative)
12.   Kelantan              Gading Galoh                           ESPEK
13.   Kelantan              Proposed, Ulu Kelantan                 (Cooperative)
14.   Kelantan              Proposed, Ulu Kelantan                 (Cooperative)
15.   Kelantan              Proposed, Tanah Merah                  (Cooperative)
16.   Negeri Sembilan       Proposed, to be determined             (ESPEK)



- 71 -
ANNEX 7
Agpendix 4
Page 1 of 2
MALAYSIA
RISDA II PROJECT
fRODUCTION OF PLANTING MATERIALS
Visit Schedule and Assessment Criteria
Visit               Stage of
Sequence          Nursery Operations                    Assessment Criteria
First             Land/polybag                     (i)  Soil suitability
preparation                    (ii)  Irrigation facility and water source
(iii)  Polybags: plastic material, size,
placement, soil quality and
filling
Second            Seed germination                 (i)  Seed freshness and viability,
germination tests
(ii)  Seed planting, days to germination
(iii)  Budwood nursery: capacity, vigor and
health of source bushes, pruning,
clone demarcation
Third             Transplanting of                 (i)  Handling techniques for germinated
germinated seed                      seed
(ii) Adequacy of watering polybag nursery
(iii)  Organization and maintenance of
ground nursery, control of weeds
(iv)  Condition of source bushes
Fourth             1 month after                   (i)  Culling program for runts, genetic
transplanting                        yellows and undesirable seedlings
(ii)  Watering of polybag nursery
(iii)  Condition of ground nursery
(iv) Adherence to recommended fertilizer
prograe
Fifth             Time of budding                  (i)  Percent seedling buddability
(ii)  Seedling vigor and uniformity
(iii)  Status of budwood nursery,  quality
and quantity of budaticks
(iv)  Color coding for clone
identification
(v)  Fertilizer program: manuring of
ground nurseries and foliar
application in polybag nurseries



_ 72 _
aNRE 7
Aogendiz 4
Page 2 of 2
Visit                 Stage of
Sequence          Nursery Operations                    Assessment Criteria
Sixth             Cutback and planting           (i)   Snag length of budded
of budded stumps                     stumps and young buddings
(ii)   Stem size of budded stumps, length
of cut tap root, culling of
undesirable tap roots
(iii)   Discarding of all budding failures
and all unbudded smaller plants
after two budding rounds
(iv)   Adequacy of manuring and watering
Seventh           I - 1 months                  (i)   Bud sprouting, condition of scion
after cutback                        growth
(ii)    elimination of undesirable buddings
(iii)   Pruning of stock shoots
(iv)   Adequacy of manuring and watering
Eighth            Tvo-whorled polybag            (i)   Census of quality two-whorled
plants                               polybag plants by clones
(ii)   Color coding of clones
(iii)   Culling of small and undesirable
plants
(iv)   Tailing of plants ready for dispatch
(v)    Packaging of plants
(vi)   Adequate watering of tailed plants



_73 _
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 3
MALAYSIA
RISDA 11 PROJECT
Clone Choice and LITS
1.        Field experience of many years including two years in Malaysia has
confirmed that LITS technology (reduced frequency tapping with stimulation) is
effective in eliminating problems of severe shortages of tappers, a
particularly relevant factor threatening the viability of the rubber industry
in Malaysia at this time. It is also a powerful technology for improving the
efficiency of crop production and economic returns above the levels normally
achieved with standard alternate daily tapping. For these reasons, the RRIM
has described LITS technology as the way of the future for the rubber
industry.
2.        The critical factor in determining the success of a LITS program,
apart from the influences of implementation arrangements and agroclimatic
conditions, is the suitability of the rubber clones used with the technology.
Some clones respond well to stimulation, an integral part of LITS technology,
while others do not. Yield responses to stimulation vary according to the
inherent physiological characteristics of clones and particularly their levels
of metabolic activity. Clones with high activity are easily stressed by
atimulation, which by its nature promotes higher metabolic levels, and may
develop serious problems of bark dryness. Thus, in introducing LITS, it is
imperative to know the suitabilities of the clones to be used. It is equally
important for the industry and the farmers that the clones chosen for the
planting of rubber areas from now onwards will be suitable for the technology
and will be able to sustain long term productivity to ensure the economic
viability of the rubber smallholdings. The appropriate clone choice requires
a knowledge of the relevant characteristics and suitability of the currently
recommended clones for planting by smallholders. It will be 6-7 years before
clones planted now will enter into production; at that time LITS is expected
to be standard exploitation technology.
3.        The current RRIM clonal recommendations published in late 1992
recommend only Class I and IT clones for smallholder planting. From these
groupings, the RRIM's recommendations to RISDA for their replanting program
are the Class I clones and 10 out of the 20 clones of Class II. Details are
given in Table 1. The recommendations provide no guidelines on clone
suitability for LITS. The limited information on clone responses to
stimulation is in the context of the use of stimulant to increase yields under
standard tapping systems, a concept which is not compatible with LITS
technology as the purpose of the stimulation is to compensate for otherwise
reduced production as a result of less frequent tapping. RRIM has, however,
some limited unpublished information from their own tests on clone responses
to stimulation with LITS and, in the case of some clones, documentation of
responses from trials and commercial practice in other countries. A broad
based review by RRIM senior technical staff of this information for the Class
I and Class II clones of the RRIM recommendations enabled the identification
of an interim list of clones which could be expected to respond suitably to



_ 74 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 3
stimulation with LITS and which could therefore, be recommended to
smallholders for planting at this time.
4.        RRDX stresses that the list is interim.  During the project they
will accelerate efforts to define the suitability of most, if not all, their
recommended Class 1 and 2 clones for use with LITS technology and particularly
the clones of Class II, many of which are highly popular for planting. For
this purpose, they will mount a series of short term trials to evaluate the
responsiveness to stimulation with LITS of the 10 Class II clones especially
recommerded for RISDA smallholders and also clone PB 260 of Class I, the one
clone of that class which may not be suitable for unrestricted use with the
technology. Out of this program, RRIM hopes to be able to provide RISDA with
more definitive planting guidelines within the next 3 years. Results would be
supplemented by researches on physiological aspects of stimulation and a
survey to determine the production performance of Class II clones planted by
progressive smallholders, that will be undertaken by RRIM under the project in
support of the LITS initiative.
Clone Recommendations for LITS
5.        The RRIE review of all Class I and II clones identified only 9
clones which, at this time, could be recommended with reasonable confidence
for use with LITS. The list includes all 6 current Class I clones and 3
clones from Class II. There are agroclimatic restrictions on the use of LITS
with three clones, one clone from Class I and two from Class II, because of
concerns of their responses when growing in regions less favorable to vigorous
growth and production. The current list of 9 clones recommended for use with
LITS is as follows:
Class I                        RRIM 600
RRIM 712
PB 217
PR 255
PR 261
PB 260      (with regional restrictions)
Class II                       PB 280
RRIM 901    (with regional restrictions)
PB 235      (with regional restrictions)
6.        The three clones subject to agroclimatic restrictions are PB 260,
BRIM 901 and PB 235. These restrictions are based on observations of
increasing levels of bark dryness when the trees of these clones are growing
under more stressful conditions, such as in poor and sandy soils, areas of
pronounced and prolonged vater deficits and possibly low soil potassium
levels. Also, clone PB 235 should not be planted in wind prone areas. The
BRIE will prepare an enviroumax map to delineate the soil type and rainfall
areas of the Peninsula where the planting of these three clones for future
axploitation under LITS is not recommended.
7.        The remaining Class II clones which RRIM recommends to RISDA for
uallholder plantings, viz. ERIM 805, 936, 937, 938, PM 10, PB 255, RRIC 100



- 75 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 3
and BPM 24, are not included in the LITS list despite their good growth vigor
and high early yields, because of either insufficient information on their
responses to stimulation or concerns over the incidence and levels of tree
dryness with stimulation. However, until more definitive data is available on
stimulation responsiveness, progressive smallholders could continue to
consider these seven clones for planting on a limited basis. These
smallholdere could be particularly those who do not foresee tapping labor
problems, who put a very high value on clone vigor, who believe they are
unlikely to adopt LITS, and who are prepared to take the risks of any future
problems arising with these clones.
Table 1: RRIM Clone Recommendations for Smallholders
Class             Clone            Response to              Resistance to
Stimulation 1/           Tree Dryness 1/
IRIM 600             5                          5
RRIM 712             3                          3
PB   217           3-4                          4
PB   260             4                          2
PR   255             4                        3-4
PR   261             4                        3-4
II             RRIM 623             5                          3
RRIM 701           1-2                          3
RRIM 728            NA                          2
RRIM 729            NA                          2
RRIM 805            NA                          3
BRIM 901            - a/                        2
RRIM 905            NA                          2
BRIM 936            NA                          3
RRIM 937            NA                          3
RRIM 938            NA                          2
PB 28/59             3                          1
PB   235             3                          2
PB   254            NA                          3
PB   255             3                          2
PB   280            - a/                        4
PM    10             3                          1
RRIC 100            NA                          3
RRIC 110            NA                          3
Nab   17            NA                          3
BPM   24            NA                          3
Sources RRIM Planters' Bulletin, Second Quarter 1992, No. 211
Scale 1 to 5: 1 poor, 2 below average, 3 average, 4 good, 5 very good
NA - Not available
aL Results not yet published.



_76 _
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 3
MALAYSIA
RISDA II PROJECT
Extension Intensification Program
1.        Based on the prioritization of extension activities in Table 1, it is
projected that RISDA's extension activities over the next ten years will cover
at least 100,000 smallholdersloperators annually, of which about 35,000
smallholders/operators would be new entrants into the extension fold. Of the
100,000 smallholders to be covered, about 80,000 would be under immature rubber
and   other   crops   (15,000  new  every  year)   and   about   20,000  new
smallholders/operators every year under mature rubber. These numbers are based
on assumptions and extension policy detailed in the following paragraphs. The
term operators has been included to cover hired tappers on mature rubber holdings
where smallholder owners may be absentees or unable or unwilling to work.
2.        In the last few years, RISDA's annual replanting rate has been about
40,000 ha with all crops. In addition, in 1992 about 150,000 ha were under
second and subsequent grant payments. Assuming about 1.73 ha per smallholder
(which was the average in 1991), the total smallholders served in 1992 were about
110,000. However, about 15,000 smallholders were estimated to be under FELDA and
FELCRA, and they were not given extension by RISDA. In addition, about 152 are
assumed to be absentees or non-participating in active work (this figure may be
a gross underestimate and needs to be verified later). The RISDA coverage was
thus about 80,000 smallholders for immature rubber and other crops, of which
about 15,000 were new replanters (40,000 ha of replanting divided by 1.73 and
then excluding FELDA/FELCRA). If the replanting rate is 30,000 - 40,000 ha p.a.,
the number of smallholders covered is expected to be more or less the same as
above in future years.   However, if the number of absentee or non-active
smallholders turns out to be much more than the assumed 15X. as it may. then the
number of smallholders reached through RISDA's extension for immature rubber and
other crops would be substantially less.
3.        Unlike  immature  rubber  and  other  crops,  where  the  number  of
smallholders covered is automatically determinci by the replanting rate (given
the average farm size and barring the cases of absentee or non-active
smallholders), it is necessary to set a target for smallholders/operators to be
reached through mature rubber extension.   An initial target of 20,000 new
smallholders/operators every year has been derived from the proportion of
extension time expected to be devoted to the extension topics of low intensity
tapping and standard tapping system (Table 1). Additional smallholders would be
reached every year through other extension topics and these numbers would be
known at the end of the year through the new monitoring module being developed
for smallholder training, but no targets would be sat for these topics since the
proportion of extension time and budget allocated to these is small (Table 1).



- 77 -
Ah xL9
Page 2 of 3
4.        The initial conservative target of 20,000 new smallholders/operators
every year for mature rubber is based on the following assumptionst
(a)  It is estimated that about 40 staff weeks for extension staff is
available every year (that is, excluding leave, holidays, etc.) for
all activities including pre-replanting campaigning, replanting
inspection, input supply, infrastructure supervision, mini-estate
management and extension.
(b)  There are over 1300 extension staff in RISDA.   However, 114 are
assigned to cooperati-es. They perform management functions and are
not available for other RISDA activities. Moreover, about 300 mini-
estate supervisors also perform primarily management functions and
have a limited extension function for smallholder participants only.
Thus it is estimated that only about 1,000 staff are available for
RISDA's general activities including extension.
(c) Since at present about 50% of replanting is on individual holdings,
which are scattered and sometimes very isolated, a significant
proportion of RISDA staff time is spent on input supply, replanting
inspection, and extension for immature rubber and other crops on
individual holdings. With increasing TSB and TSS replantings, less
time would be required for these activities in future and more would
be available for extension for mature rubber. At this stage, it is
estimated that non-extension activities of RISDA extension staff
consume about 30 staff weeks a year, leaving about 10 staff weeks for
extension per extension staff.
(d) If 50% of extension time is devoted to low intensity tapping and
standard tapping system (Table 1), about 5 staff weeks or 25 days per
extension staff would be available for these techniques.
(e) Method demonstration is considered the key communication method for
extending technology by the extension staff. It is estimated that
about half a day is required for method demonstration but another day
or day and a half may be required for pre-
demonstration organising activities. Thus it has been assumed that
about 12 method demonstrations a year could be organised by an
extension staff for low intensity tapping and standard tapping system
(assuming separate target groups for each technique).
(f) For each method demonstration, about 5 smallholders/operators are
considered an optimal group. However, method demonstrations need to
be repeated to the smallholders/operators at intervals for an
effective transfer of technology.   Thus, if it is conservatively
assumed that the method demonstration needs to be repeated 3 times in
the year for the same smallholder(operator group and, say, 6 method
demonstrations each for the low intensity tapping technique and
standard tapping system were held by each extensioa staff in a year,
4 groups of 5 smallholders/operators each or 20 smallhulders/operators
in a year could be effectively reached by an extension staff. This



- 78
ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 3
means that if about 1,000 extension staff are available in RISDA,
about 20,000 new smallholders/operators could be reached every year
at least for the low intensity tapping technique and the standard
tapping system.
(g) The smallholders/operators reached for the low intensity tapping
technique would be different from those reached for the standard
tapping  system  but  could  be  the  same  as  for  manuring,
disease/pest/weed control, latex processing, polybag collection of
latex, cooperative campaigns, PWPK, etc. Additional small numbers of
smallholders would be reached through extension for upward control
tapping. The coverage of RISDA's extension for mature rubber would,
therefore, be actually higher than the target of 20,000, which only
indicates the minimum number.
(h)  The target would be distributed among States according to the area
under mature rubber and the number of extension staff available in
each State.
(i)  The  target would  be  adjusted  upwards  in  later  years  as more
information becomes available through the smallholder training module
next year and as extension time and capability increase.



_ 79 _
TABLE 1
MAIAYSL
RISDA It Proiect
Extension Intensification Progtram
Prioritization of Extension Activities for 1994 - 2003
Percentage of
Exte:.sion Time
& Budget to be
Objective             Allocated           Extension Topic
(a)   Mature Rubber
i)  Increasing             30% a-3          i) Low  Intensity  Tapping  System
productivity                                (including  stimulation, tasking,
recovery tapping, bark
consumption and tapping quality)
20% aJ          ii)  Standard    Tapping    System
(including bark consumption,
tapping quality, tasking,
recovery tapping and stimulation
as booster and for panel C/D cly)
{    iii) Upward Control Tapping
10%    {      iv) Manuring
{      v) Disease/Pest/Weed Control
ii) Improving                5%      {      i) Latex Processing
processing                      {      ii)  Polybag Collection of Latex
efficiency
(b)   Immature rubber and                  {      i) Pre-Planting Activities
other cro)s                          {     ii) Land Preparation Technique
i)  Decreasing               25%     {    iii)  Planting Technique
immaturity period               {      iv) Weed Control
& ensuring                      {       v) Manuring
vigorous developmen'            {      vi)  Disease/Pest Control
vii)  Pruning TechniquejBranch
Induction
(c)   Coonerative development
and other activities
i)  Supplementary                    {     i)  Cooperative Membership, Shares,
income generation                           Farm Management, Contract
and smallholder                             Management, and Nursery
entrepreneurship                            Techniques and Management
10%    {      ii) Cash Cropping
{    iii)  Small Industries
{    iv)  PWPK
{    v)   Hedgerow Planting and any other
experimental activities
aT    This is the expected approximate proportion in year 1997.  In years 1994-97, low
frequency tapping extension will gradually increase from about S to 30% as it
spreads from mini-estates to TSBs to ISSs and individual holdings (see Table 2).
StandarcA tapping system extension will correspondingly decline from about 45% in
1994 to 20% in 1997 and onwards.



MALAYSIA
RI8DA II PROJCT
ZxmS  OR  wrMTNSIXFcATION PROG
PHASING OP THE 10-YEAR EXITES IOU PROGRAM
(a)  Mature Lubber                              1IM   l995  .1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003
i)   Low IntensLty Tapping system (LITS)
(a) Mini-Estates                          aJ  * bl   *J   *                         - 
(b) TSBs( D3 or D4)                    -       * dJ   *      *       *      *       *      *      *       *
(c) TSSu/Individual Holdings           -       -      * eJ       *          *       *      *      *       *
(D3 or D4)
ii)  Standard Tapping System                 *      *      *       *      *       *      *       *      *      *
iii) Upward Control Tapping                  *      *      *       *      *       *      *       *      *      *
iv)  Manuring                                *      *      *       *      *       *      *      *       *      *
v)   Disease/Pest/Weed Control               *      *       *      *      *       *      *       5      *      *
vi)  Latex Processing                        *      *       *      *      *       *      *       *      *      *
vii) Polybag Collection of Latex             *      *       *      *      *       *      *       e      *      *
(b)  Immature Rubber and Other Crops              *      *      *       *      *       *      *       *      *      *
(e)  Coop,erative Develooment and                 *      *       *      *      *       *      *       *      *      *
Other Activities                                                                                                       °
*    moans extension program will be undertaken.
-    means extension program not undertaken.
aJ   Testing of D3 on selected mini-estates. The program began around mid-1993.
bl   Adoption of LITS with D3 and D4 tapping frequency on several mini-estates and testing of lower frequencies on a
small number of selected mini-estates.
ci   Adoption of LITS with 03 and D4 on all mini-estates affected by tapper œhortages and continued testing of lower
tapping frequencies.
di   A few large TSBs with tapper shortage to be selected for a pilot program.
eJ   A few TSSs with tapper shortage to be selected for a pilot program.
Notes     Only D3 and D4 have been covered above since these technologies can be readily implemented on a large scale.
D5 and D6 will only be tested on a pilot scale during the RISDA II project period (1994-1996). Should other
new technologies become available in the future, they would also become part of the extensior. program.
10rn



_ 81 _
AN    10
Page 1 of 3
MALAYSIA
RISDA II PROJECT
RRIM Rearch Component
1.        The RRILM will pursue five research studies under the project,
including four experimental programs and a survey, all supportive in various
ways of project long term objectives of improving the performance of
smallholder rubber and the economic condition of the smallholders. Four of
the studies are concerned with clone performance particularly in relation to
LITS technology; of these, two are concerned with the production performance
of Class II clones and should yield significant information within the project
period; and two are longer term, more fundamental researches on physiological
and biochemical parameters of rubber production linked to yield performance
with stimulation. The fifth study is a long term experiment on mixed cropping
systems with tree crops involving rubber. Details of the proposed studies
follow.
Study 1: The Responses of Class II Clones to LITS Technology
2.        Current RRIM clone recommendations do not address the suitability
of the clones for LITS with stimulation. Further, RRIM has very few test
results on responses of their recommended clones to this type of exploitation,
particularly of Class II clones, and thus is not in a position to provide
strong guidance in this matter for intending replanters. With LITS identified
as the technology of the future for rubber exploitation, it is imperative to
provide clone planting guidelines in respect to LITS as a matter of urgency.
Low frequency tapping with stimulation trials will be conducted in four
different agroclimatic regions, including dry northern and wet eastern
regions, on at least 7 of the most promising recommended clones but up to a
total of 12 clones if facilities are available. Of the 7 clones, two are from
Class I (RRIM 712 and PB 260) and 5 are Class II (RIDM 901 and 937, PB 235 and
280, and PM 10). The additional 5 clones, all Class II, make up the balance
of Class II clones that RRIM currently recommends to RISDA for smallholders,
namely RRIM 936 and 938, PB 255, RRIC 100 and BPM 24. The clones would be
evaluated over three years in replicated treatments of at least 20 trees per
treatment. The trials would test the clone responses to third, fourth and
sixth daily tapping with 2.52 ethepon stiDulation applied 6,8,and 12
times/year respectively, on virgin and renewed bark. The controla would be
alternate or third daily tapping without stimulation.
Estimated Cost MR 0.70 million
Study 2: The Production Performance of Class II Clones on Smallholdinms
3.        Progressive smallholders have been planting Class II clones from
the early eighties largely on the basis of their attractive and sometimes
precocious yields in RRIM large scale clone trials. Many of these plantin*g
are now in tapping. An extensive survey, based on RISDA replanting records,
will be conducted over three years to determine the performance of these



_ 82 _
AN_X10
Page 2 of 3
clones under smallholder conditions with a view to determining their current
suitability for smallholder planting. The main assessments, based on small
farmer information and records where available, will be on yield and incidence
of tree dryness in relation to tapping system and agroclimatic conditions.
Estimated Cost MRO.24 million
Study 3: Physiological/Biochemical Parameters of Tree Stress to Stimulation
4.        Over stimulated trees go into a yield decline and develop bark
dryness. The purpose of this research program is to identify physiological
and biochemical parameters indicative of the health of trees in tapping and
particularly in conjunction with the use of stimulant that could be used to
develop a tree health monitoring system. In particular, it would be used as
an early warning indicator of impending stressed physiological functions and
tree dryness. The study will involve regular measurements of levels and
ratios of various (12 cited) tree physiological factors and biochemical
constituents of latex and their changes in trees under fairly intensive
tapping with stimulation. The study would be conducted on 50 to 100 trees of
one or possibly two clones sensitive to stimulant - induced dryness and
exploited intensively, with samplings about every month.
Estimated Cost MR0.44 million
Study 4: Nutritional Asvects of Tree Dryness
S.        This study aims to better define clone suitability for low
frequency tapping with stimulation with a focus on nutritional factors that
have been linked with the occurrence of tree dryness and precoagulation of
latex on the tapping cut. The study, carried out over three years, will focus
on the influence of foliar levels of the macroelement potassium, which is
believed to affect latex flow properties, and the microelement copper which at
low levels might predispose trees to dryness. it will involve the application
of various quantities of potassium and copper nutrients to trees of two clones
recommended for LITS, including PB 260 in which latex flow has been observed
to be sensitive to potassium levels, with about 12 field trials on the sme
soil type in two distinctive climatic regions and tapped third daily with
stimulation. Observations will be made on yield performance, dry rubber
content, tapping cut precoagulation and incidence of tree dryness in relation
to foliar and latex nutrient levels.
Estimated Cost MR0.23 million
Study 5: Mixed CropDing of Rubber with Fruit Trees
6.        The growing of rubber as a monocrop on very small holdings is at
best marginally economic, generally generating an income below the poverty
level for the holders and leaving them exposed to fluctuations of the
commodity markets. The situation is exacerbated by the long gestation period
of rmbber after planting. The objective of this research program is to
identify mixed tree cropping systems based on rubber as the main component
with various varieties of fruit trees, which would be sustainable and enhance



_ 83 _
AN1NEX 10
Page 3 of 3
the long term economic returns of theae smallholders. The systems involve
planting the rubber in widely spaced hedge rows at 80X of the normal tree/ha
density and filling the interrows with fruit trees, such as durian, chempedak
and duku, in various arrangements and combinations. A number of rubber clones
would be included to gauge the effect of rubber canopy structure on cropping
performance of the systems. The experiments which would be long term and
encompassing at least 10 years of rubber production, would be established at
six sites in six different agroclimatic regions. Evaluations would include
agronomic requirements of the crops, the agro-economic compatibility of the
mixtures, crop economic returns and labor requirements.
Estimated Cost MRl.0 million
7.        The total estimated cost of the RRIM research component of the
project is MR2.61 million.



-84
ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 5
MMALASI-A
RISDA II PROJECT
Introduction of Low Intensity TaoRint Systems (LITS)
for Rubber Exploitation
1.    Increasing labor shortage is adversely affecting the rubber plantation
sector in Malaysia, causing large areas of mature rubber to remain untapped. It
is currently estimated that about 20% of individual rubber smallholdings are
abandoned and that as much as 20% of tapping tasks may be lost on RISDA mini-
estates due to the lack of tappers. Labor requirements for rubber exploitation,
however, can be reduced by using low intensity tapping systems (LITS) which
combine a reduction in tapping frequency with chemical yield stimulation.
Starting from the time of opening, trees are tapped every third day (d/3), fourth
day (d/4) or at even longer intervals (d/5, d/6) in place of the traditional
alternate daily (d/2), while Ethrel stimulation is applied at frequent intervals
to maintain yields. The adoption of lower tapping frequencies reduces the number
of tappers required (by 33% with d/3, 50% with d/4 and more with d/5 or d/6).
It also reduces bark consumption, thus extending the economic life of the trees.
Labor  productivity  increases,  tapping  costs  decrease  and  the  overall
profitability of rubber exploitation is improved. This labor saving technology
is not new.  it has beer successfully used on a large scale by estates and
smallholders for over 20 years in West Africa and has been introduced in Malaysia
in 1991 by PELCRA under the Bank financed Second and Third FELCRA projects (Loans
2917-MA and 3484-MA) to overcome increasing labor shortages. Under the proposed
UISDA II project, LITS would be evaluated and progressively introduced in RISDA
rubber mini-estates.
Program of Introduction of LITS
2.    Experience has shown that, although LITS appears simple in principle, its
successful implementation requires high management inputs, close coordination and
monitoring, and good tapping quality, in view of the risks of damage to the trees
through the uncontrolled use of stimulation. LITS therefore is not suitable for
individual smallholders without adequate training and close supervision, and it
was agreed with RISDA that, under the proposed project, LITS would only be
introduced in mini-estates according to the following phased programs
a.    dUrina the first year, RISDA would test LITS (mainly d/3) in a small
number of mini-estates selected in different agro-climatic regions;
b.    during the second sear, RISDA would introduce LITS (d/3 and d/4) in
suitable mini-estates for large scale evaluation, and test the use
of lower frequencies (d/5, d/6); and
c.    durina the third year, depending on the results of the first two
years' evaluation, RISDA would decide on the general introduction of
LITS (mainly d/3 and d/4) in all mini-estates facing labor shortage.



- 85 -
ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 5
Evaluation of LITS
3.    Selection of Mini-Estates.   Seven mini-estates were selected during
appraisal in Kedah, Pshang, Negeri Sembilan and Terengganu for the initial
evaluation of LITS, based on the following criteria: labor shortage or
possibility to reduce tappers' number without creating social problems, good
control of tappers by RISDA supervisor, good tapping quality, absence of severe
leaf disease, latex collection for reliable recording of production and easy
access to facilitate monitoring. Other pre-selected mini-estates were found to
be unsuitable due to no labor shortage and severe leaf disease (Darat Lintang),
insufficient control of tappers (Batu Papan), poor tapping quality (Tebak, Kuala
Kepi.), insufficient girth of trees at opening (Seginyeh), and difficult
monitoring of production due to cuplump collection (Bukit Gelugor, Lapang Sawa).
The difficulty of identifying suitable mini-estates for the initial evaluation
of LITS clearly demonstrates that, in view of the current lack of experience of
RISDA staff with the technology, LITS should only be tested in the seven selected
mini-estates during the initial evaluation phase.
Table 1: Mini-Estates Selected
for the Evaluation of LITS
State       Mini-Estate      Tapping   Z Tasks   Tapping    Tapping    Yield
._________  _Area (ha)Arc a Lost *    Panel  Quality   in 1992
PAHANG       Bukit Penak          126       27      BO 1       Good    Medium
BO 2
Bukit Rok            63        37      BO 1       Good     High
___________                  ______    ~~~~BO     2
NEGERl-      Ampang Tinggi         -         -     BO 1 at       _        -
SEMBILAN                                           opening                     l
KEDAN        Telaga Batu          148       41      BO 1       Very      Not
Good    Avail.
Rimba Teloi I        63        30      BO 2       Good     High
BO2
Bukit Paya           84        65      BO 2       Very      Low
Merbau                                            Good
TEEENGGANU   Pancur Buloh         158       38      BU 1       Good    Medium
* due to rain or lack of tappers (in 1992)
4.    Detailed Guidelines. The third daily (d/3) tapping frequency combined with
stimulation would be established in six mini-estates and compared to d/2 in three
of those, while the fourth daily tapping frequency (d/4) combined with
stimulation would be compared to d/2 in one mini-estate (Table 2). Stimulation
would be applied using Ethrel at low concentration, with a frequency ranging from
four to six times per year with d/3, and eight times with d/4, depending on the
age of the trees and the panel exploited (see Table 1 and detailed guidelines in
Appendix 1). To monitor the performance of d/3 and d/4 as compared to d/2, the



- 86 -
ANNEX I 1
Page 3 of 5
production of each task (kg of dry rubber) would be recorded for each tapping
day. Daily production data would be reported on a monthly form to be sent each
month to the LITS Coordinator in HQ.
Table 2: Guidelines for LITS Evaluation
State        Rini-Estate    Totat    Tapping    Stimulation       Onubeer Jimbr of
Tasks   Frequency    Frequncy    of   tappers
_______ ,(6iV7)                 tasks
PAHANG       Buhit Penak          120      d/2      No stim.      80     40
dl4       8/year      40      10
Bukit Rok           48       d/3        6/year      48      16
NEGERI-       mpang Tinggi        32       d/2      No stim.     20      10
SEMBILAN                                   d!/       4/year      12       4
KEDAH        Telaga Batu          60       d/3        4/year      60     20
Rimba Teloi I       40       d/2       No stim.     28     14
dl3       6/year      12      4
Bukit Paya Merbau   48       d/3        6/year      48      16
TERENGGANU   Pancur Buloh         84       d/2         No        72      36
d/3       6/year      12      4
Recuirements for Successful Introduction of LITS
5.    Adoption of Full Technology Package.  The LITS labor saving technology is
a  package  comprising  foar  inter-related  components.    These  should  be
simultaneously implemented to ensure the successful introduction of LITS:
a.    Use of Stimulation.   The use of stimulation with lower tapping
frequencies is aimed at maintaining, and not increasing d/2
production levels.   The long term adverse effects of excessive
stimulation on yield hlave been well demonstrated and the use of
stimulation in Malaysia has been largely restricted to olJ trees
until recently. In the last few years, however, the estate sector
has started using stimulation combined with reduced tapping
frequency but only on trees already tapped for several years. To
avoid possible confusion about the objectives of stimulation with
LITS, RISDA should not promote stimulation as a means of increasing
production, while simultaneously introducing LITS. In particular,
stimulation should not be used on a regular basis to boost yields
when combined with high tapping frequencies (more than 10
tappings/month or 100 tappings/year). Guidelines for the amount,
method and frequency of stimulation with LITS should be strictly
followed, as any deviation would result either in possible long-term
damage to the trees or lower production.



- 87 -                          ANNEX 11
Page 4 of 5
b.    Control of Taoning Quality.  The use of stimulation requires good
tapping quality as the application of Ethrel on tapping wounds would
damage the trees and jeopardize their future production potential.
Wherever tapping quality is poor, it should be improved before
introducing LITS and then systematically monitored. In view of the
difficulty of controlling tapping quality under contract tapping,
RISDA should not introduce LITS in rubber mini-estates contracted
out for tapping.
c.    Anoropriate Tappers' Payment System.  Under the current RISDA share
system, both tappers and owners would benefit from the productivity
gains which are expected with LITS and could amount to an increase
in production per tapper per day of up to 502 with d13, as compared
to d/2.  When introducing LITS, however, RISDA should adjust the
crop sharing ratio accordingly to avoid large differences between
incomes of tappers with d/2 and d/3 on the same or between
neighboring mini-estates, which could cause serious social problems.
d.    Field Monitoring.  The intensity of stimulation to be applied with
LITS depends on the age, condition and yield level of the trees, as
well as on local agro-climatic conditions, which vary and need to be
frequently reassessed. Field visits are therefore required before
deciding on the implementation of LITS and determining the specific
regime of stimulation to be applied. During implementation, field
conditions should be closely monitored so that the regime of
stimulation can be adjusted to suit changing conditions.
6.    Other Technical Aspects of LITS:
a.    Effect of LITS on Rubber Grades.  The application of stimulation
causes latex to flow for a longer time (late drip). If the time of
-ol ection remains unchanged when applying stimulant,  a lower
proportion of the rubber will be collected as latex and quantities
of cuplump will increase as compared to d/2. The late drip will
become particularly pronounced with tae more intense stimulation
regime associated with the lower tapping frequencies (dl4, d/5 and
d/6).  Collection, processing, and marketing arrangements should
therefore be reviewed when implementing LITS to take into account
the different proportions in the types of raw rubber produced.
b.    Use of Suitable Clones for LITS.  The effects of stimulation on
yields vary between the clones depending on their physiological
characteristics.    Some  clones  are known  to  respond well  to
stimulation and are suitable for LITS (RRIM 600, PB 217). Others do
not respond well to stimulation or are prone to bark dryness, and
therefore are less suitable for LITS. Specific tapping frequencies
cnd stimulation regimes are required for such clones.   It may
therefore be difficult, and in some cases impossible, to implement
LITS in areas planted with a mixture of clones responding
differently to stimulation. To enable smallholders to fully benefit
from the technology in the future, RISDA should ensure that, from
now, only monoclonal fields are established with suitable clones for
LITS.



- 88 -
A hNEX ll
Page 5 of 5
7.    Central Coordination.  It was noted at appraisal that, following recent
instructions from RISDA Headquarters, field officers were making preparation, and
sometimes had already started, to implement LITS in a few mini-estates. There
seemed to be some confusion regarding the concept and objectives of LITS and
particularly the role of stimulation, the amounts of stimulant to be appliee,
frequencies and methods of application. Thus, given the current inexperience of
RISDA staff with LITS implementation, the introduction of LITS should be
progressive after an initial testing phase and strong central coordination would
be required. RISDA should appoint a full time coordinator at Headquarters, with
clear authority on the technical aspects of LITS, assisted in every State by a
field officer responsible for the introduction of LITS in that State.   The
coordinator should prepare general implementation guidelines, visit every mini-
estate before finalizing detailed implementation arrangements based on local
conditions, and closely monitor the performance of LITS.  To this end, RISDA
should make the appropriate budgetary allocations to enable the LITS coordinator
to visit each mini-estate selected for the evaluation of LITS every three months.
Annual monitoring budget requirements are estimated around M$5,000 in year 1, and
M$10O000 in years 2 and 3.
8.    Trainint of Staff and TaDpers.   Ex,erience with LITS in and outside
Malaysia has shown that most implementation problems occur due to an incomplete
understanding of the technology, with participating managers and staff often
implementing part of the package only and failing to realize that all four
components are required for successful implementation. RISDA should therefore
organize the training of all managers and supervisors of mini-estates concerned
before testing and later introducing LITS. Given the critical importance of good
tapping quality for LITS, RISDA should also seek to organize the systematic
training of tappers to upgrade their tapping skills.
Conclusion
9.    The experience gained with the recent successful introduction of LITS by
FELCRA in Malaysia and twenty years' overseas experience with the technology,
clearly shows that the successful introduction of LITS in RISDA rubber mini-
estates over the project period of three years will require the full commitment
of RISDA senior management and close coordination and field monitoring by RISDA
Headquarters technical staff. It is important that RISDA doea not underestimate
the difficulties of implementing LITS successfully at the field level. Moreover,
given the past negative experience with stimulation in Malaysia, RISDA should at
this time only promote the use of stimulation combined with LITS in mini- istates
according to a single, well focussed program and not on individual smallholdings.



- 89 -
ANNEX 1 1
Appendix 1
Guidelines for Application of Stimulant
1.    Stimulant.  Use only ETHREL ready mix at 2.5? concentration, as Ethrel at
5% concentration is not viscous enough, when diluted to 2.5% concentration with
water. Dilution with palm oil is unstable. Other brand names than ETHREL should
be avoided until more complete information is available on their suitability.
2.    Quantity.  Stimulant should be prepared for one task (550 to 600 trees),
based on 0.7 to 0.8 gram/tree, on panel BO-1 or BO-2 (about 450 ml/task), and
0.9 to 1 gram/tree on panel Bl-i or BI-2 (about 500 ml/task).
3.    Application.  Panel application on at least 1 cm of renewing bark just
above the tapping cut.  No lace removal.  Brush should be lield horizontally.
Stimulant should not be applied on tapping wounds. Stimulant should be applied
on all the trees of the task, with large trees receiving more stimulant than
small treee. The stimulant should be applied by a specialized team at the rate
of 2 tasks or about 1,100 to 1,200 trees per man/day. Each application should
be closely controlled by supervisor.
4.    Freguency. Should be adapted to clone and year of tapping (panel, position
of the cut on the panel and tapping frequency). The frequencies of stimulation
shown in Table l are recommended for downward tapping with less than 10 tappings
per month or 100 per year, clones GT 1 and RRIM 600, trees with a good quality
of tapping, ETHREL at 2.5 Z, panel application of 0.7 to 1 g/tree on 1 cm.
Table 1: Frequency of stimulation
Year of tapping                 Panel                 d/3          d/4
r1                       BO-1                 4/y           6/y
2                        BO-1                 5/y           7/y
3 to 5                      BO-1                6/y          8/y
6 to 12                     BO-2                 6/y           8/y
12 to 24                  BI-l, BI-2              8/y          10/y
5.    Schedule of Applications.   Stimulation should be applied outside the
wintering period and, in the East coast (Terengganu), outside the heavy rainy
season. The first stimulation should be done as soon as possible after complete
refoliation, then every one, one and a half or two months. The application
should be done two or three days before the tapping day. If rain comes less than
one hour after stimulation, stimulant must be reapplied.
Table 2: Schedule of stimulation
Month         1   2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9   10   11   12
4 .t/mly       1                        1               1         1
6 stim/y       1                        1    15         1    15        1
(Terengganu)  1    -    -              T    F   i   T        a    -    -
8 stLm/y       1                        1    1    1    1    1    1    1
lote:  I means begn ule m tot Wte mIS mea:  iEVIeN oIt   3 montr. 



- 90 -
ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 16
MLWAYSTA
RISDA II PROJECT
RISDA'S Mini-Estates in Production
Production and Pinancial Aspects
1.        RISDA's mini-estate program, started in 1979 based on the estate
system of production which has been so successful for treecrops in Malaysia,
aims to bring the benefits of estate-type technology and management systems to
smallholders. Each mini-estate is a legal entity formed by RISDA with the
consent of the owners of a number, often large and averaging about 50, of
contiguous or near contiguous individual small farms which at the time vere in
need of replanting.  With agreement of the farm owners' committees, RISDA
undertakes replanting of the mini-estates with modern high yielding varieties
of rubber or oil palm, maintains the plantings through immaturity, brings them
into production and harvests and sells the crop for the benefit of the owners.
Development costs over and above replanting grants, but excluding investments
in infrascructure, are charged as loans to the individual farmers in
proportion to the land area contributed by each of them to the mini-estate.
The loans are to be repaid from net proceeds of production. At full loan
repaymernt, RISDA is expected to return the land titles held under lien to the
owners w:'th the assumption that they would retain their mini-estate structure
and integrated management system for the economic benefits of scale and better
levels of technology. However, apart from the transfer of two mini-estates to
ESPEK management and one to a cooperative, no action plan is in place. So far
10 mini-estates are loan free. Government policy for smallholder development
is that the integrity of the mini-estates should be maintained as they
represent more efficient production units than individual smallholdings.
However, many participants of mini-estates in production and particularly
those working on them, are confronting the RISDA position by taking over
harvesting of the crop on their individual holdings for their own account.
Absentee farmers probably generally prefer long term RISDA management and a
routine monthly dividend check.
2.        In the early years of the mini-estate program, the development
phase was perceived as a relatively straightforward operation for RISDA and
there had been little concern for the management of harvesting. At
preparation of the RISDA I project in 1987, it was clear that major problems
had been experienced in the development phase as evidenced by high land
development costs which would compromise future benefits of the program.
Therefore, under the institutional strengthening activities of that project, a
recommendation was made for the curtailment of the mini-estate program. In
early 1989, RISDA decided to de-emphasize mini-estate formation in favor of
group (TSB) and simultaneous individual (TSS) replanting arrangements.  The
last mini-estate was established in 1990.
3.        Working Paper No. 2 of the Appraisal Report for RISDA I project
(Loan 3139-MA) analyzed the achievements of the mini-estate progr m up to the
end of 1987. Details were provided on the physical progress of the program
(number, area, distribution by State, crop, number of participants),
production performance, and the status of development loans. At that time,



- 91 -
ANNEX l.
Page 2 of 16
there were 340 mini-estates covering 37,265 ha with 77% of the area planted
with rubber and the balance with oil palm. A total of 101 mini-estatea were
in production but yield levels, especially of rubber, were low. Total
development costs were M$197 million and RISDA carried a portfolio of MS146.6
million of development loans.
4.        This Annex briefly updates the overall status of the mini-estate
program and then proceeds to aiialyze the performance of mini-estates in
production, as at the end of 1992, focussing particularly on crop yields and
financial aspects. The impact of changing management arrangements are also
discussed and there are some comments on the quality of RISDA's data base.
Total Proxram Performance
S.        Number and Area of Mini-estates.  For the period 1979-1990, RISDA
developed about 390 mini-estates with a total area of about 41,800 ha.
Details given in Table 1 are best estimates of achievements. There are many
inconsistencies in RISDA's data bank and even the actual total size of the
program is not clear. There are also difficulties with the figures on the
number of mini-estates in development and in production.
Table :s Mini-Estates: Number, Area and Participants (As of End-i992)
Rubber        Oil Palm         Total
No. of ME                                  312             78             390
Area (ha)                              33,000           8,800          41,800
HaJME                                      106            113             107
No. of Participants                    17,500           4,500          22,000
Ha/Participant                            1.89           1.96            1.90
No. of NE in development                   102              5             107
Area (ha)                               8,980             260           9,240
S of Total ME Area                        26%              3%             22%
Apparent Area (ha)
in Production                          24,020           8,540          32,560
About 33,000 ha (79% of the total mini-estate area) is planted with rubber and
the balance of 8,800 ha (21S) planted with oil palm. Most mini-estates are
monocrop but there are about 5 planted with both crops to take better
advantage of soil types. The program has about 22,000 participants, each
contributing on average 1.9 ha of land. By States, Pahang has the largest
mini-estate area in rubber (7770 ha, 24Z of the national total), with
Terengganu and Kedah accounting for a further 12,500 ha (39%). Johor has the
largest area of oil palm (2,870 ha, 33%) with Terengganu and Perak having a
further 2,590 ha, 30%). At the end of 1992, RISDA reported that 107 mini-
estates totalling 9,240 ha were in the development stage, 26% of the total



- 92 -
ANNEX 12
Page 3 of 16
mini-estate area in rubber and 32 in oil palm. The balance area of 32,560 ha
should therefore be in production but this figure does not match that provided
by RISDA for the analyses of this paper. Discrepancies may arise from
confusion over mini-estate names, development failures or the elimination from
production records of some mini-estates which are no longer under RISDA
management.
6.        Costs and Loan Balances.  Total development coats of mini-estates
include the costs of land preparation, planting and crop maintenance during
immaturity, and where provided, the costs of income support programs of the
early to mid-eighties for participants and their families. Grant expenditures
used for mini-estate infrastructure are not included. Loans to cover the
development costs were provided net of replanting grants which were M$3,735
per ha for rubber and M$2,988 for oil palm in 1979-80 and M$5,436 per ha for
rubber and M$3,707 per ha for oil palm until 1991. Total development costs
and loan balances as at the end of 1992 are given in Table 2. For mini-
estates in development, the costs are interim in that full costs and loan
requirements are only determined when crops are ready to come into proluction
and the development accounts closed. Development costs shovn for mini-estates
in production, on the other hand, are full costs; loan balances are net of the
M$15.85 million of repayments from production revenue (para 9).
Table 2: Mini-Estates - Development Costs and Loan Balances at End 1992
(M$ million)
Develo=ment Costs          Loan Balances
Total       Per Ha       Total       Per Ha
ME in Development
Rubber                              49.8        5,550       17.1        1,900
Oil Palm                             0.8        2,910        0.i          920
Sub-Total                        50.6       5,470        17.i        1,870
ME in Production
Rubber                             230.0       10,400      106.1        4,800
Oil Palm                            67.0        8,200       31.0        3,810
Sub-Total                       297.0       9,800       137.1       4,530
Total                              347.6                   154.4
The estimated total cost to date of mini-estate land development, inclt.ding
the discontinued family income support program, approaches M$350 million,
while the total loan amount assumed by the smallholders is M$154.4 million,
equivalent to M$7,013 per participant. Of this loan amount, 89 (tM$137.1
million) is attributable to mini-estates in production. It was earlier
estimated that a further M$50 million of loan could be required to complete
the mini-estates still in the process of development. Loan levels would,
however, be lowered by the recently announced 13-14X increases in replanting
grants to be paid retroactively from the beginning of 1991.



- 93 -
AMNEX 12
Page 4 of 16
Performance of Mini-estates in Production
7.        The analysis is based on RISDA data which gives details for 269
individual mini-estates for crop type, area, number of participants, original
development loan, family income oupport payments, net operating costs,
dividends paid, loan repayments, loan balance and csop production for each
year of harvest.
8.        Number and Area of Mini-estates.  At the end of 1992, 269 mini-
estates were in production, 692 of all mini-estates. Their total area was
30,240 ha, 74% of the total mini-estate area. There were 198 mini-estates
planted with rubber and 71 planted with oil palm, and there was a total of
15,226 participants (Table 3).
Table 3: Mini-Estates in Production at End 1992 a/
Rubber        Oil Palm            Total
Number of ME                     198               71             269
Total area (ha)               22,094            8,146          30,240
No. of Participants           10,896            4,330          15,226
Ha/ME                            112              115             112
Ha/participant                  2.03             1.88            1.99
a/   As explained in para. 5, there are inconsistencies of data in this Table
and Table 1.
9.        Develovment Costs and Loans.  Table 4 shows the original tctals of
development and income benefit loans provided by crop to the 269 mini-estates
in production and the current total outstanding amounts. All mini-estates
except four in oil palm started out with development loans while about 138
(521) of these 265 estates also incurred loans for family income support.
Loans for income support totalled about 6% of the land development loans in
rubber but 22Z in oil palm. Estimated total development cost of all mini-
estates in production was M$297 million, made up of M$10,400 per ha for rubber
and M$&,200 per ha for oil palm, against which there was a replanting grant
credit of M$145 million. The M$15.85 million of repayments has reduced the
outstanding total loan to M$137.1 million with the average loan amount now
N$4,850 per ha for rubber and M$4,072 for oil palm.   One rubber estate and
five oil palm estates have repaid their loans in full, making a total of 10
mini-estates now loan free. The better repayment performance of the oil palm
estates, 20.9% of the original loan amount, as against 6.72 for rubber,
reflects their shorter immaturity period and relatively better production
performance as measured against appraisal yield profiles (para. 16).



- 94 -
ANNEX 12
Page 5 of 16
Table 4: RISDA Loans to Mini-Estates in Production at End 1992
(M$ million)
Rubber     Oil Palm      Total
No. of ME originally with loans                 198           67a/       265
Total Area (ha)                             22,094         7,840      29,934
Total No. of participants                    10,896        4,185      lt,081
Original Total Development Loan (M$ mil)  107.039         32.038    139.077
Income Benefit Loans (M$ mil)                6.654         7.179      13.833
Original Total Loan Amount (M$ mil)        113.693        39.217    152.910
Total Loan/ha (M$)                           5,146         5,002       5,108
Loan Repayments (M$ mil)                      7.643        8.207      15.850
7 Repaid                                      6.7%         20.9%       10.42
Total Loan Balance (M$ mil)                 106.050       31.010    137.061
No. of ME vith Loan Balance                     197           62         259
Total Area (ha)                             21,866         7,615      29,661
Total Participants                           10,876        3,949      14,825
Loan Balance/ha (M$)                          4,850        4,072       4,621
Loan Balance/participant (M$)                 9,751        7,853       9,245
a/  Four oil palm mini estates did not take development loans.
10.       Loan Amounts.  Table 5 reports on the distribution of loans by
amount per hectare. Mini-estates with the highest levels of loan are
identified. Although the average loan level per hectare is not dissimilar for
the two crops (Table 4), there is a bigger number of smaller loans for oil
palm than for rubber (69S of less than M$5,000 per ha as against 50%
respectively). More than a third of all loans to rubber is M$5,000-7,500 per
ha which is a high debt load. There is a small but similar number of loans
for rubber and oil palm which is even in excess of M$10,000 per ha. Overall,
the loans assumed by many mini-estates are excessive in view of the fact that
they are net costs after replanting grant credits which assume total
development costs of not more that M$5,000-6,000 per ha for oil palm and
M$6,500-M$7,500 per ha for rubber. High costs could be the result of many
factors but do suggest inter alia development of marginal lands and some
rather low developmental efficiency. The loan burdens are going to greatly
compromise the potential crop profits of many smallholders.



- 95 -
AM.. 12
Page 6 of 16
Table 5s Mini-Estates: Distribution by Loan Size (M$/ha)
Loan (M$Iha)                          No. of ME         Area (ha)       S by Area
Rubber Mini-Estates
0                                1               48             0
1-999                               14              936             4
1000-2999                               54            5,202            23
3000-4999                               42            5,062             23
5000-7499                               60            7,947             37
7500-9999                               21             2585             11
10000 and above                           7              541              2
Total HE                             198           22,094
Oil Palm Mini-Estates
0                                9              531             7
1-999                               16            19420            18
1000-2999                               28            2,839            36
3000-4999                                6              617              8
5000-7499                                5            19552             20
7500-9999                                1              102              1
10000 and above                           5              821             10
Total HE                              71            8,146
Nishest Loans vr ha for Rubber ME
M$15,182 Bukit Perah, N.S.
M$12,845 Kg. Makam Mahsuri, Langkavi, Kedah
M$12,659 Pasir Kemudi, Pahang
Hiuhest loans ier ha for Oil Palm ME
M$12,121 Lamir 1, Pahang
M$11,739 Cermin Kane.a II, Trengganu
M$10,916 Cerain Kanan 1, Trengganu
11.       Cumulative Oueratina Losses.  An analysis of the net balances of
the mini-estate operating accounts revealed a high incidence of net operating
losses for both rubber and oil palm estates. No less than 74 rubber and 24
oil palm mini-estates, 392 and 49S of their respective total numbers, were
burdened with such losses at the end of 1992. The magnitude of the losses and
some other relevant analyses are shown in Table 6. In both cases, data for
the aini-estates with a positive not operating balance are included for
comparison.
12.       Cumulative operating losses for mini-estates in this category are
high, having reached a total of M$26.3 million (M$18.6 million for rubber and
M$7.7 million for oil palm), and average about H$2,000 per ha.  Many of the



- 96 -
ANNEXL12
Page 7 of 16
Table 6s Financial Condition of Mini-Estates at end 1992
HE with CumulatIve      NE with Cumulative
Operating Profits       Operating Losses
Rubber Mini-estates
No. of ME                                   124                       74
Area  (ha)                               13,474                    8,620
2 by area                                 612                      39S
No. of Participants                       6,886                    4,010
Ha/participant                             1.96                     2,15
Cumulative Net Operating Profit          10.351                 (18.599)
(Loss) (M$ million)
Profit (Loss) per ha (M$)                 768                  (2,158)
Total Dividends Paid (M$ million)         5.426                    1.787
Dividend/ha (M$)                          403                      207
Total Loan Repaid (MS million)            5.442                    2.200
Loan/ha (M$)                              404                      255
Loan Balance (MS million)                59.105                   46.944
Add Net Operating Loss (M$ million)           0                   18.599
Total Debt (M$ million)                  59.105                   65.543
Loan Balance/ha (all MEs) (M$)            4,387                    5,446
Loan Balance/ha (MEs wIth Loans) (M$)    4,399                     5,446
Total Debt/ha (M$)                        4,399                    7,604
Total Debt/participant (with loans) (M$) 8,622                    16,345
Oil Palm Mini-estates
No. of ME                                    47                       24
Total Area (ha)                           4,160                    3,986
% by area                                 S1S                      49Z
No. of Participants                       2,536                     1,794
Ha/participant                              1.64                     2.22
Total Net Operating
Profit (LOss) (M$ million)              7.960                  (7.667)
Profit (Loss) per ha (1$)               1,913                  (1,923)
Total Dividends Paid (M$ million)         8.122                    0.527
Divideud/ha (1$)                        1,952                       132
Total Loan Repaid (M$ million)            6.182                    2.025
Loan Repaid/ha (N$)                     1,486                      508
Loan Balance (M$ million)                 9.154                   21.859
Add Operating Loss (MS million)                0                    7.667
Total Debt (M1  million)                  9.154                   29.526
Loan Balance/ha (all MEs) (M$)            2,200                    5,484
Loan Balanceiha (MEs with loans)          2,522                    5,484
Total Debt/ha (1$)                        2,522                    7,407
Total Debt/participant (with loans)(N$)  4,248                     16,458



- 97 -
ANNEX 12
Page 8 of 16
estates are running losses far in excess of this average figure. Modest
annual perating losses are a normal feature of the early production years of
both crops and cumulatively may persist for a further two years or so. But the
level of the reported losses raise some serious questions on mini-estate
performance, or alternatively, the validity of the data. The magnitude of
some of the losses has prompted RISDA to first look into the accuracy of its
data base and whether mini-estate managers have mixed development and
operating costs in their data submissions. The matter has yet to be resolved.
Despite production losses, participants of loss-making mini-estates have
re"eived dividends amounting to some M$2.3 million. This arises from RISDA's
practice of assessing monthly dividends on the individual monthly returns, not
taking into account prior net operating losses. The practice, unfortunately,
sends false signals to participants on the financial condition of tLoir
enterprises.   Loss making estates have  managed to repay M$4.225 million of
their loans, these payments being handled on the same monthly basis as
dividends. Table 6 indicates that the average participant holding is higher
in loss-making estates of both rubber and oil palm, and that the average per
hectare loan balance for these estates is considerably higher than for the
profit making units. Adding operating deficit to the development loan amounts
raices the average debt load for both crops to over M$7,000 per ha and to over
M$16,000 per participant.
13.       Table 7 provides information on mini-estates with a cumulative net
operating loss of more than N$1,000 per ha. The 32 rubber and 10 oil palm
mini-estates concerned ha:e accumulated average operating losses of M$5,872
and H$3,010 per ha respectively. These amounts, added to development loans,
raise total debt to a very high level with the prospect that the debt will
never be paid off.
Table 7: Mini-Estates with Cumulative Net Operating Losses Above M$1,000/ha
Rubber                     Oil Palm
No. of ME                                         32                          10
Total Area (ha)                                2,794                       2,183
Net Operating Loss/ha                       M$5,872                      M$3,010
Add Loanslha                                M$5,428                      M$6,283
Total Debt/ha                              M$11,300                      M$9,293
Worst Cases (Total Debt/ha)        Kg. Miakam Mahsuri,             Bukit Betong,
Langkawi, Kedah                     Pahan8
M$26,052/ha                M$13,889/ha



- 98 -
ANNEX.12
Page 9 of 16
Owner Management Take-overs
14.       Under the mini-estate agreements, RISDA would manage the mini-
estates until the development loan has been fully repaid. In practice a very
different situation is emerging with an increasing number of owners,
individually or as groups, assuming the management of their lands in place of
RISDA. Essentially, they take over crop harvesting and sell the product for
their own account. As of end 1992, the managements of 46 of the 269 mini-
estates in production had reverted to participants even though in all cases,
there is an outstanding loan balance.  Of this total, 45 mini-es_ates are in
rubber (23Z of rubber mini-estates in production) and one in oil paln, the
disparity reflecting the ease of transporting and selling rubber to private
traders as compared to oil palm fresh fruit bunches. It is reported that the
situation is worsening as more owner groups see the opportunity for control in
fece of RISDA's apparent inaction. RISDA, however, is seeking legal redress.
15.       Loan Status and Manaaement Arrangements.  The quality of RISDA's
loan portfolio could be seriously compromised by owner harvesting as it denies
the agency its mechanism for receiving regular loan repayments. Tables 8
(rubber) and 9 (oil palm) compare the loan status of mini-estates under owner
and RISDA management. For rubber, the total loan balance at risk is M$23.8
million and debt on a per hectare as well as participant basis is hivh though
it is less than for mini-estates with RISDA management. Although there is no
apparent link between loan size and the takeover of crop management, total
apparent debt of the owner managed groups of M$27.5 million is very
significant in that it represents some 22Z of total apparent debt of rubber
mini-estates. T--; one oil palm mini-estate under owner management has almost
fully repaid its loan and so does not present any risk to RISDA.



- 99 -
ADIX -I2
Page 10 of 16
Sb_l St Loan Status of Rubber Mini-Estates by Management Arrangements
RISDA Management        Owner Management
No. of ME                                    153                     45
Area (ha)                                 16,424                  5,670
2 by area                                    751                    252
No. of Participants                        8,063                  2,833
No. of HE with Loan Balance                  152                     45
Total Loan Balance (M$ million)           82.214                 23.835
Loan Balance/ha (M$)                       5,006                  4,204
Loan Balancelparticipant (1$)             10,010                  8,413
ODeratinM Account        Qperating Account
Net Profit   Net Loss   Net Profit  Net Loss
No. of ME                            99           53            24         21
Area (ha)                         10,593       5,783         2,833      2,837
Total Loan Balance (M$ million)  47.180       35.034        11.827     12.008
LcA Balance/ha (1$)              4,454        6,058         4,175      4,233
Cumulative Operating Profit/Loss
(M$ million)                      8.515      14.944          1.671      3.672
Operating Profit/Loss per %a(M$)    804        2,584           590      1,294
Total Debt (M$ million)          47.180       49.978        11.827     15.680
Debt/ha (1$)                         804       8,642         4,175      5,527
ME. with Loan Pull_ Paid
No.             1
Area (ha)      48
Participants   42
Cumlative Operating Profit M$0.165 million or M$3,438/ha.



- 100 -
APNEX 12
Page 11 of 16
Table 9: Loan Status of Oil Palm Mini-Estates by Management Arrangements
RISDA Management        Owner Management
go. of ME                                     70                      1
Area (ha)                                  8,125                     21
No. of Participants                        4,314                     16
No. of ME with Loan Balance                   61                      1
Total Loan 'lalance (M$ million)          31.008                  0.007
Loan Balance/ha (M$)                       3,816                    357
Loan balance/participant (M$)              7,188                    468
0peratinx Account      ODerating Account
Net Profit   Net Loss   Net Profit  Net Loss
No. of ME                            37           24             1          0
Area (ha)                         3,610        3,984            21          0
Total Loan Balance (M$ million)   9.152       21.859         0.007
Loan Balance/ha (M$)              2,535        5,487           357
Cumulative Operating Profit/
Loss (M$ million)               5.250        7.667         0.032
Profit/Loss per ha (M$)            1,454       1,924         1,524
Total Debt (M$ million)           9.152       29.526         0.007
Debt/ha (M$)                      2,535        7,411           357
MEs with Loan Fully Paid
No.              5
Area (ha)      531
Participants   381
Cumulative Operating Profit M$2.678 million or M$5,043/ha.



- 101 -
ANNEX 12
Page 12 of 16
Production of Mini-estates
16.       Table 10 reports the average yield of mini-estates by year of
production and compares crop performance with yield profiles. The mean yields
are derived from RISDA data after eliminating a number of irregular figures
and others suggesting crop leakage from RISDA's account. Also excluded are
yields for outer production years when there are less than 5 reporting mini-
estates, because of likely distortionary effects. Overall, the emerging
picture is one of rubber yields below expectations and oil palm yields which
are satisfactory.
Table 10:  Mini-Estate Yields - Actuals and Profile
Production       Rubber Mini-Estates (kg/ha)    Oil Palm Mini-Estates (ton ffb/ha)
Year             Profile   Actual   No. HE          Profile    Actual    No. ME
1                  250        245      145               4        2.2         51
2                  600        540      148               8        7.3         56
3                  950        641      118              12       10.9         46
4                 1,100       824       96              15       14.7         31
5                 1,200     1,018       51              17        16.1        26
6                1,250      1,037       11              19       19.2         16
7                1,450      1,153        7              20       21.6         14
8                                                       20       22.3          9
9                                                       20       21.4          5
Total            6,800      5,458                      135      135.7
Z of Profile                   80                               100.5
17.       Rubber Yields.  Over the first 7 years of production, rubber yields
have been consistently below profile and increasing slowly. They appear to
be levelling off prematurely and are little better than the estimated average
performsace of individual smallholders as a group. At year 7, yield is some
300 kg/ha, 202 below profile. Total yield per hectare is also 20% below
expectations.  This poor performance could be the result of any number of
factors during the periods of crop establishment, maintenance in immaturity
and production management. Field observations indicate major problems of
incomplete and uneven stands of trees, delayed tapping due to labor shortages
and poor tapping quality resulting in high levels of bark wounding and bark
consumption. Disappointing production is likely to continue as owners and
tappers try to compensate low yields by tapping more deeply and with thicker
bark shavings, both being practices which seriously shorten the productive
life of the trees.
18.       Oil Palm Yields.  The overall performance of the oil palm mini-
estates is satisfactory with total production to date at 100X of expectations.
Average yields of fresh fruit bunch follow the yield profile closely for the
first few years and then in years 7-9, at peak productions exceed it by 1-2



- 102 -
ANKU 12
Page 13 of 16
tons/ha. It can be anticipated that crop performance vill continue to be
better than profile provided good field conditions, including adequate use of
fertilizer, are maintained.
Income ProsDects of Mini-Estates
19.       To determine the potential of the mini-estates to generate adequate
family income, estimates were made of the average incomes per hectare of the
rubber and oil palm mini-estates that could be generated over the next 20
years of production from 1993, using yield profiles, crop production costs
from the farm budgets and projected commodity prices. Year of production in
1993 was derived as a mean of the dates of first harvest of all mini-estates
of each crop. These were mid-1989 for rubber and mid-1988 for oil palm. Net
total mini-estate income per hectare was determined after deducting current
average loan balances per hectare. The resulting total income was assumed to
be available for distribution as equal monthly dividends to participants over
the full 20 year (240 month) period, although in practice, RISDA apportions
net monthly income equally between loan repayment and dividends until loans
are repaid so that monthly amounts are variable. The results of the analysis
are given in Table 11 showing mini-estates with operating profits and losses
separately.
Table 11: Mini-Estates: Projected Monthly
Dividends over 20 Years (M$)
ME with Cumulative      14M with Cumulative
Operating Profits        Operating Losses
Rubber
Total Production Revenue                   58,715/ha               58,715/ha
Total Production Costs                     22 730tha               22,730/ha
Total Yet Income                           35,985/ha               35,985/ha
Average Total Debt                          4,387/ha                7,604/ha
Balance for Dividends                      31,598/ha               28,381/ha
Average Monthly Dividend per ha                  132                      118
Average Monthly Dividend per participant         259                     254
Oil Palm
Total Production Revenue                   39,395/ha               39,395/ha
Total Production Costs                     20,715/ha               20,715/ha
Total Net Income                           18,680/ha               18,680/ha
Average Total Debt                          2,200/ha                7,407/ha
Balance for Dividends                      16,480/ha               11,273/ha
Average Monthly Dividend per ha                   69                       47
Average Monthly Dividend per participant         113                      104



- 103 -
AMNEX 12
Page 14 of 16
20.       Overall, the income generating prospects of all mini-estates are
not good. In those with cumulative operating profits, participants can look
forward to dividends of only $259 per month from rubber and $113 per month
from oil palm, levels which are eroded for estates with cumulative operating
losses to because of their higher average land holding per participant. These
monthly returns fall much below Government's poverty benchmark income of $380
per month per family. Clearly, therefore, the average mini-estate will not
lift poor participant smallholders out of poverty, although individually, the
better mini-estates should achieve that objective The prospect of the average
mini-estate providing income which would have to be supplemented from other
sources to meet family needs is not in bccord with the original objective of
mini-estates, but in more recent years, the rationale for Government
investment in smallholder tree crop rehabilitation has been more towards
raising national crop production levels while significantly supplementing
smallholder incomes. The disappointing results of mini-estates, despite a
higher commodity price projected over the next decade, can be attriouted to
high development costs and less than satisfactory yields. The low returns to
oil palm, despite satisfactory yields, are a combination of very high average
per hectare development costs and a forecast marked decline in the oil market
price over the next decade.
Years to Full Loan Repayment
21.       From individual development loan balances and average yield and
production cost data, a projection has been made of the number of years
required for each mini-estate fully repay its existing development loan. Net
returns were determined on the basis of production costs for group replantings
in the RISDA II project and for rubber, yields under LITS technology. Mini-
estates under owner management were excluded. Also excluded from the
calculations were cumulative operating losses because of the uncertainty
surrounding their validity. Thus to this extent, the findings could be
optimistic for many mini-estates. The results for the years 1993-97 are given
in Table 12. The mini-estates are identified by name and State in Table 13,
the information being of relevance to the project component for strengthening
the income generating opportunities of cooperatives through mini-estate
management contracts. In the years 1993-96, 56 mini-estates covering 5,114 ha
and almost equally directed between rubber and oil palm, are projected to
complete repayment of their development loans. These are in addition to the
10 mini-estates which were free of loans at the end of 1992. The number may
be augmented in 1996 by some of the 24 mini-estates covering 2,404 ha
projected to complete loan repayment in 1997.



- 104 -
ANE  12
Page 15 of 16
Table 12: Mini-Estates: Number and Area Expected
to Repay Development Loans Over 1993-97
Rubber         _ Oil Palm          Total
No.      Ha      No.       Ha      No.   Ha
1993                               2       66      6        655     8      721
1994                               2      129      9        797    11      926
1995                              15     1187      6        686    21    1873
1996                              LO     1011      6        583    16    1594
Total                           29     2393    27        2721    56    5114
1997                              19     1990      5        414    24    2404
ImDrovint RISDA's Mini-estate Data Base
22.       During the course of the RISDA I project, RISDA made very
significant progress in developing its mini-estate data base.   Rowever, there
is still much scope for improvement. In the course of this analysis, many
data shortcomings and inconsistencies came to light which preclude a full and
clear picture of the status and achievements of the program. Some of the data
were clearly errors of inputS other discrepancies, such as in the size of the
mini-estate program, could be the result of confused data bases, mis-
identification of mini-estates, development failures or the elimination from
records of areas no longer under RISDA management. The XISDA II project will
provide the opportunity to more accurately define and revise the data base so
that it can function as a powerful management tool for the benefit of the
mini-estate program. Recommended actions include:
-    maintain data base listings in a fixed sequence by name of mini-
estate so as to facilitate easier working of data;
-    compile a complete list of mini-estates by crop and Stateg
-    check all inputted data of mini-estate performance for errors and
ensure consistency of entries betwcen files;
-    reconfirm yield records by year of production;
-    determine the validity of cumulative operating costs for every
mini-estate and, as necessary, provide clearer instructions to
field offices on data submissions; and
-    institute a system of on-going data analyses and result summaries
as a means to better understand mini-estate performance, to more
quickly capture changing performance, and as a tool to identify
critical areas for management attention and action.



- 105 -
AXNEX 12
Page 16 of 16
Table 13: Mini-Estates ExDected to Fully Repav Development Loans in 1993-97
Rubber                               Oil Palm
Year      State          ME Name          Ha    State         ME Name           Ha
1993      Kedah       Lubok Legong II    43    Selangor   Gesir Tengah I        87
N.S.        Rembang Panas 1    23    Johor       Maju Jaya           91
Pt. HJ.Abd.Rabman  66
Pt. Selangor      119
Permas Ulu         55
Teck Wah Heng     119
1994      U.S.        Air Rawa            94    Perak       Katior Dalam       133
Penajis            35    Selangor   Sg. Gumut           119
Melaxa     Bukit Lanchang      66
Bukit Perah        57
Bukit Tembakau     80
Tj. Rimau Dalam   165
Johor      Kg. Sehari          62
Tongkang Pecah     58
Trengganu  Pelajat II          57
1995      Perlis      Kg. Bilai Udoh      58    Kedah       Kg. Dingin II       25
Kg. Bukit Gerengga 81    Perak       Kg. Rasa,...       259
Kedah       Rimba Teloi I       66                Sg. Jambu II      176
Perak       Rg. Balun           42    Johor      Kg. Chokoh          74
Kg. Beng Lenggong 123                Pt. Marjunit        31
Selangor    Bukit Ibol          71               Pt. Pemuda         121
Cangkat Bintang    43
H.S.        Air Melintang      120
Melaka      Lubok Kepong I      28
Pahang      Batu Papan          42
Bukit Kenau        44
Salong             69
Ulu Sempalit      127
Trengganu   Taylor I            59
Tok Fakir         214
1996      Kedah       Kg. Changhai       256    Kedah       Kg. Dingin I        82
Selangor    Sg. Hiuau          124    P. Pinang  Keluargs Pertsma   65
N.S.        Mentaus             83    Johor      Pt. Seraya I       125
Melaka      Brisu               97                Pt. Sialang        58
Lubok Keong II     27    Trengganu  Bukit Nangka        210
Padang Sebang I    33                Cerang Sepulau      43
Pahang      Darat Lantang'    154
Machang Gelap      51
Trengganu   Batu Hampar        114
Kelantan    Sg. Sok             72
1997                  No.                                   No.
Melaka       1                  48    Kedah        1                  41
Johor        1                 195    Perak        2                262
Pahang       12               1220    Melaka       1                 82
Trennganu    4                 414    Johor        1                 29
Kelantan     1                 113



- 106 -
ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 16
MALAYSIA
RISDA II Project
Strenathening/Rationalization of Cooperatives
I. Background
1.    The Rubber Smallholders Cooperatives (RSCs) were established in 1979 to
support the operation of the Group Processing Centers which were formed to assist
smalIholders to jointly process and market rubber. Since then, the mandate and
the types of the activities undertaken by these cooperatives have expanded. At
present there are 64 RSCs, undertaking a wide range of activities including: (a)
management of mini-estates; (b) storage and distribution of inputs; (c)
transport, processing and marketing of rubber; (d) supply of planting material;
(e) the development of infrastructure on a contractual basis; and (f) other
social activities.
2.    Most of these activities are being undertaken with considerable managerial
and financial support from RISDA, which is keen to develop these cooperatives
further to achieve the following objectives:
(a)   generate financial resources to enable the cooperatives to provide
social services to its members;
(b)   assist in implementing some of RISDAs' activities as a part of the
privatization policies pursued by the Government. In this context,
it is intended that the RSCs should ultimately Implement all land
related development programs leaving RISDA to concentrate on
monitoring, evaluation, extension, training and other services; and
(c)   support the Government's objective of promoting the cooperatives as
a major economic force in Malaysia.
II. Institutional Responsibilities
3.    There are three institutions directly or indirectly involved in the
development of the cooperatives: (a) the Registrar of Cooperatives; (b) RISDA;
and (c) National Rubber Smallholders Cooperatives (NARSCO), an apex body of the
RSCs.
4.    Registrar of Cooperatives. Under the revised Cooperative Societies Act
(1993), the Registrar General (RG) is inter alia responsible for registering (or
revoking) societies, encouraging and promoting cooperatives and improving their
efficiency. While the RG has undertaken these functions with respect to other



- 107 -
ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 16
cooperative societies in Malaysia, the development of the 64 RSCs has been
largely left to RISDA. With respect to the RSCs, the RC h4b played a passive
role, confining its intervention to registering RSCs and approving their audited
accounts. More often than not, the clearance of the audited accounts has been
delayed, in part because the RG has been unable to approve the accounts on time -
- a procedure that has often delayed the annual general meeting (AGM) of the
members. The latter, albeit a formality, nevertheless interferes with the
operations of the RSCs as up-to-date accounts cannot be presented to the members
and neither can the new Board members be elected. Although this is a relatively
minor inconvenience in terms of day-to-day operations of the RSCs, attempts need
to be made to present the accounts to the members on time to ensure greater
participation. Under the revised Cooperatives Act, the RG is no longer required
to approve the audited accounts -- a step which is expected to improve the time
lag between the annual audit of the accounts and their presentation to the
members.
S.    RISDA. RISDA continues to play a direct role in developing the RSCs,
providing contracts 'or various activities as well as the staffing for running
them. As of December 31, 1991, of the 435 staff working with the 62 older RSCs,
176 were on RISDA's payroll. In fact, until very recently, RISDA staff, who were
assigned to the RSCs, were responsible for the day-to-day management of the RSCs.
The 176 staff included Contract Executives, personnel who are eventually expected
to replace the RISDA General Managers as they are withdrawn from the RSCs in an
effort to make the RSCs self-financing.
6.    Until recently, the overall policy guidance for the development of the RSCs
was established by a Cooperatives Unit (CU) located in the Extension Division in
RISDA. However, the CU has now been transferred to NARSCO to monitor the progress
of the cooperatives and assist them in becoming self-managing autonomous
entities. The CU has a total of seven positions of which two, both clerical, are
vacant. The remaining five positions comprise the Unit Head, a Budget OfficeS
(responsible for Training, Administration, and assisting the RSCs to operate the
welfare schemes), a Projects Officer (responsible for assisting the RSCs to
handle various projects) and two other supporting staff who are responsible for
preparation of reports and analyses of data.
7.    NARSCO. NARSCO, which is largely owned by the 64 RSCs (os: share is
nominally held by RISDA), is the apex body of the RSCs. Although NARSCO is meant
to be closely affiliated with the RSCs, providing financial support and advice,
this role has been played by RISDA. As a key player in the development of the
RSCa, RISDA has directed the operation of NARSCO on the one hand and formulated
the policies of RSCs on the other. However, there is very little coordination
between NARSCO and the RSCs. NARSCO undertakes many activities, but only one,
input supplies, complements the various income generating activities undertaken
by RSCs.
8.    HARSCO is organized in the form of two separate companies, NARSCO and
NARSCO Holdings. The NARSCO Board directly supervises the recently transferred
CU (para 6) and operations of NARSCO Holdings, which, in turn, oversees the
operations of six separate subsidiaries. These include: NARSCO Trading Sdn. Bhd.
(input supply on behalf of RISDA); NARSCO Commodities Sdn. Bhd. (smallholder



- 108 -
ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 16
rubber marketing); NARSCO Plantations and Services Sdn. Bhd (provision of
services on ESPEK plantations); NARSCO Transport Sdn. Bhd. (trucking services for
distribution of inputs); NARSCO Management and Travel Services Sdn. Ehd. (travel
agency); and NARSPRO Sdn. Bhd. (manufacturing of rubber gloves).
9.    In concept the profits from NARSCO subsidiaries are supposed to be ploughed
back to the RSCs in the form of dividends or soft loans, but in practice the
profits are, at present, too low for NARSCO to fulfill this objective. In fact
if the profits and losses from all subsidiaries are taken into account, NARSCO
is expected to lose money in 1992. The preliminary sales, net profits and margins
for each of the subsidiaries and NARSCO Holdings (excluding NARSPRO and NARSCO
Travel) for fiscal year (PY) ending December 31, 1992 are as follows:
Table 1: Profit and Loss of NARSCO and Subsidiaries
(M$ million)
Trad-   Commod-  Plant-   Trans-  NARSCOHo  NARS-         Travel
j______ ging       ities     ation    port    ld.         PRO*
Sales     30.7    24.6        5.7      1.0      62.0      0.16      0.02
Net       0.06    0.06       0.06       -       0.28       (0.6)     (0.3)
Profit
Gross     6.8      9.3       14.0    18.2       S.7        NMF        NMF
margin
Net       0.2      0.2       1.0       -        0.5        NMP        NiM
Margin
Resuits tor 1991
NMf: Not a meaningful Figure
10.   Although NARSCO is meant to operate as an apex body of the RSCs, in reality
it operates under RISDA's supervision and as one of its subsidiaries. Of the 15
members in NARSCO's Board, three are from RISDA. RISDA's Director General is the
Chairman of NARSCO, the Deputy Director General (DDG), Operations, is the Vice
Chairman and the third member is the Director of Extension. NARSCO's Managing
Director is seconded from RISDA, as are 12 other senior staff. In fact, the staff
seconded from RISDA account for 122 of the 103 staff in NARSCO. These figures do
not include the participation of other RISDA staff in NARSCO's operations. The
Chairmen of the Boards of all NARSCO's subsidiaries, for example, are all senior
RISDA staff.
III. Progress to Date
11.   The audited accounts of the RSCs are generally in arrears, which impedes
a comprehensive analysis of their performance. However, a study of Smallholder



- 109 -
AM= - 13
Page 4 of 16
Cooperatives and HARSCO, financed by the Bank under RISDA I, concluded that the
average assets per RSC had increased both in real and nominal terms. In nominal
terms, the average total assets per RSC had increased from M$ 214,000 in 1983 to
M$ 443,000 in 1989, representing a growth rate of 13X p.a. during this period,
and 11S p.a in real terms.
12.    The growth in assets has been financed by increase in capital  (paid-up,
retained and reserves) as well as increase in payables. Betweet 1983 and 1989 the
average total paid-up capital per RSC had risen from M$ 43,000 to M$ 93,000,
while the average accumulated profit had increased from V$ 25,000 to M$ 54,000
and the statutory reserves from N$ 11,000 to M$ 40,000. The remaining -rowth in
assets was largely financed by increase in current liabilities, but not to
urmanageable levels. overall, the average current ratio (current assets: current
liabilities) remained healthy, between 1.6 and 2.0 during this period.
13.   There has been a similar increase in reported gross profits, which, on
average, rose from M$ 36,000 to M$ 93,000 between 1983 and 1989, while the
average net profits rose from M$ 22,000 to M$ 51,000 over the same period.
However, it should be emphasized that the profits are overstated. The figures do
not include: (a) salaries of staff paid by RISDA; (b) the rent for offices and
stores, both of which are borne by RISDA; and (c) inventory losses or deficits
arising from sales extended on credit.
14.   These average figures also mask significant variation in performance. In
1989, five of the 37 reporting RSCs had assets below M$ 100,000, 22 had assets
between M$ 100,000 and M$ 500,000 while 10 reported assets in excess of 1$
500,000. In 1988, 14 of the 56 reporting RSCs in the aforementioned study had
accumulated losses, while 14Z of the 37 reporting RSCs reported a similar picture
in 1989. Overall, the study concluded that 13 RSCs had accumulated sufficient
losses to erode the paid-up capital of the members.
15.   The variation in performance arises from differences in contracts given by
RISDA, which provides over 50S of their business (the balance being in marketing,
which generates little or no profits). Thus RSCs perform better in areas in which
RISDA has a strong replanting program. This is evident from the sales levels of
the various cooperatives. Of the 62 older RSCs, seven had recorded business in
excess of M$ 4.0 million in 1991, while another 17 had reported business in
excess of M$ 1.0 million in the same period. However, the remaining 38 older
cooperatives were less fortunate as 19 had recorded sales of between M$ 0.5
million and M$ 1.0 million, while the remaining 19 had conducted an even lower
volume of business, between M$ 0.25 and M$ 0.5 million.
16.   The aforementioned study concluded that 32 RSCs would face financial
difficulties. Of these 8 would never be able to generate adequate profits to pay
the salaries of RISDA staff assigned to the cooperatives (about M$ 30,000 per
annum), another 24 would barely manage to pay the salaries but not generate any
surplus. The remaining 30 would generate proUits to varying degrees to cover the
staff salaries, provide statutory reserves, and in some cases (16 RSCs), in
addition to meeting all operating expenses, also manage to pay the 102 dividend
and accumulate some reserves.



- 110 -
ANNEX 13
Page 5 of 16
IV. Issues
17.   In formulating any strategy to make the RSCs viable, it is essential to
recognize that: (a) regardless of their individual performance, all RSCs are
substantially dependent on RISDA ; (b) despite the fact that RISDA is the major
oource of the contracts, the performance of the individual RSCs varies
considerably; and (c) although tne total volume of business generated by the
cooperatives is substantial (M$ 69.2 million in 1991), which would normally be
adequate to make them viable, most RSCs do not generate adequate profits to cover
their costs. Even the larger and more profitable RSCs continue to be dependent
on RISDA.
1e.   Even using the vary narrow definition of viability -- adequate profits to
cover costs of RISDA staff assigned -- only half of the RSCs would be considered
viable. If one used the broader definition of whether the RSCs' managements are
sufficiently competent to run their businesses without supervision, very few
would qualify. In fact, the attitude survey of the members confirms this
observation. Despite the fact that over 85Z of the members indicated that they
were satisfied with the services provided both with respect to the quality of the
services and their prices, almost 70% of the members felt that the RSCs would not
b9 able to stand on their own without continued support from RISDA. Some 85% of
the same sample felt that it would take the RSCs up to ten years to become fully
independent.
19.  After 14 years  in existence,  the RSCs continue to face operating
difficulties arising from a number of factors. These inter alia are:
(a)   Lack of Clear Policy and Direction. In this context two issues are
evident. First, the institutional responsibilities between RISDA and
RARSCO are not clear. RISDA has continued to provide policy guidance
and contracts to the RSCs and NARSCO, but the apex body and the RSCs
have few direct operational linkages. As a consequence, the RSCs do
not view NARSCO as their own organization, but perceive RISDA as the
prime source of their assistance. The recent decision to allocate
all responsibilities for the development of RSCs to NARSCO is a step
in the right direction. However, NARSCO, as already noted, is
operating at a loss and would be unable to bear the educational cost
of supporting these cooperatives. Second, hitherto the emphasis has
been on making the RSCs viable by providing contracts and staff
support rather than approaching the problem within the framework of
a well conceived strategy. As a consequence, despite considerable
financial support, the RSCs remain dependent on RISDA. Although
RISDA has withdrawn the General Managers in 48 RSCs, even now most
of these staff continue to supervise the RSCs fr=m the nearest RISDA
District Office.
(b)   Disgroportionate Allocation of Contracts. Although some RSCs are
performing better than the others financially, barring few
exceptions, the difference arises more from apportionment of
contracts between the RSCs rather than better management. Except for
marketing, which is a non-profitable activity (see (d)), even the



- 111 -
Page 6 of 16
better managed RSCs depend on RISDA for contracts for over 99S of
their other business, just like the poorer performing RSCJ. The
tendency is to confine business activities within a particular
district to the district cooperatives, which naturally places
cooperatives in areas where RISDA has limited development activities
at a disadvantage;
(c)   Too Many Unrelated Activities Undertaken by RSCs. As all contracts
within a District are given to the nearest cooperatives, the RSCs
undertake a vide range of activities. In fact some 17 different
types of activities are listed and it is common for each RSC to
urdertake eight to ten activities, although over 802 of the total
sales of the RSCs are generated from five activities: marketing (491
of sales), infrastructure contracts (171), input supply (52) and
nurseries (102). The staffing is too limited (each RSC operates with
six to eight staff) and most of the staff lack the experience to
effectively handle such a diverse range of activities. The general
tendency, therefore, is to take the job offered by RISDA and sub-
contract it. As a consequence, the margins realized are even lower.
Moreover, the management's attention is diverted to too many
activities resulting in lower profits.
(d)   Low Overatin2 Margins. Margins usually vary between 15 and 201,
resulting in occasional losses in activities undertaken. Such low
margins require very good management to squeeze a profit. However,
as already noted, this cannot be provided for reasons mentioned in
(c), and, as a consequence, the actual gross margins realized by the
RSCs vary considerably, from activity to activity, and even within
the same activity, from year-to-year. A comparison of the margins,
expected versus realized, for various economic activities commonly
undertaken by the RSCs illustrates this point. As can be seen from
Table 2 below, although the amount of margins provided by RISDA and
NARSCO is more or less the same to each RSC, the gross margins
realized by the RSCs vary considerably.
Table 2: Gross MarEins Realized by Selected RSCs
Activity        Expected Gros            Actual Margin      Actual Margin
Margin (Z)               Realized           Realized
Min. (Z)           Max. (1)
Rubber                 nla                      0.0               1.3
Marketing
Nurseries             17.0                      1.9              17.0
Agric. Inputs          6.0                      4.4               6.0
Stockists              n/a                  (30.0)              80.0
Infra.            15.0 or more              (25.0)              40.0
Contracts



- 112 -
hHNE la
Page 7 of 16
(e)   Lack of Manazement Expertise in cooperatives, both at the Board and
the management level;
(f)   Lack of Relevant SuDgort from RISDA or NARSCO, neither of which have
the staff with the right qualifications to provide such back-up. As
is evident, the CU is severely understaffed to play an effective
role in monitoring and assisting the RSCs;
(g)   Undertaking Activities Without Experience. The general tendency of
the cooperative managers/boards is to diversify without taking into
account their ability or experience to handle the business. In some
cases, the RSCs have taken contracts to construct/rehabilitate
apartment complexes, while others have started taxi and transport
services or even insurance operations -- more often than not with
adverse financial consequences;
(h)   Lack of Distinction Between Profit and Social Motives. The RSCs'
involvement in marketing illustrates this point. Marketing, as noted
earlier, is not profitable. However, most cooperatives undertake
this activity, in the belief that their involvement leads to better
prices for their members; and
(i)   Delays in Preparation of Accounts which hinder proper analysis of
the data.
V. ProsDects
20.   Projections indicate that RISDA can provide adequate business to all 64
cooperatives to generate some M$ 50,000 - 60,000 per annum in profits for each
RSC after meeting all operating expenses (Table 3), provided the cooperatives can
manage the business effectively. Of the 17 activities undertaken by the RSCs,
three, namely, nurseries to supply planting materials, input supply and
infrastructure development can provide the necessary margins and volumes to
generate the level of profits indicated above. The fourth major activity,
marketing, is not lucrative and the cooperative should undertake this activity
only if it is demanded by the members.
21.   With a potential sales volume of H$ 12.6 million and a gross margin of M$
0.15 per plant, nurseries could support 15 RSCs (Table 4). Similarly input supply
and trading (chemicals, fertilizers and a new product line of canned foods) could
support 11 RSCs (Table 5) with the present margins (M$ 1.0/bag for stocking
fertilizers, 62 on chemicals and 10% on canned food). Infrastructure contracts
(land development under group replanting and other infrastructure) have adequate
margins (15%) to meet all operating costs and provide the level of income
indicated above to support the remaining 38 RSCs (Table 6). Specialization in a
particular activity would have other advantages as well. As the RSCs become more
efficient managers of their chosen enterprise, they could solicit other business
leaving them less dependent on RISDA. RSCs specializing in nurseries could, for
example, diversify into producing other plants. Similarly, the RSCs involved in



- 113 -
ANNEX 13
Page 8 of 16
infrastructure development could expana into other land development activities,
while those specializing in input distribution could diversiify into general
trading.
22.   It is, however, essential to recognize that all three above mentioned
activities have relatively small margins and require intensive management to
realize their profit potential. It is important, therefore, that each RSC
concentrate on one potentially profitable activity, generating income from it to
finance its social programs. If the members demand that the cooperative
undertakes other functions as well, such as mini-estate management (see para 32)
or marketing, the RSC may undertake these activities, but it should confine its
efforts to only two additional activities to ensure effective management.
23.   The development of the concept outlined above, however, would require some
support. This would be provided under the proposed component.
VI. The Proposed Component
24.   The principal objective of the component is to strengthen the RSCs to make
them autonomous, self-financing institutions, capable of effectively managing
their business and undertaking selected activities on behalf of RISDA profitably.
The project would develop and implement a comprehensive rationalization plan, and
finance two related activities to ach,eve this objective, namely technical
assistance and training. Technical assistance would be required to provide back-
up and support from NARSCO to assist the cooperatives to understand the business
aspects of activities undertaken.
Proposed Rationalization Plan
25. As analyzed in Table 3, given RISDA's requirements and development budget,
no more than 15 cooperatives could specialize in nursery management, 11 in input
supply and 38 in infrastructure development to generate a relatively equitable
M$ 50,000 - 60,000 in profits annually. It would be advisable, therefore, to
allocate these core profitable activities among the various cooperatives, taking
into account their experience, asset base and the need to ensure an even spread
between the various activities in each State. Based on the recommended plan, the
CU has allocated an activity to each RSC (Table 7). The proposed list is
tentative and cannot be finalized as the approval of the Boards is required to
ratify the plan. As proposed by the CU, 15 RSCs would specialize in nurseries,
13 in input supply and 36 in infrastructure development: a slight, but not
significant, departure from the numbers recommended in para 21. The difference
has arisen as CU feels that 13 RSCs would be required to handle input
distribution, rather than 11. As already noted, the list is preliminary and no
final conclusions can be made at present. It is recommended, however, that as the
list is finalized, the number of RSCs specializing in any activity should be
close to the numbers suggested to ensure equal profitability for all RSCs. It is
expected that the approval of the Boards of the RSCs would be obtained and the
list finalized no later than July 31, 1994.



- 114 -
ANNEX 13
Page 9 of 16
26.   With respect to the stores involved in input supply and food distribution,
it is a requirement from RISDA that each District office work in close
cooperation with a store. The 11 cooperatives specializing in this activity
would, therefore, need to operate, on average, 5.8 stores each. In order to
maintain their profit levels, the RSCs in input supplies would need to expand
their product lines. NARSCO is already planning to enter into canned food
distribution and could assist the RSCs in this respect.
27.   The implementation of the plan would require considerable backing from
NARSCO staff, not only in revising the business strategy of each cooperative, but
also in familiarizing the cooperative staff in all aspects (technical,
managerial, financial) of managing their respective businesses. Because of
budgetary limitations, the expertise would have to be developed from internal
resources. In this context, NARSCO would be provided with suitable back-up
support and training. Moreover, of the 62 staff assigned by RISDA to work with
the cooperatives as General Managers, 18 would be given training (para 33) and
support and re-oriented to supervise and direct the operations of the RSCs. Nine
of these staff would be required to improve the business of the RSCs and the
other nine to assist the RSCs with accounts and audits. All these staff would
report to the CU and be located at RISDA State offices. They would supervise each
cooperative visiting it quarterly, assessing its operations and preparing
detailed reports on the operations or accounts. The reports would identify areas
of weakness and recommend appropriate measures to address them. These staff
would, in addition, help the cooperatives prepare an annual budget and work plan
and monitor the performance after the work plan has been approved by the Boards
of the RSCs.
28. As NARSCO does not have the financial resources to pay the salaries of
these 18 staff, it is recommended that RISDA second these staff to NARSCO for a
period of three years, after which NARSCO should pay their salaries and related
expenses.
29.   In order to ensure proper management of the RSCs, it is essential that they
have up-to-date accounts as this would facilitate monitoring as well as
preparation of annual plans. It would be a condition of further assistance from
RISDA that all RSCs bring their accounts up-to-date, paying the auditors from
their own sources. Nine of the staff assigned from RISDA (para 27) would help the
RSC8 in accounts preparation.
Technical Asaistance
30.   As there is little or no expertise in RISDA or NARSCO to guide the RSCs in
managing the business and improving the profits, the project would finance two
years of technical assistance (TA), to be located with the CU, to direct the
activities of the staff that would work closely with the RSCs (para 27). The TA
would review the work of the 18 staff and guide them in preparing regular
supervision and annual work plan reports for each RSC. The terms of reference of
the TA are given in Appendix 1.



- 115 -
ANNEX 13
Page 10 of 16
Traininat
31.   The project would finance the training of selected NARSCO and RSC staff and
Board members to strengthen their capacity to manage the RSCs.  Generalized
traiuing in cooperative and business management would be provided to all Board
members. In addition, two board members that serve on the internal audit
committees of each RSC would be given training in internal audit procedures.
Moreover, all RSC managers would receive training in general business management
while the accounts clerks would be given refresher courses in bookkeeping. Most
of this training would be initiated in Year 1 and some of it, particularly the
training for the Board members, would continue in Years two and three as some 768
members need to be trained. The training of staff and the members of the
cooperatives' Boards would follow standard courses prepared by the Cooperative
Training Institute, Angkasa.
32.   After the cooperatives have selected their core profitable activity that
they wish to undertake, the RSC staff would be given intensive one to two week
courses in technical and business aspects of their respective activities. Thus,
the managers of RSCe specializing in nursery management would be given specific
training in managing the nursery and cost control. Similarly, the managers of
RSCs specializing in store management would be given courses in inventory
control, stock taking, product pricing and sales techniques, while the staff of
RSCa involved in infrastructure management would be given training in job
costing, bidding for new contracts, supervision of jobs and cost control. The
managerial and supervisory staff of all cooperatives would also be trained in
mnagement and maintenance of mini-estates as this could be a potential area of
eXpansion for all cooperatives.
33.   The selected 18 staff that would operate at the State level would be given
specialized courses in accounts and business management. Nine staff specializing
in accounting would be given intensive training in accounting, bookkeeping, and
auditing, while the other staff would be given training in business management,
cost control, financial managerient and business planning. It is anticipated that
these 18 staff would be given intensive training for a period of one month each,
which would be repeated in Years 2 and 3.
VII. Comnonent Costs
34.   The costs of the component mainly include those for training and TA. The
Costs of training would be about 1$ 0.5 million (Annex 15, Table 3).  The cost
of TA would be about US$ 0.1 million per annum for two years or a total of 4$
0.5 million over the project period. Incremental costs of travel for NARSCO and
CU staff assigned by RISDA would be negligible and would be borne by NARSCO.
I Also see Annex 15, Table 3 and para. 13.



- 116 -
ANNEX 13
Page 11 of 16
VIII. Phasing of Activlties
35.   The phasing of the various activities is given in the chart below:
Activity                       PY1          PY2         PY3
Selection of 18 staff              _
Provision of TA                      -----      ________
Finalization of Plan               --------
Training - NARSCO staff               _ _         _ _
(Business Mgmt).
Training - NARSCO staff (Accts &      __          __
Audit)
Training - RSC (Business Mgmt    __ __
for Managers)
Training - RSC (Bookkeeping)          __          _       
Training - RSC: Nursery Mgmt                      __
(Managers & Supervisors)
Training - RSC: Store Mgmt                        __
(Managers)
Training -RSC: Contract Pricing                   __
and Mgmt.
Training -RSC: Mini-Estate Mgmt.                  __
Training - RSC: Land Dev & Group                  __
Replanting                                        _
Training - Board Members             _            __
(Internal Audit)
Training - Board Members             _            _           __
(General)



- 117 -                                      Annex 13
Page 12 of 16
Table 3: Proflt and Loss
ProJections for Cooperatives
(M$ 000)
Nurseries          Trading            nfrastructure
Income
Total sales                12600.00           53000.00           36000.00
Gross Proi
Nurseries 1/               2100.00
input Supplies
Fertlizers 2/                                 1600.00
Chemicals 3/                                   474.00
Food 41                                        300.00
Infrastructure S/
TB                                                               4200.00
Others                                                            1200.00
Total gross margin          2100.00            2374.00            5400.00
No of cooperatives            15.00              11.00              38.00
Gross marainIcoop            140.00             215.82             142.11
Less: expenses
Salaries
Manager                      13.50              13.50              1S.50
Supervisors 6/                7.50               0.00              15.00
Storekeepers T/               0.00              34.80               0.00
Drivers                       0.00               4.00               0.00
Accounts Clerks               4.00              12.00               4.00
Guards                        4.00              23.20               8.00
Sub-total                   29.00               87.50              40.50
Utilities                     1.00               1.00               1.OQ
Stationery                    5.50              10.00               5.50
Travel allowances             5.00               5.00               5.00
Telephone                     2.50               5.00               2.50
Postage                       0.50               1.50               0.50
Operation & main.             1.00              11.00/8             1.00
Audits                        1.20               1.20               1.20
Annual Gen. Meetng           10.00              10.00              10.00
Depreciation                  5.00              15.00/9             5.00
Ucenses                       0.50               0.50               0.50
Extemai audit                 1.20               1.20               1.20
Miscellaneous                 6.50               6.50               6.50
Training                      1.00               1.00               1.00
Insurance                     2.00               5.00               2.00
sub-total                    42.90              47.90              42.90
Total expenses                71.90             135.40              83.40
Net profit                    68.10              80.42              58.71
1/ @ M$0.15lplantat peak profit
2/ @ M$1.00/bag
91 @ 6% of annual sales of MS 7.9 million.
41 New line of food produicts. Projected sales M$3.0 million annually
with a gross margin of 10%.
5/ 15% of contract value.
6/ Assumed that the cooporatives working on infrstucture handle two
contracts at a time.
7/ 5.8 outlets per coopoetivo.
8/ Cooperativ handling inputs has one 1.5 ton truck at a cost of M$50,000.
O&M costs are estimated at 20% of the Investment cost.
9/ @ 20% of the Investment cost fbr the truck.



- 118 -
Annex 13
Page 13 of 16
Table 4: Profit and Loss
Prolections for Cooperatives Engaaed In Nurseries
(M$ oo0)
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3
Income
Total sales               12600.00  12600.00  12600.00
Total gross margin 1/       1400.00   1750.00   2100.00
No of cooperatives            15.00    15.00     15.00
Gross margin per coop.        93.33    116.67    140.00
Less: expenses
Salaries
Manager                      13.50    13.50     13.50
Supervisors                   7.50     7.50      7.60
Storekeepers                  0.00     0.00      0.00
Drivers                       0.00     0.00      0.00
Accounts Clerks               4.00     4.00      4.00
Guares                        4.00     4.00      4.00
Sub-total                   29.00     29.00     29.00
Utflities                     1.00     1.00      1.00
StatIonery                    5.50     5.50      5.50
Travel allowances             5.00     5.00      5.00
Telephone                     2.50     2.50      2.50
Postage                       0.50     0.50      0.50
Operation & main.             1.00      1.00     1.00
Audits                        1.20      1.20     1.20
Annual Gen. Meeting          10.00     10.00    10.00
DepreciatIon                  5.00     5.00      5.00
Ucenses                       0.50     0.50      0.50
Extemal audit                 1.20     1.20      1.20
Miscellaneous                 6.50     6.50      6.50
Training                      1.00      1.00     1.00
Insurance                     2.00     2.00      2.00
sub-total                    42.90    42.90     42.90
Total expenses                71.90    71.90     71.90
Net prom                      21.43    44.77     68.10
1/ @ M$0.10/plant In year 1, M$0.125/plant In year 2
and a peak profit of M$0.15 per plant In year 3



-  119                           Annex 13
Page 14 of 16
Table 5: Profit and Loss
Prolections for Cooperatives Engaged in Trading
(M$ 000)
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3
Income
Total sales                51000.00  52000.00  53000.00
Gross Profit
Input Supplies
Fertilizers 1/             1600.00   1600.00   1600.00
Chemicals 21                474.00    474.00    474.00
Food 3/                     100.00    200.00    300.00
Total gross margin          2174.00   2274.00   2374.00
No of -^ooperatives           11.00     11.00     11.00
Gross marcin/coop            197.64    206.73    215.82
Less: expenses
Salaries
Manager                      13.50     13.50    13.50
Storekeepers 4/              34.80     34.80    34.80
Drivers                       4.00      4.00     4.00
Accounts Clerks              12.0n     12.00     12.00
Guards                       23.20     23.20    23.20
Sub-total                    87.50    87.50     87.50
Utilities                     1.00      1.00      1.00
Statlonery                   10.00     10.00     10.00
Travel allowances             5.00      5.00     5.00
Telephone                     5.00      5.00      5.00
Postage                       1.50      1.50      1.50
Operation & main. 5/         11.00     11.00     11.00
Audits                        1.20      1.20      1.20
Annual Gen. Meeting          10.00     10.00     10.00
Depreciation 6/              15.00     15.00    15.00
Ucenses                       0.50      0.50     0.50
External audit                1.20      1.20     1.20
Miscellaneous                 6.50      6.50     6.50
Training                      1.00      1.00      1.00
Insurance                     5.00      5.00     5.00
sub-total                    73.90     73.90    73.90
Total expenses               161.40    161.40    161.40
Net profit                    36.24     45.33    54.42
1/ i M$1.00/bag
2/ @ 6% of annual sales of M$ 7.9 million
3/ New line of food products. Projected sales M$1.0 million In 64
outlets In Year 1, increasing to M$3.0 million annually by year 3.
The gross margin Is 10%.
4/ Costs are based on 5.8 outlets per cooperative.
S/ Each cooperative has one 1.5 ton truck at a cost of M$50,000.
The O&M expenses are estimated at 20% of the investment cost
6/ @ 20% of the investment cost of the truck.



- 120 -
Annex 13
Page 15 of 16
Table 6: Profit and Loss
Prolections for Cooperatives Enaaged in Infrastructure
(M000)
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3
Income
Total sales               36000.00  36000.00  36000.00
Gross Profit
Infrastructure 1/
TSB                       2800.00   3500.00   4200.00
Others                     800.00   1000.00   1200.00
Total gross margin         3600.00   4500.00   5400.00
No of cooperives             38.00    38.00    38.00
Gross margin/coop            94.74    118.42    142.11
Less: expenses
Salaries
Manag'r                     13.50     13.50    13.50
Supervisors 2/               15.00    15.00    15.00
Storekeepers                 0.00      0.00     0.00
Drivers                      0.00      0.00     0.00
Accounts Clerks              4.00      4.00     4.00
Guards                       8.00      8.00     8.00
Sub-total                   40.50    40.50    40.50
Utlities                     1.00      1.00     1.00
Stationery                   5.50      5.50     5.50
Travel allowances            5.00      5.00     5 n0
Telephone                    2.50      2.50     2.50
Postage                      0.50      0.50     0.50
Operation & main.             1.00     1.00     1.00
Audits                        1.20     1.20     1.20
Annual Gen. Meeting          10.00    10.00    10.00
Depreciaton                  5.00      5.00     5.00
Ucenses                      0.50      0.50     0.50
Exernal audit                1.20      1.20     1.20
Miscellaneous                6.50      6.50     6.50
Training                      1.C J    1.00     1.00
Insurance                    2.00      2.00     2.00
sub-total                   42.90     42.90    42.90
Total Menses                 83.40     83.40    83.40
Net profit                   11.34    35.02    58.71
1/10% of contract value in Year 1; 12.5% in Year 2; and 15% in Year 3.
2/ Assumed that the cooperative handles tNo contracts at a time.



- 121 -
ANNEX 13
Page 16 of 16
Table 7. Specialized Activity Tentatively Assigned to Cooperatives
Nurseries                      Input SupPlv              Infrastructure Dev.
1. Pendang               1. Kubang Pasu           1. Neg. Perlis
2. Padan& Terap          2. Sik                   2. Langkawi
3. Lenggong              3. Penang                3. Kota Setar
4. Dinding               4. Larut Matang          4. Baling
5. Big. Padang (U)       5. Kelang                5. Kuala Muda/Yan
6. Ulu Selangor          6. Sepang                6. Bandar Bahru
7. Negri Sembilan        7. Kluang                7. Kinta
8. Segamat               8. Johore Selatan        8. Selama/Kerian
9. Batu Pahat            9. Kauntan               9. Grik
1O.Temerloh              10.Bentong               10.Parit
11.Jerantut              11.K. Terengganu         11.Big. Padang (S)
12.Raub                  12.Machang               12.Hilir Perak
13.Besut                 13.Pasir Mas             13.Kg. Gajah
14.K.Baru/Bachok/Tumpat                           14.Sg. Siput
15.Kelantan Selatan                               15.Neg. Perak
16.Hulu Langat
17.Kuala Langat
18.Petaling
19.K. Selangor
20.Gombak
21.Neg. Malaka
22.Muar
23.Pontian
24.Pekan
25.Kuala Lipis
26.Rompin
27.Hulu Terengganu
28.Marang
29.Dungun
30.Kemaman
31.Pasir Puteh
32.Tanah Merah
33.Kulim
34.Selama/Kerian
35.Mersing
36.Kota Tinggi



- 122 -
Annex 13
Appendix 1
Terms of Reference of the Technical Assistance
Oualifications and Experience
The Consultant would have at least a Bachelor level degree in Business
Administration and a minimum of 10 years' experience in managing a business
enterprise or in financial analysis and management. Experience in assisting
cooperatives would be an advantage.
Res2onsibilities
The Consultant would be responsible for:
(a)   advising the RSCs and NARSCO staff involved with RSCs in all
financial, accounting and business management matters;
(b)   assisting the RSCs and NARSCO staff in planning and implementing the
measures required for the RSCs to become self-financing, autonomous
entities. To this end, the Consultant would assist in the
implementation of the Rationalization Plan;
(c)   supervising, together with NARSCO staff, all RSCs, ensuring that
their annual work plans are prepared on time and that they perform
according to plan;
(d)   assisting the RSCs in preparatior. of annual accounts and ensuring a
timely audit of all RSC accounts;
(a)   preparing a monitoring format and training the NARSCO staff to
prepare supervision reports baited on the format;
(f)   training a counterpart staff to undertake his/her responsibilities
when the tenure expires; and
(g)   undertaking any other relevant job that the Head of the Cooperative
Unit may request from time-to-time for strengthening the RSCs.



- 123 -
ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 2
MAIAYSIA
RISDA II PROJECT
Comouterization of RISDA's Management Information System (MIS)
1.        The operationalization and improvement of the computerized MIS at
RISDA, supported under the RISDA I Project, would be given special emphasis under
the Phase II project. RISDA's computerized MIS was initiated in 1979, when a
mainframe was installed.   The major work was on general acrounting besides
processing of the Smallholders Survey of 1977.  The payroll system was also
implemented. In 1981 RISDA purchased an additional mini computer. By the end
of 1986, it was found that the maintenance cost of the mainframe was high and the
system had become obsolete. RISDA decided to write off the hardware and then
bought a direct data entry machine in August 1986. In 1988, RISDA decided to
upgrade its mainframe computer at its headquarters and introduce mini-computers
for the State offices. For this purpose, a Steering Committee was established
and the requirements of the operational units were considered. A proposal was
submitted to the Government for computerizing information on finance and
accounts, stock control and store management, mini-estates operations, and
smallholders. The proposal also called for computerization at the State level
over about four years. The proposal was approved in principle by the Malaysian
Administration Modernization Planning Unit (MAMPU) in early 1989. The approved
proposal envisaged a step-by-step implementation beginning in late 1989 with a
one-year pilot project involving a new mainframe computer at RISDA headquarters
and a terminal in Malacca State.
2.        The RISDA I Project provided financing for the computerized MIS
program as detailed above. The financing was for a mainframe computer, 11 mini-
computers at States, and 70 personal computers (PCs) for the head office,
Training Institutes and the new responsibility centers to emerge from RISDA's
field level reorganization. In addition, the project provided for training of
the computer unit staff and training of RISDA staff in the computerized MIS and
a technical review of the pilot smallholder information system which had been in
development at the Muar Regional Office since 1987.
3.        During project  implementation,  some significant changes  in the
computerized MIS program took place. The 11 mini-computers at States were no
longer considered necessary; instead, the number of PCs to be procured was
increased. This was done in view of the field level reorganization of RISDA,
whereby the States retained only a planning, monitoring and supervision role and
all significant operational responsibilities were transferred to the new 60
responsibility centers which, consequently, had a greater need for computer
facilities. The technical study of the Maur pilot project was dropped, since the
system was considered outdated and no longer repltcable in other areas of the
country.



- 124 -
Page 2 of 2
4.        Substantial hardware and 30ftware have been purchased under the RISDA
I Project, including a mainframe computer, procured through international
competitive bidding and installed in 1992, and 421 PCs. Tables 1-3 show the
costs of hardware and software purchased, type of software procured, and
distribution of PCs by State and Headquarters, respectively.
5.        The RISDA II Project will continue support for the computerized MIS.
Additional hardware and software to be financed under the project for the
computerized MIS is shown in Table 4. The training requirements for the computer
unit staff are summarized in Table 5. Most of the training requirements will be
met locally.   However, some provision would be made under the project for
overseas training of computer unit staff in selected subjects (see Annex 15,
Table 5). The various modules (Smallholders Information System including
Smallholders  Training,  Stock Management,  Finance  and Accounts,  Personnel
Information System, Monitoring and Evaluation, Executive Information System,
Communication and Geographic Information System) will be developed and
implemented during the project period as shown in Chart 1.  Module 1 (Basic
Information on Smallholders) is already completed and is, therefore, not shown
in Chart 1.
6.        Consultancy services would be needed for operationalization of the
computerized MIS. However, the services would be employed for specific tasks
from time to time, as the need arises.  It is anticipated that the following
applications would require consultant support:
(1) Smallholders Information Systems PcLAN Version - 4 persons for 1 month each
(2)  Financial Application for Cost Centers           - 4 persons for 1 month each
(3)  Communications                                    - 2 persons for 2 weeks each
(4)  Graphical Interface Programming                  - 2 persons for 2 weeks each
(5)  GIS                                              - 2 persons for 1 month each
The estimated costs for the above expertise would depend on years of experience
of the consultants as follows:
Years of Experience       Ms/&_y    MS/month
A.     > 10               1,500      30,000
B.   6 - 10               1,000      20,000
C.   3 - 6                  700      14,000
D.     < 3                  400       8,000
Assuming that services are obtained from type B professionals, the estimated
costs are as follows:
(1)  Smallholders Information Systems PcLAN Version   - M$  80,000
(2)  Financial Application for Cost Centers             -     80,000
(3)  Communications                                     -     20,000
(4)  Graphical Interface Programming                    -     20,000
(5)  GIS                                                -     40.000
Total                             M$ 240,000



- 125 -
ANNEX 14
Table I
Page 1 of 2
NALAYSTA
RISDA 1U PROJECT
Costs of Hardware and Software Purchased
Under the RISDA Proiect lLn. 3139-NA)
Al 3tardware
$I*.        N~.o  0eom4U                                         mom               e                     bOm IIAO               Told Pn.
^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a .tk"edni
AM.         Oonbd PMOOemEng IMa
AI. tm MM0 MOM 4                                                 P0470MS            t                1.400.07L0             14A.072.00
. mxC NtW 6 BUC
o SW
* Svoton Trantormar
* system Coned. o Pi! to
e UIA AdrW
A1.2        0d~s.
A1.21     i  hta 0ok Coedb                                       f170061            1                 1014340O                101.440
.4. Od Di W4dodMb 11                                 P64236W4           1                 220.70*0                320.74040
f.l fPhd Oick UbO 2.5 3B                             P0426064           1                 13.738.00               153.73
At£1.3      TOpO &eYS
A1.31       Fq4lu M4mof Tooe uIW                                fNISA               1                 100,#32.00              tO O332.O
A1.32      FPW  Mogfls TAM Uni                                   Fal80              I                  68.13500                63133.0
A1.33      NPiu Ceado TOOe CO_W                                  P17311             1                 13540.00                136.229t 0
A1.34       Pfbu C~  TIwo 0,1w C2 civand                         P0476A             I                 102*22.00               102.*2.00
AtA            upO
A£.41       hVt$ UL.  Ues ( 3001.o)                              fP7310             I                  8,01.000                01,e00.0o
A1.43       ROM rwn Pink" (mOw                                   P7330              1                  72.12340                72.1*300
A1A         TO_eRMID
AtJt        WI" 120 T  To,mdo                                    MAne 120          25 1re.00                                   34.s75.00
At.0        K      1eweed SqmEoe
A1.01       TI tlUwn _   Came                                    .                 100                     10.00                1,000.00
A1.02       Trarw hr hbok                                                           a *  0                7AO                   4600.00
£2.03       Tad. SWo, (10 p.e)                                   *4                                     4,80000                1w.0000
A1.04       AIJI Omo COWd                                                           a                     736.00                4.410t0
A£16        1MC C*oWi adS Sok                                                      20                     112.00                2.812*0
part tumib ow oumeoiotm
A1.t0      AMs Modem 24OOW                                       .                  2                    1.S60.00               3.18040
moiwek hwndoraos cards                                                  I                     600000
At.7        Uo.hdedbrAl"s 34ap0M
A1.71       UPSO 20 KVt w022                                                        I                  71tt0.O0                71.600*0
A1.72       34     V u cOoi C_II                                 .                  1                  20.10*0                 *0.1
.m..                                        -g-                              ,-



- 126 -
ANNX 14
Tale I
Page 2 of 2
a2 Software
No.       Software Description                     Qty  Unit Price    Total Price
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __   (M $)  (,4$)
A2.1      operating System and Utilities
A2.11     UXP/M (Unlimited Users)                   1   228,424.00    228,424.00
A2.2      Database Management System (64 Users)
A2.21     Informix - Online (Development)           1   241,280.00    241,280.00
A2.22     Informix - SQL (Development)              1   102,512.00    102,512.00
A2.23     Informix - 4 OL C Compiler                1   160,346.00    160,346.00
A2.24     Informix - 4 GL RDS (Development)         1   160,346.00    160,346.00
A2.25     Informix - 4 GL ID (Development)          1    -44,706.00      44,706.00
A2.3      Language
A2.31     Micro Focus COBOL                         1    66,444.00      66,444 00
A2.4      PC Software
A2.41     ProComm Plus                              1        424.00         424.00
A2.42     PC TCP/IP Plus (with NFS support)         1      1,760.00       1,760.00
A2.5      Statistical Package
A2.51     SPSS-X (4-6 users)                        1    41,580.00      41,580.00
Others
A3        Freight and Delivery                                        Free of Charge
A4        Installation and Testing                                      30,000.00
A5        Training                                                    Free of Charge
A6        Conversion                                                  Free of Charge
o Payroll System
o Staff Loan Deducation Subsystem
A7        Documentation                                               Free of Charge
GRAND TOTAL                                3.832.8s8.00



- 127 -
ANNEX 14
Table 2
MALAYSIA
RISDA II PROJECT
Type of Software Purchased Under the
RISDA Project (ELn. 3139-MA)
1.   LOTUS 123 Release 2.4
2.   MS-EXCEL ver 4.0
3.   800 XENIX
4.  MS - WINDOWS 3.1
5.   Harvard Graphics for Windows
6.   Flowcharting ver 3.0
7.   MS - Project for Windows
8.  MS - Word for Windows 2.0
9.   Central Point Anti-Virus
10. PCTOOLS ver 7.1
11. Superbase 4 Windows (LAN)
12. FOXPRO 2.0 (LAN)



- 128 -
AMNEX L4
Table 3
MALAYSIA
RISDA II PROJECT
Distribution of PCs Purchased Under the
RISDA Prolect (Ln. 3139-NA) by State and Headquarters
State              PC     PC       PC       PC     Total
386   386SX     286     486
PERLIS             -      2        1                  3
KEDAH              9      17       11                37
P. PINANG          -      2        1                 .3
PERAK              11     13       11                35
SELANGOR           5      9        5                 19
NEGERI SEMBILAN    8      15       8                 31
MELAKA             4      7        5                 16
JOHOR              9      15       14       2        40
PAHANG             9      15       10       1        35
TERENGGANU         8      13       9                 30
KELANTAN           11     12       9                 32
HEADQUARTERS       16     40       82       2        140
TOTAL:             90    160      166       5        421
.                .                      _-    



- 129 -
ANNEX 14
Table 4
MALAYSIA
RISDA 11 PROJECT
Costs of Computer Hardware and Software
To Be Purchased Under the Prolect
Estimated                                     Total
Cost/Unit   No. of Urit   Cost                Cost
M9                      M8                  M8
1. Local Area Network (LAN) at Cost Center (PT) end
Wide Area Network (WAN) to link PT to HQ.....____-____      .       _________ .        ___a_____
1.1 Server (For National Level)                                1          50,000              50.000
PC-488 or higher
24 Mb - memory
1 Gigabyte SCSI Harddisk
1.2 Networking Software                                                                      254.000
Netware 3.11 (100 users) HQ                                            24.000
Netware 3.11 I5 users) PRD kL                3,600         60         210,000
Gateway                                      8,000         2           18,000
Fresh Utility                                1,000         2            2,000
0 Assist                                     1,000         2            2,000
1.3 Communications Cards                                                                    1,465,500
Ethemet 2                                    1.000        200         200,000  (pailr)
Microcomm                                    16,500        75        1,237,500
Terminator                                     140        200          28,000  (pair)
1.4 Other Network Hardware Cost                                                              482.500
Modem                                        2,000         75         150,000
UPS                                          3,000         75         225,000
Wiring & Cabling                                                       70,000
Powerchute for Novell                          S00         75          37,500
2. Other Software                                                                             282,200
Carbon Copy Plus                             1,000         75          75.000
X/Window                                     7.200         1            7,200
GIS                                         40,000         5          200,000
3. Mainframe Hardware                                                                         500,000
Laser Printer (4000 1pm)                    250,000        1          250.000
DASD (triple density)                       250,000        1          250,000
GRAND TOTAL                                                                               3.034.200
i PT means the responsibiiity centers flncluding the State Offices, District Offices and Traidning Institutes of RISOA).
k PRD Is the District Office of RISDA



- 130 -
ANNEXM14
Table S
HALAYSIA
RISDA II PROJECT
Training Requirements for RISDA's
Comouter Unit Staff
1.   Network Management
- Understanding
- Administration
- Implementation
2.   Data Communications
-   Understanding
-   Administration
- Management
3.   Geographical Information System (GIS)
4.   Project Management
5.   Strategic Information Planning
6.   Financial Management for IT personnel
7.   Teleprocessing Database Design & Implementation
8.   Computer operations
- Security Management (Hardware & Software)
9.   PC Maintenance
10. INFORMIX RDBMS Administration
11. Graphical User Interface
- Windows Programming
- Implementation
-  Management
- Windows communication across networks



MALAYSIA
RSDA 0I PROJECT
__________________ConWptd~e MIS Progrm
PROGRAM 1993 -1995                         [      1111111:1111: I          IIIII I                        -             -
ACTIVITY                                                                                94~~ 
J FMAM  ASON JM JAONDJ F M A M J |J |A iS ON DJF MA  JJ ASOND
1. Smaliholders Information
1.1 Module 2 - User's Tralning
1.2         - Implementation.
1.3 Module 3 - Developfment
1.4         - Pilot TesUing
1.5         - User's Training
1.8        -- nimpemertation
1.7 HO Database  - Development
1.8                 - Testing
1.9                - Implementatlon
1.10 RC Database - Installation LAN
1.11               - Pilot Test
1.12               - Training
1.13               - Implementation
1.14 Smallholders Training
1.14.1 Feasibility study
1. 1 4.2 development
1.14.3 testIng / pilot
1.14.4 IrmplemnentatlonO
RC =ResponsibUity Center



ACT1IVITY
2. Stock Mmtneagemnt
2.1 Fixed Assets - Development                                                                                          I
2.2            -Testing 
2.3            - Implementat"on
2.4 Asset Valuation - Study
2.5               - Development                                                                                           i
2.6               -Testing
2.7              -Training
2.8               - Implementation
2.9 Stock Management -Training.
2.10                 -implementation
2.10 Stock Convtrol at HO
2.11 Office Supplies - Development
2.12               * Training/implementation
3. Finance
3.1 Acoounting at RCs - Developrnenl,         Li 71          _
3.2                  - Testing
3.3                  -Training
3.4                  -Implementation
3.5 Consolidated Accounts - Development         FP T V             
3.6                      - Testing
3.7                      - Implementation                                                                                        o



4. Personal InformatIon System
4.1 PIS at RCs - Development
4.2           - Testing
4.2           - Implementation
4.3 PIS at HO  - Development                                                                                              I Ml
4.4           -Testing 
4.5           Implementatlonm
4.0 Staff Loan - Development
4.7           - Testing
4.8           - Implementation
S. Monitorlng and Evaluation
5.1 Studying of M & E
5.2 Development                                 I  I            1n
5.3 Testing                                                     I I I
5.4 Imiplementation



ACTIVITY                                   '      .                  . .. .     '> ;4*  
. ExeulIve lnfofmation System
6.1 Study
6.2 Development
6.3 Testing
6.4 Implementation                                 I      I     t      l1
6.5 Training of Senior Management       _ __
6.6 Graphic Representation- Development
6.7           - Training and Irplementation
7. CommunlIcalon
7.1 Study, Testing & Procurement
7.2 Training of Computer Unit Staff
7.3 Phased Implementation of Lan                              v
7.4 Pilot WAN
7.5 Implementation of WAN
S. GIs
8.1 Iniial Study
8.2 Approval for Procurement
8.3 Pototype Development
18.4 nImplementatIon at HO



- 135 -
ANNEX 15
Page I of 7
MALAYSIA
RISDA II PROJECT
Human Resource Development ComDonent
Component Objectives
1.        The human resource development component has two main objectives:
(a) To support, through training, the provision of skills and knowledge
required to enable project component objectives to be met; and
(b)  To increase RISDA's capacity to implement human resource
development (HRD) and to introduce the systematic practice of human
resources management (HRM).
In order to achieve these objectives the project would support the
strengthening of RISDA's capacity to manage training, training of staff and
smallholders in improved tapping technology, cooperatives management, nursery
management, computer technology and communications techniques. The project
would also provide support for training programs begun under the RISDA I
project but not fully completed.
Trainins Activities Included in the HRD Component
A.  Training for Improved TaDPing Technologv
2.        The project will support the introduction of Low Intensity Tapping
Systems (LITS) with stimulation as a means of overcoming the problem of labor
shortages in the rubber subsector. While the technology underpinning LITS is
relatively simple, the effective implementation of LITS requires high levels
of skill and supervision. The RISDA II project will, therefore, place great
emphasis on ensuring that the management, technical and tapping skills of
those engaged in the project-supported LITS program reach the highest possible
level. During the first year of project implementation, a pilot introduction
of LITS in seven mini-estates would be undertaken.
3.        Proiect Year I.  The trainee target groups in project year 1 would
be the following:
(i) The RISDA Coordinator of the LITS program plus one other person
from the Extension Division and two staff from the mini-estates
Division (4 persons).
(ii)  Mini-estate Managers at State level (4 persons).
(iii)  District Officers - ROs (5 persons).



- 136 -
ANNE 15
Page 2 of 7
(iv) Assistant mini-estate managers responsible for districts (5
persons).
(v) Supervisors of each mini-estate - AR0s (7 persons).
4.        The total for LITS training in Project Year I is 25 persons or two
courses.  Training would be conducted by RISDA at selected ILRs and RRIM staff
would serve as resource persons.
5.        High quality tapping is essential for a successful LITS program.
The project will provide training for all mini-estate tappers involved in the
pilot introduction phase (7 mini-estates) during 1993 or at the latest in
early 1994. The target group for the first seven mini-estates is 160 tappers
who will be trained in situ for a period of three days by a training team from
the ILRs. Each training group will have ten tappers and two trainers. For
the pilot phase of LITS a total of 16 courses will be conducted (Table 1).
6.        Proj1ec  Year 2.  With the addition of 50 additional mini-estates in
about 20 districts during PY 2 the target groups for training would be:
(i) RISDA headquarters staff in charge of mini-estates and
extension (5 people).
(ii)  Mini-estate managers, one per State (9 persons).
(iii) Assistant mini-estate managers (to be future trainers) (20
persons).
(iv) Supervisors of mini-estates - AROs (50 persons).
(v) District Officers - ROs (20 persons).
7.        About 700 tappers from the additional 50 mini-estates would be
trained in situ by teams of trainers from the ILRs. Each course for ten
tappers would run for three days, with a total of 70 courses.
8.        Project Year 3.  An additional 100 mini-estates would be included
bringing the total number to 167. Trainee target groups would be:
(i) Mini-estate managers at State level (7 people).
(ii) Assistant mini-estate managers (40 persons).
(iii) Supervisors (100 persons).
(iv) District Officers (40 persons).
(v) District Extension Officers (124 persons).



- 137 -
ANNK 1
Page 3 of 7
9.        Tapper training would be provided for about 1,000 tappers from the
additional mini-estates. About 100 in situ courses of three days duration
would be managed by ILR training teams.
10.       LITS training would be conducted by RISDA staff certified by RRIM
as trainers. Approximately 8 RISDA staff should participate in the RRIM
tapping LITS course which has been specially designed for the LITS program
(Table 1).
B. Training for Nursery Improvement
11.       The RISDA II project will put special emphasis on the improvement
of the quality of planting materials. The number of nurseries will, by the
second year of project implementation, be reduced from 28 to approximately 15
and the capacity to manage, operate and supervise will be increased through
training. Four target groups have been identified for nursery related
training (Table 2):
(i) Approximately 15 nurseries under management of ESPEK will
require training for the supervisor of each nursery (15) and a
nursery manager for a cluster of nurseries. The total size of
the trainee group is 20 persons. This group must understand
nursery operations and the objective of producing quality
planting material. The course of 10 days will be offered by
RRIM.
(ii)  The second target group includes nursery managers in charge of
operations and their key assistants. The course would
emphasize technology of nursery management and include some
practical budgrafting training. Included would be 15 nursery
managers plus one assistant per nursery (30). In addition, the
15 cooperative managers should also attend the course.
(iii)  Another target group would be RISDA staff with responsibility
for planting materials (clone inspectors), especially those who
will visit nurseries to see that planting material is ready for
distribution. This target group includes RUSDA headquarters
and State officers and 8 ILR trainers (8). The group totalling
about 15 persons should attend the 10 day RRIMl course as for
groups (i) and (ii) above.
(iv)  Budgrafters are essential to nursery operations and they are in
short supply in some States. Approximately 100 budgrafters
will be trained over a period of seven days at ILRs.
12.       Timing of Nursery Training.  Groups (i), (ii) and (iii) should be
enrolled in the RRIM course as soon as possible and preferably during 1993.
RRim has indicated willingness to offer the training if financing can be
arranged. Training for budgrafters (Group IV) will take place in Project
Years 1 and 2.



- 138 -
AME6 15
Page 4 of 7
C. Strengthening of Cooperatives
13.       Training will be provided for staff and Board members of
cooperatives to be strengthened under the project (see Annex 13 for details,
particularly paras. 31-33 for training). Topics in the training program
include business management and planning, and accounts and audit for NARSCO
staff; and management and accounting, bookkeeping, and store management for
cooperatives staff. Mini-estate management and land development and group
replanting training will be given to selected staff from cooperatives which
are likely to have mini-estate responsibility. Training for cooperatives
Board Members will also be provided to expose them to internal audit,
cooperatives management, policy making and cash management. Training will be
provided by ANGKASA, MKN and ILR depending on specialization (Table 3).
D. Communications Skills Training
14.       Weakness in communications skills amongst the AROs was identified
as a serious weakness in RISDAs extension programs during RISDA I project
appraisal. Funding was provided for the development of a communications
skills course and a number of AROs were trained. However, due to the short
implementation period of RISDA I, a considerable number of staff have yet to
be trained.
15.       Communications skills training will be provided for  about 1330
staff including --icultural officers, PRD and ROs (300 persons) in courses of
6 days' duration and for extension and mini-estate personnel (1,000 persons)
in courses of 14 days' duration. The training courses will be offered by the
ILRS (Table 4).
B. Overseas Training
16.       The project will finance limited overseas training for staff of the
RISDA Computer Unit in order to increase their capacity to provide management
support for the RISDA. It is envisaged that the overseas training of short
duration will mostly take place in the region and will be limited to a total
of five persons (Table 5).
F. Technical Assistance
17.       Targeted technical assistance will be provided to strengthen the
capability of the Communications Unit which has responsibility for the design
and production of extension support materials, journals and teaching aids.
Five months of technical assistance for strengthening the Unit's graphics
capability will be funded. TA will also be provided to strengthen training
management and to assist RISDA management establish a human resource
development system. The period of TA involvement will be spread over twelve
months in the case of training management and nine months in the case of HRD
and the consultant-months would be 6 and 7, respectively (Table 6).



- 139 -
ANNEX 15
Page 5 of 7
G. Eim=nt
18.       Funding will be provided for upgrading teaching and communications
equipment and materials to ensure that the quality of training and management
information remains as high as possible. A total of US$9,000 will be
allocated for Communications Unit equipment and software and US$200,000 for
the Training Unit, ILRs and Wisma RISDA (Table 7).
H. Manaqement of Training
19.       The scope and scale of training required by RISDA personnel has
broadened with the advent of the RISDA 1 and RISDA II projects and with the
intensification of male and female smallholder training. RISDA's in-house
training capacity through its four Training Institutes (ILRs) and one Kuala
Lumpur-based training center (Wisma RISDA) is already reaching a point where
capacity is fully stretched and indeed considerable amount of staff training
is implemented on behalf of RISDA by other agencies. Thus the emphasis has
shifted in RISDA from being primarily a supplier of in-service training to
identifying training needs and negotiating for training services with
appropriately-qualified institutions and firms.
20.       RISDA now needs to manage training activities to a greater extent
than before. Management of training implies systematic needs assessments
undertaken in consultation with the Directorates and other RISDA units, design
of training programs, evaluation of proposals from suppliers of training,
implementation administration, and training impact evaluation. In addition,
the administration and management of the RISDA training centers and on-site
training activities supervised by the ILRs requires management input.
21.       The project will support the strengthening of training management
capacity in RISDA by providing funds for an in-house Training Management
course to be offered by local consultants specializing in such training. It
is envisaged that the consultants would conduct the course in modules over a
period of, say, one year. After each module, trainees would be able to seek
advice based on their experiences prior to the subsequent module. The target
group for the Training Management course would be six persons from the
Training Unit and four ILR Principals. The estimated cost of providing the
Training Management course is US$48,000 (Table 6). Detailed terms of
reference for the consultants are at Appendix 1.
I. Human Resource Development
22.       One of the lessons learned from the implementation of the RISDA I
project was the need to strengthen the management of human resources within
RISDA. Consultants hired to develop a communications skills course and to
strengthen training management also undertook a human resources management
study and made recommet.dations based on their observations and findings.
23.       K'SDA does not have a fully-implemented human resource development
(HRD) system in place and human resource management is weak. By HRD is meant
the normally accepted activities which deal with recruitment based on specific



- 140 -
Page 6 of 7
job descriptions, training based on training needs assessments, appointment of
qualified staff to positions requiring specific skills, career development,
promotion on merit and some form of manpower planning.
24.       Human Resource Management (HRM) is, in effect, an indication that
managers are using the output of the HRD system to actively and effectively
manage their human resources. One important outcome of good human resources
management from the manager's point of view is a workforce which can achieve
objectives assigned to a particular unit, division or department. In
achieving these goals, managers gain in terms of their standing in the
organization and motivation of the staff improves.
25.       The manager who manages his/her human resources, anticipates
vacancies or new skill needs, hires on the basis of clear job descriptions,
observes and itacusses skill competence with staff, trains only on the basis
of need, and identifies staff with potential for positions of greater
responsibility. The expected outcome of active HRM is greater work efficiency
and effectiveness, higher staff morale and usually less but better-focussed
training.
26.       RISDA now needs to institutionalize HRD/HRM.  The project will
provide funding for the hiring of technical assistance to help guide the
process for developing awareness, appreciation and adoption of an HRM approach
within RISDA. The TA would be expected to take the RISDA I human resource
management report as a starting point and, after analysis of the existing
situation, design a series of activities for senior, middle and junior
managers which would clarify the meaning and advantages of adopting a HRM
approach in RISDA. Once this phase of awareness raising and clarification is
complete, the consultants would:
(a)  Review and make recommendations on the HRD function in RISDA, with
special reference to strengthening RISDA's capacity to actively
support HRD. Recommendations should also include the location of a
HRD entity in the organizational structure;
(b)  Examine RISDA's training activities and make recommendations on how
best they can be managed;
(c)  Develop HRM guidelines for RISDA managers to facilitate their
practice of HRM; and
(d)  Set targets with indicators to assist managers in introducing and
practicing HRM.
27.       The estimated cost of the technical assistance to develop RISDA's
HRD and introduce HRM is US$56,000 (Table 6). Detailed terms of reference for
the consultants are at Appendix 2.



- 141 -
A 15
Page 7 of 7
Cost of the Human Resu2re Develo96 ent= Cogmnnt
28.       The estimated cost of the HRD component is US$1.207 million
including US$144,000 for technical assistance and US$27,000 for overseas
training (Table 8). Of this, the incremental costs of training for LITS,
nursery improvement and communicatiens skills amounting to US$551,000 would be
financed from RISDA's operating budget and have not been included in overall
project costs, which relate only to RISDA's development budget.



MALAYSIA
RISDA 11 PROJECr
LUTS TRAINING
Caouse          Unit         Trainee                                           Trainhg
TARGET GROUP                    Duralion        Cost          Number        PYI       PY2   PYS    Total Cost Responsibitiy
RISDA LrTS Coordinator
HO Eension DMslon                6 days     US$180trainee,         25        4.5                          4.5    ILR
Mini Estates Dlvision                          Oourse
State and Distrc St
HO, State, and Disct
Mini Estate Supervisors for      6 days     US$180Anee1           104                18.72              18.72    ILR
Additioa 50 Mini Estas                          course
HO, State, and Distict
Mini Estate Supervisors for      6 days     US$180itraWnee/       311                         55.98     55.98    ILR
Additkoa 100 Mgi Estates                        course
RISDATrainems                   10 days  US$300ramIr/course         8        2.4                          2.4    RRIM
Tapper Training for7             3 days   US$624/couse (10         160      10.0                         10.0    ILR
Mini Estates (Pre-effetveness)          tappers and 2 trainers)
Tapper Training for              3 days    US$624/course (10    700 (est             43.68              43.68    ILR
Additional 50 Mini Estates (Year 2)     tappers and 2 trainers)                       (est
Tapper Training for              3 days    US$624/course (10   1000 (est)                      62.40    62.40    ILR
Additional 100 Mni Estates (Year 3)     tappers and 2 trainers)                                (est)
TOTAL                                                            2308       16.9    62.40    118.38    197.68
ILR = RISDA's Training Institutes
RRIM = Rubber Research Institute of Malaysia
VIl



MALAYSIA
RISDA 11 PROJECT
NURSERY IMPROVEMENT TRAINING
Coutse             Unit                Trainee
TARGET GROUP                         Topic        Duration            Cost                Number       PYI la     PY2      PY3   Total Cost
Espek Supervsor               Numsery Management                  US$235/trainee            20         4.7 /b                           4.7
Nursery Manager               for Clusters of      10 days
Numeses
Nursery Managers in Charge of    Numery Management  tO days       US$235/trainee            30         7.1 /b                           7.1
Operations and Assistants     Technology
Cooperatlws Managers           Nursery Management 10 days         US$235/tralnee            15         3.53 /b                         3.53
RISDA Staff (HO). State Officers and Nursery Management  10 days  US$235/tralnee            15         3.53 /b                         3.53
ILA Trainers
Budgraftlers                       Techniques      7 days      US$100trainee/course        100         5.0       5.0                  10.0  I
TOTAL                                                                                       180        23.86      5.0                 28.86 W
/e If central nursery program Is detayed. the training schedule may shift to PY2 and 3.
lb If central nursery program is on schedule, training should take place before July/August 1994.
Note: Nursery Improvement training is to be carried out by RRIM and budgrafting by the ILRs.
Fn



M6ALAYSIA
RISDA U PROJECT
COOPERATIES STAFF TAINING
(USSU
Cours                 Uni                   Tradnee                                            Treb*
TARGETGROUP                            Topic        Duration               Cost                 Number        PYl       PY2      PY3 Totsl Cost    Provider
A. NARSCO Supsom        Sf (ARO) Busness Manageme    One moiyar            USS600Imonth              10       6.0       6.0       6.0      18.0   ANGKASA
and Pnning
Accots and Audit     One morn/e             US$600lmonth               10       6.0       6.0      6.0      18.0  AHGKASA
. cooperate Skal              Swnes Manageewnt  2xS da  Vyear 1.           USS600month               64      38.4      38.4               76.8   AMGKASA
Ind. Accouning       I mo. yer 2 (accouning)
Bookkeepig           16 days                US$00/traInee/course       64      19.2                         19.2  ANGKASA
(Accounts clerks)
Store Management     7 days                 USS140tralneescourse       I5                 2.1                2.1   ANGKASA
Contract Pricin and  7 days                 US$140/trahmecoumse        40                 5.6                5.6  ANGKASA   4
Managwemen
MiWn Estate          7 days                 US$t401tralneeiourse       64                 5.6                5.6        ILR
Manmament
Land Devebpment and  7 days                 USI140/tralneel/ourse      40                 5.6                5.6        ILR
Group Replanting
C. Board Membrs               intenal Audit         7 days                 US$1401traine/course 128 (Z64)   8.96      8.96               17.92       MKM
Cooperative Management. days                US$140/tralne/course 768 (1a44)    42.0      42.0    23.52    107.52       MKM
Poly. Cra Management
and Business Applications
TOTAL                                                                                              t203    120.56    120.26     35.52    276s4
AGiiA   - Cooperdiv College                                                                        -
MKM-
urn



MALAYSIA
RISDA II PROJECT
COMMUNICATIONS SKiLLS TRAINING /a
diSy)
Course        Unit            Trainee
TARGET GROUP          Duration      Cost            Number             PYI      PY2       PY3 Total Cost
A. MANAGERS
Agricultural Offcers         6 days   $120/trainee/course      11             1.32                         1.32
PRD                          6 days   $120/trainee/course      62             2.40      2.40     2.64      7.44
RO (extension)               6 days   $120/trainee/course     223             9.60      9.60     7.56     26.76
B. EXTENSION AND
MINI ESTATE STAFF
ARO                          14 days  $280/trainee/course     700             84.0      84.0     28.0   196.00
Mini Estate Superisor        14 days  $280/trainee/course     332             49.0      35.0     8.96     92.96
TOTAL                                                         1328          146.32    131.00    47.16    324.48
/a Training to be offered at RISDA ILRs.
In



MALAYSIA
RISDA II PROJECT
OVERSEAS TRAINING /a
(US$'009)
Course        Unit       Trainee
Topic                          Durtion       Cost        Number   PY1        PY2       PY3   Total Cost
Network Management            1 month       US$5.0          2               10.0/b                 10.0
Data Communications           1 month       US$5.0         2                10.0 /b                10.0
Teleprocessing Data Base Design   1 month   US$7.0          1                7.0 /c                 7.0
and Implementation
TOTAL                                                       5                27.0                  27.0
/a All trainees from RISDA Computer Unit.
/b Courses in region.
/c Course in USA.
I|-
U'



MALAYSIA
RISDA II PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR HRM
(US$.O00)
Rom                            Unit Cost    Duration            PYl       PY2      PY3   Total Cost
A. Communications Unit
Graphics Expert                8.0/mo.     9 months             40.0                           40.0
B. Trainina Unit
In House Training Management   8.0/mo.    6 consultant-months    16.0    16.0      16.0        48.0
Course for 10 People (Modular)            over a 12-month period                                         a
C. HRD
Strengthen RISQA HRO capacity  8O/mo.      7 consultant-months   20.0    18.0      18.0        56.0
and asit management with                  over a 9-month period
Human Resource Management (HRM)
TOTAL                                                           76.0     34.0      34.0       144.0
Q M



MALAYSIA
RISDA 11 PROJECT
TRAINING EQUIPMENT
(US$'OM
item              Number      Unit Cost     PYI       PY2      PY3   Total Cost
A. Communcations Uni
Computer (486)                   One          4.0                   4.0                4.0
Graphics Sotware                Several       2.0 (Sum)             2.0                2.0
Laser Printer                    One          3.0         3.0                          3.0
Subtotal                                                  3.0       6.0                9.0
B. Tmining UnltIlLRs
Video/Computer Projector (ILRs)    4          16.0                 64.0               64.0
Photocopier (iLRs)                 4          5.0         20.0                        20.0
Risograph                          1          24.0                 24.0               24.0
Overhead Projector (High Powered)  8          1.60        6.4       6.4               12.8
Slide Maker                        1          10.0        10.0                        10 0
Computer Software               Several       10.0 (Sum)   5.0      5.0               10.0
Training Reference Books (ILRs,
RISDA HQ)                       Several       12.0 (Sum)   6.0      6.0               12.0
Video Teaching Aids (ILRs)      Several       10.0 (Sum)   5.0      5.0               10.0
Plotter                            1          14.0                 14.0               14.0
Text Scanner                       1          3.0         3.0                          3.0
Network Accessories              4 Sets       5.0                  20.0               20.0
Subtotal                                                  55.4     144.4              199.8
TOTAL                                                     58.4     150.4              208.8                        m x
-4,-
iUn



_ 149 -
Annex 1 5
Table 8
MALAYSIA
RI8DA If PROJECT
HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT COST
iUSSOOO)
Item                                                            Cost
UTS Training /a                                                                 197.7
Nursery Improvement Training /a                                                  28.9
Cooperative Strengthening                                                       276.3
Communications Skills Tralning /a                                               324.5
Overses Training                                                                 27.0
Technical Assisbnce                                                              144.0
Equipment for Training and Communications                                       208.8
TOTAL                                                                           1,207.2
a/ These costs are to be financed from RiSDA's operating budget and have not been Included In overall prolect costs,
which relate only to RISDA's development budget.



- 150 -
ANNEX 15
Appendix 1
Terms of Reference for Consultants
Manatement of Training
1.        The volume and variety of training programs required by RISDA have
increased to the point where the institutional emphasis is on the management of
training programs delivered in house and by outside agencies rather than solely
in house through the RISDA Training Institutes (ILRs). The RISDA II project,
which plans to introduce new and improved technology for nursery management and
tapping and strengthen cooperatives will, in addition to a comprehensive routine
training program, place new demands on RISDA's ability to manage its training
programs efficientlv and effectively.
2.        The services of an experienced consultant group are required to design
and implement an in house training management course for RISDA headquarters,
field and ILR staff who will have responsibility for training program
implementation. The course, which could be designed as a number of modules
delivered over a period of, say, one year with monitoring between modules would
be offered to about six persons from the RISDA headquarters Training Unit and
approximately four ILR principals.
3.        Qualifications and Experience of Consultina  Firm.  The firm should
have a proven record of successful activity in the area of training and training
management. Experience with training in the agricultural sector, while not
critical, would be advantageous. The firm should be able to assign a team of
,well qualified and experienced persons for the duration of the assignment.
4.        Main Responsibilities.  The consultants will be expected to create
within RISDA the capacity to manage training programs and to provide RISDA with
the necessary systems, procedures, and guidelines required to support staff in
sustaining the management of training in RISDA.
5.        Main tasks.  The main tasks of the consultants would be as follows:
(a)  Review progress with strengthening training management achieved during
the implementation of the RISDA I project.
(b)  Undertake an analysis of RISDA's present and future requirements for
training management.
(c)  Identify RISDA personnel who should be included in the training
management activity.
(d)  Propose training management program.
(e)  Implement agreed program.
(f)  Provide necessary monitoring/supervision of on-the-job application of
skills in the event that the program is in modular form.
(g)  Evaluate progress based on agreed indicators.
(h)  Provide RISDA with an end of assignment report.



_ 151 _
ANNEX 15
AppendiS 2
Terms of Reference for Consultants
Human Resource Development/Human Resource Manaeement
1.        RISDA management is concerned about the effectiveness of its largely
vell-educated staff and vishes to strengthen its approach to human resource
development and to begin to actively practice human resource management.
Management's concern stems in part from government's initiative on quality
management and from the implication of decreasing public support for institutions
such as RISDA which are expected to generate more of their own revenues.
2.        The services of a suitably qualified and experienced firm vill be
required to review RISDA's human resource management system, strengthen the
system where appropriate and plan and implement a program of human resource
management. The assignment, which should be completed over a period of about 9
months, may consist of a number of linked activities or modular training sessions
supported by work place assignments and supervision.
3.        Qualifications and Experience of Consultina Firm.  The firm should
have a proven record of successful consulting in the area of HRDIHRM and be able
to assign suitably qualified and experienced staff for the duration of the
consultancy.
4.        Maior  Responsibilities.    The  consultants  will  be  expected  to
institutionalize a workable system of HRD which meets the needs of RISDA and to
assist RISDA managers in introducing a system of human resource management.
5.        Main Tasks.  The main tasks of the consultants would be as follows:
(a)  Review present RnD arrangements and documentation.
(b)  Propose  a  program  of  HRD  strengthening  which  may  include
organizational adjustments, changes in responsibility, modified
procedures and new or updated regulations.
(c)  Implement the strengthened system.
(d)  Sensitize senior management to the need for HRM, indicating the
benefits likely to be obtained from adoption of systematic HRM.
(e)  Design a RISDA-specific approach to HRM including training programs
for managers.
(f)  Help RISDA management incorporate HRD and active HRM in its corporate
culture through updated mission statements and job descriptions.
(g)  Monitor progress in adapting HRD and HRM approaches by workplace
observations and use of indicators.
(h)  Prepare end-of-assignment report.



- 152 -
Annex 16.1
MALAYSIA
RISDA II PROJECT
PROJECT COMPONENTS BY YEAR
Foreign
1994       1995       1996        Total   Exchange (%)
Replnti  and Mai_tnance
(a) Grant Payments/a                  200.220.0   195,670.0   191,700.0   587,5f90.0   35
(b) Rubber Nursery lmprovement/b          400.0      400.0      400.0      1200.0       a
RehabiliUan                              3,0m0.0    3,000.0    3,000.0    9,000.0       35
Infrastructure
(a) Upgrading                           4,000.0    4,000.0     4,000.0    12,000.0     35
(b) Mantence                            1,000.0     1,000.0    1,000.0    3,000.0      25
Exension and Smaliholder Trainn          5,000.0    5000.0      5,000.0    15,000.0     10
Appled Reech (RAM)U le                     800.0     1,000.0     810.0    2,610.0       20
Min-Esate Dev. & Improvement/d           3,000.0     S,000.0    3,000.0    9,000.0      15
Strenghsning of Cooperatves
(a) Technid Assistance /                  120.0      240.0      120.0       480.0
(b) Traini /f                             307.0      307.0       90.0       704.0       a
CGomputerid MIS
(a) Equlpment/g                         2,500Q0      534.0          -     3,034.0      60
(b) Tecical Assiance h                    120.0      120.0          -       2400        -
Human R weoure Delpment
(a) Training Equipment & Mateis /I        150.0      380.0          -       530.0      8o
(b) Tecnical Asisance a                   200.0       60.0       80.0       360.0       -
(c) StaffTrainn (Overs") /k                  -        70.0          -        70.0      100
Manitring and Evaludon Il                   40.0      120.0          -       160.0       -
es"2code.L857.0   214.921.0   209t200.0   644Z978.0                       34
Physica Contlinenles/im                    265.0       91.4        0.0       3564       60
PriceaCnngendes /n                         147.0      200.0      134.0       481.0      30
Tol Project Costs /o         221,269.0   215,212.4   209,334.0   645,815.4     34
af From Annex 16.2.
b/ RRiM supevision costs.
a/ Prom Annex 10.
dl Suppbmentay development costa (ovir nd above grant entlemnets) of mini-esates
stbished pfior to the projet end not yet In poducion, averWi 4,000 ha pa. ever the projct
period.
el Twenty-four person-monrha.
VJ From Annex 15, Table 3.
W1 From Annex 14, Table 4.
hl 8e Anrtnex 14. pam IL
I/ FrPrnAnnexKI5,Tsbl7.
V Fromn Annex 15, Tablo.
kI From Annex 15, Table 5.
IV Egt peron-monts oonaf sncy.
ni 10% for computer and taning qment.
nl For computer an trnin equipment applied resewrch an tecica asslstance wih the
Ihtn rat assumed at 2L% p.s for foreign costs and 4.5% p. for local coss.
oJ Induee txes an dute estiated at MSIA mlon for Infastructure (5% d eoa  and equipment
(10% of cost).



MALAYSIA
RtSDA II PROJECT
COSTS OF REPLANTING AND MAINTENANCE I/
(M$ milion)
1004                                                          10NS                                    1906
YEAROF        RUBBEFR                     OIL PALM             OTHERCROPS           RiBBER       OIL PALM   OTHER CROPS   RU8BER        OIL PALM   OTHER CROPS
REPAWLN`    HA  INSTAiLMENT COST    HA  INSTALLMENT coST   HA  nSTLLmEw COST   HA   COST   HA  COST  ItA  COST   HA   COST    HA  COST   HA  COST
1968  22617      469.3  10.61     0          0  0.00     0          0    0
1989 25668      599.22 15.S8      0          0 0.00      0          0    0   2566  12.04       0    0      0    0
1990 29063       710.1  20.64     0          0  0.00  2530      716.301 .81  29Q    17.42      0    0       0    0   29063  13.64     0    0        0    0
1991  31489      722.5  22.75  4859      474.25  2.30  2833     716.30  2.03   31489  22.S6    0    0  2833  2.03   31489  18.87      0    0       0    0
1992 328S3       722.5  23.72  4969       846.7  4.21  3426     728.68  2.50   S2838  23.72  4969  2.36  3426  2.45  32833  23.31     0    0   3426  2.45
1993 33230      073.48  32.35  5272      1321.9  6.97  3498     728.70  2.55   33230  24.01  5272  4.46  3498  2.55  33230  24.01  5272  2.50   3498  2.51
1994 24000    1781.64  42.76  3600       1705.3  6.14  2400    1457.99  3.50  24000  23.3   3600  4.76  2400  1.75  24000  17.34  3600  3.05   2400  1.75
1995                                                                          24000  42.76  36W  6.14  2400  3.60  2400D  23.36  3600  4.76   2400  1.75
1998                                                                                                                 24000  42.76  3600  6.14   2400  3.50
TOTAL                        168.21                   19.62                  12.39         165.67       17.72       12.28        163.29        16.45        11.96
1/ Based on grant payment instalments as shown at Annex Sand sumrarized in columns for the year 1994. For bother crops the grant rate for non-citrus fruts has been used. The grant
Instatments are welghted, assuming that 909 of smalholdera would receivegrants applicae to holding size of 4 ha or less and 10% would receive granst applicable to holding size of more
than 4 ha. The crop proporton for replantings in 1994-1996 Is assumed to be 608% ubber 12% oit palm and 8% other crops in thelight otrecent experience. The crop proporton for 993 is
estimated and figures for replanftings In 1992 and earlier are actuals.
U'
w-



_ 154 _
Annex 1 7
Table 1
,Milavasla
RISDA It PMiogle
Financinq lPULa
(S$s million)
Rubber
Component                       WQrld Bank         GOM          Smallholders/8  Total
Armount   %   Amount   96    Amount        %      Amount
Replanting and Maintenance
(a) Grant Pavments              e2 70   27    8S 70   37       82.00     38    230.40
(bl Rubber Numryer Improverment/b  0.38   90    0.04    10       --               0.40
Rehabilitetion                    0.95   27      2.55   73        --               3.50
Infrastruoture Development and    1.00   27      4.30   73             -       -   S90
iMaintenance
Extension and Smailhoi4er Training  1.00   27    4.30   73                 -       S SO
Applied Research (RRliUI          -       -      1.10   100                        1.10
fd-nEsate Developrnent oW0.93   27               2.154   73       --               3.1SO
Improvetnent
Strenothernin of Cooperetiws
(a) TechricaliAsWeitence         0.18   90      0.02   tO             -           0.20
(b) Tradring                                    0.30   100       --               0.30
Cwomuterized PAiS
(a) Equipment                    1.04   80      0.26   20        --               1.30
lb) Technical Assistnce          OOS9  90       0.01   10        --               0.10
Hurnan Resource Development
(a) Tradrdno Equipmnemndat Mieterial   t0   80  0.04   20        --               0.20
(b) Technicai Assstance          O t8   SO      0.02    10       --               0.20
(el StaffTtaining (Overseas)     0.09   90      OOt1  tO         -                0.10
Moritoring and Evaluation         0.09   90      O Ot   10        --               0.10
(Cofnsultano y)
TotaliFRnancina  70.00   28   101.20   40      82.00    32    253.20
a/ Thmough toepantng cass panents.
b/ RRIM supervision costs.



_ 155 _
Annex 17
Table 2
Mlalaysia
RISDA II Proiect
IBRD Loan Disbursement Cateaories
Disbursement Category               Amount IUS$ million)            % of Expenditures to
be financed
(1) Replanting and Maintenance,            67.8                               27
Rehabilitation, Infrastructure,
Extension and Smaiiholder Traidning. &
Mini-Estate Development and
Improvement
(2) Computer and Training Equipment         1.2                              80 a/
(3) Consultants' Services lb                 1.0                              90
and Overseas Training
Total          70.0                               28
a/ It is assumed that these Items would be procured locally and would be financed at 80% by the Bank. Otherwise,
Bank disbursement would be 100% of foreign exchange expenditures of imported equipment and 100% of the
ex-factory cost of such items manufactured locally.
bl Includes RRIM supervision costs for rubber nursery improvement, and consultant services for strengthening of
cooperatives, computerized MIS, human resource development, and monitoring and evaluation.



_ 156 -
Anoex 17
Tebl 3
Malaysia
RISPA II Prolect
Schedule of Loan Disbursomentsla
Cumulative                  Standard Disbursement
IBRD       Period Ending           Disbursements             Profile for Malaysian Agricultural
Fiscal Year                   Amount (US$ Million)    %                     Projects
94      June 30, 1994              0.3                                   0
95      DeOember 31, 1994          4.0             8                     3
June30, 1995              12.0             17                    e
96      December31, 1995          21.0             30                   14
June 30, 1998             33.0             47                   22
07      Decenber 31, 1996         48.0             es                   30
June 30, 1997             65.0             93                   38
98      December 31, 1997         70.0            100                   46
a/ Loan Closing Date: December 31, 1997



_157 -
ANNX18
MALAYSJA
RISDA II PROIJECT
SuNrvision Plan: Bank Supervision Mission Schedule
Project         Approximate                                                            Expected              Staff Ieputs
Year           nission Dates             Areas of Concentration                  Skill Requirements        (staff-waeks)
1 (1994)         Feb 1°94           Loan  effectiveness;  recruitment        Agriculture (Tree Crops)          6.0
and appointment of consultants for      Economic/Financial Analysis
cooperatives  and human resource        LITS Specialist
management; review of arrangements
for 1994 agricultural program,
LITS  program,  rubber  nursery
Improvement    arrangements,
research,   progress   on   the
strengthening/    rationalization
plan for cooperatives, progress in
computerized MIS, and arrangements
for local staff and smaltholder
training; accounting and auditing;
disbursement    procedures;   and
procurement arrangements.
1 (1994)         Aug./Sept.         Review of LITS progress; progress        Agriculture (Tree Crops)          6.0
1994               in computerized HIS;  review of         HiS
work program and budget for 1995;       Financial Analysis/
procurement    arrangements;            Cooperatives Operations
monitoring and evaluation (m&E)         LITS Specialist
arrangements; and implementation
of the plan for cooperatives.
2 (1995)         Feb./March          Retrospective   review   of  1994       Agriculture (Tree Crops)          4.0
1995               agricultural program; work program      Rural Engineering
and budget for 1995; progress in        Nursery Specialist
computerized   HIS   and   K&E;         Rubber Research Specialist
improvements in extension services
and infrastructure; and progress
in LITS, research and nurseries.
2 01995)         August/             Progress In LITS; acconiting and        Agriculture (Tree Crops)          4.0
September 1995     auditing; progress in staff and          Training
smaliholder training; work program      LITS Specialist
end budget for 1996; and progress
with computerized NIS and plan for
cooperatives.
3 (1996)         Feb./March          Retrospective   review  of  1995        Agriculture (Tree Crops)          4.0
1996               program;   progress   in   LITS;        Nursery Specialist
progress in plan for cooperatives;
nursery Improvement; research; and
extension effectiveness.
3 (1996)         August/             Progress   In   LITS;   research;       Agriculture (Tree Crops)          4.0
September 1996     accounting and auditing; progress        LITS Specialist
of  1996  agricultural  program;        Rubber Research Specialist
staff and smallholder training;
strengthening of cooperatives; and
extension progran for the post-
project period.
(1997)         Nov./Dec. 1997     Project Completion Report.               Economics/Financial Analysis      4.0
Agriculture
MIS



Malaysia
RISDA 11 Prolect
Rubber Yield Profiles
Rubber (Kg Dry Rubber/hal
With Project (Without LITS)                           With Project (With LITS)
Years             lndividualfTSS     Group and Mini-Estate             IndividualfTSS       Group             Mini-Estate
2
3
4
6.                                                                                                        
7                                          200                                                  200                 250
8                      300                 600                               300                600                 600
9                      600                 900                               600                900                 950
10                     800                1100                               800               1100                1100
11                    1000                1200                              1000               1200                1200
12                    1100                1300                              1100               1300                1350
13                    1300                1400                              1200               1400                1450
14                    1400                1600                              1300               1600                1600
IS                    1500                1700                              1400               1700                1700
18                    1500                1600                              1500               1700                1700                             1
17                    1400                1600                              1500               1700                1700
18                    100                 1 500                             1400               1500                1600
19                    1400                1400                              1300               1500                1600
20                    1200                1300                              1400               1400                1600
21                    1000                1200                              1300               1400                1500
22                     900                1300                              1300               1300                1500
23                    1000                1200                              1200               1300                1400
24                     900                1100                              1200               1200                1400
25                     900                1000                              1100               1300                1300
-o                     800                 900                              1200               1300                1300
27                     700                1100                              1100               1200                1200
28                    1000                1000                              1000               1200                1200
29                     800                 900                               900               1100                1100
30                     600                 700                               900               1000                1100
Tota Yield CTone)      23.6               27.7                                26                30.1               31.4
Years of Production     23                  24                                23                 24                  24
Mean Annual Yieldih   1026 kg.            11S4 kg.                          1130 kg.           1254 kg.            1308 kg.
LITS - Lowintenerty Tapping Systems
IndMdual - Indvidual Replanting
TSS - Slmultaneous Repling
Group - Group Replanftin
al Fromn lnd preparation to planting.
Ii



- 159 _
Annex 1 92
Malaysia
RISDA 11 Prodect
Oil Palm Yield Profile
Oil Palm                 Extraction
(Ton ffb/ha)               Rate M%)
Years  lndividual/TSS   Group Mini-Estate           Oil   Kernel
1/a                    -       -                                -
2                      -       -       - 
3                      .         _
4                      -                2            12         4
5                       3      4        5            12         4
6                       6      8        8            14         4
7                      10     12       12            16         4
a                      12     15       15            18        4.5
9                      14     17       17            19        4.5
10                    16      19       19            20        4.5
11                    17      20       20            20        4.5
12                     18     20       20            20        4.5
13                    18      20       20            20        4.5
14                    18      20       20            20        4.5
15                    18      19       19            20        4.5
16                    17      1s       '9            20        4.5
17                     17     19       19            20        4.5
18                    16      18       18            20        4.5
19                    16      18       18            20        4.5
20                     16     17       17            20        4.5
21                     15     17       17            20        4.5
22                     14     i6       16            20        4.5
23                     14     16       16            20        4.5
24                    13      15       is            20        4.5
25                     13     15       15            20        4.5
26                     12     14       15            20        4.5
27                     12     14       14            20        4.5
28                     11     13       14            20        4.5
29                    11      12       13            20        4.5
30                     10     11       12            20        4.5
Tota Yield (tons)    356    408       415
Years of Production    26     26       26
Mean Annual Yield/ha   13.7   15.7    16.0
Individual d Individual Replanting
TSS = Simultaneous Replanting
Group = Group Replanting
la From land preparation to planting.



MALAYSIA
RISDA II PROJECT
RUBBER ECONOMIC FARMGATE PRICES
1994     1995      1998      1997     1998      1999     2000      2001      2002     2003      2004     2005
RSS 1 SPOTNY(US$I1ON) t/          1080      1156     1170      1185      1200     1220      1231     1230      1228      1225     1222      1220
LESS: FREIGHTAND INSURANCE        t50       IS0      150       150       150      150       150      150       150       150      150       150
FOB MALAYSLAN PORT (US$JIDN)       930      1006     1020      1035      1050     1070      1081     1080      1078      1075     1072      1070
EXCHANGE RATE                    2.55      2.55      2.55     2.55      2.55      2.55     2.55      2.55      2.55     2.55      255      2.55
FOB MALAYSIAN PORT (M$fTON)    2371.5   2565.3       2601   2639.25    2677.5   2728.5  2756.55      2754    2748.9  2741.25    2733.6   2728.5
LESS: RESEARCH CESS                40       40        40        40       40        40        40       40        40        40       40        40
MARKETING, PROCESSING
ETC.                             120       120      120       120       120      120       120      120       120       120      120       120
FARM-GATE PRICE FOR RSS 1       2211.5   2405.3      2441   247925    2517.5   2568.5  2596.55       2594    2588.9  2581.25    2573.6   2568.5
WEIGHTED FARM-GATE PRICE 2/  1990.35   2184.77    21969   2231.33   2265.75   2311.65   2336.90    2334.6  2330.01   2323.13   2316.24   2311.65
1/. IBFD May 1993 prie projetions adjteW to consttnt 1999 dollars using the MuV index.
21. WeIgteed prioe esthuded at 90% of RSSI prie.
C..
0
x



MALAYSIA
R1SDA II PROJECT
OIL PALM ECONOMIC FARMGATE PRICES
1994     1995      1996     1997      1998     1999     2000      2001     2002      2003     2004      2006
Palm Oil In US$ton 1/
CIFNW Europe Pice                          424      370       960      3S0       340      335       827      320       815      310       300      288
Ocean Freight, Insurance, etc.              45       45        45       45        45       45        45       45        45       45       45        45
FOBprice.PortKlang                         379      325       915      805       296      290       282      275       270      265      255       243
Palm Oil In M$/ton
Exchange At                               2.55      2.55     2.55      2.55     2.55      2.55     2.55      2.55     2.55      2.55     2.55     2.55
Port chage and trmnsport                    40       40        40       40        40       40        40       40        40       40       40        40
.Ex-mfil price                           926.45    788.75    763.25    737.75    712.25  699.5    679.1   661.25      648.5   635.75    610.25    579.65
Palm Kemds h US$Itcn 1/
CIF NW Europe Price                        243      252       260      26        260      260       264      260       250      250       250      245
Ocean Freight, Insuranc,. etc.              45       45        45       45        45       45        45       45        45       45       45        45
FOB price, Port lKang                      198      207       215      215       215      215       219      215       205      205      205       200
Palm Kernels In M$/ton
Exchange /rde                             2.55      2.55     2.55      2.55     2.55      2.55     2.55      2.55     2.55     2.55      2.55     2.55
Port charges and transport                  35       35        35       35        35       35        35       35        35       35       35        35
Ex-mill price                            469.9   492.8S    513.25   518.25    5t1.25    513.25    523.45   518.25    487.75    487.75    487.75    475   1
FFB In M$Aon
20% oil +4.5% Kemels                    206.44    179.93    175.75    170.65    165.55    163.00    159.36    155.35    151.65    149.10    144.00   137.31
Processhg cost                              30       30        30       S0        30       S0        30       30        30       30       30        30
MlilPurchateprice                       176.44    149.93    145.75    140.65    135.55    1S3.00    129.38    125.35    121.65    119.10    114.00   107.31
Tranaporttomill                             15        15       15       15        15        15       15       15        15       15        15       15
FFShrm-gate price                       161.44    134.93    130.75    125.65    120.55    118.00    114.38    110.85    106.65    104.10    99.00    92.31
11 IBRt May 1993 price projectins adjusted to constant 1999 dllars using the MWV Index.



MALAYSIA
RSO8A 1I PROJECr
ECONOMIC OSTS AND BENEFaIS I S4 MILLION)
1994     1995      1996     1997      1998     1999     2000      2001     2002      2003     2004      2005     2006     2007      2006
Benm
Rkbet                                                                                  5.61    28.02      69.9   117.08    155.04    180.34    202.53   224.73    246.02
ON Palm                                                             1.52     4.46      8.82    12.47     15A1     17.41     18.35    18.22    18.71     18.8     18.71
ITSonMI-Esb/a                  0.2      3.1       8.2      8.2       8.2      82        8.2      82        6.2      8.2      8.2       8.2      8.2       8.2      82
US on SmahdIw,s                                           1.25      3.75      7.5      12.5    18.75       25        25       25       25        25       25        25
SobOfeAewozIc                  15        15       15
fAbtot                       15.2     18.1      232      9.45     13.47    20.16     85.13    67.44    118.51    167.69    207.19   231.76   254.44   27.8t   298.83
Coa
On-farmCols oflber           73.26    95.34     105.6    42.54     30.84    30.72     358      58.74     82.92   104.64   109.02    113.S2    11958    112.88   110.14
On-barmCostsotOfl Palm         8.7    11.71     14.34     879       9.t3    1022      11.17    11.76     12.21    12.41     12.65    12.61    12.42    12.13     11.84
fhber NM"y bIprmot             0.4      0.4       0.4
In*asuctwe                      5         5        5         1        1         1        1         1        1         1        1        1         1        1         1
Irput Trnspoft and
SW iTravel                      S         3        3         1        1         1        1         1        1         t        1        1         1        I         I
E,deonndT,ab*tg                 2         2        2         1        1         1        1         1        1        1         1        t         1        1         1
&Sbtow                      92.16    117.45    130.S4    54.33    42.97    43.94    50.05      73.5     98.13   120.06   124.67   129.13       129   127.9s  125.18
2009     2010      2011     2012      2013     2014     2015      2016     2017      2018     2019      2020     2021     2022      2023
Rkber                       258.02    258.02    252.47    244.15    230.28   208.09    191.43    183.11    177.56    16924    155.37    149.82   152.59    152.59   138.72
on Pdm                       18.38    18.05     17.55    17.22     16.56    1623      15.57    1524      14.57    14.24    13.58    13.25     12.59    12.09     1126
LSonWn-Esebtha                 8.2      8.2       8.2      8.2       82       8.2       8.2      82       &2        8.2      82        82       8.2       82       82
UT ona8mullholgs A             25        25       25        25       25       25        25       25        25       25        25       25        25       25       25
Sab of RbbeMrwod c
Sdcbta                      309.6   309.27    303.22    294.57    280.04   257.51    240.2   23t.55    225.33    2t6.68    202.15    196.27   198.36   197.88    183.16
Comb
On-4rmCotsdotRLber          107.46    102.78    98.16    94.74     92.52    89.82    86.94       84      81.24    78.72    76.26    73.98    72.06    68.94    84.08
On-formnCost of OR Palm      11A.     10.94     10.41    10.04      9.58     9.22     8.75      8.42        8      7.69     6.84      6.09     523      4.81      424
Rber NtMeery kovwnp t
Ir*asghte                       1         1        1         1        1        1         1        1         1        1         1        1         1        1        1
1pu Tianupwand
SWI Travel                      1         1        t         t                 1         1        1         1        t         1        1         1        1        t
e   Extdslo and TrainIg             1         1        1         1        1        1         1        1         1        1         1        1         1        1        1
Sibtsta                    121.67    116.72    111.57    107.78   105.1   102.04    98.69     95.42     92.24    89.41     86.1    83.07    80.29    76.75    71.32
Economic lae of P tun  14%
a/ Thesearebenefits natocosis. 8enefi ncludelabor eavlge a n asumed 15%kea In iedsdutoreduoed brk onsumpion and rowed tpp.
bl MsIr*groprqAIanlgs (TSBs). Bneft  wlde abor sovirns and are net d costs.
c/Al MSSOOJY.



_ 163 -
ANNEX 22
Page 1 of 2
MALAYSIA
RISDA II PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data in the Proiect File
A. Profject PreDaration ReDorts and Related Documents
1.    Proposal for RISDA II Project --- Prepared by RISDA, Feb/March 1992
2.    Defining Priorities for National Extension Intensification Programme
under RISDA II --- Prepared by RISDA (undated)
3.    Proposal for Smallholders Extension Irtensification Program ---
Prepared by RISDA, February 1993
4.    Progress of RISDA MIS Program --- Prepared by the Information
Technology Unit (ITU) of RISDA, March 1992
5.    Proposal for RISDA MIS Program (1993-95) --- Prepared by the ITU of
RISDA (undated)
6.    Problems and Future Management of Mini-Estates --- Prepared by
RISDA, November 1992
7.    Proposed Nursery Management System --- Prepared by RISDA (undated)
8.    Proposal  to  Develop  the  National  Smallholders  Institute  for
Development (NASHID) --- Prepared by RISDA, February 1993
9.    RISDA II Project Training Program Proposal --- Prepared by RISDA,
March 1993
10.   Strengthening of Smallholders Cooperatives --- Prepared by the
Cooperative and Social Development Unit of NARSCO, December 1992
11.   RISDA II Project: Training Program Proposal for Rubber Smallholders
Cooperatives --- Prepared by NARSCO, June 1993
12.   Collaborative Development Projects for Malaysian Rubber Smallholder
Sector --- RRIM Project Proposal (Original Proposal: November 1992;
Revised Proposal: February 1993)
13.   Proposed Planting Material Production for Smallholder Sector:
Additional Option --- Prepared by RRIM, March 1993



_ 164 _
ANNEX 22
Page 2 of 2
14.   Collaborative Development Projects for Malaysian Rubber Smallholder
Sector --- RRIM's Responses to the World Bank's Aide-Memoire, June
1993
15.   Proposal for Studies on Nutritional Aspects in Relation to Low
Frequency Tapping Systems --- Prepared by RRIM, June 1993
16.   Proposal for Study of Clonal Performance and Tree Dryness Incidence
in Progressive Smallholdings --- Prepared by RRIM, June 1993
17.   Proposal for Development of Physiological/Biochemical Parameters as
Early Warning Indicstors of Stress in Hevea Trees --- Prepared by
RRIM, June 1993
B.  Working Papers
1.    Tables on Crop Budgets for Rubber and Oil Palm, Production, Farm
Incomes, Project Costs, and Economic Analysis
2.   RISDA's Staffing Position as of January 1993



IBRD 25169
.. t 0_.                                                 I 'plotr
ir                                  ZMALAYSIA
PENINSUIAR MALAYSIA
RISDA 11 PROJECT
)  ISCA SW. Office
E       e . bbe. Nue
A   eSP  mnnOe Scme 1959 Esae
(9 EPK  Maage Elkta"e
I                IN'    THAILAND              \K I  W .MS ,dOl Its
RLd4kawi n    0                                                                                  ®   )t 3 STATE CAWf.ALS
AJor Setar                                                                         NATION4. C4AP
sTATE \OUNMES                6
KEDAH        J                                                                    ERAT )NxLBoUNDAW
GA                                                                   0   20  30  40   5 6
BUKIT                                                               I-GD.  °   2
PERA&                                (,A;0                                   I tsMA'
utferworth      PERK                                                         Kuf
P PINANG                                           KELANTAN               G-aW3         Trsnggonu
PADANG
11 IE N G-4-1                                          TRENGGANU
>GUNuNS
A WNGGAL
@IPOH
0 g  BK  KOTA                                                  C)                      SOUTH
CHINA
Li-,I) SOM 0                 P4lN                                               SEA
S   U!t) SUA4O                  PAHANG                            /S
CHANGAT                                     447.8A;GA
F   I\Z   SUtAN1/S &F               O U. g BSQE ,4KA
-         SIR \                                             \
SELANGOR                                 A   A
I  AI
WISNMA         KA')
Thm mp  im bwn  owwW              R~~~~~ISDA
edxu IO,T t6t tt                                                             k Ct O@KU ALAKA
fof i tofhWO                                         LUMPUR       e   0 
G-.emd use of Theo                                             KFr,,d8A*
oshd. bawdlriss dAaer -f :.',
f)           ~~NEGRI
Vk           0  SEMBILAN         0 -              ' EPATTNC"
eesaeeet moccfteece o
tedsU bcs.esdstls                                     Serembon D
100' AHStND  \<                                     \      MELAKA                  A A        DO C, O   r \SEonL
ThAiLAND                                              PA'                        C 
cYnooF  <               "4UPPEPAJA                                                      JOHOR                           7
1 %            ~~~~CHINA_                                                                        °  IJAJh4             \
SEA                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JOHOR
SEPT EB1993



