Document of
The VVorld Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
lReport No. 18053
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
SECOND RUBBER INiDUSTRY SMALLHOLDERS
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (RISDA) PROJECT
LOAN 3699-MA
June 17, 1998
Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       Malaysian Ringgit (RM)
US$1.00             RM2.55 (at appraisal as of June 1993)
RM3.89 (at loan closing December 1997)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CPO               -      Crude Palm Oil
ERR               -      Economic Rate of Return
ESPEK             -      Estet Pekebun Kecil Sdn Bhd
FELCRA            -      Federal Land Consolidation and
Rehabilitation Authority
FELDA             -      Federal Land Development Authority
FFB               -      Fresh Fruit Bunch (oil palm)
GOM               -      Government of Malaysia
LITS              -      Low-Intensity Tapping Systems
MIS               -      Management Information System
NARSCO            -      National Rubber Smallholders
Cooperative
RISDA             -      Rubber Industry Smallholders'
Development Authority
RRIM              -      Rubber Research Institute of Malaysia
RSCs              -      Rubber Smallholder Cooperatives
RSPSB             -      RISDA Smallholders Plantation Sdn
Bhd
RSSB                -    RISDA Skim Sembilan Belas Lima
Puluh Enam Sdn Bhd
Vice President                  Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Country Manager                 Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, EACSM
Sector Manager           :      Geoffrey B. Fox, EASRD
Task Team Leader                Philippe Boyer, EASRD



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
IMALAYSIA
SECOND RUBBER INDUSTRY SMALLHOLDERS
DEVELOPMENT AUJTHORITY (RISDA) PROJECT
(LOAN 3699-MA)
CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ............................................ .i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .............................................            ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTtTION ASSESSMENT   .                  ..........................1
A.    Statement/Evaluation of Objectives .
B.  Achievement of Objectives                    .2
C.    Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project  .3
D.  Project Sustainability                    .8
E.    Bank Performance ..............8
F. Borrower Performance                        .9
G. Assessment of Outcome                       .9
H. Future Operation                         .9
I. Key Lessons Learned                       .0
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES              ..1................................... 1
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments                    .11
Table 2: Related Bank Loans .12
Table 3: Project Timetable .13
Table 4:   Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .14
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation .15
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation .16
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project .16
Table 8A: Project Costs .17
Table 8B: Project Financing                      .18
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits                 .18
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .19
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .25
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .25
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .26
APPENDICES
Appendix 1:   Completion Mission"s Aide-Memoire .....................................   27
Appendix 2:   Borrower's ICR .....................                         37
Appendix 3:   Economic Re-Evaluation ............................          43
Map:          IBRD 25169R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
SECOND RUBBER ][NDUSTRY SMALLHOLDERS
DEVELOPMENT AIJTHORITY (RISDA) PROJECT
(LOAN 3699-MA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Comipletion Report (ICR) for the Second Rubber Industry
Smallholders Development Authority (RISDA) Project in Malaysia, for which Loan 3699-
MA in the amount of US$70.0 million was approved on January 25, 1994, and made
effective on July 14, 1994. The loan, which was closed on December 31, 1997, was fully
disbursed with the last disbursement made on April 9, 1998.
The ICR was prepared by Messrs. Philippe Boyer (Task Manager) and William
Cuddihy (Agricultural Economist), with the assistance of Mr. David Sislen (Consultant) and
Mmes. Nancy Barrett (Program Assistant) and Amanda Days (Task Assistant), Rural
Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit of the East Asia and Pacific Region and
reviewed by Mr. Geoffrey B. Fox, Sector Manager, EASRD, and Mr. Guy Darlan, Acting
Country Director for Malaysia. The Borrower provided comments that are included as
Appendix 2 to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR is based on the findings of the Bank's implementation
completion mission in March 1998 and on materials in the project file. The Borrower
contributed to preparation of the ICR by offering views reflected in the mission's Aide-
Memoire (Appendix 1), commenting on the draft ICR, and preparing its own evaluation of
project execution (Appendix 2).



MALAYSIA
SECOND RUBBER INDUSTRY SMALLHOLDERS
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (RISDA) PROJECT
(LOAN 3699-MA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
i.    Introduction. The rapid growth of the Malaysian economy over the last three
decades was not shared by all sectors. While the economy as a whole grew at annual rates
approaching 10%, agriculture's annual growth rate slowed from 7% at the start of the period
to only 2.5% by the early 1990s. Within agriculture, the uneven performance was similar.
Although oil palm was making dramatic gains, production of rice and rubber, long the
sector's mainstay, was actually declining. For the first time, significant areas of rubber trees
were left untapped as farmers turned to other crops or moved out of agriculture entirely.
Where such income diversification was not possible, relative poverty increased as the rest of
the economy moved forward and pockets of absolute poverty emerged as real -prices of
rubber declined between 1970 and 1990. Since rubber smallholders were the largest
producer group in agriculture, restoration of profitability through productivity gains became
a rural policy priority. Due to the unavailability of credit for rubber smallholders with little
or no collateral, Government established a revolving replanting fund financed by an export
tax on rubber (cess) topped up by its own contribution.
ii.    Project Objectives. The three year project (1994-1996) followed up on the successful
Bank-assisted RISDA I Project (Loan 3139-MA) and was designed to continue increasing
the productivity and efficiency of the rubber smallholder sub-sector, improving RISDA's
institutional effectiveness, and helping develop human resources and the private sector in the
rural areas. The project's main component was agricultural development. In addition,
support was provided to the further institutional development of RISDA and the
strengthening of smallholder cooperatives.
iii.   Evaluation of Objectives.  Project objectives were clear, realistic and timely,
building on the achievement of the RISDA I Project. The objectives were consistent with
the Bank's assistance strategy for Malaysia's agricultural sector, which, in the early 1990's
emphasized reduction in rural poverty. Conceptually, the project was neither complex nor
risky, and did not place any heavy demands on the Borrower's implementation capacity.
Ex-post, the main project risk, which was not identified at appraisal, consisted in the
frequent changes of RISDA's top management. This resulted in weak institutional
ownership over several important project initiatives, such as the introduction of LITS, which
had been correctly identified as a major project risk at appraisal.
iv.   Achievement of Objectives. Overall, project implementation was satisfactory, with
the main objectives of the agricultural development component being achieved on schedule
by December 31, 1996, while the institutional strengthening component was completed by
the loan closing date on December 31, 1997. Agricultural Development: the objectives of



-iii-
the replanting program, the main activity under the agricultural development component,
were fully achieved on schedule by December 31, 1996, with 107,000 ha of old rubber
replanted, 19% above appraisal targets of 90,000 ha, and 12,600 ha of poor plantings being
rehabilitated. As agreed at appraisal, the choice of crop to be replanted was left to the
beneficiaries. Rubber and oil palm respectively accounted for 65% and 25% of the total
replanted area against appraisal estimates of 80% and 12%, reflecting oil palm's increasing
financial attractiveness. RISDA was also successful in improving rubber planting material
quality, with the assistance of RRIM, and confirming the potential of the labor saving, low
intensity tapping systems (LITS) for increasing tappers' productivity. However, LITS
adoption in rubber mini-estates remained behind schedule. During the project period, RISDA
also supported the annual maintenance of about 180,000 ha of immature areas, slightly below
appraisal estimates, and exceeded targets for the construction and maintenance of agricultural
access roads. Extension activities were irntensified, achieving about 160% of appraisal targets
for the number of smallholders reached through end-1996, and increasing the number of
women trainees to 43% of total smallholder trainees against the project target of 30%.
However, the percentage of extension efforts toward mature rubber fell short of the target of
65%, with an average of 45% over the project period. The applied rubber research component,
which was implemented by RRIM, generally proceeded slowly, but achieved its objectives of
providing useful data on new clones, and increasing research efforts on integrated farming
systems.  Institutional Development:  institution building objectives were substantially
achieved, through the strengthening of RISDA's capacity for human resource development and
management, the implementation of a large training program for staff and cooperative
members, exceeding appraisal targets in spite of financial constraints, and the further
development of RISDA's integrated conmputerized management infornnation system (MIS),
which had been initiated under the previous RISDA I project. Rubber smallholder
cooperatives (RSCs) were also strengthened through the implementation of a comprehensive
rationalization plan, under the coordination of NARSCO.
v.    Project Costs and Financing. Total project costs, at about RM876.8 million
(US$343.8 million) as of December 31, 1997, were 36% higher than the appraisal estimates
of RM645.8 million (US$253.2 million), mainly due to the scope of the replanting program
which exceeded appraisal targets, and the payment to farmers in 1996 of the increased
replanting grant with retroactive effect back to 1991. Crop development accounted for 95%
of total project costs, while institutional development expenditures were below appraisal
estimates, reflecting budget constraints experienced by RISDA during the project period.
Disbursement progress was very satisfactory. By the closing date, US$69.0 million were
disbursed (98.6%) and the balance of the proceeds was disbursed on April 9, 1998.
vi.   Results and Impact. The project had a marked impact on planted area, smallholder
productivity and incomes, and the capacity of the concerned institutions, both in the
beneficiary communities and in Government. The annual output of areas replanted under
the project is expected to rise around 2010, at full production, to about 100,000 tons of dry
rubber, 90,000 tons of palm oil, and 22,000 tons of palm kernel, which would be worth a
total of about RM500 million at March 1998 prices (about US$140 million at March 1998
exchange rate). Some 150,000 rubber smallholders are expected to benefit from the
replanting and maintenance program supported under the project. On replanted areas, the



-iv-
net incremental incomes per smallholder with an average 2 ha holding are estimated at full
production to reach about RM550/month for rubber and RM1,100/month for oil palm at
March 1998 prices, higher than the official poverty threshold of RM425/month. Although,
at today's prices, rubber is not competitive with oil palm or non-farm employment, it
remains an attractive alternative where productivity gains can be joined with farm size
growth to increase farm incomes.
vii.  Project Sustainability. Project sustainability is likely. Farmers who replanted their
old rubber holdings under the project and have contributed replanting cesses will receive
subsequent grant payments for maintenance during the immaturity period and continued
extension assistance from RISDA. Although Government is currently considering the future
reorganization of RISDA and budgetary transfers to RISDA are expected to stop,
Government will ensure that funds are available for due maintenance payments and that
RISDA continue to assist the smallholder sector, irrespective of its future organizational
structure. Based on the current commodity price projections, net returns from smallholdings
are forecast to provide much higher incomes from oil palm than from rubber. However, at
times of low rubber prices, the use of LITS will enable farmers with very small holdings to
earn complementary income from other agricultural or non agricultural sources.
viii.  Performance of the Bank and the Borrower. Overall Bank performance was
satisfactory during the project cycle. The good working relationship developed between
RISDA and the Bank during the previous project greatly assisted the preparation and later
implementation of the project and was enhanced by the continuity of Bank staff with the
required expertise during project supervision. Overall performance of the Borrower was
also satisfactory but was affected by frequent changes in RISDA management, resulting in
policy shifts, weak ownership over several project initiatives and uncertainties for staff.
ix.   Project Outcome. The overall outcome of the project is considered satisfactory.
Although the project was unable to halt the decline in farmers' interest in rubber, it made
gains in rubber productivity and assisted in the profitable diversification into oil palm. The
re-estimated economic rate of return (ERR) is 14%, equal to the appraisal estimate of 14%.
x.    Future Operation. RISDA will maintain its focus on replanting old rubber, with an
emphasis on crop diversification, group replanting and on some of the country's least
developed areas, and will continue to pursue initiatives aimed at enhancing the productivity
of rubber smallholders. Implementation of RISDA's operational plan, however, will largely
depend on its future reorganization.
xi.   Key Lessons Learned from project implementation are the following: (a) individual
projects are unlikely to halt industry trends; (b) even with labor productivity increases, farm-
size growth may be needed to offset steep and secular declines in commodity prices and
rising opportunity cost of labor; (c) projects should not be directed to one commodity only;
(d) continuity in management and consistency of policies are essential; and (e) formation of
production cooperatives (mini-estates) is unable to restore comparative advantage, while
formation of marketing cooperatives (RSCs) does not guarantee profitability.



M[ALAYSIA
SECOND RUBBER INDUSTRY SMALLHOLDERS
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (RISDA) PROJECT
(LOAN 3699-MA)
PART I: PROJECT IlMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.   Introduction. The rapid growth of the Malaysian economy over the last three
decades was not shared by all sectors. While the economy as a whole grew at annual rates
approaching 10%, agriculture's annual growth rate slowed from 7% at the start of the period
to only 2.5% by the early 1990s. Within agriculture, the uneven performance was similar.
Although oil palm was making dramaLtic gains, production of rice and rubber, long the
sector's mainstay, was actually declining. For the first time, significant areas of rubber trees
were left untapped as farmers turned tD other crops or moved out of agriculture entirely.
Where such income diversification was not possible, relative poverty increased as the rest of
the economy moved forward and pockcets of absolute poverty emerged as real prices of
rubber declined from 18 US cents/kg to 8 US cents/kg (in 1990 constant dollars) between
1970 and 1990. Since rubber smallholders were the largest producer group in agriculture,
restoration of profitability through productivity gains became a rural policy priority.
Replacing low productivity rubber with improved clones poses a major problem for
smallholders with little or no savings, however, since it requires a very large cash outlay to
clear the old stands and purchase new materials. Further, cash outlays are needed for
maintenance for up to seven years during which there is no income. Banking systems do not
usually provide credit suitable for rubber and particularly to smallholders with little or no
collateral. Government, therefore, established a revolving replanting fund financed by an
export tax on rubber (cess) topped up by its own contribution.
2.    Statement of Objectives. Building on the overall positive results of RISDA I
Project (Loan 3139-MA), the three year project (1994-1996) was designed to continue
pursuing the objectives of increasin,g the productivity and efficiency of the rubber
smallholder sub-sector, improving RlSI)A's institutional effectiveness, and helping develop
human resources and the private sector in the rural areas.
3.    To accomplish those objectives, the project included two components, agricultural
development, and institutional development of RISDA and rubber smallholder cooperatives
(RSCs). Agricultural development was the project's main component (98.8% of project cost
estimates) and consisted of: (i) the replanting of about 90,000 ha of old rubber with rubber
and other crops, improvement of rubber nurseries, maintenance of areas replanted during the
project and of about 200,000 ha replanited prior to the project, and rehabilitation of about
5,000 ha of young replanted areas; (ii) the construction and maintenance of agricultural
access roads; (iii) the reorientation and strengthening of extension and smallholder training;
(iv) the improvement of mini-estates; and (iv) an applied rubber research program. In
addition, the project supported the institutional development of RISDA (1% of project costs)



-2-
consisting of the further development of RISDA's computerized MIS, expanded staff
training, and support for monitoring and evaluation, as well as the strengthening of RISDA
smallholder cooperatives (0.2% of project costs) consisting of the implementation of a
rationalization/restructuring plan for cooperatives, and the provision of technical assistance
and training.
4.    Evaluation of Objectives. Project objectives were clear, realistic and timely,
building on the achievement of the previous Bank-assisted RISDA I Project. The objectives
were consistent with the Bank's assistance strategy for Malaysia's agricultural sector, which,
in the early 1990's emphasized reduction in rural poverty by raising smallholder
productivity and incomes, institutional improvements, development of human resources and
the private sector in the rural areas, and progressive privatization of schemes and activities
handled by agricultural parastatals. Conceptually, the project was neither complex nor risky,
and considering the satisfactory implementation experience under the previous project, it did
not place any heavy demands on the Borrower's implementation capacity. Ex-post, the
main project risk was the continuing instability of RISDA's top management, which had
already been identified as a factor under the previous project, with associated frequent
changes in RISDA's staff, strategy and implementation policies and programs, and resulted
in weak ownership over several important project initiatives.  In this respect, the
introduction of the labor saving, rubber exploitation technology (LITS), which had been
correctly identified as a major project risk at appraisal, was directly affected by changes in
management and staff.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
5.   Impact on Rural Incomes. The number of families directly benefiting from the
replanting and maintenance program supported under the project is expected to be around
150,000 at full development.  On replanted areas, the net incremental incomes per
smallholder with an average 2 ha holding and using his own labor are estimated at full
production to reach about RM550/month for rubber and RM1,l00/month for oil palm at
March 1998's prices, higher than the official poverty threshold of RM425/month. With the
use of hired labor for rubber tapping and oil palm harvesting, net incremental incomes from
a 2 ha holding would be lower at RM300/month for rubber and RM1,000/month for oil
palm. Although, at today's prices, rubber is not competitive with oil palm or non-farmn
employment, it remains an attractive alternative where productivity gains can be joined with
farm size growth to increase farm incomes, and where the smallholder taps his own holding,
or cheap labor is available.
6.   Impact on Treecrop Revenues and Exports. The output of areas replanted under
the project with rubber and oil palm is expected to rise around 2010, at full production, to
about 100,000 tons of dry rubber, 90,000 tons of palm oil, and 22,000 tons of palm kernel,
representing about 90% of appraisal targets for rubber and 220% for oil palm, reflecting the
increasing shift toward oil palm under the project. The combined output of palm oil and
rubber, which would represent less than 2% of national production at that time, would be
worth a total of about RM500 million at March 1998 prices (about US$140 million at March
1998 exchange rate).



-3-
7.   Institutional Development Impact.  The impact of the project's institutional
development program, which had been initiated under the previous RISDA I project, can be
considered significant. RISDA's capabilities were strengthened in several areas, including
(i) human resource management, through the implementation of an expanded training
program and the establishment of a clear institutional focus for human resource
development; (ii) management and monitoring of RISDA's programs through the continuing
development of the integrated computerized management information system (MIS) and the
completion of the agricultural performance study; and (iii) mini-estate management, through
the transfer of management responsibilitiles over about 85% of mature mini-estates from
RISDA to two subsidiaries, ESPEK and RSPSB. Furthermore, RISDA's institutional focus
on enhancing the productivity of the rubber smallholder sub-sector was substantially
sharpened through the project's technical initiatives for improving the quality of rubber
planting material and introducing LIT'S.  Smallholder rubber cooperatives were also
strengthened through the project, and are- now more capable of managing their business
profitably.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
8.    Project implementation was overall satisfactory, with the main component
(agricultural development) being completed on schedule by December 31, 1996, while
activities under the institutional strengthening component continued until the loan closing
date on December 31, 1997.
Agricultural Development.
9.    Replanting Program. RISDA successfully implemented the three year replanting
program as per the appraisal schedule, exceeding the targets of 90,000 ha by 19% with about
107,000 ha of old rubber replanted by December 31, 1996. As agreed at appraisal, crop
choice was left to the beneficiaries, except when such choices would be agro-climatically
unsuitable. While replanting was expected at appraisal to be 80% with rubber, 12% with oil
palm and 8% with other crops, rubber accounted for about 69,000 ha or 65% of the total
replanted area under the project, oil palim for 27,000 ha or 25% and other crops 10%,
reflecting oil palm's increasing financial attractiveness. The emphasis on oil palm further
continued to increase, with oil palm accounting for 50% of the replanted area in 1997 and
expected to reach 60% in 1998, due to the current high market prices for oil palm as
compared to rubber.
10.   Rubber Nursery Improvement. To ensure the provision of quality planting material
for the replanting program, an important project objective was the improvement of rubber
nurseries through the reduction in the number of rubber nurseries to enable better quality
control and the provision of training ancl supervision by RRIM. This objective was fully
achieved. At the beginning of the project, about 60% of planting materials were produced in
small, scattered cooperative nurseries, which were difficult to supervise, with the balance in
7 central nurseries under the management of ESPEK, a RISDA subsidiary. The reduction to
15 nursery sites, which was targeted for 1995 under the Project Agreement, was implemented



-4-
behind schedule, as small cooperative nurseries had to be phased out progressively due to
social factors. The project target, however, was exceeded by 1997 with all rubber planting
material being produced in 11 central nurseries, with the participation of cooperatives as
contractors. Responsibilities for nurseries were transferred during the project from ESPEK to
RSSB, another RISDA subsidiary, which is specialized in planting material preparation, to
provide a better focus on nursery management and quality control. RRIM's technical
assistance, which was provided during a three year period (1994 to 1996) under a MOU
signed with RISDA and financed under the project, was very effective. RRIM's nursery
supervision and on-the-job training, through regular visits to nurseries followed up by detailed
progress reports, resulted in the progressive improvement of rubber planting material quality.
Adequate quality control arrangements were put in place by RISDA by loan closing, with the
aim of maintaining high quality standards after the project, with RISDA's extension division
monitoring overall quality, while RSSB management closely monitors the performance of its
contractors. The improvement in quality was accompanied with a shift in the type of planting
material produced. While before the project, budded stumps in polybags accounted for about
80%, superior quality types such as young budding in polybags accounted for 85% in 1996.
As agreed at appraisal, the clonal composition of the rubber replanting program was consistent
with RRIM's replanting recommendations. These were revised for the period 1995-1997, and
now include 59 clones which are classified under two groups instead of the previous three
classes, taking into account timber production characteristics.
11.   Crop Rehabilitation and Maintenance & Infrastructure Development. About 12,600 ha
were rehabilitated during the three years from 1994 to 1996, as compared to the appraisal
estimates of 5,000 ha, reflecting the higher replanted area and the increasing emphasis on
quality of planting to ensure future high productivity. During the project period, RISDA also
supported the annual maintenance of an average of about 180,000 ha of immature areas, about
10% below appraisal estimates, while exceeding the targets for construction and maintenance
of agricultural access roads, with 3,090 km achieved against appraisal estimates of 1,000 km.
12.   Mini-Estate Improvement. As envisaged at appraisal, a large number of mature mini-
estates were transfered from RISDA's management, first to cooperatives in 1994, and later in
1996 to RSPSB, a RISDA subsidiary, with the aim of generating revenue for RISDA in
accordance with the Seventh Malaysia Plan's policies toward the self-financing of
agricultural parastatals. As a result of the transfer of management, the mini-estates are now
managed more efficiently and have increased their productivity. Implementation of the
program of demonstration and introduction of the labor saving, low intensity tapping systems
(LITS) in rubber mini-estates, however, did not proceed as planned at appraisal and remained
behind schedule, due to high rubber market prices experienced at the beginning of the project
which resulted in the abundance of labor in the rubber sector and made it difficult to convince
smallholders to test a new technology and reduce tappers' numbers, compounded by the initial
weak support from RISDA, following changes in top management. Out of the fourteen
demonstration blocks, which were established since 1993, only five remained at the end of
1997. However, the LITS demonstration program achieved its objective of showing that
tappers' productivity can be significantly increased by up to 50% with LITS, leading to the
successful adoption of LITS in respectively 70% and 10% of the mini-estates managed by two
RISDA subsidiaries, ESPEK and RSPSB, with the latter planning to expand the adoption of



-5-
LITS to 60% of mature rubber areas within two years. Furthermore, RISDA is maintaining the
LITS demonstration program in mini-estates under its management to prepare for future labor
shortages, and has started to introduce and monitor LITS in individual smallholdings. Another
project objective under this component was the development of a reliable database to monitor
the performance of mini-estates, and was only partially achieved. Progress was substantial but
remained behind schedule and further work. is required to integrate the database with RISDA
management information system.
13.   Agricultural Performance. Only oil palm planted in 1994 reached maturity and
started producing FFB in 1997, the last project year, while production of rubber trees
planted under the project has not started, due to their longer immaturity period. However,
based on the general improvement in nursery standards, the use of new fast growing and
high yielding rubber clones for the replanting program, and the progressive adoption of the
new rubber exploitation technology, it is expected that oil palm and rubber yields will
achieve appraisal expectations with annutal averages of about 16 tons FFB/ha over 25
production years with a peak of about 20 tons by the 10th production year, and about 1.3
tons of dry rubber over 24 production years, with a peak of 1.7 tons by the 10th production
year.
14.   Extension and Smallholder Training. The intensification of extension activities
proceeded satisfactorily with regard to the number of smallholders reached under the
project, with RISDA achieving about 160% of appraisal targets through end-1996, and
increasing the number of women trainees to 43% of total smallholder trainees against the
project target of 30%. However, the percentage of extension efforts toward mature rubber fell
short of the project target of 65%, progressively decreasing during the project period from 46%
in 1994 to 42% in 1996, reflecting the high achievement of the replanting program which
required increased extension inputs and the slower adoption of LITS than expected at
appraisal.
15.   Applied Research. The applied rulbber research component, which was implemented
by RRIM, consisted of two main research programs: (i) clonal performance under LITS,
divided into four studies; and (ii) mixed cropping systems. Implementation of the research
programs generally proceeded slowly, mainly due to budgetary constraints and initial delays in
establishing field trials. However, the component achieved the project objectives of providing
useful data on new clones recommended for replanting, particularly with regard to their
responsiveness to stimulation under LITS, and increasing research efforts on integrated
fanming systems based on the intercropping of rubber with fruit trees. Furthermore, the two
programs are now part of RRIM's core research activities and, as such, will be pursued in the
future.



-6-
Institutional Development
16.   Human Resource Development. RISDA successfully carried out a large training
program on LITS, planting material preparation, management, and communication skills,
reaching about 12,803 trainees from 1994 to 1996, including about 26% female trainees,
exceeding the appraisal targets of about 6,000 trainees in spite of financial constraints.
RISDA also made substantial progress toward strengthening its institutional capacity for
human resource development and management, with the implementation of the project
financed studies on HRD & Training Management and the adoption by RISDA management
of the consultants' recommendations for regrouping the management of all training activities
under one division.
17.   Strengthening of Smallholder Cooperatives. The component was aimed at making
the 64 rubber smallholder cooperatives (RSCs) autonomous, self financing institutions,
capable of effectively managing their business and undertaking selected activities on behalf
of RISDA profitably, in the context of Government's privatization policies. To achieve
these objectives, the project supported the development and implementation of a
comprehensive rationalization plan, through the provision of funding for training and
technical assistance, under the coordination of NARSCO, the apex body of all SRCs. All
responsibilities for the development of the RSCs were transfered from RISDA to NARSCO
at the time of appraisal. Overall, the component was partly successful in strengthening the
cooperatives, through the effective coordination of their business activities by NARSCO and
the implementation of an extensive training program for SRC staff and Board members.
The revenues of the RSCs increased during the first two years of the project, with the total
net profit of all RSCs doubling from RM5.0 million in 1994 to RM10.2 million in 1995, and
40 RSCs achieving annual profits in 1996 above RM50,000, the agreed benchmark set at
appraisal. However, the total net profit declined to RM6.1 million in 1997, with only about
half the RSCs achieving the annual profit target. The decline in the financial condition of
the RSCs resulted mainly from the progressive transfer, starting in 1996, of contracts for
land development, marketing, planting material preparation, and other profitable activities,
which had been previously contracted by RISDA to NARSCO and the RSCs, in favor of
RISDA's subsidiaries, with the aim of generating revenue and compensating for the shortfall
in Government's allocation to RISDA, in accordance with the policies toward the self-
financing of agricultural parastatals under the Seventh Malaysia Plan. The decline in RSCs'
revenues was further compounded by the general economic slow down in 1997. Other
factors affecting the implementation of the component included: (i) the need for NARSCO,
at the beginning of the project, to concentrate limited resources on strengthening its own
capabilities and financial situation before being able to provide effective development
assistance to the RSCs; (ii) the continued general reluctance of the RSCs to specialize their
activities and fully implement the rationalization plan; and (iii) the decision made by RISDA
and NARSCO, based on the improvement of the SRCs' financial results during the first two
years of the project, not to proceed with the recruitment of a consultant specialist to assist
with the development of RSCs business plans, as envisaged at appraisal.
18.   MIS and M&E. RISDA achieved substantial progress in the further development of
its integrated computerized management information system (MIS), which had been



-7-
initiated under the previous RISDA I project. The system, which integrates the three
modules on replanting, finance & accounts, and stock management, is now being tested on a
pilot basis and fill operational status is expected by end-1998. Progress, however, was
slower than expected at appraisal due 1o delays in the recruitment of consultants for
programming and the procurement of network hardware. The slow development of the
integrated information system caused the late start and reduced scope of the agricultural
performance study which was completed two and half years behind schedule and will need
to be extended in the future to include all rPesponsibility centers.
19.   Project Costs and Financing.  Total project costs at about RM876.7 million
(US$343.8 million) as of December 31, 1997, were 36% above appraisal estimates of
RM645.8 million (US$253.2 million), mainly due to the higher cost of the larger replanting
program achieved compared to appraisal targets, the payment of the increased replanting
grant to smallholders and mini-estates in 1996 with retroactive effect back to 1991, and the
implementation of larger crop rehabilitation and infrastructure development programs than
planned at appraisal. Actual crop development costs, including on mini-estates, accounted
for 95.4% of the total project costs, against appraisal estimates of 93.9%. Actual
expenditures for institutional developmeint around RM3.6 million (US$1.4 million) were
below appraisal estimates of RM6.2 million (US$2.6 million), reflecting budget constraints
experienced by RISDA during the project period. Disbursement progress was very
satisfactory, remaining ahead of appraisal targets from 1994 to 1996. By closing date,
US$69.0 million were disbursed from the loan (98.6%) and the balance of the proceeds was
withdrawn on April 9, 1998.
20.   Major Factors Affecting the Project. There were positive as well as negative
factors affecting project implementation. The main positive factors were the good working
relationship maintained between the succeeding top management teams and the Bank, which
was enhanced by Bank staff continuity; and RISDA's famniliarity with Bank procedures
(procurement and disbursement). The main negative factor consisted in the frequent
changes in RISDA's top management, with three different teams over the four year project
period. In particular, the change of top management team at the beginning of the project,
resulted in policy shifts and weak support for several project initiatives, such as the
introduction of LITS, which had been fully endorsed during appraisal by the previous top
management.  Other negative factors included the progressive decline in counterpart
funding, which affected the institutional development components, and, paradoxically, the
high price of rubber in 1994 and 1995 vwhich made it difficult to introduce LITS in mini-
estates.
21.   Counterpart Funding. Govermnent increasing financial stringency for agricultural
development under the Sixth and Seventh Malaysia Plans (1991-1995), resulting from the
strong competing demands of the industrial and tertiary sectors, did not affect the replanting
program but led to severe cuts in RISDA's operating budget which remained almost every
year below appraisal estimates and had to be financed from RISDA's internal sources. The
budgetary shortfall particularly affected institutional development component and resulted in
the partial curtailment of staff training activities, technical assistance, as well as other non
critical activrties. With regard to the research component, which was entirely funded by



-8-
Government, no incremental funds were provided to RRIM, which had to finance the
program within the approved research budget ceiling, resulting in the reduction in the scope
of project related research activities.
22.   Procurement.   Works for replanting, maintenance and rehabilitation were
undertaken by the beneficiaries themselves. Only computer equipment was procured
following international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures. This proceeded satisfactorily
due to the familiarity of RISDA with the Bank's procurement procedures, but some delays
were experienced with bid evaluation due to difficulties in reconciling the Bank's
methodology with Government's regulations.  National competitive bidding (NCB)
procedures were used for works for agricultural roads, bridges and drains, while agricultural
works for mini-estates and small civil works were procured through local shopping
procedures. An ex-post review of non-ICB procurement was conducted by a Bank
procurement specialist in August 1996. The review resulted in the clarification on the use of
thresholds for the determination of the procurement methods and the recommendation that
the Bank should consider relaxing the requirement under the Project Agreement for
obtaining five price quotations for very small works. No follow up action was taken
regarding the required number of price quotations, however, as works under the agricultural
development were completed at the end of 1996.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
23.   Project sustainability is likely, though further structural change is expected among
rubber smallholders, as farms amalgamate to increase size and incomes or are relegated to
part time activities. Farmers, who replanted their old rubber holdings under the project and
have contributed replanting cesses, will receive subsequent grant payments for maintenance
during the immaturity period and continued extension assistance from RISDA. While
budgetary transfers to RISDA are expected to stop, with the future reorganization of RISDA
currently under consideration by Government, in line with the Seventh Malaysia Plan's
policies toward the commercialization of the smallholder sub-sector and the improvement of
productivity, Government will ensure that funds are available, either from the replanting
cesses or Government budget, for due maintenance payments and that RISDA continue
providing assistance to smallholders. Based on the current commodity price projections, net
returns from smallholdings are forecast to provide incomes above the poverty level, and to
be much higher from oil palm than from rubber. However, rubber smallholders will benefit
from the introduction under the project and planned continued promotion of LITS, which
reduces labor requirements substantially through increasing productivity. At times of low
rubber prices, the use of LITS will enable farmers with very small holdings which may
become uneconomical, to seek complementary income from other agricultural or non
agricultural sources.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
24.   Overall Bank performance was satisfactory during the project cycle. The good
working relationship developed between RISDA and the Bank during the previous project



-9-
greatly assisted the preparation and later implementation of the project. At all times there
was frank dialogue on project concerns. The rapport was enhanced by the continuity of
Bank staff with the required expertise during project supervision, which was particularly
important in view of the frequent changes in RISDA's management and staff. Technical
assistance provided by the Bank in the areas of cooperative strengthening and the
introduction of the labor saving rubber exploitation technology (LITS), was well appreciated
by RISDA and directly contributed to the results achieved under these two components.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
25.   RISDA's  performance  was  satisfactory  during  project preparation  and
implementation. RISDA fully cooperated with supervision missions and prepared timely
and detailed progress reports, and generally complied with legal covenants, although often
late, as a result of shifting policies. As umder the previous project, audit reports on SOEs
were prepared and submitted to the Bank on time, but audited financial statements of
RISDA were always late. In general, project performance was affected by frequent changes
in top management, which had already been identified as a significant factor under the
previous RISDA I project. This resultecl in frequent policy shifts, weak ownership over
several project objectives, particularly LITS, and staff uncertainties, and made it difficult at
times to maintain consensus on RISDA's mandate, implementation policies and programs.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
26.   The overall outcome of the project is satisfactory. It increased production and
incomes and assisted in diversifying production away from rubber and toward oil palm. It
improved labor productivity. Since the cess program is based on rubber and is seen as a
Government obligation, the shift to oil palm reduces future claims on the state. The re-
estimated net present value of the project at a discount rate of 10% is RM238.8 million, and
the re-estimated economic rate of return (ERR) is 14%, equal to the appraisal estimate of
14%.
H. FUT1JRE OPERATION
27.   RISDA prepared an operational plan outlining the measures that it will undertake
during the post project period (see Appendix 1, Attachment). RISDA will maintain its focus
on replanting old rubber, favoring group replanting, with an emphasis on some of the
country's least developed areas. The scope of the replanting program, however, will depend
on available funds and Government policies for the sector. While crop choice will continue
to be left to the beneficiaries, oil palm is expected to account for at least 60% of replanting,
with rubber declining to about 40%. RISDA will continue pursuing the objective of
enhancing the productivity of rubber smallholders, through appropriate arrangements with
RSSB, a RISDA subsidiary, for maintaining high quality standards in planting material, the
progressive introduction of low intensity tapping systems (LITS), and the orientation of
extension inputs toward mature areas. The provision of extension services will be
prioritized toward farmers' groups through the estatization program, under which individual



-10-
holdings are regrouped for management purposes. Institutional development activities
implemented under the project will be further pursued. RRIM will continue to monitor the
field trials established under the project as part of its core research program.
Implementation of RISDA's operational plan, however, will largely depend on the outcome
of Government's current review of possible options for RISDA's reorganization, in line with
the policies outlined under the Seventh Malaysia Plan for the commercialization of the
smallholder sub-sector and the improvement of productivity.
28.   The following key indicators were proposed by RISDA to monitor future project
impact: (a) crop replanting performance (area and types of approaches); (b) production and
yield performance; (c) prices of oil palm and rubber; and (d) smallholder incomes.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
29.   The main lessons learned from project implementation experience are the following:
a) individual projects are unlikely to halt industry trends. It was clear at appraisal
that even under assumptions of high productivity gains, rubber was not
competitive with oil palm. However, even oil palm is dependent on continued
labor immigration from abroad as better educated national entrants to the work
force are drawn to more remunerative employment in the urban areas;
b) even with labor productivity increases, farm-size growth may be needed to offset
steep and secular declines in commodity prices and rising opportunity cost of
labor. In this case, typical smallholders with an average 2 ha rubber holding and
fully realizing the benefits of the project achieved an income of about
RM550/month, barely above the poverty threshold of RM 425/month;
c) projects should not be directed to one commodity. In this case, although the
project focus was on rubber, it was fortunate that provision was made for oil
palm financing even though the objective of the cess was to replant rubber with
rubber;
d) continuity in management and consistency of policies are essential for
institutional effectiveness and staff morale;
e) formation of production cooperatives (mini-estates) is unable to restore
comparative advantage. Gains from economies of size are offset by high
administration costs and the cooperatives become a focus of institutional pressure
for subsidies; and
f) formation of marketing cooperatives (RSCs) also does not guarantee profitability
and involves institutional risk not encountered with private traders. In Malaysia
and elsewhere, experience indicates that for sustainability both production and
marketing cooperatives should be farmer-led and operate on normal commercial
principles.



PART II: ,TATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives   Subst2antial    Partial      Negligible    Not Applicable
Macro Policies                                -              -               x
Sector Policies                               -              -               x
Financial Objectives            x             -              -
Institutional Development       x
Physical Objectives             x
Poverty Reduction               x
Gender Issues                   x
Other Social Objectives                       -              -               x
Environmental Objectives        -             -              -               x
Public Sector Management        -             -              -               x
Private Sector Development      -             x              -
B. Project Sustainability       Likely                Unlikely              Uncertain
x
Highly
C. Bank Performance            Satisfactory          Satisfactory           Deficient
Identification                 x
Preparation Assistance         x
Appraisal                                            x
Supervision                    x
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                Satisfactory   Satisfactory  Deficient
Preparation                             x
Implementation                          -            x
Covenant Compliance                     -            x
Operation (if applicable)
Highly                                      Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome       Satisfactory   Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory
x



-12-
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Year of
Loan/Credit Title             Purpose           Approval         Status
Preceding operations.
Second Western Johor        Integrated rural        July 1986    Closed
Agriculture Development     development, including
Project (Ln. 2740-MA)       drainage and irrigation
Second FELCRA Land          Rehabilitation of small    March 1988  Closed
Development Project (Ln.    farms by planting rubber
2917-MA)                    and oil palm
RISDA I Project             Replanting of low-      December   Closed
(Ln. 3139-MA)               yielding rubber         1989
Third FELCRA Land           Continuation of         June 1992   Closed
Development Project (Ln.    development program for
3484-MA)                    replanting rubber and oil
palm, and institutional
strengthening
Following operations:
none



-13-
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Date            Date Actual/
Steps in Project Cycle                          Planned         Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)      n/a             9/15/92
Preparation                                     11/92           3/8/93
Appraisal                                       3/93            6/7/93
Negotiations                                    5/93             12/6/93
Board presentation                              10/26/93        1/25/94
Signing                                         n/a             2/25/94
Effectiveness                                   5/25/94         7/14/94
Project completion                              12/31/96        12/31/97
Loan closing                                    12/31/97        12/31/97



-14-
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ thousands)
FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97    FY98
Appraisal estimate                  0.30    11.70    33.00    65.00    70.00
Actual                              0.00    17.67    40.93     56.84    70.00
Actual as % of estimate              0%    151%       124%     87%       100%
Date of final disbursement        April 9, 1998



-15-
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
I. Key implementation indicators in SAR/President's  Estimated       Actual
Report
Land Development:
Replanting (ha)                                           90,000        107,000
Rehabilitation (ha)                                        5,000         12,600
Infrastructure:
Upgrading and maintaining access roads (km)                1,000          3,090
Extension Activities:
Male Smallholders                                         42,000        54,474
Female Smallholders                                        8,000        41,334
Training:
RISDA Staff                                                6,093        12,803
Cooperative Staff                                          1,203         3,063
Technical Assistance:
Cooperatives (months)                                         0              0
MIS - M&E (months)                                           49             38
Human Resource Development (months)                           16            14
II. Modified indicators (if applicable)
nla           n/a
III. Other indicators (if applicable)
n/a           n/a



-16-
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
I. Key operating indicators in SAR/President's Report   Estimated       Actual
not defined in SAR/President's Report                        n/a,           n/a
II. Modified indicators (if applicable)
n/a           n/a
III. Modified indicators for future operations (if
applicable)
crop replanting performance (area & type of approaches)
production and yield performance
prices of rubber and oil palm
smallholder incomes
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Purpose as defined
Study       at appraisal/redefined       Status            Impact of Study
Study of         To assess the          Completed after    Results of the study will be
agricultural      effectiveness of      delays in December used for adjusting focus of
performance       RISDA's replanting    1997               extension programs.
and extension programs



-17-
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal Estimate       Actual/Latest Estimate
US$    RM            US$    RM             %
Item              million    million    million    million   Appraisal
Replanting & maintenance     230.8      588.8      300.2     765.7      130
Rehabilitation                 3.5        9.0        5.5      13.9      157
Infrastructure                 5.9       15.0        9.5      24.1      161
Ext. & smallholder training    5.9       15.0        4.4      11.2       75
Applied research               1.0        2.8        0.3       0.8       30
Mini-estate development        3.5        9.0       22.5      57.5      643
Strengthening of cooperatives  0.5        1.2        0.2       0.4       40
Computerized MIS               1.5        3.6        0.5       1.4       33
Human resource development     0.5        1.2        0.6       1.6      120
Monitoring and evaluation      0.1        0.2        0.1       0.2      100
TOTAL   253.2        645.8      343.8     876.8     136



-18-
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
US$          RM            US$               RM
Source           million      million        million          million
IBRD/IDA                 70.0         178.5          70.0             178.5
Rubber smallholders a/   82.0         209.1          95.5             243.6
Domestic contribution   101.2         258.2         178.3             454.7
TOTAL       253.2        654.8         343.8             876.8
a/ through replanting cess payments
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Economic Rate of Return Estimated at Appraisal                14%
Economic Rate of Return Estimated at Completion               14%
Net Present Value Estimated at Completion at a Discount Rate of 10%   RM238.8 million
SCF =1
Tradeables Valued at Border Price Equivalent
Labor Valued at Market Rates
Details of Economic Analysis are given at Appendix 3



TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Project ID: MY-PE-4329    - RISDA 11 (AGRICULTUR
Original      Revised
Covenant              Fulfill      Fulfill                                --
Clasate)   Status      Date         onto      Description of Covenant                                  Comments
Agreement: LOAN Loan Number: IBRD -36990
Text Reference: 3.04     10            c                                  GOM to consult with the Bank by 09/30 each year          Fulfilled
starting in 1994 on RISDA's annual work program
and. funding for following year
Text Reference: 3.05
04            c                                  GOM to ensure adequate funding made available to    Fulfilled
meet RISDA's operating budget
lext  ferenice: 4.01(b    01          c                                  GOM to furnish the Bank RISDA's SOE audit report    Fulfilled
not later than nine months after end of each
fiscal year
Agreement: PROJEC  Number:
Tex Reference: 4.01(b) 01              CD                                 RISDA to furnish to the Bank audited financial           RISDA sent the 1996 audited financial statements
statements not later than nine months after end of  in February 1998.
fiscal year
7extReference:4.  (biv) 01             c       06/30/1994                RISDA to furnish to the Bank 1992 audited                 Fulfilled
financial statements by June 30, 1994
Text Rieferenice: Scheduile 2
05            c                                  RISDA to refrain from administrative intervention   Fulfilled
to enforce specific crop ratio in replanting
StatuFs:
C    - Complied with
C)   - Compliance after Delay
NC   - Not Complied with
S    -,)N  Compliance Expected In Reasolably Shlozt Time
CP   - Complied with Partially
NYD - Not Yret Due



TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS (CONTINUED)
Project ID: NIY-PE-4329    - RISDA 11 (AGRICULTUR
Original      Revised
Covenant              Fulfill       Fulfill
Class(s)   Status      Date          Date     Description of Covenant                                   Comments
uext Reference: 2 (a)
05                    06/30/1995                 RISDA and RSSB to reduce number of rubber
nurseries to about fifteen sites
7'ext Reference: 2 (b)
05            C                                  RISDA to enter and maintain agreement with RRIM          Fulfilled
under which RRIM will assess and furnish report on
perforpance of each nursery
7'ext Reference: 2 (c)
05            C                                  RISDA to ensure that RSSB obtain adequate rights    Fulfilled
to require cooperatives to comply with RSSB
nursery standards
Text Reference: 2 (d)
05            C                                  RISDA to ensure RSSB is able to finance its costs   Fulfilled
of better nursery mnagement by increasing its own
share of planting material production
Text Reference: 2 (e)                                                                                                                                                                            4
05            C                                  RISDA to ensure regular review of planting               Fulfilled
material prices to reflect actual costs of
production
Text Reference: 2 GO
05            C                                  RISDA to implement adjustment in planting                Fulfilled
materialprices, required as result of above price
review
Status *
C    - Complied with
CD   - Compliance after Delay
NC   - Not Complied with
SOON - Complianice Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CP   - Complied with Partially
NY   - Not Yet Due



TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS (CONTINUED)
Project 11): MYI-PE-4329    - RISDA 11 (AGRICULTUR
Original      Revised
Covenant              Fulfill      Fulfill
Clametal   Status       Date         Date     pescription of Covenant                                  Comuents
Text Reference: 3 (a)
05            C                                  RISDA to ensure use of Class I and Class 11              Fulfilled
clonesonly for regular repanting program,
according to PRIM recommended percentages
7ext Reference: 3 (b)
05            C                                  RisDA to ensure use of Clas III clones only under   Fulfilled
supervision of RRIM and RISDA
7ext Reference: 3 (c)
05            C                                   siw to ensure  se of clones responsive to               Fulfilled
stimulation with LITS starting with 1996
replantings
7ext Reference: 4
05            C                                  RISDA to maintain at least 30% overall of women          Fulfilled
trainees
7ext Reference: 5
OS            C                                  RISDA to reorient extension services towards             Fulfilled                                                     tJ
mature rubber
7ex Reference: 6
05            CP                                 RISDA to implement action plan satisfactory to the  By loan closing, LITS was adopted in 70% of mature
Bank for Introduction of LITS in mini-estates           mini-estates under the management of ESPEK, a
RISDA subsidiary, but only in a small number of
RISDA-managed mini-estates.
7ext Reference: 6 (a)
05            C                                  RISDA to assign LITS coordinator at HQ on full           Fulfilled
time basis, with full authority over technical
aspects of program
Status:
C    - Complied with
CD   - Compliance after Delay
NC   - Hot Compplied with
SOON - Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CP   - CompJlied with Partially
NYD  - Not Yet Due



TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS (CONTINUED)
Project ID: MY-PE-4329    - RISDA 11 (AGRICULTUR
Original      Revised
Covenant               Fulfill      Fulfill                                                             C
Class(s)    Status      Date         Date      Description of Covenant                                  Comments
7ext Reference: 6 (b)
05            C                                  RISDA to ensure that LITS coordinator to be              Fulfilled
assisted in each State by full time officer
Text Reference: 6 (c)
05            CP                                 RISDA to ensure that program for introducing LITS   Introduction of LITS in RISDA mini-estates
is carried out in phases satisfactory to the Bank   remained behind schedule.
Text Reference: 6 (d)
05            C                                  RISDA to ensure sufficient operating funds               Fulfilled
allocated for LITS program
Text Reference: 7
09            CD       12/31/1994  12/31/1995  RISDA to develop by December 31, 1994, reliable            Fulfilled behind schedule.
set of data on mini-estates and implement
satisfactory monitoring system on performance of
mini-estates
7ext Reference: 8
05            CP       07/31/1994  06/30/1995  RISDA to develop and implement action plan                 RISDA implemented the agreed action plan for
satisfactory to the Bank in consultation with            strengthening cooperatives, except for the
NARSCO for strengthening cooperatives by July 31,   recruitment of a cooperative specialist.
1994. RISDA to engage consultant to advise on
cooperative management
7ext Reference: 9
05            C                                  RISDA to carry out all training and technical            Fulfilled
assistance under programs and TOR satisfactory to
the Bank
icatus:
C    - Complied with
CD   - Compliance after Delay
NC     Not Complied with
SOON - Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CP   - Complied with Partially
ND  - Not Yet Due



TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS (CONTINUED)
Project I.): NIY-PE-4329    - RISDA 11 (AGRICULTUR
Original      Revised
Covenant               Fulfill      Fulfill
Class (s    Status      Date         Date      Description of Covenant                                    Comments
7ext Reference. 1/0
HILODA to cuoisult wiLh the BOrak by 09/30 eachi year   F'ulfilled
starting In 1994 on RISDA's annual work program
and funding for following year
7ext Reference: II
09            CD       09/30/1994  12/31/1996  RISDA to prepare TOR for study of RISDA's                    The study was completed in December 1991.
agricultural performance in immature rubber areas
by September 30, 1994, and have study completed by
July 31, 1995
Text Reference: 12
09            C                                   RISDA to furnish to the Bank by March I and               Fulfilled
September 1 of each year project impemeoitatior
progress report
Status:
C    - Comiplied with                                                                                                                                                                       W
CD   - Compliance after Delay
NC     Not Complied with
SOON - Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CP   - Complied with Partially
NYt)    Not Yet Due



TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS (CONTINUED)
Covenant Class
1 Accounts/audit
2 Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
3 Flow and utilization of Project funds
4  Counterpart funding
5 Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency
6 Environmental covenants
7  Involuntary resettlement
8 Indigenous people
9 Monitoring, review and reporting
10  Implementation
11  Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12  Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13  Other



-25-
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
No significant lack of compliance with B3ank manual statements.
TABLE 12: BANK ]RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Planned         Revised         Actual
Stage of Processing Cycle   Weeks   US$   Weeks   US$   Weeks   US$
To Appraisal                                                        24.3    66.5
Appraisal                                                           28.7    77.5
Negotiations through Board Approval                                  5.9    16.9
Supervision *                      26.6    80.0    n.a.    n.a.    43.6   200.3
Completion **                       7.0    25.8    n.a.    n.a.      5.7    25.7
TOTAL                                     108.2   386.9
* Since task budgeting was introduced in FY96.
**As of June 17, 1998



-26-
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance Rating
Stage of Project Cycle  Mo/Yr  Number   Days         Specialized    Implementation  Development
of       in          Staff      Status            Objectives
Persons   Field        Skills
Represented
Through appraisal       9/92       4         18    EC, TC, TS
2/93       4        21    EC, TC, FM
Appraisal through       6/93       6        23    EC, TC, TS, RS,
Board approval                                     FM
Supervision             5/94       6         10    TC, EC, FA,             S               S
TS, RS, TS
3/95       5        12    AG,EC,FA,               S               S
TS, FM
5/95       1        11    RS                      S               S
11/95      5        12    AG,FA,TS,               S               HS
FM, RS
8/96       2        11    AG, RS                  S               S
11/96      2         3    AG,FM                   S               S
4/97       2        6    AG, RS                   S               S
10/97      2        10    AG, RS                  S               S
Completion              3/98       2               AG, RS                  S               S
AG  Agronomist
EC  Economist
FA = Financial Analyst
FM  Finance and Management Specialist
RS  Rubber Specialist
TC = Tree Crop Specialist
TS  Training Specialist



Appendix 1
-27-                        Page 1 of 5
MALAYSIA
SECOND RISI)A PROJECT (Loan 3699-MA)
World Bank March 1998 Imp:lementation Completion Report (ICR) Mission
Aide-Memoire
1.    A World Bank mission, consisting of Mr. Ph Boyer, Task Manager (Sr.
Agronomist) visited Malaysia from March 5 to 16, 1998, to solicit the views of the
Borrower and the implementing agencies on project implementation and operation, to
provide advice and support to the Borrower for preparing its own contribution to the
project's ICR, and to collect data for the preparation of the ICR. Discussions on the ICR
started during the last Bank mission in October 1997, when detailed guidelines were
provided and ICR preparation arrangements and schedule agreed with RISDA. During its
stay, the mission met with Dato' DI. Abdul Aziz Muhamad, Secretary General, Ministry
of Rural Development, Mr. Ahmad Konchong, Director, Agricultural Section, EPU, Mr.
Cheah Kong Lee, Finance Division, Federal Treasury, Mr. Nik Kamaruddin, Director
General, RISDA, and Dr. Sivakumaran, RRIM. The mission also visited a rubber mini-
estate in Melaka, and a central rubber nursery and smallholder replanting in Johor. The
mission's findings were discussed at a wrap up meeting held at RISDA on March 14,
1998, chaired by Hj. Baharuddin, Deputy Director General, and attended by senior
management and staff of RISDA, NARSCO, RISDA's subsidiaries, and RRIM, and are
summarized in this aide-memoire, 'which, as usual, is subject to confirmation by Bank
management in Washington. The mission wishes to thank management and staff from
RISDA for the collection of comprehensive data on project implementation, which
greatly facilitated the mission's task, as well as for the excellent arrangements made for
the field visits, and the close assistance and courtesies extended to the mission.
2.    The Loan Agreement for US$70.0 million for the Second RISDA Project was
signed between the Government of Malaysia and the World Bank on February 25, 1994,
and became effective on July 14, 1994. The Loan closed on December 31, 1997, and is
expected to be fully disbursed by April 30, 1998.
3.    Project Objectives and Main Features.  The three year project (1994-1996)
followed up on the successful Bank-assisted RISDA I Project (Loan 3139-MA), and was
designed to continue pursuing the objectives of increasing the productivity and efficiency
of the rubber smallholder sub-sector, improving RISDA's institutional effectiveness, and
helping develop human resources and the private sector in the rural areas. The main
project's component was agricultural development (98.8% of total project costs),
consisting of: (i) the replanting of about 90,000 ha of old rubber with rubber and other
crops; improvement of rubber nurseries; maintenance of areas replanted during the
project, and of about 200,000 ha replanted prior to the project; and rehabilitation of about
5,000 ha of young replanted areas; (ii) the construction and maintenance of agricultural
access roads; (iii) the reorientation and strengthening of extension and smallholder



Appendix 1
-28-                      Page 2 of 5
training; (iv) the improvement of mini-estates; and (v) an applied rubber research
program. In addition, support was provided to the continuing institutional development
of RISDA and the strengthening of smallholder cooperatives.
4.    Project Implementation Performance. Overall implementation progress was
very satisfactory, with the objectives of the main component (agricultural development)
achieved on schedule by December 31, 1996, while activities under the institutional
strengthening component continued until the loan closing date on December 31, 1997.
Agricultural Development
5.    Replanting Program. RISDA successfully implemented the three year replanting
program as per the appraisal schedule, exceeding the targets of 90,000 ha by 19% with
about 107,000 ha of old rubber replanted by December 31, 1996. As agreed at appraisal,
crop choice was left to the beneficiaries, except when such choices would be agro-
climatically unsuitable. While replanting was expected at appraisal to be 80% with
rubber, 12% with oil palm and 8% with other crops, rubber accounted for 65% of the total
replanted area under the project, oil palm for 25% and other crops 10%, reflecting oil
palm's increasing financial attractiveness. The emphasis on oil palm further continued to
increase, with oil palm accounting for 50% of the replanted area in 1997 and expected to
reach 60% in 1998, due to the current high market prices for oil palm as compared to
rubber.
6.    Rubber Nursery Improvement.  To ensure the provision of quality planting
material for the replanting program, an important project objective was the improvement
of nurseries. This objective was fully achieved through the reduction in the number of
central rubber nurseries, the transfer of nursery management responsibility to RSSB, a
RISDA subsidiary, and particularly the provision of technical assistance by RRIM during a
three year period (1994 to 1996) through regular visits to rubber nurseries, under a MOU
signed with RISDA and financed under the project. Appropriate monitoring arrangements
are now put in place by RISDA, with the aim of maintaining high quality standards during
the post project. As agreed at appraisal, the clonal composition of the rubber replanting
program was consistent with RRIM's replanting recommendations. These were revised for
the period 1995-1997, and now include 59 clones which are classified under two groups
instead of the previous three classes, taking into account timber production characteristics.
7.    Crop Rehabilitation and Maintenance & Infrastructure Development. About 12,600
ha were rehabilitated during the three years from 1994 to 1996, as compared to the appraisal
estimates of 5,000 ha, reflecting the higher replanted area and the increasing emphasis on
quality of planting to ensure future high productivity. During the project period, RISDA
also supported the annual maintenance of an average of about 180,000 ha of immature
areas, about 10% below appraisal estimates, while exceeding the targets for construction
and maintenance of agricultural access roads, with 3,090 km achieved against appraisal
estimates of 1,000 km.



Appendix 1
-29-                      Page 3 of 5
8.    Mini-Estate Improvement. Implementation of the program of demonstration and
introduction of the labor saving, low intensity tapping systems (LITS) in rubber mini-
estates, did not proceed as envisaged at appraisal and remained behind schedule, due to
initial weak support from RISDA inanagement partly caused by the high rubber market
prices experienced at the beginning of the project which made it difficult to convince
smallholders to test a new technology and reduce tappers' numbers. Out of the fourteen
demonstration blocks, which were established since 1993, only five remained at the end of
1997. However, the LITS demonstration program achieved its objective of showing that
tappers' productivity can be significantly increased with LITS, leading to the successful
adoption of LITS in respectively 70%/o and 10% of the mini-estates managed by two RISDA
subsidiaries, ESPEK and RSPSP, with the latter planning to expand the adoption of LITS to
60% of mature rubber areas within two years. Furthermore, RISDA is maintaining the
LITS demonstration program in mini-estates under its management to prepare for future
labor shortages, and has started to inrtroduce and monitor LITS in individual smallholdings.
Another project objective under this component was the development of a reliable database
to monitor the performance of mini-estates, and was only partially achieved. Progress also
remained behind schedule and further work is required to integrate the database with
RISDA management information system.
9.    Extension and Smallholder Training. The intensification of extension activities
proceeded satisfactorily with regard to the number of smallholders reached under the
project, with RISDA achieving 158%/'o of appraisal targets through end-1996, and increasing
the number of women trainees to 43%o of total smallholder trainees against the project target
of 30%. However, the percentage of extension efforts toward mature rubber fell short of the
project target of 65%, progressively decreasing during the project period from 46% in 1994
to 42% in 1996, reflecting the high achievement of the replanting program which required
increased extension inputs and the slower adoption of LITS than expected at appraisal.
10.   Applied Research.   The applied rubber research component, which was
implemented by RRIM, consisted of two main research programs: (i) clonal performance
under LITS, divided into four studies; and (ii) mixed cropping systems. Implementation of
the research programs generally proceeded slowly, mainly due to budgetary constraints and
initial delays in establishing field trials. However, the component achieved the project
objectives of providing useful data on new clones recommended for replanting, particularly
with regard to their responsiveness to stimulation under LITS, and increasing research
efforts on integrated farming systems based on the intercropping of rubber with fruit trees.
Furthermore, the two programs are now part of RRIM's core research activities and, as
such, will be pursued in the future.
Institutional Development
11.   Human Resource Development. RISDA successfully carried out a large training
program on LITS, planting material preparation, management, and communication skills,
reaching about 12,803 trainees from 1994 to 1996, including about 26% of female
trainees, exceeding the appraisal targets of about 5,000 trainees in spite of financial



Appendix 1
-30-                         Page 4 of 5
constraints. RISDA also made substantial progress toward strengthening its institutional
capacity for human resource development and management, with the implementation of
the project financed studies on HRD & Training Management and the adoption by
RISDA management of the consultants' recommendations for regrouping the
management of all training activities under one division.
12.   Strengthening of Smallholder Cooperatives. The strengthening of the rubber
smallholder cooperatives (RSCs) through the implementation of a comprehensive
rationalization plan, under the coordination of NARSCO, was partially achieved, with
about half the RSCs obtaining an annual profit above RM50,000 in 1997. This was
mainly due to: (i) the need for NARSCO, in the context of limited resources, to first
concentrate on strengthening its own capabilities and financial situation in order to be
able to provide effective development assistance to the RSCs; (ii) the general reluctance
of the RSCs to specialize their activities, as envisaged under the rationalization plan; and
(iii) the progressive transfer of contracts for land development, marketing, planting
material preparation, and other profitable activities from the RSCs to RISDA's
subsidiaries, with the aim of generating revenue for RISDA to compensate for the
shortfall in budgetary allocation, consistent with Government's policies under the
Seventh Malaysia Plan toward the self-financing of agricultural parastatals.
13.   MIS and M&E. RISDA achieved substantial progress in the further development
of its integrated computerized management information system (MIS), which had been
initiated under the previous RISDA I project. The system, which integrates the three
modules on replanting, finance & accounts, and stock management, is now being tested
on a pilot basis and full operational status is expected by end-1998. Progress, however,
was slower than expected at appraisal due to delays in the recruitment of consultants for
programming and the procurement of network hardware. The slow development of the
integrated information system caused the late start and reduced scope of the agricultural
performance study which was completed two and half years behind schedule and will
need to be extended in the future to include all responsibility centers.
14.   Project Costs and Financing. Total project costs at about RM876.7 million as
of December 31, 1997, were 35% higher than the appraisal estimates of RM645.8
million, mainly due to the achievement of the replanting program above appraisal targets
(119%), the payment in 1996 of the replanting grant increase with retroactive effect back
to 1991, and the implementation of a larger infrastructure development program than
estimated at appraisal. However, expenditures related to institutional development
objectives were generally below appraisal estimates, reflecting budget constraints
experienced by RISDA during the project period. Disbursement progress was very
satisfactory, remaining ahead of appraisal targets from 1994 to 1996. By closing date,
US$69.0 million were disbursed from the loan (98.6%) and it is expected that the balance
of the proceeds will be withdrawn by end-April 1998.
15.   Project Impact. The project had a marked impact on planted area, smallholder
productivity and incomes, and the capacity of the concerned institutions, both in the



Appendix 1
-31-                       Page 5 of 5
beneficiary communities and in Government. The output of areas replanted under the
project is expected to rise around 2010, at full production, to about 100,000 tons of dry
rubber, 100,000 tons of palm oil, and 22,000 tons of palm kernel, representing about 90%
of appraisal targets for rubber and 250% for oil palm reflecting the increasing shift
toward oil palm under the project. The combined output of palm oil and rubber, which
would represent less than 2% of national production at that time, would be worth a total
of about US$140 million annually at today's prices and exchange rate. Some 150,000
rubber smallholders are expected to benefit from the replanting and maintenance program
supported under the project. On replanted areas, the net incremental incomes per
smallholder with an average 2 ha holding; are estimated at full production to reach about
RM500/month for rubber and RMl,100/rnonth for oil palm at today's prices, comparing
favorably with the official poverty threshold of RM425/month.
16.   Future Operational Plan. The attached draft operational plan was prepared by
RISDA and discussed with the mission. The plan describes future institutional and
financing arrangements as well as the proposed key indicators for monitoring operational
performance during the post project period.
17.  ICR Preparation Schedule. It was agreed that (i) the Bank would send the draft
ICR report to Government and RISDA for comments by end-April 1998, and (ii) RISDA
would send its contribution to the projecit ICR to the Bank by mid-May 1998, with the
aim of finalizing the ICR report by end-May 1998.
Kuala Lumpur, March 14, 1998
Distribution:
Mr. Othman Jusoh, Secretary, Finance Division, Federal Treasury
Mr. Abu Salihu, Deputy Secretary, Finance Division, Federal Treasury
Dato' Dr. Abdul Aziz Muhamad, Secretary General, Ministry of Rural Development
Mr. Ahmad Konchong, Director, Agricultural Section, EPU
Mr. Nik Kamaruddin, Director General, RISDA
Hj. Zulkifli, Director, Planning and Development Division, RISDA
Dr. Sivakumaran, RRIM



-32-
Attachment
Page 1 of 5
SECOND RISDA PROJECT
IMPLEMENTA TION COMPLETION REPORT
OPERATION PLAN
This draft operation p(an outlines the measures that RISDA would undertake to ensure
the sustainability or the continuous suainable operation of the project after the
completion of the second RISDA project which closed on Dec 31,1997.
1.    CROP DEVELOPMENT
1.1   Replantna
The replanting performance during the project period has been very satisfactory
reaching 108,675 ha which is well beyond the 90,000 ha target set by World
Bank. However due to various expected constrints, sucl as tiU  policy of
Malaysian Govemment to reduce the amount of rubber produced locaily, a target
of 15,000 ha per year has been set for the period 1998-2000. This is to be
achieved by:
1.1.1 Favouring applications for group replanting over other individual applications so
as to obtain economy of scale and to enable group marketing at farm level.
1.1.2  Providing more alocations to the less developedlindustrtnuied east coSt and
northem states where there is less competiton for land and labour with
industries. These States have higher incidence of poverty groups which could
become RlSDA's target for poverty eradication through replanting progranm.
1.1.3  Implementing crop mix and zoning. The crop ratio of 50:50 (oil Palm: Rubber)
will be implemented.
1. 2  Rubber Nurse' Jmrpyovement
1.2.1  A total of 11 sites will be maintained for planting material production, as Central
and RSCs nurseries for easier supervision. RISDA's subsidiary, RSSB, will
continue to be responsible for the quantitative aspect of planting material supply,
involving various RSCs.
1.2.2 The types and clones of planting material are projected to be as follows:
a) The production of quality Polybag Young Buddings will be increased to 90%
and the balance 10% will consist of Polybag Budded Stumps, 4-Whorl plants
and Budded Stumps.
b) A total of 16 clones will be produced. 6 of which will be from Group I and 10
clones from Group II. Areawise, 70% will be planted with Group I clones
(large scale planting) and 30% with Group II clones under Monitored
Development Project RRIMIRISDA.
c) To expand Source Bush Nurseries In RSSB's Central Nurseries. This is to
cater for the needs of future replanting programs with Group 11 clones such as
RRIM 900 Series (Second Selection) and RRIM 2000 Series.



-33-
Attachment
Page 2 of 5
1.2.3 To ensure the production of high-quaW planting materiala by RSS8JRSCs, the
enforcement function ,such as the monitoring of nursery operaions, will be
undertaken by the Extension Division of RISDA Headquarter together with State
Extension Officers.
1.2.4 The training of key personnel in the production of quality planting materials will
be continued as on-going process. It will be camed out in collaboration with
RRIM and RISDA Training fnstituMes.
1.2.5 Computerization of the availablily and supply of planting matefiais by nursery,
types and clones will be carried as an integration of MIS.
2.   INFRAST-RUCTURE DEVELOP ME
Effective eady 1997, the allocation of infrastructure projects under the Subsidy
Program had ceased and this allocation will not be given to RISDA in the future.
A special allocation was given to, RISDA in 1997 sotely for the maintenance of
existing farm roads totaling RM4I.750 mil by MRD. It is expected that similar
allocaton will be given to RISDA in future years (1998-2000) by MRD.
3.   APPLIED RESEARCH
3.1        manc of Nw Clones on LITS (112S d&  2Lus ethePhon ar Oce  'Ale9k
This research work will be carried out by RRIM. Research work on studying the
yield performnance and related aspects (dryness) of all new clones will be carried
out In RRIM Block planting trials, MDP on RRIM2000 series clones and RtSDA
Schemes. The studies will incorporate approaches to overcme the shorffaet in
land productivity associated with LtTS systems.
3.2   Dafe base on yield D_oerflr7Wc_ and dryness incidence of INJew C.!cnez vnigf
smalIholder conditions
It will be an on-going exercise to be carnied out by way of periodic surveys of
organized and unorganized smaliholdings throughout the country, involving 3reas
with clones from RRIM 900 series, PB 300 senes and RRIM 2000 senes.
3.3  Intearated Farming
The measurement and monitodng of girth, rubber and fruits yield, diseases and
pest attack wuil be continued. Finally total income per family wdl be measured.
4.    MINI ESTET DEVELOPMENT AN) IMPROVEMr;NT
4.1   MnI Estate Manegrmen[
RSPSBs operation has been planned to manage at least 80% of RISDA's
matured Mini Estates.



-34-
Attachment
Page 3 of 5
4.2   L
4.2.1  It is envisaged that LITS, together with other long-flow systems, will uftimately
replace conventional tapping system in all Mini Estates under RSPS3's
management and also in RISDA's Estates managed by ESPEK.
4.2.2  100% of matured holdings under RSPSB wIll use 1. ITS from the fIrst year of
tapping.
4.2.3  Exdsting demonstration plots will be maintained and used for training purposes.
4.2.4  Long-flow  systems, such as REACTORRIM  and RRIMFLOW, will be
incorporated in 20% of RSPSB-managed reas.
4.3   Database lmomvement
The development of a computerized 'module' on Mini Estate project will be
continued and it will be integrated with RlSDA's MIS whereby a consistent and
reliable set of data on mini estates will be maintained i.e.data for monitoring
performance, such as size, area and production of mini estates, dividcnti
payments, debts and debt repayment will be captured and monitored.
5.   STRENGTHENING AND RATIONALIZATION OF COOPgRATIVES
The future of Rubber Smaliholder Cooperatives (RSC) is much dependent on
RtSDA's future plans and acivitties which in tuM are dependent on RISOA's
future organization. As such RSCs are facing formidable challenges to maintain
the traditional activities. In order to generate a reasonable income level, plannad
to be a minimum of RM50,000 per year per RSC, the RSCs have to divers.fy
their business activities; venturing into other sectors such as farm mana-ement,
tourism, landscaping etc.  -
Staff training will be continued with emphasis on information technology, civil
contract works, human resource management and others related to the new
business activities.
As at June 1997, 36 RSCs have implemented the computerized accounting
system. The computerized accounting will be implemented, in stages for the next
three years, at all remaining RSCs.
6..  INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
0.1   Computerized MIS
RISDA would support further and continued development of the MIS carried out
during the RISDA It project by providing hardware and software for the LAN AND
WAN, training and continuation of consultancy.



-35-
Attachment
Page 4 of 5
6.2   Other Sysems
For the coming three years, oWher than 6.1, RISDA plans to develop and
implement the following applications which is estimated to cost RM59mi!:
6.2.1 Computerized subsidiary systems wdth linkages to the current operational MIS.
6.2.2 Investment system.
6.2.3 Geographical Information System (GIS).
6.2.4 Automated office system (cosporate e-mail, work flow and document
management).
6.3   Human Resource Dvelament
Previously, the HRM/HRD functions were carried out by two Divisions, viz.
Extension and Administration. Effective frcm Project RISDA 1, HRM/HRD
functions were later recognized land placed under one function of HRM and
administered by the Administration Divin.
The acceptance of the suggested structure through the consultancy work under
Project RISDA Il has drawn a ci.irrsr and more meaningful future for HRMIHRD
in RISDA. HRM/HRD will be stringthened and placed directly under Deputy
Director General's office as a separate entity so as to have a better control of
RISDA and its companies.
6.4   Monitonna and Evaluaton
The study has been completed and the results obtained would be used for
determining RISDA agricultural performance's indicatorslbenchmarks. The
Planning and Development Division, together with the state planning officers who
have been trained for such a studly, will continue to make similar studies using
the package developed by the conmultant.
7.   FINANCING AND BUDGET
Generally,on the assumption that rio further allocation will be forthcoming for the
period 1999-2000, RISDA may Ihave to use its internal sources (including
whatever Cess Fund to be collected during the period) to finance the utwgeteld
replanting of 15,000 hec. per yea3r. Currently the plan for future structure of
RISDA is being reviewed by the Gcnvemment
Since RISDA's reseres might be clepleted by 1998 and also additional funds wili
be required to finance outstanding subsequent grant payments for immature
areas, RISDA might have to take up the case of inadequate funds separately.
probably during the 5-year plan mid-term review which is to be held at end of
1998. Depending on the decision ireached in the review, RISDA might have to
review the above-mentioned replanting target and probably to reduce it further if
request for additional funds are not grmnted.



-36-
Attachment
Page 5 of 5
8.    FUTURE MONITORING OF PROJECT OPERATIONS
The followng indicators are proposed for monitong:
i) Physalca replanting area
ii) Total production and yield performance
iii)  Reptantirg approaches in hectas
Iv) Prices of oil palm (FFB) and rubber (DRC)
v) Smailholders Income
Tkt: dwVa/Iepotearw.doo



-37-                  Appendix 2
Page 1 of 6
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
4ALAYSIA
SECOD RtHZ=R INUSTRY SbMLLHOLDENS  DOZVZL0Pb%
AUTNORTM' (RZSDA) PROJECT
Loan 3699-MA
May, 1998
Planning and Development Division
RISDA
Kuala Lumpur



-38-                             Appendix 2
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT    Page 2 of 6
MALAYSIA
SZCOND RtJ 2R XnDUSTRY SXALLNOLDZRS DEVELOPJ,T
AXTORITY  (RISDA) PROJZCT
1.  PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1.1  The Second RISDA Project was implemented over three years (1994-96) by
RISDA under the overall coordination of the Ministry of Rural development It was
based on the overall positive results of the World Bank -assisted RISDA I Project
and it continued to pursue the objectives of increasing the productivity and
efficiency of the rubber smaliholcer sub-sector, improving RISDA's institutional
effectiveness and developing human resources.
1.2 The project supported (i) crop development (replanting of 90,000 ha old rubber witn
rubber and other crops, and improvements in rubber nursery operations;
maintenance during immaturity of areas to be replanted under this project and an
additional 200,000 ha replanted prior to this project; and rehabilitation of 5,000 ha);
(ii) infrastructure development (upgrading and maintenance of about 1,000kma
agrncuttural access roads);(iii) extension and smallholder training; (rv) Mini Estate
development and improvement; (v) strengthening and restructuring of Rubber
Smaliholder Cooperatives (RSC); (vi) institutional strengthening; and (viU) appUed
research by RRIM.
2.  ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTiVES
2.1  Achievement of overall project objectives was very satisfactory although tha
implementation of all the technical assistance was delayed due to administrative
reasons, and similarly the rate of adoption of LITS in Mini Estates was slow
because they have sufficient numbers of rubber tappers during that period. R,SDA
achieved all the main project objectives on schedule by end 1996, inciLding the
successful completion of replanting target of 90,000 ha, maintenance of more than
200,000 ha immature areas and improvement of plarnting material quality, wniie
exceeding crop rehabilitation and infrastructure development targets. The
remaining project objectives related to instrtutional development and improvemrent
of Mini Estates were achieved by the loan closing date.
3.  PROJECT PERFORMANCE
3.1  Crop DeveIopment:
3:1.1 Reolantina.  106,675 ha were replanted during the three-year project period
against the planned RISDA II target of 90,000 ha, giving a success rate of 118%.
1995 was the best year with 36,853 ha replanted (122% of target), followed by
1994 with 35,107 ha (117%) and 34,715 ha (115%) in 1996. Rubber was still the
most popular crop occupying 65% of the total replanted area under the project,
followeed by oil palm for 25% and other approved crops 10%. When compared with
the expected crop ratio of 80% rubber, 12% oil palm and 8% other crops at
appraisal, the achievement figures indicated oil palm's populanty due to its better
financial return as compared to rubber. The emphasis on replanting with oil palm is
expected to increase in future as RISDA implements its crop ratio policy of 50:50
(rubber: oil palm). However for the overall future replanting program, due to various
expected constraints, a target of 15,000 ha per year has been set for the period
1998-2000.



-39-                             Appendix 2
Page 3 of 6
3.1.2 Cn>og Maintenance and Rehabi/ItEn. During the same period 12,169 ha were
rehabilitated compared with RISDA 11 estimates of 5000 ha; this was in tandem
with the higher replanted area achieved. Maintenance work on 531,046 ha of
immatured areas was carried out compared with the target ot 290,000 ha
(i.e.90,000 ha new areas plus; 200,000 ha pre-1994 replanted areas).
Thus based on the crop development alone, without evaluating other project
components (since reolanting program covers 93% of project cost), it couic be
concluded that RISDA has successfully carried out this RISDA II project and, in the
final analysis, the objectives of increasing the productMty and efficiency of the
rubber smailholder sub-sector could be met.
3.1.3 Ruber Nuserv !mDrovernent This sub-component which was established with the
twin objectives of improving rubber nursery management and thus producing
quality rubber planting materials for supply to smallholders under the replanting
program was fully achieved during the project period. Pror to RISDA II Project,
most of rubber planting materials isupplied consisted of about 80% Budded Stumps
in Polybag (BSP) and the balance 20% consisting of other types inciluding Young
Budding in Polybag (YEP) and bare root Budded Stumps (BS). There was a very
significant change during the proje-ct period, almost reversing the trend; tre suoply
of superior quality planting materials such as the YBP was increased to 86%
whereas only 12% BSP was sLpplied in 1996. This improvement of plan:ing
material quality was achieved mainly through the reduction in number of central
and cooperative nurseries (to 7 central and 4 cooperatives), the transfer of nursery
management responsibility to RISDA's subsidiary conpany (RSSF) and the
provision of technical assistance by RRIM.
3.2  Infrastructure Development
The project provided for the construction and maintenance for minor agricultural
roads including bridges, culverts and drainage works in support of the Replanting
Program. During the project period, RISDA had successfully constructed a total of
1,705km of these roads and fUrthetr maintained 1,3851km of similar roads, giving a
total 3090km against the BanK's target of 1,0COkm; tris is an acnievemenz of
309%.
The construction and maintenance of agricultural roads leading into Mini Estates,
Group Replanting and other individual rubber holdings had provided accessibility to
the smaliholders in the rural areas. The above roads have been used regulany not
only by the smallholders themselves but also other groups of people in the local
vicinity.
3.3  Extension & Smallholder TraininGI
RISDA was supposed to (a) reoriertate its extension activities towards increasing
the productivity of mature rubber and (b) maintain the 30% overall proportion of
women trainees.
Under the project, RISDA achieved 159% of appraisal target as it had successfully
trained 95,808 smallholders companed with target of 60,000 while female coverage
surpassed project target by 129% ( i.e. 41,334 smallholders compared with the
target of 18,000). However the percentage of extension efforts towards mature
rubber fell short of the project targiet of 55% (averaging 43% for the three year
2



-40-                         Appendix 2
Page 4 of 6
period) due to emphasis on high replanting which resulted into extension efforts
being concentrated on young rubber.
3.4 Mini Estate Development and Improvement
The main objective of this component was to increase the viability of smaliholdings
in general and Mini Estates in particular through the introduction of the labor
saving, low intensity tapping systems (LiTS). Even though RISDA has established
14 demonstration blocks of UTS, due to various unavoidable reasons, only five of
them are currently being monitored. These demonstration trials show positive
results and confirm that LITS can be used to increase tappers' productivity.
However the adoption rate of LITS in Mini Estates has been slow, with
achievement of only 10% as of end 1997, as Mini Estates now do not experience
labor shortage. On the other hand, 100% of tapped areas of RISCA's rubber
plantations under commercial management by ESPEK, a RISDA's subsidiary, are
under (a) LITS with ethrel stimulation (73%) and (b) LITS using long-flow technique
(27%). RISDA will continue to implement and expand the LITS demans'ration
program in preparation for possible future labor snortages.
3.5  Strengthening & Re-structuring of Rubber Smaliholders Cooperatives
RISDA has only partially achieved the objective of strengthening ruboer
smallholders cooperatives (RSC's) through rationalizing their business acwMties
and providing staff training to develop their management capacity and capability.
During the project period 35 RSCs managed to generate the planned more thnan
RM50,000 profit annually for more than two consecutive years, 37 RSCs are using
computerized accounting system, while membership and paid-up snares have
increased significantly to 199,937 and RM17,526,682 respectively in 1996
(183,306 and RM12,537,179 in 1994).This was due to, among others, (a) the
reluctance of board members to specialize the activities of their RSCs and (b) the
change of RISDAs policy to progressively transfer various profitable activities,
normally contracted to RSCs such as land development and planting maternal
preparation, from RSCs to RISDAs subsidiaries so as to generate revenue for
RISDA.
3.6  InstitutIonal Development
This component was planned to support further development of RISDA's
computerzed management information system (MIS), to reorient HRC program for
RISDA and to support M&E activities.
3.6.1 Management info i        m a   Monito   & Evaluation. Development of
RISDA's integrated computerized MIS, which integrates the three enhanced
modules on Smallholders Replanting, Stock and Accounting, is presently being
piloted at two Responsibility Centers and head quarters finance division and it is
expected to be operational before end ofl998, whereas the supply, delivery and
installation of computer network hardware and software is being carried out.
Overall, progress was slower than expected due to factors, such as delays in the
recruitment of consultants for programming and the procurement of network
hardware. This slow development of the integrated MIS has further delayed and
reduced the scope of the agricultural performance study (M&E) which was only
completed in late 1997.
3



-41-                          Appendix 2
Page 5 of 6
3.6.2 Human ReaurM  Dev  oomit During the three-year project period, RISDA
successfully implemented its large training program on various fields such as LITS,
preparation of rubber planting rnaterials, communication skills & other aspects of
management In spite of financial constraints, about 12,803 trainees of various
categories, including about 26A, female trainees, were trained against the project
target of about 6093 giving a 210% achievement rate. RISDA also managed to
carry out the studies on HRD and Management of Training as per appraisal, and
finally adopted the consultants' recommendations to regroup the management of
training activities under one division.
3.7 Applied Research
RRIM was involved in this applied research component which consisted of (a) four
studies concemed with clone performance particularly in relation to LITS
technology and (b) a long-term experiment on mixed cropping systems with tree
crops Involving rubber. The clone studies have achieved the main oDjective of
obtaining data on vanous cloncks, especially the new clones recommended for
replanting, with respect to their responsiveness to stimulation under 'LITS. Fu.l
objectives of the mixed cropping study could oniy be achievea after the rubber
trees are tapped and fruit crops come into bearing. Meanwhila, during the
immaturity period of rubber, only recordings on girth of rubber could be cone. Since
these study programs have beem placed as part of RRIM's (now Malaysia 2ubDer
Board) core research activities, thiey will be continued in the future.
4.  PROJECT COSTS
As of December 31, 1997 a total of about RM876.77 millions were spent during the
project period. This was 35% higher than the appraisal estimates of about
RM645.66 millions due to various reasons such as (i) higher achievement of
replanting (118%) and (ii) the retrospective payment made in 1996 for the increase
in replanting grants.
5.  BANK PERFORMANCE
The Second RISDA Project Loan Agreement for US$70.0 millions was signed
between the govemment of Malaysia and the World Bank on February 25, 1994.
The Loan which was closed on December 31,1997 was fulty disbursed by April
1998.
Generally, BanKs performance has been very satisfactory judging from various
aspects such as the project identification & appraisal and supervision by its
officers. The bank supervision mission visited RISDA and the various projects not
less than six times during the projject period. The frequency of visit is considered
adequate for providing required guidance and for frank interactions between the
Bank and RISDA. The Bank offiicers who carried out the various supeMsion
missions have been consistently miaintained and this continuity has provided better
understanding and access to various levels of RISDA and RRIM. Furthermore the
mission's promptness in providing written comments immediately after each visit is
much appreciated.
4



-42-                  ~~~~~Appendix 2
-42-                           Page 6 of 6
6. LESSONS LEARNED
Some of the most important lessons learned from RISDA 11 that could be referred
for future operations are as follows:
i) Adequate and timely funding could ensure the successful corrpletion of
RISDA's replanting program
ii) Previous policy to decentralize nursery operations from central nurseries to
"umbrella 'murseries" located tAroughout thc oCuntry with poor anVdor
inacequate infrastructure had contributed to the decline of planting materials
produced The present centralization of nursery operations has successfuliy
improved the situation. Quality nursery production requires high-tevel
technical skills and management; the provision of technical assistance funded
by the Bank anC the transfer of nursery management responsibility to a
specific RISOA's subsidiary have thus contnbutea to the improvement of
planting material quality.
ili) For successful implementation of a program, full commitment from every
party involved is required; for example, RISDA's LITS program Could Only be
successful if there is full commitment from  top managemen: tQo held
Inspectors as well as owners and tappers.
7.  FUTURE OPERATION
RISDA will continue to carry out its core activity of replanting but at a reduced rate
of 15,000 ha per year with a crop ratio of 50:50 (rubber and oil palm). Group
replanting will be emphasized and more allocations will be made to the less
developed/industrilized east cost and northern states that have higher incidence of
poverty groups.
RISDA has prepared a detailed "operational plan" outlining the measures tnat ,t
voould undertake to ensure the sustainability or the continuous sustainable
operation of the project after the completion of the second RISDA projec. This
operational plan has been included In the Aide-Memoire of the World Sank March
1998 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Mission.
TM: bdwapoanAicrIacaond RISDA pmpct (hni 36980.MA)
S



Malaysia
RISDA I1 Project
Economic Costs and Benefits (MS million) /a
1994    1196    1996    1997    1198    19"        2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006    2007    2008
Rubber                                                           -                         4.3    230      61.1   106.8   146.3   1710    190.6   210.9
OlpaN                          -       *        -       *        7.8    19.9    38.0    58.1    71.0    81.0    88.4    93.0    95.0    95.0    92.7
LITSonMli-Esta                 *       *        -        0.2     3.1      8.2     8.2      8.2     8.2      8.2      8.2     8.2      8.2      8.2     8.2
LUTS on Smu lh-k*                                       *        - -i                              1.3      3.8      7.6    12.5    18.8    25.0    25 0
Sale  Rubberwood l            22.9    24.3    21.7           -  * *      *        *
Subttl                        22.U    24.3    21.7       0. 2   10 9    28.1    48.2    68.6   103 4    1U.0   210.9   260.0   2929    3186    338.9
;ostsn
On-amm,Coslkr Rubber          41.3    67.1    81.3    58.0    52.4    50.8    39.9    31.0    31.1    47.7    66.9    62.5    93.3   102.9   112.5
OnamCoutsbrOlPum              15.6    24.1    35.5    22.4    22.6    24.5    27.9    29.7    31.2    32.4    33.3    34.0    34.3    34.5    34.4
Rubb Nursery Nkpuvenen         06.     0.4      0.5              -       -        -        -           -        -        -       -        -        -
Inbasbucur                     9.8     5.4      7.6      1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0
kWuTranspotandStaflTravul      2.9     2.7      2.8      1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0
Extension andTrainn            2.0     1.8      1.9      1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0      10
Subtotal                      72.    1015    129.6    83.5    7BI  0  .Q  .1     70.B    83.7    653       83.1    1031    119.5   130.8   140.4   149.9   (
Total                       (49.06)  (77.23) (107.83)  P3.281  (67.14)  (50.02)  (24.65)    4.91    38.10   70.92   107.79   140.48   162.31   175.44   187.01   0
2009    2010    2011    2012    2013    2014    2011    2016    2017    2018    2019    2020    2021    2022    2023     
Rubber                       220.8   237.6   237.9   233.1   228.7   214.7   192.5   174.4   164.9    10.2   154.0   142.2   136.7   138.0   139.5
O4 PaIn                       90.2    87.0    84.1    82.6    79.3    77.7    74.4    72.9    69.5    88.0    64.7    63.1    59.8    57.8    54.0    a
LITSonMnWIEstwic               8.2     8.2      8.2      8.2     8.2      8.2     8.2      8.2     8.2      8.2      8.2     8.2      8.2      82      8.2
UTS an Sm_ihlgsId             25.0    25.0    25.0    25.0    25.0    25.0    25.0    25.0    25.0    25.0    25.0    25.0    25.0    25.0    25.0
Sale d Rubbeawood le           .                                                                   -        -       - .  .  .
Subtotal                     353.2   357.8   355.2   348.9   339.2   325.7   300.1   280.5   267.8   261.4   251.9   238.5   229.7   228.7   226.6
On-Marm CogsfrRubber         121.e   125.9   126.0   123.9   121.1   115.8   105.9    97.9    93.7    91.6    68.9    83.6    81.2    81.8    82.4   -
On-XfmCostbfOlrPam            34.3    34.1    33.8    33.6    33.2    33.1    32.7    32.5    32.2    32.0    31.6    31.4    31.1    30.8    30.4   0
Rubber Nuey  pnvement                  -        -       -        -   *            -        -       -        -       -                 -        -
lnfrastn ure                   1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0
nputTrmnspoetandStaffTravel    1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0
Exbmnsr andT Tka               1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0
Subtoal                      158.9   163.0   162.8   160.5   157.3   151.8   141.6   133.5   128.9   126.6   123.5   118.1   115.3   115.6   115.9
Tota                         194.4   194.8   192.4   188.4   181.9   173.8   158.5   147.0   138.8   134.8   128.4   t20.5   114.4   113.1   110.
Economic Rda of Rtum    14.7%
Not Pment Vale (NV) Ig   23.8                                                                                                                                    .1 >
la caaed hI coant 1997 M  based an exciale tate bsumptions (Fe. 1998) :
h baWed ean aP    plarn  md Wodd Blank ctn_odi pde pojecdos (Fe. 1996)                      .
Id tk  geWup neto   ps(.    . tbor  we notba and isl imu kekde bbor savings
le nd benet km sal of nhbewood. M$1000 I ha
i oasi baSed on aua cesb convewad bk CoNtan 1997 SM and estimates for fuht  reaurn operti  expenses
Ig NPV abckdhe bued on disount rate d 10% hi MS wnion



MAiP SECTION



IBRD 25169R
100     KMLYSA14
KEDAH ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~RSAPRJC
ABU 'A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*   iOSot fIe
RUS  T.G. G KITN                         GADfA  LAN
BuAerorSth oKr
KELANIAN   GERDONG           ATONL CPIAI
GAL                          AON      JLNUAA                ILOS~S
P PTh4Ah~~~~~G  .C       KELANIAN           GERDONG URIA MA
-  PADANG ~        ~       PAAN
CHANGAT                     GAMBATRNGGAN
~~TUNGGAL()~RJAL
0BK.KQTA   W SA          KkQQ
RISDA~~~~~~~~~DJIA  A
LU SLiMLMPU          AHKNG
NEGRI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
SELANGR    ASEMGBIAAN
*~~~~~~PLN, 0BUUEKRAA
of reodero  oo~~~ to  for  Ice    SerembA
ondeboo,,do,i~~~~~~~~~s ~~  lam   KERAMATG.                       MBA
eU~~~~g              *  SEMBILAN    0~~~~S.   SKiAN
- - dororrot ~~~~~~                    PALQNG  ~~~0 ULU KERA       LUT SNGLG
INDONESIAA
CAMBOIA                                                 SGE0  SEIJANG     AM0BA
NAM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JN19



