Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3699-MA
               (Second Rubber Industry Smallholders
                  Development Authority Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
        RUBBER INDUSTRY SMALLHOLDERS DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
                      Dated February 25, 1994
                                                LOAN NUMBER 3699-MA
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated February 25, 1994 between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and RUBBER INDUSTRY
SMALLHOLDERS DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (RISDA).
      WHEREAS: (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between MALAYSIA (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to seventy million dollars ($70,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that RISDA agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are
set forth in this Agreement;
      (B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and RISDA, part of the proceeds of the loan provided for
under the Loan Agreement will be made available to RISDA on the terms
and conditions set forth in said subsidiary loan agreement;
      WHEREAS RISDA, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement; and
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. (a) RISDA declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A, B, C, E, F and
G of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and agricul-
tural practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for those Parts of the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Bank and RISDA shall otherwise
agree, RISDA shall carry out Parts A, B, C, E, F and G of the Project
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. RISDA shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
      Section 2.04. RISDA shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, RISDA shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 2.05. (a) RISDA shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Loan.
      (b)   RISDA shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of Loan, or the perfor-
mance by RISDA of its obligations under this Agreement and under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
                             ARTICLE III
                Management and Operations of RISDA
      Section 3.01. RISDA shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
engineering, agricultural and environmental practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
      Section 3.02. RISDA shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to
Page  3
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
agricultural practices.
      Section 3.03. RISDA shall take out and maintain with responsi-
ble insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consis-
tent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) RISDA shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.
      (b)   RISDA shall:
            (i)   have its records, accounts and financial state-
                  ments (balance sheets, statements of income and
                  expenses and related statements) for each fiscal
                  year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than nine months after the end
                  of each such year: (A) certified copies of its
                  financial statements for such year as so audited;
                  and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors
                  of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
                  have reasonably requested;
            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning said records, accounts and financial
                  statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request;
                  and
            (iv)  furnish to the Bank by June 30, 1994, the state-
                  ments and reports referred to in Section 4.01 (b)
                  (ii) above covering RISDA's 1992 fiscal year.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
      Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of RISDA thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank
shall promptly notify RISDA thereof.
      Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex
Page  4
or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be
given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at
such other address as such party shall have designated by notice to
the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses
so specified are:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                  197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      For RISDA:
            Rubber Industry Smallholders
              Development Authority
            P. O. Box 11067
            Jalan Ampang
            50734 Kuala Lumpur
            Malaysia
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  RISKUL                     MA31211
                  Kuala Lumpur
      Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and
any document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agree-
ment on behalf of RISDA may be taken or executed by its Director
General or such other person or persons as the Director General shall
designate in writing, and RISDA shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
      Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                              /s/  Marianne Haug
                        By
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                             East Asia and Pacific
Page  5
                        RUBBER INDUSTRY SMALLHOLDERS
                          DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
                              /s/  Dato' Abdul Majid Mohamed
                        By
                                         Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procure-
ment under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May
1992 (the Guidelines).
      (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred
to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when
contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period,
the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each week of
delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Bank,
one to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other
to the local currency component of the bid price.  Such an increase
shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
      (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part
A, RISDA shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have
agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no
relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank,
RISDA shall use bidding documents based on other internationally
recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
Part B:  Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Malaysia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:  Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Works under paragraphs 1, 3 and 4 of Part A of the Project may
be carried out by smallholders in accordance with established
commercial practices.
2.    (a)   Contract for works under Part B of the Project (up to an
aggregate amount not exceeding $2,000,000) may be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
      (b)   Contracts for minor works estimated to cost less than
$20,000 per contract (up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$3,900,000) may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least five contrac-
tors eligible under the Guidelines in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
3.    Contracts for works under Part E of the Project (up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $3,500,000) may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
Page  6
obtained from at least five contractors eligible under the Guidelines
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
4.    Planting materials (up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$17,000,000) may be acquired by RISDA from ESPEK where ESPEK has
acquired the planting materials after direct negotiations from
cooperative nurseries.
5.    Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost less than
the equivalent of $20,000 per item or group of items up to an aggre-
gate amount equivalent to $1,000,000 may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least five suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:  Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
      Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract awarded in accordance with
procedures described in Part A of this Schedule, with respect to each
contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or more, and
with respect to all overseas training proposals, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan
Account are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
      (d)   The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist RISDA in carrying out the Project, RISDA
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, RISDA
shall employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form
of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank.  Where no rele-
vant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, RISDA
shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budget, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts or to the
employment of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the Bank
or to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                      Implementation Program
1.    Crop choice will continue to be the prerogative of replanters
(except in cases where such choices are agro-climatically unsuitable,
Page  7
in which cases RISDA will recommend alternative choices).
2.    RISDA shall initiate and carry out a program for rubber nursery
improvement satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include provision
for training seed inspectors and for refresher training courses in
planting material production and management to be conducted by RRIM
for ESPEK, RISDA and cooperatives nursery staff.  RISDA also agrees:
      (a)   that RISDA and ESPEK shall confine rubber planting
material production to about 15 sites from the commencement of the
1995 replanting season and thereafter to the number of sites which
shall be agreed with the Bank;
      (b)   that RISDA shall enter into and maintain with RRIM (or
another institution acceptable to the Bank) contractual arrangements
which are acceptable to the Bank and under which RRIM (or such other
institution):
            (i)   carries out an assessment of performance at each
                  stage of planting material preparation for each of
                  these sites; and
            (ii)  agrees to prepare and furnish to RISDA a report
                  which sets forth its assessment of performance of
                  planting material preparation immediately follow-
                  ing each nursery visit which it makes to assess
                  performance and provides copies of each of these
                  reports to ESPEK, the Borrower's Ministry of Rural
                  Development and the Bank;
      (c)   to ensure that ESPEK obtains (by written contract with
concerned cooperatives or by other appropriate legal means) adequate
rights to require concerned cooperatives to comply with ESPEK's
standards for nursery management and adequate rights to enforce such
compliance (including ensuring that ESPEK is free to exercise such
rights);
      (d)   to ensure that ESPEK is able to finance its costs of
better supervising nursery management by cooperatives by increasing
ESPEK's own share of planting material production (to about 20% of
the total);
      (e)   to ensure that a regular review is carried out with the
Borrower's  governmental authorities into whether the prices paid for
planting materials adequately reflect any increases in the costs of
producing such materials caused by improvements in nursery management
under the Project (including more vigorous culling of low-quality
materials); and
      (f)   to take all measures necessary on RISDA's part to imple-
ment any price adjustments required as a result of such price reviews
within a reasonable period after each review.
3.    RISDA shall:
      (a)   ensure that its regular replanting program for rubber
shall be with Class I and Class II clones only, and with not more
than the percentage of Class II clones from time to time published
by RRIM as its recommended percentage for such replantings;
      (b)   ensure that Class III clones are used by smallholders
only under the supervision and control of RRIM and RISDA, as such
clones are still in the experimental and observation stage;
      (c)   recommend that, beginning with the 1996 replantings,
smallholders should use only clones which are known to be responsive
to stimulation with LITS, as determined by RRIM and satisfactory to
the Bank, with a view to substantially reducing the use of clones
which are not known to be responsive to stimulation with LITS.
Page  8
4.    RISDA shall maintain at least the present proportion (30%)
overall of women trainees.
5.    RISDA shall reorient its extension services towards increases
in productivity of mature rubber.
6.    RISDA shall adopt and implement an action plan satisfactory to
the Bank for the introduction of LITS which shall identify the mini-
estates to be included in the pilot program to be carried out under
Part E of the Project in the first year, and which shall include
coordination and monitoring requirements.  RISDA shall also ensure:
      (a)   that the coordinator for LITS at RISDA headquarters shall
be engaged on a full-time basis with full authority over the techni-
cal aspects of the program for introducing LITS;
      (b)   that the coordinator for LITS shall be assisted in every
State by a full-time field officer who is responsible for coordinat-
ing and monitoring the program for introducing LITS in the State;
      (c)   that the program for introducing LITS shall be carried
out in phases satisfactory to the Bank; and
      (d)   that sufficient operating funds would be allocated by
RISDA for the expenses of the LITS program (including LITs training).
7.    By December 31, 1994, RISDA shall develop a consistent,
reliable set of data on mini-estates and implement a system
satisfactory to the Bank for monitoring the production and financial
performance of mini-estates.
8.    RISDA shall continue to develop and assist in implementing a
plan for the rationalization and restructuring of cooperatives in
consultation with the Bank, NARSCO and the cooperatives so that an
action plan satisfactory to the Bank is agreed between RISDA, NARSCO
and the cooperatives and its implementation commenced by July 31,
1994.  RISDA shall also engage a consultant under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank to advise the relevant NARSCO and coopera-
tives staff and Board members in management and business administra-
tion matters relevant to the efficient operation of cooperatives and
to train counterpart staff to continue the consultant's responsibili-
ties.
9.    RISDA shall ensure that all training and technical assistance
under Part G of the Project is carried out under programs and terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
10.   RISDA shall, by September 30, 1994 and by September 30 in each
year thereafter consult with the Bank on RISDA's proposed annual work
program for the following year and shall, by December 31 in each year
adopt an annual work program for the following year which, so far as
it affects matters relating to the Project, shall be satisfactory to
the Bank.
11.   RISDA shall prepare terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank
for a study of the agricultural performance of RISDA's programs in
immature rubber areas  under the Project by September 30, 1994 and
shall have the study completed by July 31, 1995.
12.   RISDA shall prepare and furnish to the Bank by March 1 and
September 1 in each year a progress report on the implementation of
the Project for the six months ending on the preceding December 31
or June 30 in such detail and containing such information as the Bank
requires.
