LOAN NUMBER 3699-MA
Loan Agreement
(Second Rubber Industry Smallholders
Development Authority Project)
between
MALAYSIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated   f:-       v v-&v ,4 -, 1994


﻿LOAN NUMBER 3699-MA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                , 1994, between MALAYSIA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).
WIHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;
(B)   the Project except Part D will be carried out by the
Rubber Industry Smallholders Development Authority (RISDA) with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will make available to RISDA the proceeds of the Loan as provided in
this Agreement;
(C)   the Borrower will cause the Rubber Research Institute of
Malaysia (RRIM) to carry out Part D of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and RISDA; and
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-
paragraph (1) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section
3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."


﻿- 2 -
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and RISDA of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supple-
mental to the Project Agreement;
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and RISDA pursuant to Section 3. 01
(b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
(c)   "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan provided to RISDA under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d)   "Act" means the Rubber Industry Smallholders Development
Authority Act, 1972 (Act 85);
(e)   "RISDA" means the Rubber Industry Smallholders. Develop-
ment Authority established and operating under the Act;
(f)   "NARSCO" means the National Rubber Smallholders Coopera-
tive established and operating under the Co-operative Societies Act,
1948 (Act 287)(Revised-1983);
(g)   "ESPEK" means Estet Pekebun Kecil Sdn Bhd, a company
incorporated in Malaysia which is a subsidiary of RISDA;
(h)   "RRIM" means the Rubber Research Institute of Malaysia
established and operating under the Rubber Research Institute of
Malaysia Act, 1966 (Act 407)(Revised-1989); and
(i)   "LITS" means low intensity tapping systems for rubber
production.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of seventy million dollars ($70,000,000), being the sum
of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-
half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding
Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such
Interest Period.
(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrow-
ings determined in respect of such Semester.
(c)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
on the date immediately preceding each date speci-


﻿-4-
fied in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, beginning
with the Interest Period in which this Agreement
is signed.
(ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as
a percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrow-
ings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982,
excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as
the Bank has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's
investments; and (B) loans which may be made by
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates
determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph
(a) of this Section.
(iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
(d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as-follows:
"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during
the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates applic-
able during such Interest Period."
" (b) As soon as practicable after the end of each
Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
"(c)  (iii)  'Quarter' means   a  three-month  period
commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.


﻿Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. The Director General of RISDA is designated as
a representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement:
(i)   shall cause RISDA to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the
obligations of RISDA therein set forth, shall take
or cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
RISDA to perform such obligations, and shall not
take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance; and
(ii) shall cause RRIM to carry out Part D of the
Project and shall take or cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable RRIM to carry out Part D of
the Project, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with the carrying out of Part D of the Project.
(b)   To assist RISDA to carry out the Project:
(i)   the Borrower shall relend the equivalent of the
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time
to Part E.1 of the Project under Category (1) of
the Table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1


﻿-6-
to this Agreement to RISDA under a subsidiary loan
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and RISDA, under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank for the Subsidiary Loan.
(ii) the Borrower shall make available to RISDA by way
of non-refundable and non-interest bearing grants
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to
time to the rest of Category (1) and to the other
Categories of the Table set forth in paragraph 1
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(c)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by RISDA
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall by September 30, 1994 and by
September 30 of each year thereafter consult with the Bank on RISDA's
annual work program and funding for the following year.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall ensure that adequate funding
is available to RISDA to enable RISDA to meet RISDA's operating
budget for each year, commencing with RISDA's 1994 operating budget.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)  maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
with sound accounting practices, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)  ensure that all records     (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures are retained until at
least one year after the Bank has received the
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made; and
(iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
records.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)  have the records and accounts referred to in para-
graph (a) (i) of this Section for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than nine months after the end
of each such year the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether
the statements of expenditure submitted during
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and
internal controls involved in their preparation,
can be relied upon to support the related with-
drawals; and


﻿-8-
(iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information con-
cerning said records and accounts and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   RISDA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that RISDA will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)   The Act shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of RISDA to carry out the Project or to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of RISDA or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower; and
(b)   the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6. 01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely, that:
(a)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf
of the Borrower and RISDA; and
(b)   the Project Agreement has been executed on behalf of
RISDA.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section.12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Bank, namely, that:
(a) the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by RISDA, and is legally binding upon RISDA in accordance with its
terms; and
(b)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Borrower and RISDA and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and RISDA in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance or Deputy Minister of
Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11. 03' of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 10 -
For the Borrower:
The Treasury
Jalan Duta
50592 Kuala Lumpur
Malaysia
Cable address:               Telex:
Treasury                     MA 30242
Kuala Lumpur                 MA 32369
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INTBAFRAD                    197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.             248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
MAIAYSIA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
(am"   Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             t of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Works, goods and           67,800,000          27%
services under Parts
A, B, C and E of the
Project
(2) Computers and trair-        1,200,000          100% of foreign
ing equipment und.r                            expenditures,
Part G of the Project                          100% of local ex-
penditures (ex-
factory cost) and
80% of local ex-
penditures for
other items
procured locally
(3) Consultants' services       1,000,000          90%
and overseas training
under Parts A, B, C, E,
F and G of the Project
TOTAL                       70,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of
the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.


﻿- 13 -
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall b,e made in respect of expenditures on account of the
development, pl'ting or maintenance of cocoa.
4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made
on the basis of statements of expenditures for such expenditures and
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to increase the productivity
and efficiency of the rubber smallholder subsector, to improve the
institutional effectiveness of RISDA, -and to help develop human
resources and the private sector in rural areas.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to
time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Crop Development
1.    Replanting with rubber, oil palm and other crops of about 90,000
hectares of areas previously under rubber.
2.    Improving the quality of rubber planting materials, by consolida-
tion of the nursery sites and training RISDA, ESPEK and cooperatives
nursery staff in planting material production and management.
3.    Maintaining during immaturity the areas to be replanted under the
Project and about 200,000 hectares previously replanted (excluding
cocoa).
4.    Rehabilitating    failed  replantings, and   replantings  with
unsatisfactory field conditions, due to events beyond the control of
smallholders, on about 5,000 hectares.
Part B:     Infrastructure Development
Upgrading and maintaining about 1,000 kilometers of agricultural
access roads, including bridges and drainage works, to support the
replanting program.
Part C:     Extension and Smallholder Training
1.    Providing equipment and materials for RISDA's extension program
to improve RISDA's capacity to provide extension services directed
towards increasing productivity of mature rubber to smallholders and
hired tappers.
2.    Providing agricultural training for smallholders with particular
emphasis on women smallholders and workers.


﻿- 15 -
Part D:     Applied Research
Completion of the following studies:
(a)   study of the responsiveness of various rubber clones to
stimulation with LITS;
(b)   study for the development of physiological/biochemical
parameters as early warning indicators of stress in rubber trees under
stimulation;
(c)   study of the nutritional aspect in relation to LITS;
(d)   survey of the performance of Class II clones on progressive
smallholdings; and
(e)   research on mixed cropping systems using rubber with fruit
trees.
Part E:     Mini-Estates Development and Improvement
1.    Providing loans to meet supplemdntary development costs of
replanting on mini-estates established prior to the Project and not yet
in production (to cover items such as terracing, drainage, development
of vacant pocket areas, internal roads and perimeter fencing).
2.    Establishing a pilot program for the introduction of LITS, intro-
ducing LITS to mini-estates which face tapper shortages, and providing
training related to LITS for tappers and for RISDA staff.
3.    Improving the mini-estates database and the monitoring system for
mini-estate performance.
4.    Assisting the transfer of management of mini-estates to coopera-
tives through management and business administration training of RISDA,
NARSCO and cooperatives staff.
Part F:     Strengthening and Rationalization of Cooperatives
1.    Developing and implementing a plan for the rationalization and
restructuring of cooperatives.
2.    Strengthening management and business administration capacities
of cooperatives through training for RISDA, NARSCO and cooperatives
staff and Board members and through the provision of technical
assistance.


﻿- 16 -
Part G:     Institutional Development
1.    Providing computer equipment and software and training and tech-
nical assistance to further develop RISDA's computerized management
information systems.
2.    Providing overseas training to RISDA staff.
3.    Providing equipment and materials and technical assistance to
develop and implement a human resource management system in RISDA and
to strengthen the graphics capability of RISDA's communication unit.
4.    Establishing a training management course for RISDA's training
unit staff and directors of RISDA's traihing institutes. ,
5.    Studying the agricultural performance of RISDA's replanting and
extension programs in immature rubber areas.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (Expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning September 1, 1999
through   September 1, 2008               3,500,000
and
On    March 1, 2009                             3,500,000
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined
as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions,
Sections 3.04 and 4.03.


﻿- 18 -
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to
be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time
of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment                        Premium
The interest rate (expre-
ssed as a percentage per
annum) applicable to the
Loan on the day of prepay-
ment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                        0.15
before maturity
More than three years but                        0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                          0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                       0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not                       0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before                        1.00
maturity


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
FOR SECRETARY


