Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7894-EG 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Third Financial Sector Development Policy Loan) 
 
between 
 
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated May 26, 2010 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7894-EG 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated May 26, 2010, entered into between ARAB REPUBLIC OF 
EGYPT (
“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the 
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has 
already taken under its Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic 
policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of five hundred million United States 
Dollars (US$500,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 
of this Agreement (“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program 
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time for each Interest Period shall be at 
a
rate equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, 
that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such 
amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article 
IV of the General Conditions.  
Page  3
2
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 1 and December 1 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines. 
 
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions 
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this 
Agreement and relating to 
Cooperation and Consultation)
,
the Borrower shall 
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this 
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request. 
 
2.09. 
The Central Bank of Egypt is designated as the representative of the Borrower 
for the purpose of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article II of the General 
Conditions.
 
2.10. 
The Borrower represents that it has designated its Ministry of Finance for the 
purpose of handling on behalf of the Borrower, debt service payments with 
respect of the Loan. 
 
ARTICLE III - PROGRAM 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower, through the Central Bank of Egypt and the Ministry of 
Investment, declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To 
this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower, through the Central Bank of Egypt and the Ministry of 
Investment, and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either 
Page  4
3
party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which 
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
–
EFFECTIVENESS 
 
4.01. 
This agreement shall become effective once the Bank has received evidence that 
all the necessary constitutional procedures have been taken by the Borrower 
according to Section 9.01 of the General Conditions. 
 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty (180) days after 
the date of this Agreement, or such later date as the Bank shall establish in 
accordance with Section 9.04 of the General Conditions.  
 
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Minister of International Cooperation of the Borrower and the Assistant to 
the Minister for International, Regional and Arab Financing Organizations of the 
Ministry of International Cooperation of the Borrower are severally designated as 
representatives of the Borrower. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of International Cooperation 
8
Adly Street 
Cairo, Egypt 
 
Cable 
address: 
    Facsimile: 
 
Ministry of International Cooperation 
 
(202) 2391-2815 
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt 
 
 
(202) 2391-5167 
 
Page  5
4
Page  6
5
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
 
By /s/ Fayza Aboulnaga 
 
Authorized Representative  
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ A. David Craig 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I.
Actions Taken Under the Program
The Borrower has adopted a series of measures and policies designed to deepen the 
reforms undertaken by the Borrower over the last several years to increase the efficiency 
of its financial sector as reflected in the Program which include the following actions: (i) 
taken appropriate action to empower state-owned enterprises to settle non-performing 
loans due by the said state-owned enterprises to state-owned commercial banks; (ii) 
ensured that Principal Bank for Development and Agriculture Credit is regulated by the 
Borrower’s Law No 88 of 2003; (iii)  taken  measures required for implementation of the 
provisions of   Law No 118 of 2008 governing transactions pertaining to life and non-life 
insurance portfolios; (iv) adopted revamped and streamlined procedures to facilitate 
access to relevant financial products and to capital markets by underserved segments of 
the population; (v) established the Egyptian Financial Supervisory Authority; (vi) 
established an adequate regulatory framework to foster appropriate delivery of 
 
microfinance, leasing and factoring services; (vii) enacted adequate legislation governing 
the operations of private pension funds; (viii) adopted an adequate regulatory framework 
governing the conduct of mobile phone payments; (ix) concluded appropriate 
arrangements to foster adequate implementation of the Basel II protocols; (x) established 
an adequate framework to sustain the production and regular dissemination of its 
financial stability report; and (xi) established an automatic clearing house. 
 
Section II
.
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional arrangements as the Bank 
may specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts.
 
The Loan 
(
except for amounts required to pay the 
Front-end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the 
Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds.  The allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan  
Allocated 
(expressed in United States Dollars) 
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 
498,750,000 
 
(2) Front-end Fee 
1,250,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
500,000,000
Page  8
7
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release  
 
Withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche considering the fact 
that: (a) the Borrower and the Bank have exchanged views on the actions 
undertaken under the Program; and (b) the Borrower has maintained an 
appropriate macroeconomic policy framework. 
 
D. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts.
 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:  
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an 
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and 
 
2. 
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into 
this
 account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
E. 
 Excluded Expenditures
.
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used to 
finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an 
amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon 
such request shall be cancelled.
 
F. 
 Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is December 31, 2011. 
Page  9
8
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (
“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each June 1 and December 1 
 
Beginning June 1, 2017 
through December 1, 2037 
 
On June 1, 2038 
 
2.33% 
 
2.14% 
 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
Page  10
9
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
Page  11
10
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
 “Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
not containing tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones, unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel elements (cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group metals (except watches and 
watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares (including set 
gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding 
gold ores and concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
Page  12
11
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party, and any other goods 
designated as environmentally hazardous by agreement between the 
Borrower and the Bank); 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower 
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur. 
 
2. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
3. 
 “Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
deepen the reforms undertaken by the Borrower to increase the efficiency of its 
financial sector (the second generation of the Financial Sector Reform Program) 
as set forth in the letter from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the 
Bank in support of the Program during its execution. 
 
4. 
“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the 
category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of 
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 5.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 5.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
Page  13
12
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower 
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
Section 5.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a 
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan 
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal 
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan. 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly:
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 
 
Page  14
13
(c) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their 
entirety. 
 
(d) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout 
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in 
support of which the Loan is made.”   
 
