Page  1
1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.: AB5704 
Operation Name 
Third Financial Sector Development Policy Loan 
Region 
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA 
Sector 
Banking (60%); Non-compulsory pensions, insurance and contractual 
savings (15%);Capital markets (15%);Payment systems, securities 
clearance and settlement (10%) 
Project ID 
P120470 
Borrower(s) 
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
Implementing Agency 
Central Bank of Egypt 
Kasr El-Nile Street, Cairo 
Egypt, Arab Republic of 
Tel: 2023914589 
Fax: 2023917682 
Ministry of Investment 
2
Latin America Street 
Garden City, Cairo 
Egypt, Arab Republic of 
Tel: (20-2) 405-5631 
Fax: (20-2) 405-5635 
Date PID Prepared 
April 19, 2010 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
April 1, 2010 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 25, 2010 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Egypt has made substantial progress in the development of its financial sector. The Government that 
took office in July 2004 set a major agenda of macroeconomic and structural reforms. This led to a 
friendlier investment climate which, supported by a favorable global economic environment, yielded 
a
strong private-sector supply response. Real gross domestic product (GDP) growth increased from 
an average of 3.5 percent during FY01-04 to around 7 percent between FY06 and FY08. An integral 
component of this comprehensive reform program was a financial sector reform program.  This 
program aimed at diversifying intermediaries and saving instruments and attaining a more efficient 
and sound financial sector that can, in the medium term, contribute to sustained economic growth, 
poverty reduction, and overall prosperity for Egypt. It represents one of the most far-reaching and 
comprehensive reforms to have been launched in Egypt and in the Middle East and North Africa 
(MENA).  
 
Despite the emergence of the global financial crisis in late 2008, Egypt’s financial sector was not 
affected by the financial shock, thanks to previous financial reforms that improved provisioning, and 
strengthened financial sector regulation and supervision. 
The reforms led to a substantial 
strengthening of the banks’ balance sheets which was validated by the bank system’s resiliency 
throughout the global crisis and an improvement in returns on capital and assets.  Achievements 
were not limited to the banking sector, as non-bank financial institutions also saw some 
developments.
 
Page  2
2
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The main objective of the operation is to assist Egyptian authorities in further developing the 
enabling environment for financial intermediation and financial access, and improving the provision 
of financial services, through a strengthened bank and non-bank financial system. This operation 
supports the government’s second generation Financial Sector Reform Program (2009–2012), aimed 
at building up a financial system that is more inclusive, competitive and effective in financial 
intermediation. This will lead to a financial sector, capable of contributing to Egypt’s growth 
performance and providing access to finance to a broad segment of Egypt’s population, and combat 
the adverse consequences of the global economic crisis. By providing ongoing support for the 
implementation of the second generation of the reform program, the proposed operation contributes 
to the sustainability and irreversibility of the reforms and, therefore, to the fulfillment of its final 
objectives.  
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
There is evidence of a strong and causal relationship between the depth, soundness and efficiency of 
the financial system, and economic growth.  Access to financial services is an important factor in the 
reduction of poverty and inequality, and the improvement of welfare among lower income families. 
The proposed operation is crucial for supporting the continuation and deepening of the financial 
sector reforms. It is part of a comprehensive assistance which includes analytical work and 
technical assistance. 
 
4. Financing 
 
This proposed DPL is a single tranche Development Policy Loan of US$500 million. 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The World Bank has been working closely with the Ministry of Investment and the Central Bank of 
Egypt—the two entities responsible for overall implementation of the reform program and for 
coordinating actions among other concerned agencies, and various regulatory and supervisory bodies 
given their responsibility for supervising financial institutions, as well as assessing progress made. 
Bank staff will also continue the policy dialogue from the field with the institutions involved in the 
implementation of the operation, as well as coordinate effectively with donors and advise the 
Government to consult with stakeholders. The Bank missions will coordinate with the authorities the 
progress achieved in the implementation of this reform program.  The Government of Egypt has 
developed m
onitorable indicators to assess progress in the implementation of their reform 
program and to ensure that the program expected positive outcomes are met.  
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
The positive developments that have taken place and will continue to take place under the 
proposed operation should ultimately contribute to better resource allocation and long-run 
growth performance. These reforms are building a more resilient, effective, well-capitalized, and 
competitive financial system led by private sector banks and operating under a much improved 
regulatory framework. By continuing the financial and operational restructuring of public 
financial institutions together with the necessary and parallel strengthening of the regulatory 
environment, the reform program would help attain a more efficient financial system, capable of 
Page  3
3
providing better services to the
Egyptian citizens, especially the low-income groups through 
enhancing their access to financial services, small and medium enterprises better access to credit, 
and microfinance, in support of real sector growth. 
 
The program faces few risks which would be mitigated.  These include the ones at the overall 
country level, such as stakeholder opposition, which would be mitigated through regular 
consultations with all stakeholders to ensure broad ownership and commitment to the reform 
program. The preparation of the proposed operation has entailed broad discussions with market 
participants from across the financial sector. Although the government faces the challenge of 
managing a large fiscal deficit and a sizable public sector debt, the debt remains manageable under 
various reasonable scenarios. The operational risk is that the reforms would slow down. However, 
the past five years have proven the Government’s commitment to the implementation of their own 
reform program that they have designed, and as such are sufficient to mitigate this risk.  
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Poverty and Social Impacts
.
Recent evidence has shown that a developed financial system can help 
reduce poverty and income inequality. Also, through its effect on growth, a mature financial system 
can help reduce poverty, through the strong and causal relationship between the depth and reach of 
financial systems and economic growth. Getting the financial system in Egypt to function more 
effectively and provide the full range of financial services is a task that will be well rewarded with 
economic growth and reduced poverty. This is especially needed in rural areas. 
 
Environmental Aspects.  
Based on the assessment of key policy areas supported by the operation 
carried out by the team, the proposed operation is not likely to have any significant positive or 
negative effects on the environment, forests, and other natural resources. According to OP/BP 8.60, 
safeguard policies (such as OP4.01 Environmental Impact Assessment) do not apply to development 
policy lending, and an Integrated Safeguard Data Sheet is not needed. 
 
8. Contact points 
 
Sahar Nasr 
Lead Financial Economist 
Social and Economic Development group 
Middle East and North Africa Region 
Tel: 5772+215 
Email: snasr@worldbank.org 
Location: Cairo, Egypt (IBRD)
 
9. 
For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Page  4
4
