Page  1
P
ROGRAM 
I
NFORMATION 
D
OCUMENT 
(PID) 
C
O
NCEPT 
S
T
AGE
 
Report No.: AB5609 
Operation Name 
Third Financial Sector Development Policy Loan 
Region 
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA 
Sector 
Banking (60%); Non-compulsory pensions, insurance and contractual 
savings (15%); Capital markets (15%); Payment systems, securities 
clearance and settlement (10%) 
Project ID 
P120470 
Borrower(s) 
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
Implementing Agency 
Central Bank of Egypt 
Kasr El-Nile Street, Cairo 
Egypt, Arab Republic of 
Tel: 2023914589 
Fax: 2023917682 
Ministry of Investment 
2
Latin America Street 
Garden City, Cairo 
Egypt, Arab Republic of 
Tel: (20-2) 405-5631 
Fax: (20-2) 405-5635 
Date PID Prepared 
April 13, 2010 
Estimated Date of Appraisal 
April 1, 2010 
Estimated Date of Board 
May 25, 2010 
I. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
Over the last five years the government has implemented structural reforms including trade 
liberalization, a complete overhaul of the tax system and restructuring of the financial sector. This led to 
a
friendlier investment climate which, supported by a favorable global economic environment, yielded a 
strong private-sector supply response. Real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth increased from an 
average of 3.5 percent during FY01-04 to around seven percent between FY06 and FY08, a record over 
the previous twenty years. 
Yet, in late 2008 the global financial crisis and the ensuing economic slowdown changed the supportive 
external conditions for growth prevailing in 2005-08. E
gypt’s relatively unleveraged banking sector was 
little affected by the financial shock.  The banking system, which remains largely liquid with a loan to 
deposit ratio of 52 percent in FY09, has a limited exposure to troubled financial institutions or to risk 
derived from the financial innovation and unmonitored risk-taking of intermediaries in developed 
economies, this has been due to the prudent measures that the Egyptian government has taken during the 
past years. 
There is evidence of a strong and causal relationship between the depth, soundness and efficiency of the 
financial system, and economic growth.  Access to financial services is an important factor in the 
reduction of poverty and inequality, and the improvement of welfare for lower income families.   
The proposed operation is crucial for supporting the continuation and deepening of the financial sector 
reforms that were supported by the first and the second Financial Sector Development Policy Loans (FS 
Page  2
DPL I and II).  It is part of a comprehensive assistance which includes analytical work and technical 
assistance.  The Egyptian government has repeatedly indicated its appreciation of the Bank’s integrated 
delivery of assistance, and has requested the operation as a means to improve program design. The 
perception that the Bank is prepared to remain engaged in the reform effort makes the institution a 
privileged partner. Moreover, the operation provides an effective vehicle for the Bank to continue the 
policy dialogue with the Egyptian authorities on the financial sector reforms. 
II. Proposed 
objective(s) 
The main objective of the operation is to support the Egyptian authorities in the implementation of the 
second generation of the Government’s reforms aimed at building up a financial system that is more 
inclusive, competitive and effective in financial intermediation, with sound banking and non-banking 
financial institutions and is led by the private sector.  This Financial Sector Development Poliy Loan III 
(FS DPL III) would assist Egypt in strengthening the enabling environment for financial intermediation 
and financial access, resource mobilization and risk management, and increase private participation in 
the provision of financial services. This will lead to a financial sector, capable of contributing to Egypt’s 
growth performance and providing access to a broad segment of Egypt’s population. By providing 
ongoing support to the second generation of the reform program, the proposed operation contributes to 
the sustainability and irreversibility of the reforms and, therefore, to the fulfillment of its final 
objectives.  
III. Preliminary 
description 
The proposed operation would support the second generation of reforms of the financial sector and 
follows-up DPLs I and II. This operation’s main elements are as follows: 
i. 
Financial and Operational Restructuring of State-owned Banks 
Substantial further progress in implementing the financial restructuring of the state-owned 
commercial banks. 
The government has moved towards the full settlement of the remaining State-
Owned Enterprises (SOEs) non-performing loans (NPLs).   held by state-owned commercial banks, 
amounting to LE 10 billion by May 2010.  The government has already taken concrete steps to settle 
these NPLs as is evident in the agreement that was signed in September 2009 between the Holding 
Companies of SOEs and NBE and Banque Misr to settle all remaining outstanding NPLs through a 
Debt-Asset (Land) Swap. In addition, the stock of private sector NPLs was also significantly reduced 
through the work out units created at the banks. Total settlement agreements as of November 2009 
exceeded 90 percent of NPLs (excluding public enterprises’ debt) with collections of 60 percent out of 
which cash collections represented 85 percent. Under the second generation reforms the banks will 
continue their workout efforts as well as improving their coverage ratios through adequate provisioning. 
The ratios of provisions to NPLs (coverage ratios) of the state-owned commercial banks should reach 80 
percent by May 2010. 
Submit the Egyptian Agriculture Bank Law (replacing Law 117 of 1972) to Parliament; converting 
the Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit (PBDAC) into a state-owned bank 
regulated by Law 88 of 2003, and issue Ministerial Decree separating non-bank activities from 
commercial banking. 
The issuance of the Egyptian Agriculture Bank Law governing PBDAC, which 
has been approved by the Council of Ministers and the Prime Minister in February 2010, would convert 
PBDAC to a joint stock, state-owned bank under the same legal framework as the existing state-owned 
Page  3
commercial banks.
1
The bank will no longer behave like a government department by reporting to the 
Ministry of Agriculture, although it will consult with the Minister.
2
PBDAC’s governance structure will 
be the same as the other state-owned banks with a general assembly. This will consist of a smaller board 
that will include external experts in financial, banking, and legal matters, as well as a representative of 
the Ministry of Agriculture and strengthened responsibility to and supervision by CBE. The existing two 
banks for Upper and Lower Egypt, which were entities in the PBDAC holding company under the 
Chairman of PBDAC, will be merged into PBDAC, which will be given a new name—the Egyptian 
Agriculture Bank. On separation of activities, Ministerial Decree 749 of 2009 has been issued on June 1, 
2009 to remove non-banking activities from PBDAC and pave the way for its operations as a state-
owned bank, with corresponding regulation and supervision. This new status will give it the capacity to 
expand lending to the rural economy and improve access to deposit and payments services through new 
activities and products.
 
ii. 
Strengthening the Regulatory and Supervisory Architecture of the Banking Sector
 
Sign a protocol with the European Central Bank (ECB) and seven European national central banks 
to assist in the implementation of Basel II accords.
 A new Euro system technical assistance program 
on banking supervision was launched in early January 2009 for a period of three years ending December 
2011 supported by various ECB experts 
3
managed by a Resident Program Coordinator. This new 
program aims at supporting the Central Bank of Egypt (CBE) in designing a Basel II framework 
customized to the Egyptian banking system through a long
 
term strategy which would lead Egypt to 
build a credible, risk-based supervisory and regulatory framework in line with the best international 
practices. The program encompasses Pillar I (capital adequacy) and Pillar II (supervisory review 
process) out of three pillars of the Basel II framework taking into consideration the length of the 
program and the characteristics of the Egyptian banking system (lack of market discipline mechanism).
 
This new framework will help improve the management and monitoring of risks in banks (mainly 
operational and credit risk in Egypt) and hence prevent the reoccurrence of bad practices going forward.
 
Strengthen the CBE’s macroprudential supervision by conducting annual stress testing of the 
banking sector, and by preparing quarterly consolidated banking sector reports that will serve as the 
basis for the CBE’s Financial Stability Report. 
The Central Bank of Egypt is enhancing its efforts to 
assess and communicate macro prudential risks. The CBE has made considerable efforts to improve its 
capacity for microprudential supervision aimed at detecting weaknesses at the level of individual banks. 
In addition, the Banking Supervision Department set up a Macroprudential Unit with the aim to assess 
and produce regular reports on main developments in the Egyptian banking sector at the aggregate level. 
The unit has also started to make use of several analytical tools to assess financial stability, by 
conducting regular stress testing and standard financial soundness indicator analysis on the banking 
sector.
 
The Department is now in the process of strengthening the Macroprudential Unit with the aim to 
prepare and publish a full-fledged Financial Stability Report. As a first step, the CBE has put together an 
Action Plan to prepare the report by the end of 2011 (see Annex 9). The publication of Financial 
Stability Reports has become standard international practice for assessing and communicating risks in 
the financial system that may threaten financial stability. The published report will improve the 
1
Law 117 of 1972 that currently governs PBDAC as a General Government Organization would be replaced by the Agriculture Bank 
Law to place PBDAC under Law 88 of 2003, which governs state-owned commercial banks as well as other banks.  
2
Prior to legal amendments, PBDAC’s chairman was named by and reports to the Minister of Agriculture; its 16 Board members 
included five members from the Agriculture Ministry and persons related to Agricultural activities in addition to three members of 
the Bank (there was no general assembly).   
3
The partner NCBs are Bulgarian National Bank;  eská náro
dní banka; the Deutsche Bundesbank; the Bank of Greece; the Banque 
de France; the Banca d’Italia; and Banca Na
ional
a
României.
 
Page  4
transparency of the CBE’s risk assessment, facilitate broad communication with the financial 
community and other interested parties, and encourage market discipline.
 
iii. 
Reforming the Non-Bank Financial Sector  
Transfer the non-life portfolio of National Insurance Company to Misr Insurance Company, and 
start the transformation of the life portfolio to the National Insurance Company.
 The operational 
restructuring of the four original state-owned insurers is largely complete.  The branch structures of Misr 
and Al Chark have been rationalized and common head office departments merged, with personnel 
savings (more than 1,000 to date) achieved through early retirement arrangements. Wide ranging 
management changes have also taken place and Insurance Holding Company (IHC) has recently 
launched a staff development program that amongst other things identifies high potential staff who will 
form future leadership cadres. Currently 150 individuals are being streamed through this program. 
The final stage of the legal and financial restructuring of the state-owned insurers will involve 
transferring the run off non-life portfolio in National Insurance Company to Misr Insurance and the 
reciprocal transfer of the Misr life insurance portfolio to National.  These portfolio and business 
transfers are planned to be completed by May, 2010, with the first occurring in April 2010. The 
separation of life and non-life activities is necessary to facilitate the strategic development of IHC’s 
insurance activities and is required both under Egyptian law and International Association of Insurance 
Supervisors (IAIS) prudential standards.
4
The move to specialized insurers will also ensure more 
effective asset/liabilities management, more efficient use of capital and more efficient and specialized 
provision of insurance services.   
Strengthen the regulatory framework governing collective investment vehicles
 through issuing 
Egyptian Financial Supervisory Authority (EFSA) Decree 88, which requires investment funds to use an 
independent fund administration company to perform such functions as calculation of NAV, record-
keeping on investors and investment transactions, and calculation of management fees and performance 
bonuses for fund managers. While this is a major step forward, more needs to be done to make Egypt’s 
regulations on collective investment schemes more consistent with IOSCO best practices.  Additional 
clarifications and refinements would be useful to enhance the professionalism of investment fund 
managers; modify rules on diversification; supplement rules on fund manager performance fees; 
establish a code of ethics for investment managers; upgrade fund transparency and reporting; and set 
higher standards for the marketing of investment funds to investors.  In addition, the relatively new 
development of real estate investment funds (REIFs) and other collective investment scheme (CIS) 
vehicles warrant regulatory attention. EFSA will redraft the Capital Market Law (CML) rules on CIS, 
ensuring greater consistency with IOSCO standards.  These amendments will also lead to more 
flexibility in structuring the investment funds, which could expand access to finance for micro and small 
companies through the establishment of specialized SMEs venture capital funds. 
iv. 
Strengthening the Regulatory and Supervisory Framework in the Non-Banking Financial 
Sector 
Issue Law 10 of 2009 regulating non-banking financial markets, institutions and instruments 
consolidating the regulatory bodies of non-bank financial sector via the establishment of EFSA. 
 The 
Egyptian Financial Supervisory Authority (EFSA) became operationally effective July 1, 2009. The new 
authority replaced the three authorities regulating the main non-bank financial services, namely the 
4
This is to protect long-term life insurance savings from the volatility of non life activities and to preempt cross subsidies and 
inadequate capitalization. 
Page  5
Capital Market Authority (CMA), the Egyptian Insurance Supervisory Authority (EISA), and the 
Mortgage Finance Authority (MFA). EFSA is responsible for the supervision of non-bank financial 
markets and instruments, including the Capital Market, the Stock Exchange, all activities related to 
Insurance Services, Mortgage Finance, Financial Leasing, Factoring and Securitization. Its main 
objective is to ensure market stability as well as to regulate the concerned activities, and boost 
competition and attract more local and foreign investments to the Egyptian market. The mandate of the 
Authority also includes limiting systemic risk, realizing financial discipline and protecting rights of 
investors. The new entity is also well placed to support capital market development through its oversight 
of both the markets and the main long term institutional investors. The EFSA is uniquely well placed to 
promote prudent and safe expansion of financial services, for example through the proposed 
microfinance NBFI model. 
 
Cabinet of Ministers approved Non-Bank Financial Institutions Regulatory Law, setting the 
regulatory and licensing framework for microfinance, financial leasing, and factoring, as well as 
standards in transparency and corporate governance. 
The new law has been approved by the Cabinet 
of Ministers on March 24, 2010. The new law will redraw the boundaries of jurisdiction between EFSA 
and GAFI with respect to supervision over companies, and will extend the licensing requirement to 
financial leasing, factoring and microfinance. Additionally, the new law will strengthen EFSA's powers 
with respect to market manipulation and will close supervisory gaps, as well as issuing prudential and 
capital adequacy rules. EFSA would accordingly institute consistent and unified measures of licensing, 
supervision and discipline across the non-bank financial markets, whereas currently, non-bank financial 
services are governed by different laws and regulations. The law would allow for the creation of the first 
commercial microfinance institutions ( MFIs) in Egypt with the capacity to access commercial financing 
on a greater scale to reach million of clients in the next five years. Newly established MFIs are likely to 
include a mixture of NGOs transformed to MFIs, MFIs established by banks, investors, or NGOs as 
separate business entities and international MFIs. Consequently, the new legislation will attract 
additional investment, spur development of the micro-finance sector, increase competition and in doing 
so, create a larger and more effective pool of resources for those seeking access to micro credit.
 
Submit Private Pension Funds Law to the Cabinet of Ministers.  
The Private Pension Funds Law, 
which was submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers on November 9, 2009 and expected to be submitted to 
Parliament for ratification by July 2010, will promote higher professional standards for private pension 
provision and management by providing a comprehensive regulatory framework, including mandatory 
registration, investment guidelines, funding requirements, governance, accounting, reporting, audits, 
supervision and sanctions.  While strengthening the role of EFSA as a supervisory authority of private 
pension provision, the law will also include incentives to members and fund managers, such as tax 
exemptions.  Sound regulation, supervision and incentives are among the key enabling conditions to 
support an important expansion of long term retirement savings that are expected as public pension 
reform takes place.   By improving the quality of information and transparency, on one hand, EFSA will 
be in a better position to require the unfunded schemes to take corrective actions, such as the needed 
parametric changes or changes in investment rules.  Moreover, better information and well supervised 
companies will increase the general population’s understanding of and confidence in private retirement 
products. The proposed regulations contained in the proposed private pension law are consistent with 
international standards and took into consideration previous technical cooperation provided by the Bank.  
While the new law will not be enough to support a substantive expansion of the sector, it will represent a 
major progress in the pre-conditions for a sustained development of the sector. 
v. 
Improving the Financial Infrastructure and Legal Framework  
Strengthen the payments system infrastructure and promote financial inclusion through establishing 
Page  6
the real-time gross settlement system and automatic clearing house and extending their scope.  
Following the launch of the Real-Time Gross Settlement System (RTGS) in March 2009, there is room 
for further enhancements to the process and set-up. A full Automated Clearing House (ACH) is under 
establishment, the first phase of ACH provides only direct credit services for government payroll and 
pensions, yet a project to pay government payroll and pensions through debit cards is undergoing, and 
monthly payments to 12 million individuals are expected to pass through the ACH in three years time.  
350,000 card-based accounts have so far been opened under this initiative, mostly in Cairo, with 8 banks 
participating, including all of the largest banks in Egypt except for PBDAC (which is still improving its 
information system and branch connectivity and may join later).  
CBE issues new regulations on mobile phone payments.
 
With the right market conditions, mobile 
phone wallets could reach very large numbers of poor people who are currently outside the formal 
financial system. There are currently 52.5 million GSM subscribers, which constitute a huge potential 
market for mobile phone payments and other financial services. The early international experience with 
mobile phone payments calls for the development of interoperable payments platforms, practical and 
risk-based approaches to regulation that enable rather than stifle innovation, and shared networks of 
cash-handling agents. There is also a need for product development that overcomes the lack of human 
interaction and reliability concerns that may hinder customer
 
adoption. Finally, there is a need to put in 
place relevant consumer protection regulations. 
IV. 
Poverty and Social Impacts 
There is a large body of research findings within and outside the World Bank showing that financial 
sector reforms are demonstrably linked to growth and poverty reduction. They are fundamental to 
reforms in other sectors, including private sector development, infrastructure, housing and social 
policies. Strengthening financial infrastructures acts as a steady promoter of growth and reduces the 
frequency and cost of financial crises. Prevention of financial crises is essential to poverty reduction. 
For these reasons, building sound, efficient and inclusive financial systems that work for all members of 
society and that are not prone to abuse or corruption is central to the growth and poverty reduction 
agenda. The operation objectives to improve the efficiency of the financial sector will have a direct and 
positive impact on growth. Through this operation, a more efficient financial sector is expected to 
improve savings mobilization and access to finance by private enterprises
—key drivers of investment 
and growth—so they may invest and create the necessary jobs that raise living standards. 
Bank restructuring would normally be associated in the short-term with staff redeployment resulting 
from optimization of labor input and skill upgrading.  To mitigate the potential social impact of the 
restructuring process in the first-generation reforms that included Bank of Alexandria and the other 
state-owned commercial banks, voluntary severance packages were offered to employees who wished to 
avail themselves of early retirement schemes. Training programs were also offered to staff whose 
positions at their level of expertise may be eliminated. The proposed operation, which supports second-
generation reforms, concerns broad strategic reform decisions that do not include personnel reduction, 
and would, therefore, not include a social protection component. In addition to the training programs to 
upgrade the capacity of PBDAC staff, the plan is to make use of the abundant human resources in 
PBDAC in better outreaching low-income rural households, even in the villages where there are no 
branches of PBDAC.  The proposed operation would have no meaningful impact on clients or social 
groups that might be foregoing benefits currently accruing to them from state-owned banking activities. 
Indeed, state-owned commercial banks had already stopped government-directed lending policies, and 
were no longer extending credit to public enterprises unable to service debt. The preparation of the 
proposed operation has entailed broad discussions with market participants from all pillars of the 
Page  7
financial sector. 
V. 
Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation 
T
he
Bank will monitor the overall status of the government’s Financial Sector Reform Program to 
ensure that the program is well on track. Regular Bank missions will interact closely with staff of the 
Ministry of Investment and CBE, the two entities responsible for overall implementation of the reform 
program, and for reporting progress and coordinating actions among other concerned agencies. Bank 
staff will also interact with the different regulatory and supervisory bodies given their responsibility for 
supervising non-bank financial institutions. Bank staff will also continue the policy dialogue from the 
field with the institutions involved in the implementation of the operation, as well as coordinate 
effectively with donors. Bank missions will review government progress in the implementation of the 
second generation reform program, monitor actions, ensuring that the expected project outputs, 
outcomes and impact materializes. 
Consultations 
The Bank had advised the Egyptian government on the importance of undertaking consultations on the 
reform program with the various stakeholders.  The Government confirmed to the Bank that 
consultations with relevant stakeholders are a key component in the design and implementation of any 
reform policy and consultation meetings were held at the CBE where both state-owned and private 
banks were invited to provide their feedback on the specific regulation in questions. Extensive 
consultations also took place between the Egyptian Financial Supervisory Authority (EFSA), micro-
finance institutions, banks, leasing companies, factoring companies and NGOs during the drafting of the 
Non- Bank Licensing and Regulatory Law.  The government also indicated that while it has been 
conducting consultations with the various stakeholders all along, further consultations on the specific 
reform program underpinning this proposed operation will take place in the near future and will include 
consultations with state-owned and private banks, non-bank financial institutions (insurance and pension 
companies), NGOs involved in micro finance, members of the private sector and potential investors—
focusing primarily on those involved with Small and Medium Enterprises activities.
 
VI. 
Risks and Risks Mitigation 
Potential risks associated with the Financial Sector Reform Program and the proposed operation can be 
divided into two types: (i) country risks which include political risk and stakeholders’ opposition and 
fiscal sustainability and (ii) operational risks which include the risks associated with restructuring and 
recapitalizing state-owned banks and the non-sustainability and reversibility risk. Measures to mitigate 
such risks have been considered under the reform program. Means of mitigation have also been 
discussed and agreed on within the Bank. Nevertheless, the risks, uncertainties and challenges that may 
affect the implementation of the reform program are non-trivial and must be acknowledged. 
VII. Environmental 
Aspects 
The proposed operation is not likely to have any significant positive or negative effects on the 
environment, forests, and other natural resources. According to OP/BP 8.60, safeguard policies (such as 
OP4.01 Environmental Impact Assessment) do not apply to development policy lending, and an 
Integrated Safeguard Data Sheet (ISDS) is not needed. 
 
VIII. Tentative 
financing 
Page  8
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
500 
 
Total 
500 
 
IX. Contact 
point 
Contact: Sahar Ahmed Nasr 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: 5772+215 / 20-2-2574-1670 
Fax: 202 2574-1676 
Email: Snasr@worldbank.org 
Location: Cairo, Egypt (IBRD)
 
