1LJuI.-u1lli~IL UL
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DA~UI 1NU. LJA7 U-'Lr
tse:"port TIN M o.: V Tu-T A 
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(DA-24750)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 79.3 MILLION (US$ 110.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR THE
ZHEJIANG MULTICITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 6, 2002
Urbui Develupiienit Sector uit
East Asia & Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnance of their
|official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CUJRRFNCY     EUITVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 1, 2002)
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
Y 1.00 =   US$ 0.i2
US$ 1.00 = Y 8.30
FISCAL YEAR
January l    DLecember 'a31.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                           Country Assistance Strategy
ERR                           Economic Rate of Return
GIS                           Geographic Information System
GOC                           Government of China
LSWM                          Liquid and Solid Waste Management
p-Rf                          Population and Human Resources Development (Grant frnm Japan)
ZEF                           Zhejiang Environmental Fund
ZEPB  1lng En         rlcovir  Prtin BIeau
ZEP(O)                 Zhejiang Environment Project (Office)
ZTuL,Ul_P                     ZL1Jid1ig UlUdli DevelUpImlent ProJect Office
Vice President:    Mr. Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAP
Country  Director:   Mr. Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Director:   Mr Keshav Vnrm a,FA51JR
Task Team Leader:      Mr. Wiebe Moes, EASUR



CHINA
ZHEJIANG MULTICITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page MNo
1. Project Data                                                                               I
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                    2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                       5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                        14
6. Sustainability                                                                             16
7. Bank and Borrower Perfor7ance                                                             ! 7
8. Lessons Learned                                                                           19
9. Partner Comments                                                                          20
10. Additional 'Information                                                                  20
Annex 1. Key Perfomzance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                         21
Annex 2. Proiect Costs and Financing                                                         22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                         24
An,nex A     I   npu- T....                                                                  26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                         28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                            29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                        30






Project ID: P0U3473                                             Project Name: LHEJIANU    MUL I ICi TiES
|DEVELOPMENT      PROJECT
Team Leader-: Wiebe Moes                                       I-IL Unit: EASUR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                              Report Date: June I I, 2002
1  Pr.mat nata
Name: ZHE,JIANG    MULTICITIES DEVELOPMENT                LIC/TF   Number: IDA-24750
PROJECT
Country/Department:  CHI]NA                                                     Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: US ., Urban Environment; VP - Pollution Control /
Waste Management
KEY DATES
Original              Revised/Actual
PCD:    02/03/87                                   Effective:  10/20/93              10/20/93
Appraisal: 10/17/9  1                                      MTR.
Approval: 03125193                                       Closing: 0613 0/99              12/31/2001
Borrower/lImplemen ting Agency.   People's Republic of China/ZHEJIANG PROVINCE
Other sPartners
CTAFF                   Curnent                                       At Appraisal
Vice President.        Jemal-ud-din  Kassurn                          Gautam S. Kaji
C'ountrv M'vianager.    Yukon Huang                                   Shahid Javed Burki
Sector IManager.        Keshav Vanna                                  Zafer Ecevit
Team Leader at ICR.    Wiebe Moes                                     Herbert Boehm
ICR Primary Author.     Herbert Boehm
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U--Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN-Highly
Unlikely. HU=Higlilv Unsatisfactory H=High; SU=Substantial, M=Modest. N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: HL
LnasuucL1Lal Dfevelop.. ent       T
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG   (if available)         ICR
Quality at Entry:                            s
Project at Risk at Anv Time: Yes
The proJect vas rated unsatisfactory fronm March 1007 to September 1998.



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3. I Original Objective.
Rapid urbanization, population growth and industriaiization between i98U and i990 in Zhejiang Province
greatly outpaced urban service delivery, such as water supply, land development, urban transportation and
environmental improvements. The objective of the Project was, therefore, to assist the Zhejiang provincial
government and four of the largest municipalities (Iangzhou, Ningbo, Wenzhou and Shaoxing) to
strengthen planning and delivery of urban services and to support their environmental policies. More
specifically, the Project sought to:
*       imnrnve uirban servicps, in narticular watpr sqinnlv and land dpvpennmpnt and Petahlish the
appropriate institutional framework needed to enhance the efficiency of the municipalities in the provision
of these services;
*       assist in the developmeint of long-term environmental policies, strategies and programs in order to
avoid environmental pollution;
*       introduce new methods in the design and implementation of land development schemes at the city
level that will result in improved land use and transport efficiency, as well as cost recovery from
beneficiaries;
l       improve Dublic transDort and traffic management in Hangzhou:
*       upgrrade overrrcrowdedA a,nd poorlyF servlcedn areas in the city cennter of Ningbo, including the
provision of sewage interceptors, wastewater treatment, road improvement and substantial upgrading of
l .-:ng CO-A:,:--- -Arl
HV1iI  lwuIuin, aJLu
*       improve the institutionai strengtn of the municipal authorities overseeing urban service delivery and
pollution abatement; and to enhance the management and financial performance of the utilities and
enterprises directly responsible for the provision of these services.
Assessment. Because of the wide array of services to be delivered by municipalities to accommodate the
needs of their population, institutions and business community, objectives for urban development projects
are intrinsically difficult to define. However, after extensive World Bank and external consultants' sector
work and detailed discussions with the State; nrovincial government and the four municipalities deemed to
produce the highest replication effects, the Project succeeded in realistically identifying the highest priority
rhort;ecdv  nnarnh     tnnrvntrhnt&n        zr AM.1x           -'W;cnn  oxththn  onnmtrf hn
'SUJCA.LVC..  'JVII..MUC.IIJt,  UM j11 L 'IVJbtAL 'C  .LV, VVJ9.V I C.1  tuiiy  CAJLLSO IIL  WVILILCIC  '.JL V C.LIhjIC.flIC  V1  sI,IIIIU  a
(GOC) and the International Development Association's (IDA) urban sector strategy and Country
AisaSt      radL teIdLtegy (AS). In pduLuliar, the speclfic pruJect objectives corecuy aimed dL te mnost
pressing issues: to develop specific and replicable examples and to strengthen institutional development.
Despite the ProJect's complexity and the large number of institutions (e.g., one project office at the
provincial level; five project offices at the municipal level), and the physical distance between the individual
project sites, the project objectives were well within the competence level of the agencies involved .
As almost all urban development, especially improvements in water supply and land development, results in
increases in liquid and solid wastes, the Project was designed as the first part of a comprehensive two-stage
program. The first stage was to support improvements in such areas as water supply, land development
-2-



A  r-  _t-                     ---                       - - -:    Tt.,-
arndU t,raiC mana1dgetM1U1L. A ILILuIr sLU11U stag  WUUIU Ub  d compre ive en1V11Uir11nmrIL pIUJLt. Thie
preparation of this second stage was supposed to be studied and thoroughly prepared under the Project and
eventually result in a "Znejiang Urban Environment Project" (P06695D), which Is now in the FY03 World
Bank lending program. Although the Bank would have preferred to combine the two phases into one
project, the Chinese authorities objected to it as there was concern about the complexity of such a project
and the sustainability of wastewater projects.
3.2 Revised Objective.
The original objectives remained valid and pertinent during the whole project implementation period and
therefore did not need to be revised.
3.3 Original Components.
To support the above objectives, the project included the following components:
Water Supply Improvements ($ 127.3 million)
a       Hangzhou: New water treatment plant for a capacity of 300,000 m3/day, including intake
pumping station, treatment platnt, clear water transmission main, 8 km tunnel, booster pumping stations and
network improvements
Ningbo: Intake pumping stations with a capacity of 250,000  m3/d, transmission mains. booster
pumping stations and reinforcements of the water distribution network
*             .Wenzhou: New treatment -!ant for a caparih, r,f 70, 0n  m3./d inclu,dina n trsatment nlant a 2.7
km tunnel, intake and booster pumping stations and network improvements.
Land Development in Shaoxiing ($47.9 million)
*       Development of 207 ha of formerly agricultural land into a comprehensive economic and
residential urban zone to cater to the needs of an additional population of 35,000. The component
comprised roads and bridges, water supply, sewerage, drainage, electricity, public lighting and
telecommunications.
Urban Environmental Management and Protection       ($6.1 million)
*       Preparation of a Liquid and Solid Waste Management Study (LSWM) to provide the sectoral
underpinning for the proDosed Zheiiang Urban Environment Proiect
*       Extensive support to the Zhejiang Environment Protection Bureau (ZEPB), including the
establishment of an Environ-mental Inform.ation Center
e       Preparation of the proposed Zhejiang Urban Environment Project.
Technical Assistance ($7.5 million)
*       Urban planning systems to initiate improvements in the urban planning process
*       institutional development
*       Traffic management in Hangzhou.
Basic Urban Services Upgrading in Ningbo    ($37.2 million)
*       T Upr,adin- th 4- v ar ea ofra   l rrrninr rnoad  in'the rcntor nf Nrj,non including provision of
water supply, power, gas, and telephone; sewerage reticulation primary treatment and night soil disposal;
reatilgnmient ariu reconstruction of roau works; triil ccritrol andU rIianageriment; and landscaping
*       Demolition and reconstruction of housing and resettlement of about 5,000 households
- 3 -



*       Reconstruction and preservation of culturallv important structures. such as the historic district of
Laitang Island and the Moon Lake.
Zhejiang Environmental Fund ($5.0 million)
i2.~dUL~1III~IL U d IUIILUIL, dULU1IU1lIUUZ, IUIIU Lu PIUVLUr  bUbLd1IidU1 11  LbidUlI LU 111IdI1LLX
*   EstabliShInent of ad nopoi,atnr.u      ud.     rvdeassanber-cddmt               i-c
pollution control measures for small- and medium-sized industrial enterprises.
Assessment. The design of these components was clearly related to the project objectives. The Credit was
in line wlLh ute counturys ueveIopImenL strategy, i.e., to provide adequate urban public services iur the
increasing population and the rapid economic growth of China's urban areas. The Credit further supported
the policies of Zhejiang Province to carry out its economic modernization efforts. As China continued to
focus on decentralization, the Province could not expect to receive financial assistance  from the central
government for the required improvements in urban development and management. Therefore, the Credit
was a welcome vehicle for obtaining technical assistance and financial resources for these purposes.
The project design benefited from extensive sector work and discussions at the central and provincial levels
which started as far back as 1982. An urban sector study was prepared in 1987 to analyze the challenges
of raDid urbanization in Zheiiang Province: this studv formed the foundation for the Proiect.  Although the
Project was the Bank's fifth urban development project in China, its design was influenced more by the
dialogue with the hbrrownur and the fidings of the sector analysis than from actiual imnplmnntaionn
experiences of the other projects, since the first urban development project (the Medium-Sized Cities
Developnment+ D-o_ec  -va-  ---Ave  only about .-v _ear bef-r +L.,, D_oJe_t -an little .r__plementatio
.L LIUJ~.L/ vIaa aFfJfJvIuV   uiiiyV atuuut LVVV YrOaIa L)CIuIU ulia~ I UJML. acUu IILUV 11iHCLaL1
experience was available at that point. The urban planning and systems conditionality of the Credit were
derived from the outcome of the Bank's urban sector work in Zhejiang Province, and the environmental
conditionality built on the Bank's environmental strategy paper on China.
3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised, but the land development component in Shaoxing and the Ningbo urban
coservic unprading rnmnnnont were ovnenrpar. de  ithin tho  and the Credit limits nf tho Prnion, aftor
timely and successful completion of the original contracts in order to increase project benefits. Allocations
ar-iong tie Credit proceeus were reviseU the fiLst tile Ul IVIdIMcI 1, LUUU, dIaU dagdil Un SJeptemUerI J, LUU  1,
primarily to reflect increased needs in the Civil Works category and corresponding reductions in the Goods
and Consultants' Services and Training categories.
3.5 Quality at En try:
The project's quality at entry is rated satisfactory. As indicated, the Project fully supported the country's
nrinr;fla -A ^Arlcln HnA  n rA-1-cll -rrth0  R^nlr ^ r' A CZ to-,rq  A+ tl, t  ;nnA f ---.^rOl f-0-;} l;t,
W   , .        l -_   -   --- .  ..i IVYJ  Lil.L  CAIA   .J   -  *v  *-  Irinnj  C  LIl.  C.,  VI..  I jJUJiUi3U  ii- UO II ,
studies for all project components had been prepared. By effectiveness, final design work for most parts of
the Project had either beecti UmpIleted or was making good progress. WitIh tle help of urban planinillng
consultants and through their own superb efforts, Shaoxing and Ningbo project personnel got off to a flying
start in project implementation. External proJect management consultants had been employed and the first
one-year operational action plan prepared. The SAR was comprehensive and, particularly when
considering the complexity of the Project, unusually detailed and informative in terms of project setting and
description reflecting the length and intensity of project preparation. The advanced state of project
preparation enabled particularly the Shaoxing and Ningbo components to complete their work well. within
their projected time schedule.



PIrJJ%LL .isksa VVweIr acLUGrtely assressU, especitLy miiainagilltent ctrUi tsLlJlLa Uln thIe parI U 0f somel 01 Lilt;
provincial and municipal authorities who had little prior experience with complex World Bank projects.
Huwever, with Ltie neip of international project management consultants as well as local and overseas
training, these risks were addressed during the early stages of project implementation. The additional risk
that a follow-up environmental project may not come to fruition was also assessed properly as its
preparation was delayed repeatedly during project implementation. However, the preparation of the
Zhejiang Urban Environment Project is now underway and it is officially included in the Bank's lending
program.
The Bank's safeguard policies were fully taken into account at the project entry phase. A detailed report
on the environmental impact of the Project was prepared and summarized in an annex to the SAR reflecting
the findings of the Chinese environmental assessments on the various components and the views of the
appraisal mission. In addition, the preparation of (i) a study of strategic planning and policy issues in
envir.nmental nrotection an  management at the nrovinria! leve!; and (i) nreliminary engineerin6
and identification of future priority environmental investments at the municipal level of the four
PaOL1ic.pat111r prUJVA ciles1, Wiis palL 01 the, IIUJCL.t. MVLUlreVer, LILt L11d1%hez   LrUIiIsInv m Ldl FLUIIn Wda
added to the Project to mitigate industrial pollution in the Province although its funding base was too small
to make a significant impact beyond a demonstration or piiot, facility.
Primarily as a result of the Ningbo urban infrastructure upgrading component and the Shaoxing land
development component, resettlement and, if necessary, reemployment of about 20,000 people were
expected under the Project. As part of project preparation, IDA, with the assistance of external
consultants, worked intensively with the four project cities to have acceptable resettlement programs in
place by the time of the appraisal. By the time of effectiveness, each city had detailed resettlement plans in
effect to implement the actual resettlement programs.
In hindsight, assumptions underlying the nroiect were sufficientlv reasonable. Variahles; such as
population growth, economic development forecasts, traffic volumes, and demand for water, improved land
fnr hniicinf anrd industri!n deve;Dlnnment tirndl out to hb rsvuistic ar.d therefnre did not hve, to t e aNmnded
during project implementation.
4. Ar'hivoem.nt nf Objehctiwve and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective.
The Project achieved all its rnajor objectives and in some aspects -- particularly with respect to the quality
of the water treatment plants, the successful urban service upgrading of Ningbo and the most impressive
Shaoxing land development -- exceeded its original expectations. The only shortcoming was the delay in
the preparation of the follow-up Zhejiang Urban Environment Project and the failure of the Zhejiang
Environmental Fund. The preparation of the follow-up project is now in full swing and has been included
in the FY03 lending programr. The environmental fund was only a pilot operation with a portfolio of less
than $5 million. of which about half was successfully conmmitted. The Proiect is given a 'satisfactory"
rating as a few shortcomings did subtract from the Project's otherwise excellent performance.
The Project's development impact was significant as it met the water supply needs of the Province's rapidly
growing population. its burgeoning economv and the unabatedlv risino tourism industry. Tt also
significantly improved water quality and security for a large segment of the population. In addition, the
nrior t csushtantiall.y imnrnovd u,rban connrtionn  in tho cities of Ningbo -nd Shaoxing. 'T'h0s imnrn,o-..nt-
entailed the upgrading of dilapidated housing, sewage disposal and stormwater. A conservation program in
- 5 -



Ningbo preserved historic buildings and monuments and became an example for inner-citv cultural
preservation in other Chinese urban redevelopment efforts. The Project further achieved systemic
imnrnv_m_ nt. in urhbn nlnning and traffic mnnagement and significant policy changep in water tqriffq anri
land prices to ensure adequate returns to investments in water supply and land development. The latter
apeclw- confs.Ibutee to- fuhe lon-te.ll sutl-b'iiP  fth -roe
LUI1UUUL~  U~ Ufl~6-LUfl~Iil OUaLCUIOUIhL.y VI LIIC I I UJ ~L.
The oujectives of the Project as defined in 1993 remained consistent witn tne latest CAS Memorandum of
May 1998 which formally supported "China's efforts to meet the challenges of urban development."
Almost all elements covered in the Project are explicitly highlighted in the GAS Memorandum, such as
urban planning, funding and operation of urban infrastructure and services, protection of the urban
environment, urban transport, and land and labor markets. The new CAS Memorandum currently under
discussion with the Chinese government is expected to continue to focus on the 'rural - urban transition",
and support the strengthening of urban services and the reduction of urban pollution.
4.2 Outpu ts by components:
The Project consisted of eight components:
Water Supply Improvements ($ 127.3 million SAR - including contingencies, $114.6 million actual)
Hangzhou ($54.1 million SAR, $5 1.5 million actual)
The new 300,000 m3/d water treatment plant was not only the city's first infrastructure project funded by
the World Bank, but also used the turnkey procurement method for the first time in an urbarn development
project in China. This component also included three pumping stations, transmission mains, an 8 km
tunnel, ar.dU ,.-prover.ents tU the Wdateir Udisbution neI.work. ITIh UIUvei turiy pIUrLUCIICHlL plUcUeUrte
clearly required substantial input by the external management consultants as well as by the local engineers
and the Chinese procurement agency. However, iDA's insistence on this method, despite some concerns
about this bidding method expressed by the Chinese, in the end resulted in high-quality construction of a
facility with an advanced treatment process.  Although the bid preparation process was protracted, the
plant was completed on June 15, 1999, i.e., shortly before the original Closing Date June 30, 1999).  The
local project management acknowledged that the learning process working with international contractors
was very positive and clearly would help them in their future project work. Nevertheless, they claim that
this method favors international contractors since local firms have little expertise in responding to
performance bids. While thev have been pleased with the work of the selected international contractor. in
general they have complained about the potentially higher risks of employing international contractors
compnrerd tn Inrnl comnanisc anrd intencsel disike- their evnsnivet design fees.
ITh  hiughly dULUitIdLCU PipieL UtJiodUUn1 eri,uIes loW proUUUctLII LUcL stlU a gificrllIiLy rdUULtc idipL IIIUULce
pollution. The Hangzhou municipal government has pursued a reasonable water tariff policy in line with
the financial Credit covenants. Provided the city continues this policy in the future and the plant is
operated and maintained properly, the financial situation of this component should remain strong. The
impact of the component on a large part of the Hangzhou's population has been significant as it
substantially increased the supply of high quality water to meet the needs of households and industry, even
during periods of high turbidity intrusion into the Qiantang River. This component is thus rated
satisfactory.
Wenzhou ($29.1 million SAR, $27.3 million actual)
-6 -



This component includes a new water treatment plant with           i capacirtyf 100nn0  m3/d (increased with
IDA approval from the 70,000 m3/d in the SAR), a pumping station, pipelines, a 3 km tunnel, and
rinfomeIUILUt UL UWe waCIt UdiUsrULIbu1 IICoWUI.  ilte WdLaI Uter 1LtLet t pjellat was also ploCUe  Uln d tU.1nkey
basis. Similar to Hangzhou, the local project office initially was reluctant to use this procedure, but did
provide extensive and constructive input during the whole process. Having lost valuabie time during the
bid preparation process, they pushed the international contractor hard to complete the project within the
Project implementation period.
While most of the intake water quality before the Project was very poor, the new water source from the Ou
River and the modern technologies used in the new facilities enabled a significant improvement in water
quality and water pressure fully meeting the city's additional water needs.  Wenzhou, which in the past
suffered from lack of urban services despite its thriving economy, rightfully prides itself on now possessing
one of China's foremost water treatment plants. The Project prompted the city to improve its urban
planning systems by taking a long-term view of its population growth. its economic develonmenti and the
resultant urban services needs. The institutional development gained from the planning process as well as
from  the design and implemenntation phase wxiith internafionnl consultants and contractort  will undoubtdAly
help the municipality in the Long-term as it tackles other urban projects. Also, the component's economic
and social 1nitILb Care sUUbstantial. VWaler shortages have bUeen elir.inaeteU andU Ihlealtil bUenefI,.s are
considered substantial, albeit difficult to quantify. Modern plant controls and more efficient technologies
reuuceu chemical usage and staff requirements. in audition, the irnproved network, better inspection
equipment and improved laboratories contribute to the financial well-being of the utility. Provided water
tariff poiicies remain reasonable, the water utility should not experience financial constraints.
The city insisted on building the plant in a downtown location with limited space for expansion.  IDA
foresaw this capacity limitation and recommended the plant be built close to the point of abstraction.  The
city authorities in hindsight agree that their insistence has caused some minor construction delays and
possible future exoansion ccnstraints. Nevertheless, this comoonent overall is rated  satisfactorv.
Ningbo ($44.0 million SAR $35.7 million actial)
TO rnn   ..  .1         t
To cope with pressures from the State-mandated development program-~ an.d to realize ifs arrbitious
modernization goals, Ningbo needed to upgrade its urban services. This component focused on an increase
o    )f Z5,000 ,,,3/d abtacir   L.--Lg quali'y raw -water frm  he Xiazhe  -an _to._ aepupn
UI LiuU,uU 111/U dUlJldLLUU1l U Lliigil k4IUd1~lt W  IIUIII ii Ule ILiOULAiell £JdIll, LWU 11twd.e Puiiipiiig
stations, the construction of transmission mains with a total length of over 59 km, reinforcement of the
distribution network, and ancillary facilities. Previous to compleuon oI tne component, raw water was
abstracted from heavily polluted watercourses. With the new water source, Ningbo is able to significantly
increase its total water supply capacity. This component, the first one completed in the Project in
December 1997, thus is contributing to the rapidly increasing economy and to improving the standard of
living of its population. Water shortages are not predicted in the foreseeable future. The city also expects
direct health benefits from the improved water quality. Even during the dry season of 1998, sufficient raw
water was available to the two major water treatment plants in the city which, incidentally, were renovated
and expanded without World Bank assistance.
Thp rnmnnnpnt ichipvpd a11 exprcted hbnefitsr considernhly below the original budget. The qualit.y of the
construction work was good. Project personnel learned a great deal about intemational bidding, design,
consctruction supervisionn  and nonoratinn -Jth internatfin-l consu,ltanf. ar.d cntraors. As ,W, w . ,-theote
V       .J.jJ.tL,n   V LJL-t  fhSIJI I--L3 tUJ -.             -am~ JfUO.Ul. n   Vynn  LJII   ULAICI
water supply components, there was practically no counterpart funding problem as the cities accorded high
priority Lo Uiese wUIKs. Thle cuiInuueU Upeiaiuii aiiu TiiaiiiLeiiatice uo uie iaciilites snouil also oe no
problem in light of Ningbo's economic prowess as well as its special development status. The component



ic thus rated assatisfactory.
LardU Developmr,er.t -in Shaoxing ($Pt4.9 111ILUII SARX, $42L.U IILUliVII dLLUdl)
in its 1985 revisiQn of its urban master plan, Shaoxing proposed to extend its urban area by developing a
new 10 km   district on former agricultural land to the east of the city, ultimately accommodating over
130,000 people and an economic development zone. The plans were approved in 1992 by the State and the
provincial government. IDA was asked to fund the first nhase of this develonment totaling 2.07  km
containing the construction of bridges and roads, drainage, water supply, sewerage, public lighting, power
and tplpcnmmiinicrtirn C.hinpep and externa! rcnnuiltants did the feas;qih1it-v work (nntrnirtion startid in
August 199 1. Some of the work was funded under retroactive financing. Almost all contracts were
crUIIpltLeU by thet eInU Uo 199u, VVCwl UbIeIo tLhe oiginiiial CreUiL cloIsI1g Uat. Aini aduiLuiiai coLnuac..t iui a
wastewater trunk line, approved by IDA in September 2000, and four more contracts for an expansion of
the sewerage network anu conveyance to the treatment piant, approved by IuDA in january 2uu  i, were
completed before the final closing date of December 3 1, 200 1.
Despite early concerns about the success and viability of this part of the Project, the Shaoxing land
development component must be regarded as a most impressive model of urban development in Chinese
cities. It epitomizes the Chinese development policy of modern urbanization cum industrialization. Not
surprisingly, the zone has received ravish acclaim within China and internationally for its rational planning,
excellent design and its superb implementation. Most construction was completed ahead of the SAR
implementation  schedule. Land acquisition and resettlement efforts of about 2,400 peasant farmers were
carried out in an ePxmplarv manner. Overall, bohut in km nf roads and 49 bridge-s were hibilt The
development zone has attracted approximately 180 industrial projects from more than 10 foreign countries
Wi,4*1 en ln¶rn    n             M IN -1,lln  Tn I10Q thnl-     --n,nnAo  n ot-4  ---eSe ro.,on, , n 4,-
VVIJLII C lly COUIICIUL  lUjJ I IllI  WI  -l .I.. ...  .VVV,  -tht - ..U.l iF-ltO  6...Kt.. .. V  V   I II  UIW
amount of about $300 million. Housing for about 30,000, supplied with district heating, power, and water
arnd sewer connections, ha0ve beer. eirUce  LUogether wiLIh LIIe asciatedL schools, co11mr.ciLal er.terprises,
administrative systems, and sports facilities. The newly established companies employ about 80% of the
local population, including some of the original farmers who were resettied under the project.
Land sales and leases for industrial, commercial and residential real estate were carried out in a
professional manner ensuring adequate payback of the invested funds. The zone's tax base was structured
in a way to ensure long-term viability and sustainability of urban services provision. The city set up a land
marketing and sales operation to market the land and a construction office to implement the project. The
people associated with the project received training under the Project and gained invaluable experience in
all aspects of urban development. The component is thus rated as highlv satisfactorv.
Urban   Envronmental    Management end Protectaon ($6.1 million SAR, $0.5 . millirn actual)
ur.uer Uis UoImpoUnIeIL,  IIlUIUid adiu suliU Wdaste mandgemIientL (L-3VY VL) sUtrateL pIlallUir,g adIU pJVIILy sLUUy
was carried out by international consultants at the provincial level. However, as the government's position
concerning the proposed follow-up project, a Zhejiang Urban Environment Project, remained uncertain
until the middle of 1999, the provincial authorities and the project cities accorded little priority to the
LSWM study. Only a draft final report was produced as the report lacked authority and content
particularly insofar as future environmental investment programs were concerned.
Under the Credit Agreement, the cities were required to undertake feasibility studies, preliminary
engineering studies, and at least 20 percent of detailed design in preparation of the Zhejiang Urban
- 8 -



Envio-nment Pronint Accordingy to the Credrit Agroeemnt this wonrk shnould have heen rnmnpleted hy
December 3 1, 1995. However, for the above reason, the cities did not embark on this work during the
orlg-inali prouj-et -imlplemlentat-lon perilod . As 'the borrower was reluctant to utilize Credit proceeds for 'he
preparation of the follow-up project, a Japanese PHRD grant in the amount of $787,500 was made
available to China on February 19, 2002.
This component also foresaiw an extensive strengthening of the ZheJiang Environmental Protection Bureau
(ZEPB) to enable it to meet its responsibilities in protecting the environment of Zhejiang. Technical
assistance and training as well as the establishment of an Environmental Information Center in the amount
of $1.2 million was anticipated. None of this, however, took place as ZEPB was obliged to repay the
Credit funds from its own resources which it felt it could not do.
The Borrower substantially delayed the preparation of the ZEP although final commitment to it now
annpers to he qssired_ In adldition, the nrovincial authorities reneged on the institutional strengthening of
ZEPB. This component is therefore rated as unsatisfactory. Because the LSWM study was carried out at
least to the finnl draft version, and preparation work for the new proiert is nnw finally underway this
component is accorded an insatisfactory rating rather than an highly unsatisfactory rating.
Urban Planning Systems, Institutional Development, and Traffic Management in Hangzhou ($7.5
rrl';on SAR, $1.9 rrllo   _acu!
*T t    l                   Cff   1.   CAf n I n  11
Uruan P;aniing Siystenlls ($9mi"oll St, .DU I IIHUUII dlatUdl)
The Project clearly did not set out to comprehensively analyze and improve the overall provincial and
municipal urban planning process. Rather, the objective was to focus on one concrete aspect of the
planning process, i.e., to enhance and systematize information collection to improve much needed
cross-sectoral planning among the various line departments responsible for urban planning. The appraisal
expected that this, in due course, woul d lead to the development of municipal information, planning and
management centers. However, during project implementation the borrower correctly determined that the
resources under the Credit would be insufficient to achieve this goal. It was therefore agreed, without
changing the original obJective of this subcomponent. that the work should focus on studying the utilization
of an urban geographic information system (GIS) using Shaoxing as a pilot city. This would provide the
rapid-  -ng cit,, of qhnn,inn with acurat and syistematirc hbelinet data to imnronv  manning and1 itrh2n
j* ,*Y  6-11.. . 1 5  IIJ   _   - - -5                                                      ___n_.-t  .._ bs- re -.. .-I- .._1..I _
infornation systems. It will furthermore provide a powerful tool for urban planning and management,
particularly in the areas o1f land use, construaction managemnent and municipal sewicre administration. In a
first phase, GIS information will be digitized for the Shaoxing land development zone included in the
Project.
Although somewhat narrower than originally envisaged, this subcomponent will most likely not be another
study stored in a bookcase without practical use, but will remain an essential high-tech tool for the benefit
of urban planners and managers in Shaoxing and will hopefully be replicated in other cities in the Province.
This subcomponent has the potential of being rated highly successful if the authorities take advantage of its
benefits. But since it is not known at the present dme whether this will occur, the subcomponent is rated
conservatively  as  satisfactoiry.
*   Institutional Developinent ($6.0 million SAR, $1.5 million actual)
A comprehensive technical assistance program was included in the Proiect to address institutional
weaknesses of the project-related entities in sectors of water supply, environment, land development, urban
-9-



planning and traffic management. The main heneflciaries of this suhcomponent were the five municinal
project offices, ZUDPO, the water companies in the four project cities, the land development company in
Shaoxing, and the Ningbo urban services upgradirng organizations. A large numhbr nf mannagrs anrd staff
of these entities received training in a wide variety of topics.  The main focus of the training courses,
t'A  A 0  NA  NA  A k L  t-k  A  A A t,--A fA   t vAvtA  -AAA^A     At AA   1- - - 4 AA C6 
l1QlhJtU1W alIU VIl-UI-JUU UILJLIL VPFVUILUIIItICaO JCLKU al IlIlplUVU1b I1l1OlGIOC11l1L allU lallrU"6C OSK1UIL,
engineering skills, construction management, financial reporting, and computer applications. The courses
were taught either 'oy internationai consuitants or in-house trainers. For exampie, under this subcomponent
the four project water companies were taught how to use computer modeling to help in financial planning
and cost accounting. Also, sanitation experts from the four water companies learned about state-of-the-art
water treatment technologies during a study tour to several European countries.
Overseas training courses and study tours, not surprisingly, were popular and their goals, eligibility
criteria, candidates, and itineraries were carefully reviewed by ZUDPO, the project management
consultants and IDA. Administration of these courses were much more time consuming for the borrower
and IDA than in-country training courses and at times were the subject of lengthy discussions between the
borrower and IDA. Regrettablv. some of the proiect preparation and construction management courses
came too late in the project cycle, frequently after their components had already virtually been completed,
to f~iillx, I1onofit tOi Prniort ne norennn I in thoco nf~fj 0e woiro nfton tnn h,,cx, ~x,ith thoi'r nrnlart
toful benefit the I .oJect as personn.e! in these offices w.ere often too _us  __t thei. project
responsibilities. However, future projects, including the proposed Zhejiang Urban Environment Project,
wouldu h'ave people -in place wh'o al-e faili-ar wiu, prcie  n  ehnlge  sdi ohrcutis
woui I1d~ j~UjJ~ LI pIL~ IIU I~ dlilUdiWIUI PIdLLI1LZ diIU LeLJiiiUIUVItZ UZZU III LI LU1rz.
Overall, despite difficulties to precisely assess its outcome over thne iong term and tne underutilization of
the available budgets, the development impact of this subcomponent can be rated as satisfactory. It is
important to note that the borrower, who during the project design period was dubious about an extensive
technical assistance component, at the end of the Project acknowledges the usefulness of the programs.
Trafric Management in Ha ngzhou ($0.5 million SAR, $0.3 million actual)
Building on useful technical assistance granted by the Canadian International Development Agency prior to
Project commencement, this subcomponent concentrated on updating the existing traffic data base,
developingca detailed traffic planning and manragement model for the central business distrirt in Hangzhou,
and analyzing traffic accident statistics. In addition to the actual study, relevant computer hardware and
soLIIvvWL VVefl~--U- were   --nveral =LOL 1114-11  H.h  rit. Plan     1lng and.Design IT-s,t,.t. -eivedU
specialized training in Canada. The final report of the study team, comprised of local and international
consultants, was issued in June 1999. It is characterized by its excellent quality and Lechnical usefulness
since it provides the Hangzhou traffic authorities with an updated and enhanced modeling tool to assess
alternative traffic improvement schemes and to produce optimum plans for improving traffic operations.
Following the recommendations made in the study, a host of traffic improvements, such as widening of
Huancheng Bei Road, improvements of several intersections, and adjustments of signal timing and phasing,
has already had concrete and immediate effects on the traffic situation in Hangzhou. The findings of the
study were published for the benefit of other Chinese cities, thus fulfilling the replication effect desired at
the project design stage.
Th. hnrrnwer fniind this subhomponent vprv iiefiu! for m.anaging traffic problems in Hangzhou and
especially emphasized its replicability to other Chinese cities. The subcomponent provided Hangzhou with
FLN ItAkNA1f^s       t  >+,'-,+-A _  AA  +_1   V-   + - M-FP F^A A- A  TIA  O   A A   sA..   -4+AA
USC laLCst anUd mIoUst sJjJLUOULapi U i  llilll tUUI IUI tallil, IllCUl6lUI1L. I1ic aUULUIlIIMUlCILtL la UIUa LaCLru
satisfactory.
Basic Urban Services Upgrading i n Ningbo ($37.2 million SAR, $89.2 million actual)
- 10-



Although this component was added late in the preparation stage of the Project, it turned out to be one of
the most successfull copoens fthe Pro-ec. In line _with the_ ci.y' matrpa,t-. opnntoiial
~~ ***~J',~. UlIJjJUILICIL3a VI LIIC; I lJVJV%t. I ilt;~ WIIilt: WI~LL Z, lhaONtI;l jJiall, UIt; U1_VIIjUIIt:iIL U11igiiiaiiy
included the upgrading of urban services and related infrastructure in the service area of four major roads
*_   .X_ _1 -I.   _r-   X T,. __   -_   -   -_.   1__   1-  I   .   -   .  I  -  I  -  I   .     .  re
HI ule Ulu CILy 01 lliNlngUo. EBalzhanig Road, Jieiang Roaa, Renmin Road ana X aonang Roaa. During project
implementation, as the component was constructed well within the implementation schedule, additional
works were approved by the Association expanding the upgrading efforts to an additional four roads and
several other adjacent areas, thus further enhancing the areas improved by the original four roads. This
resulted in an increase over the SAR cost estimate. Each area was subjected to extensive realignment and
reconstruction of the roadworks and was provided with improved water supply, sewage reticulation and
stormwater drainage, traffic control and management, street lighting, telephone, power, gas, and
arrangements for nightsoil removal and solid waste disposal. 'Where  necessarv, structures were removed.
sites cleared, landscaping provided, environmental measures taken, and culturally important sites
reconstructed and conserved. This work. the largest reconstrictinn pronect ever in the city, substantially
altered the inner city of Ningbo. About 6,000 people were resettled to four residential areas within a 5 km
radius.
The   I component  cnsiderably ImprovdU utC livs Uo imiaiiy peUpIe III 1NiIrLJU Uy pouviUir.g modUe111 UdIiIL
arteries with upgraded basic services. It helped traffic movement and reduced pollution and it also
enhanced and conserved important cultural property. in a case study published by the World Bank, 'Case
Study: Ningbo, China. Cultural Heritage Conservation in Urban Upgrading," the authors conclude that
the "Ningbo project shows that conservation of cultural heritage and valuable elements in the existing
environment can be effectively integrated with urban development to create a city that is both livable and
dynamic." The study also found that the project achieved the creation of a higher level of appreciation for
cultural heritage among city officials, private developers, and the public, stating, "These changes in
attitude and capacity will sustain conservation work in Ningbo long after the World Bank project is
finished." Similarly, a survey report on the resettlement prepared by the Urban Socio-Economic Survey
Organization of Ningbo City found that the "urban culture" and the quality of life in the city has improved
thrnureh the nronert The repnrt desrrihps thp new modem apartments fnr the resettled families not only as
larger, but also more convenient and of much higher quality than the old "dark, moist, crowded, and noisy"
A Bar'- review of environmilntal managemeriet plarns conducted in 1999, cited tihs component as a "best
practice" example because Ningbo's urban infrastructure upgrading office took specific measures to ensure
uhat the road rehabilitation and upgrading would minimize the impact on citizen safety, traffic fiow and tne
physical environment. In addition, the component received seven Chinese ministerial, provincial and
municipal awards tor excellence.
Operation and maintenance of the upgrading works are performed as part of the city's overall urban
services function. As Ningbo has a thriving economy with great future potential, funding for these
activities should not be of concern. Tax revenues from the increased commercial activities in the improved
areas are expected to be significant*
This ornmponent has exceed,rd a1 nhiortives in terms of physical completion, quality of work, acquired
expertise, institutional development, resettlement and cultural preservation. Consequently, this component
k '2d  biot  J icE'2iEV.w.
/Zche_mi__ L.AT-) E rIi 'd  -Sii-



The purpose of the Zhejiang Environmental Fund (ZEF) was to provide a sustainable mechanism to finance
pollution control measures for small- and medium-sized enterprises. The subprojects were designed to be
quick-disbursing and repayable over a short period of time like a revolving fund. ZEF was supposed to be
managed by a nonprofit, autonomous unit within the Zhejiang Environment Protection Bureau (ZEPB) and
the Popnle's Constnictinn Bank of China was chosen as the financial agent of ZEF. The selection of the
subprojects was supposed to be based only on technical, financial and economic appraisals. Unfortunately,
the concept of the fund w,as never fl u          hby 7PPB; the . cta,blhedA -rgani^tion and the
management for ZEF remained poor; and the selection of subprojects and administrative processes were
alitial  allU Lir.uficientI.
IDA had to reject a large number of subproject proposals because they did not meet tne fund's eligibility
criteria or their appraisal was inadequate. Only three subprojects came to fruition with only about half of
the available IDA funding utilized. The first disbursement for a oil refining company took place only two
years after Credit effectiveness. WiVen repayment problems with this company occurred, the Zhejiang
Finance Bureau assumed management responsibility for ZEF. Subprojects for a steelwire company and a
brewery were marginally more successful. The selection for subprojects appeared not to have followed any
general principles and it was unclear what priority the proposals had in the respective city or in the
Province. The submitted requests often lacked appropriate technical. financial and economic analysis.
The technical solutions rarely used least-cost methods.
Thus, this component must be considered a failure as it did not establish a viable organization which could
nrnAirdn nnlih,finn Ahntomont necdctntnro tn inrhI,ctmi rnncw-,,ontlx  thic rnmnnnont c ratad  iincat;cfnrtnrv
It must be noted that several similar revolving funds in World Bank projects in China did not fare any
Uetter. Jnly Uecause ZLF rIianagedIt   to prouuce two gooduu  u   ects and thiU e Priovince lea,netd  .oUrnu   pdt
mistakes, is the component not rated highly unsatisfactory.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of retuirn.
On an aggregated basis, the SAR estimated an economic rate of return (ERR) of about 19 percent. The
calculatioi was based oun fouir of the PrujecCt' 5LX IliajUl coumxpulnents cUmpIrisig 941.i percent or thLe total
project costs. The water supply component was estimated to yield an ERR of about 16 percent. The land
development component in Shaoxing, based on conservative land sales, showed an ERK  of 25 percent.
Finally, the Ningbo urban service upgrading component was estimated at 24 percent. Applying the same
methodogy as in the SAR, the economic re-evaluation of these components yielded an weighted average
economic rate of return of 20.8 percent.
In the water supply component, the economic benefits were boosted by the lower than originally expected
investment costs, thus achieving a small increase of the ERR to 17 percent. The ERR for the land
development comrponent in Shaoxing was rpcalrculated at 28 percent The ERR for the Ninghn urban
upgrading component was not changed, because precise savings from flood prevention and traffic
improvement were not yet available  It can however safely be assumed t" ht th -t 24 perce-nt ERR
estimated at appraisal could easily be attained as traffic volume and throughput have increased
A. . _L      _± _ _-,-     .-__ L  _ _-             _1
uu3taiLuduly,  tLt ule bdile ullle, dUCIUlu IdLteb ldVe ldllell UldsLIUdlly dalU i11pIUVeuilulelL lndVe UeenI.
reported in land value along the upgraded roads as well as a marked increase in tourism to the historically
preserved monuments.
4.4 Financial rate of return.
INU llidIlLadl IdLt of re,urn was calcu laLeU in the JAx IUI Ulte WdLtI supply LUcompilies5 dlU the ladU sales
- 12 -



cnmnanv in Shanning as the nnmnqniPs weprpe till in the nrnre-vz nf introduiing Western-tunp financial
reports and their assets transf'erred to the water companies free of charge. The SAR, nevertheless,
reviewedIM ath sp.cial LatiOnhUIp o0 these public enterLpr1:res. with the municipUall g0v e I InrmentL. AlsU, LtIhe
past performance was evaluated and computer models were prepared to predict their future financial
perfornmance. The financial projections, based on realistic saies increases and water tarirr increases, snow
that the companies would be in a good position to be financially viable, repay their portion of the Credit,
and finance a reasonable level of investment needs.
'[he companies are now financially autonomous and their records are prepared in a systematic and accurate
fashion although tariff increases need to be approved by the provincial/municipal governments. Their
annual reports have been audited by the Chinese auditing authority and reviewed by the Association. A
field review of the auditor's reports sent by the Association to assist the borrower in improving the
auditing exercise took place in 1996. As of December 2001, the water supply companies have been
substantially in comnliance with the financial covenant to adiust water tariffs annronriatelv. Recent
projections also indicate that their financial performance over the foreseeable  future remains viable.
4.5  Institutional developn ent impact:
The picture here is one of stark contrast. The Project included a strong institutional development objective
aimed at strengthening the municipal authorities overseeing urban service delivery and pollution abatement
and to enhance management of the utilities and enterprises directly responsible for the provision of these
services. In finrthernnGe of this nhiprtive an institutional development component in the amount of $6
million was provided for extensive technical assistance, training and overseas study courses and study
tou c.
The impact of uhese efforts was high as far as the provincial and mrunicipal proJect offices, tihe water
utilities and the land development companies were concerned. These units were strengthened not only by
successfully carrying out the complex tasks required under the Project, but also benefited to a large degree
from the technical assistance offered by the international consultants and domestic experts and from
extensive training programs. The project offices became acquainted with international bidding procedures
and learned to deal with international contractors and consultants. They also acquired experience in
state-of-the-art technologies in water treatment, infrastructure development, traffic management and land
marketing. As a result of the Ningbo urban services upgrading component, for example, a new capacity for
conservation of cultural heritage was created. The city established a coordinating body to oversee
government activities havins an imDact on cultural oronerties. In addition. both the nlanning bureau and
the preservation institute have gained a great deal of experience through the Project.  Similarly, the highly
successful land development component in Shaoxing had a far-reaching impact not only on the institutions
associated with the Project, but on the city's long-term policies and administration.
In contrast, the development impact on the authorities responsible for environmental protection was only
modest. At tue provincial level, the ZEPB could not avai; itself of tne project funds because it was
unwilling to commit itself to Credit repayment. Although it did participate in the LSWM study, the work
was never finalized. The municipal part of this study also never got off the ground. While ZEPB made a
valiant effort to set up an environmental fund under the Project, ZEF was ill-managed and staffed by
inexperienced  people. The self-sustaining nature of this  revolving fund was never completely understood.
Not surprisingly, ZEF generated only two viable subprojects and in the end was closed and the portfolio
taken over by the provincial finance bureau.
- 13 -



5. Major Factorsv Affetin.gIplementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of gov,ernnment or implementing agency:
The major outside factor influencing the design and investment priorities of the Project was the demand by
the public to receive better urban service delivery. In particular, water shortages in the cities of Hangzhou,
Wenzhou and Ningbo demanded a prompt solution. Also the inner city of Shaoxing became frightfully
overcrowded, stifling economic development and affecting the quality  of life of its many city dwellers.
Likewise, Ningbo's citizens demanded the central business district be upgraded. These factors remained
valid throughout the Project's implementation period, putting pressure on the project offices to complete
works at great urpenc.v- At times this prescsure was ant to affect the ouality of the results. but careful
supervision by the oversight authorities and the Association was able to prevent significant damage.
Notably, many external fat-    be-   n- Ap   ent-prcf have been notably absent on this Project,
such as inflation, political turmoil, economic crises, interference by third parties, or natural catastrophes.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control.
Project implementation for most of the components was little influenced in any negative way by government
policies or actions. As a ,,.atter of fact, the Zhe,4ang provincial and municinal nrnvr-mrentc in p--rt4r,-r
took great ownership pride and commitment towards the water and land development components of the
project. in contrast, the authoritIles a  ailieveis exhiblied at Liltles cUliderablie reluctance to accept the
Project's linkage to the follow-up Zhejiang Urban Environment Project. This resulted in preparation delays
of ZEP and in the failure to carry out, by each of the project cities, feasibility and preliminary engineering
studies and the identification of future environmental investments by December 3 1, 1995, the deadline
given in the Credit Agreement. Moreover, ZEPB, the agency which should have been instrumental in the
preparation process, received little financial support and was prevented from utilizing the funds earmarked
for its institutional development.
Because of the high priority accorded the Project and owing to the solid economic development of the
Droiect cities and the Province. timelv provision of counterDart funds was an additional factor that enabled
the timely and successful completion of the Project. However, the funding of the provincial project office,
ZUDPO, was never fully resolved in a satisfactory manner The provincia governv ment expected the
project cities to fund the ZUDPO   operation although no systematic  process was established therefor.
Cr, osequently, ZUTDPO operate' under undue financi'al constraints -a-- --as- co..ele   --- reuet -megec
L..U1.MUuy, I-JiJI ',.J Uptdt   UIU   U ItU iJO!.CI  L  UIILa IIU auVVGa~  lpi~  LV IK.jU~_t.3  1JiUi
funding from the provincial govermnent.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implemen ting agency control.
The Project's overall success was primarily  affected by the strong commitment and tenacious performance
of the provnIcILldI diU adIUIIIL dl PLUJcLL dag1encie dIU LtIC dasULIciLa   utilities aniU etLerprises IesponIuible Luo
the water supply and land development components. Their hard work and persistent interest in bringing
their components to fruition overcame delays in the approval process; obstacles in project implementation;
unfamiliarity with the Association's procurement guidelines, especially lack of experience with turnkey
contracting; and inexperience with foreign consultants and contractors.
ZUDPO could have been more effective were it given the appropriate level of authority and adequate
resources to staff its office with  experenced project engineers and  financial accountants. Its function was
thus diminished to a document processing and reporting agency rather than an entity which participated in
the decision-making process in support of the municipal project activities. In light of these resource
constraints, ZUDPO's staff did an admirable job coordinating the activities of the international contractors
14 -



and consultants. processing disbursement requests in a timely mannger, and providing effective liaison with
the Association.
5.4 Costs and.financing:
Costs: Total project costs, excluding taxes and duties, are currently estimated at $250.7 million which is
8.5 percent higher than proiected at appraisal. The original SAR cost estimate amounted to $23 1 million.
Although actual inflation during the initial implementation period, 1993-95, considerably exceeded the 5
nercent rate exprected at prniert appraiis.l in dnllhr tprmn thesp increses werp larelyv nffset hv thp stepn
r  --   r -,--    ---                                           ~~ ~~~~~~~~__   _ -- __ _
devaluation of the Renminbi versus the U.S. dollar (from Y 5.47 at appraisal to the current rate of
exchange of YQ 89.30) and the r A-    of tAP l4.- inflation rtaftri 1995. In fact. T  of,  r
~ALflOlU~  11  U.3 I  ...t Cfll  IIItM UflL   ' .JI   -i . MJ.1  lhGLlll Ll.   WIA.l  t...J.  inI  IOct,  11O1)L  U   Ule
component cost increases resulted from design changes and the approved enlargement of the Ningbo Urban
Upgrading  component.  Tne provincia; puJect authorities aldlcateU at project come[IcemeIItIL spec111c
portions of the Credit amount to the four project municipalities and arduously monitored adherence to the
individual ailocations. Only towards the final phase of implementation, as it became ciear that some of the
software components would not be fully utilized, did they approach the Bank for reallocation approval. In
light of Ningbo's extremely expeditious completion of their urban infrastructure upgrading component, the
decision was made to permil: them additional works and the procurement of some road repair equipment.
To this end, four additional roads were added the component. Similarly, Shaoxing received additional
funding for an expansion of its sewerage network in the new development zone as well as conveyance
works for the sewage treatrment plant.
For the hardware components, the original cost estimation turned out to be quite realistic. The main reason
for the rnst iunderru,ns nf the znftwnrP r-cmnnnpnts i p  PnvirnnmPntq1 mnnagpmpnt and institutinna!
strengthening, was that the borrower failed to execute the physical quantities expected at appraisal. This
un .4er-perfor--ance  pdarticuldaily with, _ep- to techical_  -Aitac   and brinng _is not unqu ndi
UlU  1j lU 1 MIL,  pOLLIJU WILIL  MPL3U  LU  tLUUlll1Lal  C0313tMlIL1-   ailU  UIC1l1111lr,  1.a  IIUL  LuI..jM IICalU  1la
actually consistent with experience in many other Bank projects in China. The portfolio for the
environmental pilot fund aiso remained not fully subscrioDe as ZErF rouno it dirricuii to find viaDie
subproject candidates with sufficient repayment capabilities and the fund operation was taken over by the
Zhejiang Finance Bureau.
llhnCmal amount of the IDA      Credit was $103.9 million with an undisbursed amount of $5.7
million. Thus, IDA provided 4 1.5 percent of total project financing. The four project municipalities
provided funding amounting to the equivalent of $146.8 million in local currency, or 58.6 percent of total
project costs. The borrower's proportion of project financing exceeds the appraisal estimate, which had
estimated it at 48 percent. The main reason for this increase can be found in the reallocation of funding
from software components. which would have been financed by IDA at close to 100 percent, to civil works
which could only be IDA-financed at a rate of 55 percent. Also, only half of the equipment category was
utilized, again foregoing financing of l00 percent of foreign expenditures.
This nr%oirt pvnerieinrcd virtuallxy nn shnrtncye in rniinternprt fiinf,nc nrimnrilv hPcaiup the invnlvpd
project cities enjoyed solid economic development and invariably considered the project a very high priority
I   MI tl1   1 lll alldl  JJIC113 a01U  IJUUrVtZ.
Ie original cIosHig Uate -vvas f1rsuLy extendeu Dy LWU yedFs IrIm june oU, I;9  to juine 3U, LVVI to Pemlit
full disbursement of all components and to allow for additional time to prepare the Zhejiang Urban
Environment Project. Another extension was granted to December 3 1, 200 1.
(In January, 2002 the Board approved the amendment of the Development Credit Agreement to add a new
- 15 -



uisbursernerit category ror tne addition or a "now Disaster Recovery Componerit in Altai refecture or
the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region. This restructuring included an extension of the Credit to May
3 i, ZUUS. The pertormance of this new component is not covered in this Implementation Completion
Report.)
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Project sustainability is rated highly likely. The two water treatment plants in Hangzhou and Wenzhou as
vvelfl as tiUae rawv wvvater provision  in NI4ingboo are eVOssential elemnents in the pLrcJvision. of nji a  -LtiSfntoJly level of
quality and quantity of water to these three rapidly developing cities. Demand for additional residential
connecuons andu fr increaseUd inusrial usage is expected U for t[e fureseeable uture. TIle LOur proJect
cities, including Shaoxing, are in the process of expanding the current water supply capacity to cope with
predicted population and economic growth despite increasing conservation efforts and industrial water
recycling. The water utilities are expected to remain well managed and financially strong, provided average
water tariffs are increased reasonably and prudent cost control remains in place. In this context, it augurs
well that the water companies received approval to raise water tariffs four times during the project
implementation period (1993 - 1999), increasing the average rate between 5 and 6 times over this period.
However, rate increases are not automatic, but subject to political pressures. Therefore, some uncertainty
cannot be completely eliminated that in the future, rate adjustments will always be enough to defray
operational expenses. permit loan reDtayment and allow for all necessary maintenance investments. As the
standard of living of the urban population continues to rise, their willingness to pay for adequate water
supplz shnuld increase commennsurately. T.he nwnni water treatment plants and the installation of new testing
equipment are state-of-the-art facilites ensuring considerably lower operating costs for such items as
matrIi,als, ./Upeivisory staff and repair frequency. This should, over the econornn,l lifei of the fa-cilities,
translate into less frequent and lower tariff increases.
The sustainability of the infrastructure investments under the Shaoxing land development component and
the Ningbo urban services upgrading component is also highly likely. Both cities have derived enormous
benefits from their projects enabling their redeveloped areas to significantly grow population-wise and
economically. Their tax base has been increased manifold. In addition, the resettled population who
formerly had to live in dilapidated housing now lives in much better accommodations and can find
employment in the newly settled industrial enterprises. The public and industry alike are expected to
support their municipal government's efforts to properly maintain the urban areas, including providing for
efficient operation and maintenance of the project infrastructure.
The revolving environmental fund, the ZEF, has been discontinued and the outstanding balance will be
rpanid hi; the tnA-n nu,,hnrnioet entprnrkAise and the romninnder hi, the nrnovinria! finanrnn hburenau Cnonseqeantly,
there is no sustainability issue.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As indicated in the previous paragraph, the water utilities in the three project cities pride themselves of
nnpo .essing sen   of the mo st sophisticated technica! fac4fltles in Chlna. All three ha-ve ben nn-ra--ng, f-r
several years now  as regular  operations and have been managed  well by experienced staff. Consequently,
they a,e  well ubyondu ithe  UannatniLn  pnnse to ras.uian operarU.s UheIdL1U   1M conoUm11u   aIIU finIacILal conuitions of
these enterprises and their broader environment, such as the well-being of and support by the respective
cities, should not give rise to any concerns about their technicai capacity nor tneir financiai viability for tne
foreseeable future. The utilities use rolling long-ten-n plans and budgets to monitor their operations and
- 16 -



their financial needs. These planning and monitoring systems were set up under the proiect with the
assistance of international experts and some valuable input by staff from the Bank's Beijing office. There
also should be no concerns about the Shaoxing land development and  Ningbo urban upgrading components.
Both have been absorbed fully into the fabric of the cities and have become an integral part of the overall
infrastructure. The Av,re niaintenance and repair needs of roads, utilities and other service improvementc
are handled as part of the normal municipal works provision. Follow-up by the Association is neither
needed norI dllUWpdtLtU. INeverthless, the prepatIondldLU dl imiUplemi1enitaLuonI oL UlIe L.ueJ1ican1  LIUrIaI
Environment Project may avail the Association the opportunity to closely follow the future development of
the cities most likely included in the follow-up project, i.e., Hangzhou, Ningbo and Shaoxing.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. I Lending.
IDA's performance in the lending phase of' this project is rated satisfactory.
Project identification. The Aissociation's performance in identification and preparation was satisfactory.
An nrhnn sector work study titled "7hejiinng  Challenges of Ranid Urbanization" (Rpnort No. 66 12-CHA)
was carried out in 1987 by a experienced team of urban planners. The subsequent project lending activities
extensiiVel built tn "U results of t"1 U -ct.or volrk.  the i-.-tlflt tookA fl "Iccount of the borro.MM'
priorities and policies. At the same time, project identification focused on the critical development areas
UtbliJUeU ill Liltu VVUIIU DdlIK b elVirUlilellLlla bstratgy pldpel IUI l.,fld. ZbIUCU l1 tWil 1LUG
("China-Environmental Strategy Paper; Report No. 9669-CHA).
Project preparation was comprehensive. Due to its multicity and multisectoral approach, the project design
was exceedingly complex, but very clearly defined and specific. The Association raised serious concerns
about the environmental impact of the water supply and land development components. The government,
although fully cognizant of possible detrimental effects, was nevertheless reluctant to have environmental
elements in the Project because of it feared excessive complexity and had serious questions concerning
credit repayment for environmental investments. Because the borrower insisted on a pure water supply
Droiect without environmental considerations. the Association suspended project preparation for about one
year. Thereafter it was agreed to use a two-phased approach under which the first phase would include the
nrenpratinn nf a fnl!olAw-upn lntir nment2l nriorct
Asssisance to Borrower DI *rpon Phase. IDJCMA   efo...ance in assisting the bori..oer Is a   rated
satisfactory. All aspects of che Project were thoroughly prepared with Association insistence on the
employmnent of appropriate consultanib. In particular, tile ffeasiblliy studies of tile Utree-city water supply
component and the Shaoxirg land development component were reviewed by international consultants
funded under several trust funds.  In parallel, a comprehensive 'Hangzhou Bay Environmental Study" was
carried out to determine the influence of the Province's rapid growth in general and the impact of the
Project on the large estuarine and marine area of the Hangzhou Bay.
Appraisal. The Association's performance in appraisal is also rated satisfactory. The pre-ap praisal and
appraisal teams comprised experienced urban, water supply and wastewater experts as well as training and
financial specialists. The appraisal properly assessed the borrower's commitment to the project. It also did
an excellent iob in identifvin,g the strengths and weaknesses of the proiect offices at the various levels and
proposed an appropriate response to the perceived weaknesses in the form of consultant support, training
rrsiresc and overseas sti  tou..rs Th. ---l team p-nrereA an pnnraicsa renrort w11ith detailed
performance indicators, final terms of references for consultant assistance and study support. Inter alia, the
A-7



appraisal team proposed the use of turnkey  pro  ment for the water treatment plants whirh due to its
novelty in China, intensified and prolonged the bidding process, but in the end resulted in the construction
o0  modUem, etfLdLc1ent, ad.IU IlghI-qUdLLy fac..LILits.
7 97C 
IDA performance insuperisionwas also satisfactory. From prrect preparation to the completinn nf the
Associations' supervision, two task managers were assigned to the Project thus ensuring consistency of
aUViX. uUinig suptevision tL1e Assc itULIaoUn atleMU UIC  LUJCt  11LCa in adUrIIn1g Lu B^  roceuresand
guidelines on the one hand, but on the other exhibited sufficient flexibility when demanded for Project
benefit. ror example, in bo-uh tuhe Shaoxing and Ningbo components, additional works were approved,
within the project's scope but without exceeding Credit funding, to enhance urban development impact.
Supervision missions were frequent and intensive, commensurate with the compiexity of the Project. A
project management consulting firmn provided assistance to ZUDPO and the municipal project offices,
primarily during the bid document preparation, but also later to help in the training programs and the
numerous study tours. In addition, a senior Chinese engineering advisor was available virtually throughout
preparation and supervision to dispense advice to the Zhlejiang project entities and to function as liaison
between these entities and the Bank. This set-up proved to be of great value to all parties and contributed
greatly to the success of the Project. The supervision team did not hesitate to point at weaknesses and
failures during implementation and seek government intervention at the highest levels and report them to
Association management, such as when undue delays occured during the turnkey procurement process of
the two water treatment plants or when ZEF failed to prndiice attrartive s,nhnrniPct nronnsals.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance.
The Association's overall perfonrance is evaluated as satisfactory due the high quality and innovative
nature of its lending activities and its persistent, vet flexible and supportive role in project supervision.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower's performance in the lending activities is rated satisfactory. As this was the first
Bank-funded infrastructure project f'or the four project cities, the project staff had to acquaint themselves
with Bank requirements and guidelines. Although this was at times an unusual and difficult process, they
were driven by the goal of providing additional and better water to the citizenry and by relieving enormous
urban pressures from their inner cities. Despite its resource shortages, ZUDPO did a good job coordinating
the activities of the four proiPrt ritiep
7 5 Government implementation nerforniance:
The four city eovernments oerformed in a satisfactorv manner throughout the project cycle. Sufficient and
experienced project personnel were made available. A project leader group was created, usually headed by
a vice-maovnr and the necessarv   nnliries and regulations were promulgated. Counterpart funds were made
available to avoid delays in completing the works. Operational decisions were, to a large degree, left to the
respective project off:ces  The ProJect received broad attention and commitment at the highest level of the
city government. Shaoxing and Ningbo in particular displayed great ownership pride for their land
ueveloprm-ent components.
The provinciai government also accorded high priority to the Project. During the preparation stage, it
strongly supported the Project's objectives. The provincial governor intervened in a constructive way on
- 18 -



several occasions during the preparation stage when critical issues needed prompt resolution. The Credit
covenants were nearly all complied with. The main exception was a delay in the preparation of the
follow-un environmental proiect as it was initially taken out of the Bank's lending program for China.
Furthermore, as reported earlier, during Project implementation, because Credit proceeds accrued entirely
tn t-l, cities, th nFrovinciall finance bureau was. hesitant tn provide funding to th n ntitloc at tho prvlncia!
level involved in the Project, such as to ZUDPO and ZEPB. Noteworthy on the positive side is the
r             J....r              rr       An] - lAnA
fUur-tLime upwardU adUJustmrent ol0 water tallS 11111 1993 LU ;999.
7.6 ir,pfle tiLurg tAgency.
Tho nprformance nf the five vml1man,aoA and adequately staffe r.urncinol nrnort nffi-cc  -is A rat   highl,
satisfactory. During the lending and implementation phases, their managers and staff worked hard and
...ttl                                                         -_r: 1 _- ._..             _1_  _   k1_ wA-   -r  .X_ _._rr
wIth great dUevotion andU personal commitim-ient to ach:ileving tile goals of theirII cIomIpUoitsillb. IVIbot Ol tilte stdl,
especially the senior managers, remained in their posts for the entire project implementation period
guaranteeing  continuity and  uninterrupted  support. Several have been promoted to higher positions as a
result of their contributions and particular- expertise acquired under the Project. The project offices
responsible for the water supply components struggled in the beginning to become familiar with Bank
procedures, in particular with guidelines for turnkey contracts which were a novelty to them. In this
context, not all advice they sought from international consultant firms was as effective as it should have
been. However, after the turnkey contracts were signed, the work proceeded exceedingly well and the final
product has been exemplary. Every one ot the major infrastructure components was completed within the
original proiect implementation period. The two-and-one-half year extension of the Closing Date was
requested mainly to allow the delayed preparation of the follow-up environmental project. All project
offlces as well as the water utilities madeoonnd use nfthe nffered training programs and the overseas study
tours. Their contribution to quarterly progress reporting was timely and after initial "teething" problems,
on dfhe ...ark. T.he annual a it r t  for t   UtJJct VYQO usually tflir one receiVedU il U  UJIL.
7.7 Overall Borrowver joct-fl-mro.ce.
The overall government performance onn hp consideprpd raiifaetary. Tts rnmmitmpnt tn the Project
remained strong and supportive during the lending and supervision phases of the Project. Although the
environm..ental aspects ofthe I -J-ct -cei.veA     1-O3 Olessatenio th-a t+h- water -up-y -AU lIan
development components which comprise more than 96 percent of total project costs, the preparation of the
follow-up Zhiejiang Urban Environment Project is now wei underway and the project is included in tne
FY03 lending program.
The following lessons can be learned from the implementation of this project.
*      Not a new lesson, but still the key to a project's success or failure is the continuity and quality of
key personnel on thp hnrrnwer's as well as nn the Azssciatinn's end-. With the richt npeonle in nlarp
complex urban projects, albeit more time-consuming in their preparation and their supervision, can be
implemented  .u.c....ully.
*       Turnkey contracts can be a desirable vehicle for implementing iarge water supply or wastewater
projects. Although the two-stage bidding process may be more time-consuming, it normally results in
superior technical designs and a high quality output. The Project has proven this notion convincingly for
A19-



the water sector. Its repnlirtion, Pepecinlly in Chinan shnild hb pursued broad"ly
*   During preparation it                                           -I imolan -o onl to reie -h -ralaoa  -e-po  r
-    LJU~11I jJ    LIG0UII IL 13 JilIjUILdaIIL II'JL UlII1y LuJ ICVIZW Lllt; UIra1I1ILdUU11I CL OLUj Ul jJIUJC~LL
management, but also to ensure that there is an explicit commitment by the authorities to provide adequate
funding for these units, especlally Dy tnose wno nave a coordinating and iiaison runction.
*       Cultural preservation of historic buildings can be effectively integrated with urban development. If
done properly, it can raise ownership pride and commitment by the implementing agencies as well as
appreciation and support by the citizens.
e       Particularly in projects which require a high degree of technical assistance, the selection of good
consultants can make or break a proiect. Considerable attention bv the borrower and the Association is
required to ensure the firms' continued commitment to the project. The borrower can benefit most if it uses
management rAnnl1tnt- tn heln in the docici.n-rinkina nmracC rather than merely, as a souirrc for technirna
and electronic information. If individual consultants do not meet expectations, the borrower should
prompuly seek approprIate
*       Training programs and study tours need to be carefully timed as there is tne foliowing dilemma:
When training is needed the most in early project cycle, key personnel are the least likely to attend because
of project start-up problems. Later, some training may be too late to be fully effective, such as courses in
project management, construction engineering, or procurement methods. Early and intensive training in
Bank procurement guidelines can pay off handsomely.
e       Revolving funds in the environmental area can be viable and productive in pollution abatement.
Other proiects were modeled after the Zheiiang Multicities Proiect. However, it is imperative to assign this
task to a strong agency with solid experience with environmental issues in industry and the autonomy to
select subprojects in a systematic and objhctive mnner NAnoreover the method hy wAIhich the Credit can be
repayed without substantially decreasing the portfolio's funding base needs to be predetermined early on.
9- Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implemen ting agency:
Regarding the ICR prepared by the World Bank, we think that basically the report objectively and
completely presents the situation of preparation and implementation of the whole Zhejiang Multicities
Development Project, which summarizes the experiences that we obtained and the lessons as to why some
subcomponents did   not achieve  expected objectives. The performance of the World Bank and the
beneficiaries, as well as the outcome of each component (subproject), have been appraised appropriately.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector).
Not applicable.
10. Additonal Informauon
- 20 -



JJLInex  '. Ke3y Perfor.. ..ceAl U ILrdicatI o      1Log A' I a       ll IMztriA
OM.OOme~   114JO   I         a.^.  niwo
IndicatorlMatrix                         Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest  Estimate
Hangzhou Water Supply Beneficiaries         1 .1 million                                1 1million
WTP   Employees                          166                                         80
Ningbo Water Supply Beneficiaries           725,000                                    880,000
Raw Water Supply Employees              50                                          50
W enzhou Water Supply Beneficiaries         487.000                                     555,000
Xishan VVTP Employees                   65                                          30
Shaoxing Land Development Area              z07 ha (SAR)                               207 na, (First Pnase)
Additional  Polulation                  35,000 (SAR)                                35,000
Addit-onuf EnIerprises                 1N  given in SAR                            180 with Y 6.400 millnn invevtment
Peasants Resettled                    12,400                                       2,400
NJinngbo Urban Upgrading -Achieved                                                     Achieved
Preservation of Cultural Heritage
Persons Resettled                       25,000 (SAR)                                5,910
Output Indicators:
IndicatorlMatrix                         Projected in last PSR                      ActuaULatest Estimate
[lotai mangznou Water Suppiy Capacitiy             rtuui "rla", ko/mi)                   .   ilulII
Ningbo Raw Water, increase1250,000 m3ld (SAR)                                          1280,00n mnrd
Wenzhou Water Supply Capacity               70,000 m3/d (SAR)                           100,000 m3/d
Boost Pump Strt-on                       60 000 m3I/d  SARI                          150.000 m31d
Water Transmission Main                  DN1400 (SAR)                                DN 1600
Shaoxino Land Development
Ningbo Urban Upgrading: No. of Roads       4                                           8
Traffic Jams per day                     21 before Project completion               0o after Project completion
End of project



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
[                                     | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Appraisal  |Actual/Latest |Percentage of|
Estimate       Estimate        Appraisai
Project Cost By Component                US$ million    JUS$ million
Hangzhou Water Supply                                    42.70           51.52             121
INingbo Water SuDplY                                     33.70            35.74             106
Wenzhou Water Supply                                     23.60            27.33             116
SIShaoxiing TLand Dfel vanno nt                         -3.70            41.96              114
Environmental Management                                  5.50            0.53               10
Institutional  Strengthening                              6.60             i.8i              29
|Ningbo Urban Upgrading                                  30.60            89.15             291
[ Environrnent Fund                                 {     4.70    J        2.57              55
[Total Baseline Cost                                     184.10          250.69
Physical Contingencies                                  22.60
Price Contingencies                                     24.30
Total Project Costs              23 1.00          250.69
Total Financing Required                23 i .0         2506.9i
- 22 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure  Category  I     ICB        Procurement Method              N.BF.       Total Cost
NCB         ~                 .BF 
it. Works                  |    92.80     |    44.20          0.00           6.80     |    143.80
1                              (51.00)    1    (27.80)       (0.00)       1 1(0.00),      (78.80)
12. Goods                  I     3.50     1     2.00     1     1.00     I    0.00     |     6.50
|  |  (3.30)         (1.50)        (0.80)         (0.00)        (5.60),
3. Services                     0.00           0.00           26.70          0.00     1    26.70
Technical Assistance andl       (0.00)         (0.00)        (21.10)        (0.00)        (21.10)
Il rdmnmng 
4- Land Acquisition             0.00           0.00           0.00          25.20     |    25.20
______ ____ (U .O   )  j  (U.UU)  ( M.UO )   kU.UU)       (IO.00)U
6. Housing Upgrading;           0.00           0.00           5.00          23.90         28.90
ICResettlement and              (0.00)         (0.00)         (4.50)         (0.00)       (4.50)
Conservation Programs;                    I
Environmental Pollution      _
Control5                        
Total                        96.30          46.20          32.70          55.90        231.10
(54.30))       (29.30)        (26.40)        (0.00)       (110.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Prnerirmpnt Mpthod' 
Expenditure Category   r     ICB           NCB           Other          N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                        92.91          86.9 1         0.00          0.00         179.82
______________ _____________ (57.45)   (35.63)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (93.08)
2. Goods                   |    3.10           0.0            0.00          0.00          3.10
1oods. 0() 1                                  !°.°°1           nn)         (n n          (3 I!)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00          5.15           0.00          5.15
Technicai Assistance and        (0.00)        (0.00)         (5. 15)   ;    u.uui        (5.15)
Training,II
4. Land Acquisition             0.00           0.00           0.00       14.57            14.57
(n on)         (n on)        (n on)        (n nn)        (n On) 
6. Housing Upgrading;           0.00           0.00           2.57          45.48         48.05
IResettlement and               (0.00)    |    (0.00)    |    (2.57)        (0.00)        (2.57)
|Conservation  Programs;:
lEnvironmental Pollution
jControl.
w               ,              ~       ~      ~      ~      ~       ~     ~      ~     ~~~.  .  .  
Totall                  |    96.01     ,    86.91          7.72          60.05        250.69
(60.55) '      (35.63).       (7.72),       (0.00-,   1  (103.90)
I Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
i' includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, trainino, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government urits.
23 -



- 24 -



Annex   3   Fonnnmic (Cnots     n ti Renfits
Internal Econonic Rate of Rate
SAR                      ICR
Water   Supply   Components                                15.6 percent             17.0 percent
Shaoxing Land Development Component                       24.9 percent              28.4  percent
Ningbo Urban Infrastructure Upgrading                     23.8 percent              (23.8  percent)*
Wi.ght*ed Average                                          19.0  percent            20.Q  percent
* Because of lack of precise benefit data the ERR for this component was conservatively assumed to be the same as the one
estimated at appraisal.
L2 -



Annex 4. Bank inputs
%ol Uidninrn
U1E 4Y;5,fLnst.
Stage of Project Cycle                     No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
2 P               I  h r_,1            implementation 1 V     ______
W5  ~~  t&.UiktS*IIIOLO,  I  I± ±YflJ,1U LtdLJ  I I  J-jtVeiUPiiieiit
Month/Year      Count            Specialty                         Progress.     Objective:
Identification/Preparation
Sept 1987                      6    I economist, 1 engineer, 1 urban
economist, 2 urban development
specialist, 1 urban economist,
October 1989                   6    1 economist, 1 water supply
engineer, 1 land development
specialist, 1 sanitary engineer, 1
environmental specialist, 1
Fnanciai analyst
November 1990                  6    I financial analyst, 1 water
supply engineer, 1 traffic
engineer, I land development
speciaiist, I sanitary engineer, 1
procurement specialist
April i99 1                    4     1 financiai analyst, 1
environmental specialist, 1
marine ecology, i marine
engineering
rre-appraisai:                 o      inanciai analyst, i instituionain
September 1991 i                    specialist, 1 traffic engineer, 1
urban planrnertlanu ueveiopmentL
specialist, 1 sanitary engineer, 1
l                   l               | ~~~~~~~~~~procurement speciallst
IAprprssait/iIegotiatio-n                        JLLI[tIi     PLW
March 1992                     8    2 financial analysts, 2
eneineers, 1 environmental
engineer, 1 urban
development specialist, 1
technical advisor, I staff
assistant
Supervision  Aprl l994                           I financial analyst, 1               HS HI
environmental engineer, 2
sanitary enoineers 1
r)r nhpr I Q-q4                     technical advisor
1 !architect 1 envirnnmental   I      STH
engineer, I sanitary engineer, 1
fnrilanalyst, 1 technical
|                   |               | ~~~~~~~~~~~~advisor
May 1995          I            2   1 ! sanitary enineer I technical       S               S
I            I | advisor
March 1996         I               1   nnitarv Pnoinppr 1 finnncinl       S               S
analyst, I disbursement officer, 1
tterhnircl advisnr
March 1997         j           3 |      financial analyst, I municipal    U              U
- 26 -



l  I            I en2inccr, I technical advisor
September 1997                 3    1 municipal engineer, 1 technical    U              S
advisor, I utility finance expert
June 1998                      2    1 municipal engineer, 1 technical     S
advisor
December 1998                  3    1 municipal engineer, 1              S S
institutional expert, 1 financial
specialist
July 1999                      2    1 municipal engineer. 1 technical     S              S
advisor
October 1999                   4    l municipal engineer, 1 financial     S              S
analyst, I institutional expert, 1
translator
October 2000                   2    1 municipal engineer, 1 technical     S              S
advisor
ICR
June 20A0A                     A     I Mur,ic-pa er,gineer,I             S
economist. 1 technical
advisor, 1 translator
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cyde            N          Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks      __        US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                 292.8                         634.0
Appraisal/Negotiation                       90.0          j               181.8
Supervision                                160.0                         527.9
ICR                                          4.0                          26.0
Total                                      546.8                        1,369.7
I..
Dollar costs prior to FYOO were increased by 15% to bring them into line with the direct costing method
ct<rtea in FY00.
27



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=Hig,'., JU=-UUstn4tiaJ, MiVModes, ±N4NC51blUe, NA=Not Aplicable)
Rating
F-I                             n ri~~~~~fl   n cT T  Afl n fATg *ATi
"  iviau  U  JU Va ir.1                         '-  I. '-  '-'"  1  - 1
O Sector Policies                          0 H   *SUO/M 0 N         O NA
-   ~   .,  r~  ?RT  Ar,
O Physical                                   H O SU O M O       N     OV/A
OI Financial                               O H   *SUOM O        N   O NA
U     insttutonal Development             0  H    S SU 0 M 0    N  1    NA
rO Environmental                           0 H   *SUOM       0 N    O NA
Social
O    Poverty Reduction              O H   O S U 0 M    ON   *NA
LI2 Gender                          O H   O S U O M    ON   ANA
X Other (Please specify)            * H O S U 0 M      ON    O NA
Cultural Heritage Conservation
O     Private sector development          O H   O S U O M    ON    * NA
O Public sector management                0 H   * SU 0 M 0 N 0 NA
Cl Other (Please specify)                    H  OSUOM       O N   ONA
- 28 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(BHS=HighIv Satisfartorv R=SRtizfnrtory I I=1 Insti'fnrctorv HI =ihfhlyv Unstfact"rvI
6.1 Bank nerformnance                                Rating
O   Lending                                          OHS      S   O u    n HyU
Z Supervision                                        OHS OS       OU     O HU
O 0verall                                            OHS H    S   O U    C) HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
D   Preparation                                      OHS OS       OU     0 HU
U  4overnment implementation  performance           C0 HS * S     0  U   0 HU
U Nnplementation agency performance                  * HS OS      0 U    O HU
O Overall                                            OHS OS       OU     O HU
29



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
i. Staff Appraisal Report, Report No. I i262-CHA, dated February 22, i993
2. Development Credit Agreement, dated May 18, 1993
3. Project Agreement, dated May 18, 1993
4. Regional and Departmental Files
5. Borrower's ICR Report, dated December 1999
6. Additional Information Requested and Submitted by Implementation Agencies
7. Final Report: Hangzhou CBD Traffic Engineering and Management Study, July 1999
8. Survey Report on Resettlement Work for Ningbo Urban Infrastructure Upgrading Component,
November 1998
Q. Review nf FA/F.MP in TLrgp UTrhbn Fnvirnnmental Prnircts in C-hina & Indonesia - Ningbo
Municipality, May 1999
in WldAhA  Dank Pub-1-ation: Cae StudAy  Ninahg  China (ii1htimrl Heritnag C'.nmPrvntinn in Ulrhbn
Upgrading, May 1999
!I. P'ubication: Hangzhou Day Environmental Study, Publication uy DJetL ILyu1auln, 197
12. Publication: Wenzhou New Xishan Water Treatment Plant by Austrian Energy & Environment,
undated
- 30 -






iMAGiING
Report No.:        23946
Type:t%-  ICR



