Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2475 CHA
(Zhejiang Multicities Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
ZHEJIANG PROVINCE
Dated May 18, 1993
CREDIT NUMBER 2475 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 18, 1993, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and ZHEJIANG PROVINCE (Zhejiang).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to seventy-nine million three 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 79,300,000), on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that Zhejiang 
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS Zhejiang, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Zhejiang declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this 
end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practices, 
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and Zhejiang shall otherwise agree:
(i)
Zhejiang shall carry out the Parts A, B, C, D, E and F of the 
Project in 
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth 
in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; and
 
(ii)
Zhejiang shall carry out Part G of the Project in accordance with 
Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
 
(c)
Zhejiang shall relend the respective portions of the proceeds of the 
Credit to the Project Cities on the following principal terms and conditions:
(i)
repayment over a period not exceeding fifteen years, including 
five years of 
grace;
 
(ii)
interest to be paid by the Project Cities at the rate of 5.1% per 
annum;
(iii)
the Project Cities shall bear all foreign exchange risk;
 
(iv)
commitment charges shall be paid by the Project Cities at a fixed 
rate of 
one-half of one percent per annum.
 
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Zhejiang shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating respectively 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Zhejiang shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance 
of its obligations under
this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
Zhejiang shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by Zhejiang and the Project Cities of their respective 
obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Zhejiang shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records 
Page  3
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of Zhejiang and 
the Project Cities responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
Zhejiang shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association.
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
 
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
Zhejiang thereunder shall terminate on:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in 
accordance with its terms; or
 
(ii)
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify Zhejiang of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
Page  4
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC),
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For Zhejiang:
Zhejiang Provincial People's Government
No. 1 Sheng Fu Road
Hangzhou, Zhejiang Province
310025
People's Republic of China
Telex:
350241 FBZPE CN
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Zhejiang may 
be taken or executed by Vice Governor or such other person or persons as Vice Governor 
shall designate in writing, and Zhejiang shall furnish to the Association sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Shahid J. Burki
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
ZHEJIANG PROVINCE
By  /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
May 1992 (the Guidelines).  For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred 
to in paragraph 2.13 of the guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is 
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price 
Page  5
will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors 
acceptable to the Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency components 
and the other to the local currency component of the bid price.  Such an increase 
shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
2.
Bidders for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more shall 
be prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
3.
To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped into bid packages 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $4,000,000 in the case of civil works, and 
$200,000 in the case of goods.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Preference for Domestic Contractors
 
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, China may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in 
accordance with, and subject to,  the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $4,000,000 or less per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $45,000,000, and goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000
or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $2,000,000, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised 
locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to $1,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of comparison
of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the 
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for civil works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $2,000,000 or more and each contract for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. When payments for such contract are to be 
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the 
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association 
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the 
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. When payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified 
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other 
information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the 
Association as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
Page  6
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist Zhejiang and the Project Cities in carrying out the Project, 
Zhejiang and the Project Cities shall employ consultants whose qualifications, 
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the 
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and 
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use 
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent each.  However, this exception to prior Association review shall 
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts nor to the employment of 
individuals, to single source selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature 
as reasonably determined by the Association and to amendments of contracts raising the 
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
Part A:
Project Management
 
1.
Zhejiang shall maintain the Zhejiang Urban Development Project Office, and shall 
cause each Project City to establish and maintain a Project Management Office, through 
completion of the Project in order to direct and supervise the implementation of the 
Project, all with management personnel, functions and responsibilities acceptable to 
the Association, staffed by competent staff in adequate numbers.
2.
Zhejiang shall cause each Project City and ZEF: (a) to implement the Project in 
accordance with annual operation action plans, satisfactory to the Association; and 
(b) to provide to the
Association by November 1 of each year through completion of the Project, the next 
years' operation action plan for review and comment by the Association.
3.
Zhejiang shall ensure that all training under Parts C.2 and D.2 of the Project 
shall be carried out in accordance with a program acceptable to the Association.
4.
Zhejiang shall, and shall cause the Project Cities to:
 
(a)
carry out the resettlement of people under each of their respective 
portions of the Project in a manner and according to a schedule satisfactory to the 
Association; and
(b)
report on the progress of carrying out the resettlement plan using 
monitoring indicators acceptable to the Association.
Part B:
Water Supply and Land Development
 
1.
Zhejiang shall cause each of the Project Cities of Hangzhou, Ningbo and  Wenzhou 
to enter into a subsidiary loan agreement with its respective Water Company, and shall 
cause Shaoxing to enter into subsidiary loan agreements with each of its Land 
Development Companies on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, which 
shall include:
(a)
each of the Water Companies shall carry out its respective portions of 
Part A of the Project, and the Land Companies carry out Part B of the Project, all 
with due diligence and
efficiency, and in conformity with appropriate industrial and environmental practices;
Page  7
(b)
the proceeds of the Credit allocated to the respective portion of the 
Project shall be relent to each Company on the following principal terms and 
conditions:
(i)
repayment over a period not exceeding fifteen years, including 
five years of 
grace;
 
(ii)
interest to be paid by the Company at the variable rate charged by 
the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for 
multi-currency loans;
 
(iii)
the Company to bear all foreign exchange risk; and
 
(iv)
commitment charges to be paid by the Company at the fixed rate of 
one-half of 
one percent per annum;
 
(c)
the financial covenants set forth in paragraph 2 below; and
 
(d)
each Company shall;
 
(i)
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance 
with sound 
accounting practices, its operations and financial 
condition.
(ii)
(A)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association;
(B)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not 
later than six months after the end of each such 
year: (1) certified 
copies of its financial statements for 
such year as so audited, and (2) 
the report of such audit by said 
auditors of such scope and in such 
detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(C)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as 
the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
2.
(a)
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, each Water Company shall 
from time to time take, or cause to be taken, all such measures (including, without 
limitation, adjustments of the levels of its tariffs as determined by the respective 
Project City) as shall be required to produce total operating revenues equivalent to 
not less than the sum of: (i) its total operating expenses; and (ii) increases in 
working capital, debt service and at least 33% of such Water Company's three-year 
average annual investment plan.
(b)
For the purposes of this paragraph 2:
 
(i)
the term "total operating revenues" means the sum of revenues from 
all sources 
related to operations and net non-operating income;
 
(ii)
the term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of revenues in (A) above;
 
(iii)
the term "debt service" means interest and other charges on debt; 
repayment of 
loans (including sinking fund payments, if any); all taxes 
Page  8
or payments in lieu 
of taxes; allocations to special funds and 
other cash distributions of 
surplus funds (including 
mandatory transfers to the Project City); and any 
other cash 
outflows (other than capital expenditures) related to operations;
(iv)
the term "total operating expenses" means the sum of expenses 
related to 
operations, including maintenance and administration 
but excluding 
depreciation;
 
(v)
the term "debt" means any indebtedness of a Water Company maturing 
by its 
terms more than one year after the date on which it 
is originally incurred;
(vi)
debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms 
of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been 
entered into;
(vii)
the term "three-year average annual investment plan" means the 
average of: (A) 
the previous year's actual capital expenditures; (B) 
the current year's 
planned capital expenditure; and (C) the next 
year's projected capital 
expenditure;
 
(viii) the term "working capital" means the difference between current 
assets and 
current liabilities at the end of the year;
 
(ix)
the term "current assets" means all assets which could in the 
ordinary course 
of business be converted into cash within twelve 
months, including accounts 
receivable, marketable securities, 
inventories, pre-paid expenses properly 
chargeable to 
operating expenses within the next fiscal year;
(x)
the term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which would 
become due 
and payable or could under circumstances then existing be 
called for payment 
within twelve months, including accounts payable, 
customer advances, debt 
service requirements, taxes and payments 
in lieu of taxes; and
(xi)
whenever for the purposes of this paragraph it shall be necessary 
to value, in 
terms of Renminbi, debt payable in another currency, such 
valuation shall be 
made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of 
exchange at which such 
other currency is, at the time of such 
valuation, obtainable for the purposes 
of servicing such debt, or, in 
the absence of such rate, on the basis of a 
rate of exchange 
acceptable to the Association.
3.
Zhejiang shall cause Shaoxing Municipality to ensure that its Land Development 
Companies:
(a)
carry out acquisition of land required to carry out Part B of the Project 
in a manner and in accordance with a time schedule satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
set prices to use the land developed under the Project, in accordance 
with a methodology and criteria acceptable to the Association, and which shall be set 
taking into consideration, market conditions and the costs of acquiring land, 
resettlement costs, infrastructure investments made, management and marketing costs, 
operating expenses and debt service; and
(c)
make the use of land and improvements developed under the Project 
available to both domestic and foreign companies and individuals.
Part C:
Urban Environmental Management and Protection
 
1.
Zhejiang shall cause Ningbo Municipality to strengthen its Conservation 
Department, including providing sufficient resources to improve its data base on 
Page  9
cultural assets and to permit such Department to participate in the implementation of 
civil works to preserve cultural assets.
2.
Zhejiang shall:
 
(a)
carry out the study under Part C.1 of the Project with the assistance of 
consultants and under terms of reference acceptable to the Association by December 31, 
1994;
(b)
ensure that each Project City shall carry out the studies under Part C.2 
of the Project with the assistance of consultants under terms of reference acceptable 
to the Association
by December 31, 1995; and
(c)
provide the results of each study referred to in subparagraphs (a) and 
(b) above to the Association for its review and comment within six months of the 
completion of each such study.
3.
Zhejiang shall cause the management and operations of ZEPB to be strengthened 
by, among other things, developing an environmental information center within ZEPB, 
with the assistance of consultants and under terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association.
SCHEDULE 3
Procedures and Terms and
Conditions for ZEF Subloans
Part A:
Terms and conditions of ZEF Subloans
 
1.
Zhejiang shall:
 
(a)
make a portion of the proceeds available to ZEF, under terms and 
conditions acceptable to the Association, for purposes of carrying out Part G of the 
Project and which shall include terms equivalent to those set forth in paragraph 
2.01(c) of this Agreement; and
(b)
ensure that ZEF extend ZEF Subloans to enterprises through PCBC as the 
financial agent of ZEF on the following principal terms and conditions:
(i)
ZEF Subloans shall bear interest on the principal amount withdrawn 
and 
outstanding from time to time, at a rate not less than the 
variable rate 
payable paid by borrowers of multi-currency 
loans from the International Bank 
for Reconstruction and 
Development plus a spread of one and one-half percent 
(1.5%);
 
(ii)
the repayment periods for ZEF Subloans shall not exceed five 
years, including 
two years of grace;
 
(iii)
commitment charges shall be paid on the undisbursed balance of ZEF 
Subloans at 
the rate of one-half of one percent per annum;
 
(iv)
each Subborrower shall bear the foreign exchange risk associated 
with its ZEF 
Subloan;
 
(v)
criteria for economic appraisal of proposed ZEF Subprojects shall 
include, 
inter alia, determination that the proposed ZEF 
Subproject is the least-cost 
method of mitigating an identified 
environmental pollution control problem;
(vi)
criteria for financial appraisal shall include a determination 
that the 
Subborrower is financially viable and shall remain 
financially viable after 
the ZEF Subproject is completed and has 
reached full production capacity.
(vii)
criteria for technical appraisal shall include an assessment of 
the impact of 
the proposed ZEF Subproject on pollution prevention 
Page  10
and reduction and 
compliance with national and local 
environmental regulations;
(viii) PCBC shall not disburse funds on any ZEF Subloan unless:
 
(1)
the Subborrower has completed an environmental impact 
assessment report 
for the ZEF Subproject which has been approved 
by the municipal 
environmental protection bureau;
 
(2)
and the municipal environmental protection agency and 
planning 
commission have approved the ZEF Subproject.
 
2.
Eligibility Criteria:
 
(a)
Eligible Subprojects shall be for activities which shall have been 
approved by the Association to mitigate environmental pollution control problems.
(b)
The maximum amount of ZEF Subproject shall be $1,500,000 equivalent and 
the maximum amount of a ZEF Subloan shall be 80% of total ZEF Subproject costs.
Part B:
Implementation Arrangements
 
Zhejiang shall cause ZEF to enter into a financial agency agreement with PCBC, 
acting through its Zhejiang Provincial Branch, on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association, under which:
(a)
PCBC shall act as financial agent for ZEF in carrying out Part G of the 
Project and shall be responsible for appraisal of ZEF Subprojects and disbursement and 
collection of repayments under ZEF Subloans; and
(b)
as part of its responsibility for appraisal of ZEF Subprojects, PCBC 
shall enter into a technical appraisal agreement with agencies or institutes, 
acceptable to the Association, under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, and shall obtain the approval of 
the Association prior to making any additional arrangements for assistance in 
technical appraisal.
Part C:
Procedures for Processing Subloans
 
1.
Zhejiang shall ensure that the following procedures for processing ZEF Subloans 
are followed by ZEF and PCBC:
(a)
Prior to detailed appraisal of proposed ZEF Subprojects, the 
environmental protection bureau of the relevant Project City shall furnish to the 
Association for its approval a statement of the eligibility of the ZEF Subproject, 
including a quantification of the environmental impact and a description of priority 
under the municipal environmental strategy and action plan.
(b)
After detailed appraisal of proposed ZEF Subprojects, ZEF shall furnish 
to the Association for its approval a full appraisal report.  After reviewing at least 
seven ZEF Subprojects, the Association may notify Zhejiang and the Borrower, in 
writing, of an amount of total ZEF Subproject costs below which ZEF Subprojects no 
longer require prior approval of the Association in accordance with this paragraph.  
ZEF Subprojects below such amount shall be reviewed by the Association in accordance 
with subparagraph (c) below.
(c)
For any other ZEF Subproject, ZEF shall furnish to the Association a 
request for authorization to make withdrawals from the Credit Account, along with a 
summary of the ZEF Subproject and the ZEF Subloan.
(d)
For all ZEF Subprojects, ZEF shall furnish to the Association all such 
information as it shall reasonably request concerning ZEF Subprojects, Subborrowers 
and ZEF Subloans.
(e)
No expenditures for goods or services required for a ZEF Subproject shall 
be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit unless the Association 
shall have given its approval or authorization as required under paragraphs (b) and 
Page  11
(c) above and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety days 
prior to the date on which the Association received the appraisal report or ZEF 
Subproject summary under said paragraphs (b) and (c).
2.
ZEF Subloans shall be made on terms whereby ZEF shall obtain, by written 
contract with the Subborrower or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to 
protect the interests of the
Association and PCBC, including the right to:
(a)
require the Subborrower to carry out and operate the ZEF Subproject with 
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial and 
managerial standards and to maintain adequate records;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods, works and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
1 to this Agreement and
(ii) such goods, works and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of 
the ZEF Subproject;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association if 
the Association shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and 
construction included in the ZEF Subproject, the operation thereof, and any relevant 
records and documents;
(d)
require that: (i) the Subborrower shall take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall 
be consistent with sound
business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance 
shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to the place of use or installation, any 
indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the Subborrower 
to replace or repair such goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Association or ZEF shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the
Subborrower and to the benefits to be derived from the ZEF Subproject; and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Subborrower to the use of the 
proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such Subborrower to perform its obligations 
under its contract with ZEF.
