Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2475 CHA
(Zhejiang Multicities Development Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 18, 1993
CREDIT NUMBER 2475 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 18, 1993, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Zhejiang Province (Zhejiang) with the 
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to Zhejiang the
proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and Zhejiang;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Company"; means any one of the Water Companies or Land Development 
Companies;
(b)
"Financial Agency Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
pursuant to paragraph 1, Part B of Schedule 3 to the Project Agreement between ZEF and 
PCBC under which PCBC will act as the financial agent of ZEF for purposes of making 
ZEF Subloans under the Project;
(c)
"ha" means hectare;
 
(d)
"km" means kilometer;
 
(e)
"Land Development Companies" means SADC and SMCC; 
 
(f)
"PCBC" means People's Construction Bank of China, a specialized bank 
established and operating under its Charter; 
(g)
"PMOs" means the Project Management Offices, established pursuant to 
Paragraph 1, Part A of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, by each of the Project 
Cities; "PMO" means any one of the PMOs;
(h)
"Project Cities" means Hangzhou Municipality, Ningbo Municipality, 
Shaoxing Municipality, and Wenzhou Municipality in Zhejiang Province;
(i)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and 
Zhejiang Province (Zhejiang), of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from 
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Project Agreement;
(j)
"Renminbi" means the currency of the Borrower;
 
(k)
"SADC" means the Shaoxing Area Development Commission; 
 
(l)
"SMCC" means the Shaoxing Municipal Construction Commission;
 
(m)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(n)
"Subborrower" means a small-scale or medium-scale industrial enterprise 
to which a ZEF Subloan has been made or is proposed to be made;
(o)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the agreements to be entered into by 
each of the Project Cities with its respective Water Company or Land Development 
Companies in accordance with Part B.1 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
(p)
"Water Companies" means the Hangzhou Municipal Water Company, the Ningbo 
Municipal Water Company, and the Wenzhou Municipal Water Company; " Water Company" 
means any one of the Water
Companies;
(q)
"ZEF" means the Zhejiang Environmental Fund, established by Zhejiang by 
Charter, approved by the Zhejiang People's Government on January 20, 1993 and 
Page  3
registered with the Zhejiang Provincial Bureau of Commerce and Industry on February 
27, 1993; "Charter" means the Charter establishing ZEF;
(r)
"ZEF Subloan" means a subloan made, or proposed to made, by ZEF, 
utilizing the proceeds of the Credit, to a subborrower for purposes of financing a ZEF 
Subproject, and which comply with the terms and conditions of Schedule 3 to the 
Project Agreement;
(s)
"ZEF Subproject" means a specific investment project designed to abate 
pollution created by a small-scale or medium-scale industrial enterprise in an urban 
area; to be financed or proposed to be financed by ZEF pursuant to a ZEF Subloan 
utilizing the proceeds of the Credit;
(t)
"ZEPB" means the Zhejiang Environmental Protection Bureau;
 
(u)
"Zhejiang" means Zhejiang Province of the Borrower; and
 
(v)
"ZUDPO" means the Zhejiang Urban Development Project Office, established 
pursuant to Part A.1 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies
equivalent to seventy-nine million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
79,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made or, if the
Association shall so agree to be made, in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Page  4
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
March 1 and September 1
commencing September 1, 2003 and ending March 1, 2028. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on March 1, 2013 shall be one and one-fourth percent 
(1-1/4%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of 
such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms 
of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association 
may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the 
amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with 
the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall 
not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment 
modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of 
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, shall cause 
Zhejiang to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the 
obligations of Zhejiang
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate 
to enable Zhejiang to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall onlend the proceeds of the Credit to Zhejiang  on the 
following principal terms and conditions:
(i)
repayment over a period not exceeding fifteen years, including 
five years of 
grace;
 
(ii)
interest to be paid by Zhejiang at the rate of 5.1% per annum;
 
Page  5
(iii)
all foreign exchange risks to be borne by Zhejiang; and
 
(iv)
commitment charges to be paid by Zhejiang at a fixed rate of 
one-half of one 
percent per annum.
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating respectively to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) shall be carried out by 
Zhejiang pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project  Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year 
in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested, including a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Zhejiang shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement;
Page  6
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that Zhejiang will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Project Agreement;
(c)
any party to the Financial Agency Agreement or any of the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements shall have failed to perform any of its obligations thereunder;
(d)
the Borrower, Zhejiang or any other authority having jurisdiction shall 
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ZEF or for the 
suspension of its operations; and
(e)
the Charter shall have been amended or changed so as to affect, 
materially and adversely, the ability of ZEF to make ZEF Subloans.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely that any event specified in 
paragraphs (a) or (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue 
for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the 
Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower's State Council shall have approved the Development Credit 
Agreement;
(b)
the Financial Agency Agreement shall have been entered into on behalf of 
ZEF and PCBC;
(c)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall have been entered into on behalf of 
each of the Project Cities and its respective Water Company or Land Development 
Companies; and
(d)
Zhejiang shall have provided to the Association: (i) evidence, 
satisfactory to the Association, that the consultants required to carry out the study 
under Part C.1 of the Project shall have begun rendering services; and (ii) an 
operation action plan in compliance with Paragraph 2 (a) of Part A of Schedule 2 to 
the Project Agreement, for the first year of Project implementation.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be
furnished to the Association: 
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
Zhejiang, and is legally binding upon Zhejiang in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Financial Agency Agreement and each of the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified by the parties thereto and is legally 
binding upon such parties in
accordance with their respective terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Page  7
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC),
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Shahid J. Burki
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
Page  8
                           Credit Allocated         % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
      Category              SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)   Goods                     5,800,000      100% of foreign
                                               expenditures, 100%
                                               of local expendi-
                                               tures (ex-factory
                                               cost) and 75% of
                                               local expenditures
                                               for other items
                                               procured locally
(2)   Civil works              57,700,000      55%
(3)   Consultants'              9,800,000      100% of foreign
      services and                             expenditures
      training                                 and 75% of local
                                               expenditures
(4)   Unallocated               6,000,000
                               __________
      TOTAL                    79,300,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 7,000,000, may be 
made in respect of Category (2) on account of payments made for expenditures before 
that date but after March 31, 1992.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to support improvements in water supply, land 
development, environmental pollution control and traffic management in the Project 
Cities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Water Supply
 
1.
Hangzhou. Construction of water supply facilities in Hangzhou, including: (i) a 
water intake on the Qiantang River with a pumping station near the existing Shanhusha 
intake; (ii) a treatment plant near the existing Shanhusha reservoir; (iii) clear 
water transmission main and tunnel of about 8 km; (iv) booster pumping station; and 
(v) reinforcement and extension of the water
distribution network.
2.
Ningbo. Construction of water supply facilities in Ningbo, including: (i) a 
river water intake at the Xiaozhen Dam; (ii) transmission main of about 17 km; (iii) a 
secondary intake at Beidu and booster pumping station; (iv) a transmission main of 
about 13.5 km to Jiang Dong; (v) a booster pumping station at Jiang Dong and about 8 
Page  9
km of force main to the Zhenhai petrochemical plant; (vi) about 14 km of 1,000 
millimeter pipe for treated water to the Zhejiang Chemical Plant at Beilun; and (vii) 
civil works to reinforce the existing water distribution network.
3.
Wenzhou. Construction of water supply facilities in Wenzhou, including: (i) a 
pumping station at the existing Cao Ping Tunnel; (ii)  about 15 km of 1,200 millimeter 
pipe to Keng Kou Tang Reservoir; (iii) about 9 km of 1,400 millimeter pipe to Xishan 
Tunnel; (iv) construction of a tunnel of about 2.7 km length, to the Xishan Treatment 
Plant; (v) a water treatment plant at Xishan; (vi) a booster station and about 5.5 km 
of 1,000 millimeter raw water pipeline to Dongxiang Treatment Plant; and (vii) civil 
works to reinforce the existing water distribution network.
Part B:
Land Development in Shaoxing
 
Development of about 207 ha of land in Shaoxing by construction of roads and 
bridges, drainage systems, water supply and sewerage systems, public lighting, 
electricity; provision of
telecommunications systems and marketing services for the developed areas; and 
carrying out resettlement of persons affected by the development of land.
Part C:
Urban Environmental Management and Protection
 
1.
Carrying out, at the provincial level, a study of strategic planning and policy 
issues for liquid and solid waste management.
2.
Carrying out, by each of the Project Cities, feasibility and preliminary 
engineering studies and identification of future priority investments in environmental 
protection and management.
3.
Provision of consultants' services and training to ZEPB management and staff in 
order to develop an environmental information center, improve environmental monitoring 
and to establish and operate an environmental pollution control fund.
Part D:
Urban Planning Systems and Institutional Development
 
1.
Strengthening urban planning and management systems at the provincial and 
municipal levels by establishing a system for collecting, analyzing and disseminating 
cross-sectoral data relevant
to urban planning and management.
2.
Supporting institutional development through the provision of consultants' 
services and training of staff of the water, environment, land development, urban 
planning and traffic management agencies of Zhejiang and the Project Cities.
Part E:
Traffic Management in Hangzhou
 
Improving traffic management in Hangzhou through the provision of consultants' 
services and training: (i) to improve an existing data base and develop new data bases 
with respect to traffic
management and accidents; (ii) to prepare basic traffic patterns for the city center 
and prepare functional traffic schemes and drawings; and (iii) to analyze reporting 
systems, routings and other traffic-related aspects of public transit.
Part F:
Basic Urban Services in Ningbo
 
Upgrading of urban services and related infrastructure in four locations in the 
central area of Ningbo, including water supply, sewage treatment, roadworks and 
traffic control, drainage, street lighting; carrying out resettlement of persons 
affected by the construction of civil works; and conservation of culturally 
significant and historic structures.
Part G:
Zhejiang Environmental Fund
 
Establishment and operation of an environmental pollution control fund and  the 
financing of pollution control measures for small- and medium-sized industrial 
enterprises.
Page  10
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $7,000,000 
(seven million dollars) to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower,  withdraw from the Credit 
Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
Page  11
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant  provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
