Page  1
December 6, 2001
Ms. Zou Jiayi
Acting Director General
International Department
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe, Baijing
People’s Republic of China
Dear  Ms. Zou:
Re:
Zhejiang Multicities Development Project (Cr.2475-CHA)
A Snow Disaster Recovery Component
Amendment to Development Credit Agreement
1.
I refer to the Development Credit Agreement between the People’s Republic of 
China (the Borrower) and the International Development Association (the Association), 
dated May 18, 1993 (the Development Credit Agreement), pursuant to which the 
Association agreed to extend a credit to the Borrower (the Credit) to assist in the 
financing of the Zhejiang Multicities Development Project (the Project).  I also refer 
to the letter dated August 2, 2001 from the Deputy Director-General, International 
Department, Ministry of Finance, on behalf of the Borrower, requesting amendments to 
the Development Credit Agreement in order to allow a portion of the proceeds of the 
Credit to be utilized to assist in financing the most urgent needs of areas of Altai 
Prefecture of the Borrower’s Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region (XUAR) severely 
affected by recent drought and snowstorms.
2.
I am pleased to inform you that the Association concurs with the Borrower’s  
proposal and hereby agrees to amend the Development Credit Agreement as hereinafter 
provided.
3.
Recital (B) and the last "WHEREAS" clause of the preamble are amended to read as 
follows:
"(B)
Parts A, B, C, D, E, F and G of the Project will be carried out by 
Zhejiang Province (Zhejiang),  and Part H of the Project will be carried out 
by Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region (XUAR) (Zhejiang and XUAR sometimes 
referred to collectively as "the Project Provinces"); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend  the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement, in the Zhejiang Project Agreement between the 
Association and Zhejiang, and in the Xinjiang Uyghur (Altai) Project Agreement 
between the Association and XUAR;"
4.
Section 1.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to read as follows:
"Section 1.01.
The "General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part 
of 
this Agreement."
5.
Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to read as follows:
"Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have 
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms 
have the following meanings:
(a)
"Altai" means Altai Prefecture of the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous 
Region, and any successor thereto.
(b)
"Category" means a category of items set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(c)
"Company" means any one of the Water Companies or Land Development 
Companies.
(d)
"Financial Agency Agreement means the agreement to be entered into 
Page  2
pursuant to paragraph 1, Part B of Schedule 3 to the Zhejiang Project 
Agreement between ZEF and PCBC under which PCBC will act as the financial 
agent of ZEF for purposes of making ZEF Subloans under the Project.
(e)
"ha" means hectare.
(f)
"km" means kilometer.
(g)
"Land Development Companies" means SADC and SMCC.
(h)
"PCBC" means People’s Construction Bank of China, a specialized 
bank established and operating under its Charter.
(i)
"Project Agreements" means, collectively, the Zhejiang Project 
Agreement and the Xinjiang Uyghur (Altai) Project Agreement; and "Project 
Agreement" means either one of said Project Agreements.
(j)
"Project Cities" means Hangzhou Municipality, Ningbo Municipality, 
Shaoxing Municipality and Wenzhou Municipality in Zhejiang Province.
(k)
"Project Provinces" means Zhejiang Province and XUAR, and "Project 
Province" means either one of said Project Provinces.
(l) 
"Recovery Project Areas" means the following areas of Altai 
Prefecture of Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region severely affected by drought 
and snowstorms: Altai City, Fuyun County, Habahe County, Jimunai County and 
Qinghe County.
(m)
"Recovery Project Areas PMOs" means the project management offices 
established by XUAR in the Recovery Project Areas under paragraph 1(b) of 
Schedule 2 to the Xinjiang Uyghur (Altai) Project Agreement.
(n)
"Renminbi" means the currency of the Borrower.
(o)
"Respective Part of the Proceeds of the Credit" means: in (i) 
respect of Zhejiang the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to 
Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 
1 to 
this Agreement; and (ii) in respect of XUAR, the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated from time to time to Category (4) set forth in said table.
(p)
"Respective Part of the Project" means: (i) in respect of 
Zhejiang, Parts A, B, C, D, E, F and G of the Project; and (ii) in respect of 
XUAR, Part H of the Project.
(q)
"SADC" means the Shaoxing Area Development Commission.
(r)
"SMCC" means the Shaoxing Municipal construction Commission.
(s)
"Special Accounts" means, collectively, the Zhejiang Special 
Account and the Xinjiang (Altai) Special Account; and "Special Account" means 
either one of said Special Accounts.
(t)
"Subborrower" means a small-scale or medium-scale industrial 
enterprise to which a ZEF Subloan has been made or is proposed to be made.
(u)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the agreements to be entered 
into by each of the Project Cities with its respective Water Company or Land 
Development Companies in accordance with Part B.1 of Schedule 2 to the 
Zhejiang Project Agreement.
(v)
"Water Companies" means the Hangzhou Municipal Water Company, the 
Ningbo Municipal Water Company, and the Wenzhou Municipal Water Company; 
"Water 
Company" means any one of the Water Companies.
(w)
"Xinjiang" and XUAR means the Borrower’s Xinjiang Uyghur 
Autonomous Region, and any successor thereto.
(x)
"Xinjiang (Altai) Special Account" means the account referred to 
in Section 2.02 (b)(ii) of this Agreement.
(y)
"Xinjiang Uyghur (Altai) Project Agreement" means the agreement to 
be entered into between the Association and XUAR, as the same may be amended 
Page  3
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Xinjiang Uyghur (Altai) Project Agreement.
(z)
"ZEF" means the Zhejiang Environmental Fund, established by 
Zhejiang by Charter, approved by the Zhejiang People’s Government on January 
20, 1993 and registered with the Zhejiang Provincial Bureau of Commerce and 
Industry on February 27, 1993; "Charter" means the Charter establishing ZEF.
(aa)
"ZEF Subloan" means a subloan made, or proposed to be made, by 
ZEF, utilizing the proceeds of the credit, to a subborrower for purposes of 
financing a ZEF Subproject, and which comply with the terms and conditions of 
Schedule 3 to the Zhejiang Project Agreement.
(bb)
"ZEF Subproject" means a specific investment project designed to 
abate pollution created by a small-scale or medium-scale industrial enterprise 
in an urban area, to be financed or proposed to be financed by ZEF pursuant to 
a ZEF 
Subloan utilizing the proceeds of the Credit.
(cc)
"ZEPB" means the Zhejiang Environmental Protection Bureau.
(dd)
"Zhejiang" means the Borrower’s Zhejiang Province, and any 
successor thereto.
(ee)
"Zhejiang PMOs" means the project management offices established 
pursuant to paragraph 1, Part A of Schedule 2 to the Zhejiang Project 
Agreement, by each of the Project Cities; and "Zhejiang PMO" means any one of 
the Zhejiang PMOs.
(ff)
"Zhejiang Project Agreement" means the agreement between the 
Association and Zhejiang Province, of even date herewith, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Zhejiang Project Agreement.
(gg)
"Zhejiang Special Account" means the account referred to in 
Section 2.02 (b)(i) of this Agreement.
(hh)
"ZUDPO" means the Zhejiang Urban Development Project Office, 
established pursuant to Part A.1 of Schedule 2 to the Zhejiang Project 
Agreement.
6.
Section 2.02(b) of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to read as 
follows:
"(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in Dollars the following two special deposit accounts in a commercial 
bank acceptable to the Association on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment: (i) one for Parts A, B, C, D, E, F and G of the Project (the 
Zhejiang Special Account); and (ii) one for Part H of the Project (the 
Xinjiang (Altai) Special Account). Deposits into and payments out of the 
Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 
to 
this Agreement."
7.
Section 3.01of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, 
to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, shall cause Zhejiang to 
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Zhejiang Project Agreement 
all the obligations of Zhejiang therein set forth, shall cause XUAR to perform 
in 
accordance with the provisions of the Xinjiang Uyghur (Altai) Project 
Agreement all the obligations of XUAR therein set forth, shall take and cause 
to be 
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services  and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Zhejiang and XUAR to 
perform their respective obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken 
any 
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
For purposes of Parts A, B, C, D, E, F and G of the Project, the 
Borrower shall on lend to Zhejiang its Respective Part of the Proceeds of the 
Credit on the following terms and conditions:
Page  4
(i)
repayment over a period not exceeding fifteen (15) years, 
including five (5) years grace;
(ii)
interest to be paid by Zhejiang at the rate of 5.1% per annum;
(iii)
all foreign risks to be borned by Zhejiang; and
(iv)
commitment charges to be paid by zhejiang at a fixed rate of 
oe-half of one percent per annum.
(c)
For purposes of Part H of the Project, the Borrower shall onlend 
to XUAR its Respective Part of the Proceeds of the Credit on the following 
terms and conditions:
(i)
the Borrower shall recover from XUAR the Credit Amount in 
semi-annual instalments over a period of ten (10) years inclusive 
of a grace period of four (4) years;
(ii)
the Borrower shall charge XUAR a service charge on the Credit  
Amount withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%);
(iii)
the Borrower shall charge XUAR a commitment fee on the principal 
amount of the Credit so made available and remaining unwithdrawn 
from time to time at the rate of one-half of one percent (0.5%);
(iv)
XUAR shall bear the foreign exchange risk."
8.
Section 3.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to read as follows:
"Section 3.02.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, (a) 
procurement of the goods, works, and consultants’ services required for Parts 
A, B, C, D, E, F and G of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Zhejiang Project Agreement; and (b) procurement of the goods, works, and 
consultants’ services required for Part H of the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to the Xinjiang Uyghur (Altai) Project Agreement."
9.
Section 3.03 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to read as follows:
"Section 3.03.
The Borrower and the Association hereby agrees that 
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of 
the General Conditions (relating respectively to insurance, use of goods and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition) shall be carried out by:
(a)
Zhejiang pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Zhejiang Project 
Agreement, in respect of Parts A, B, C, D, E, F and G of the Project; and
(b)
XUAR pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Xinjiang Uyghur (Altai) 
Project Agreement, in respect of Part H of the Project."
10.
Clause (i) of Section 4.01 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement shall be 
amended by substituting the term "the Special Accounts" for the term "the Special 
Account" therein.
11.
The introductory paragraph and paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 5.01 of the 
Development Credit Agreement are amended to read as follows:
"Section 5.01.
Pursuant to Section 6.02(l) of the General 
Conditions, 
the following additional events are specified:
(a)
Either of the Project Provinces shall have failed to perform any 
of its obligations under the Zhejiang Project Agreement or the Xinjiang Uyghur 
(Altai) Project Agreement, as the case may be.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen 
which shall make it improbable that either of the Project Provinces will be 
able to perform its obligations under the Zhejiang Project Agreement or the 
Page  5
Xinjiang Uyghur (Altai) Project Agreement, as the case may be."
12.
Section 5.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by substituting the 
reference "Section 7.01(h)" for the reference "Section 7.01(d)" therein.
13.
Section 6.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by substituting the 
term "Zhejiang Project Agreement" for the term "Project Agreement" therein.
14.
The table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreement is amended to read as follows:
  Amount of the
Credit Expressed
   % of
    (in SDR
Expenditures
Category
Equivalent
Financed
(1)
Goods (other than under
3,900,000
100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 75% of
local expenditures for other
items procured locally
(2)
Civil Works (other     70,000,000 50%
than under Part H of 
the Project):
(3)
Consultants’ services   3,200,000 30%
 
and training (other 
than under H of the 
Project)
(4)
Part H of the Project
(a)
Goods
  231,000
100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost), and 75% of
expenditures for other items 
procured locally
(b)
Civil works
1,907,000
66%
(c)
Consultants’ ser-
   62,000
100%
vices and training
TOTAL
     79,300,000
15.
Paragraphs 2 (a) and 2(b) of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement are 
amended to read as follows:
"(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency 
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; provided, 
however, that expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from said 
region 
and expenditures in the currency of the Macau Special Administrative 
Region 
of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from said region shall 
be 
deemed "foreign expenditures; and 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means any expenditures that are not 
foreign expenditures."
16.
A new paragraph 4 is added to Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement to 
read as follows:
"4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for: (a) works under contracts 
costing less than $200,000 equivalent each; (b) goods under contracts costing 
less 
than $100,000 equivalent each; (c) consultants’ services under contracts  with 
individuals costing less than $30,000 each; and (d) training; in each 
case 
under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
notice 
to the Borrower."
Page  6
17.
The first paragraph of Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement is amended 
to read as follows:
"The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower: (a) in 
supporting improvements in water supply, land development, environmental 
pollution control and traffic management in the Project Cities in Zhejiang 
Province; and (b) in restoring social and economic infrastructure critical to 
the 
lives of herders devastated by an unusually severe snowstorm in hard hit 
areas 
of Altai Prefecture of Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region and in 
enhancing and strengthening the disaster response capacity of the affected 
herders."
18.
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement is amended by adding a new Part H 
after Part G thereof, as follows:
"Part H:
Snow Disaster Recovery
1.
Reconstruction and restoration of residential structures in the Recovery 
Project Areas. 
2.
Restoration and rehabilitation of livestock sheds in the Recovery 
Project Areas.
3.
Pasture rehabilitation including carrying out small pasture 
rehabilitation, development of sown pasture, supply of forage handling 
equipment and storage facilities, and improvement of water supply through 
gravity-fed irrigation, in the Recovery Project Areas.
4.
Carrying out a program of institutional strengthening through (a) the 
provision of technical assistance to improve grassland management, and enhance 
disbursement, procurement, and evaluation and monitoring activities and (b) 
the provision of office equipment."
19.
The last line of Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows: "The Project is expected to be completed by November 30, 2002."
20.
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement is amended by: (a) substituting 
the term "Special Accounts" for the term "Special Account" in the title thereof; (b) 
substituting the term "respective Special Account" for the term "Special Account" 
wherever the latter is used in the Schedule; and (c) amending paragraph 1 to read as 
follows:
"1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means: (i) in respect of the 
Zhejiang Special Account, Categories (1), (2) and (3); and (ii) in respect of 
the Xinjiang (Altai) Special Account, Category (4);
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means: (i) in respect of the 
Zhejiang Special Account, an amount equivalent to $7,000,000; and (ii) in 
respect of the Xinjiang (Altai) Special Account, an amount equivalent to 
$700,000; in each case to be withdrawn from the Credit account and deposited 
into the Respective Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this 
Schedule."
21.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreement, no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures 
for Part H of the Project prior to the date of effectiveness of this letter of 
amendment except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 440,000 may 
be made in respect of Categories (4)(a), (4)(b) and (4)(c) on account of payments made 
for expenditures before that date but after July 26, 2001.
22.
The Association further agrees to establish May 31, 2003 as the later date for 
purposes of Section 2.03 of the Development Credit Agreement, but only in regard to 
Part H of the Project and in respect of Category 4 set forth in the table in paragraph 
1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Page  7
23.
Please confirm the agreement of the Borrower to the amendments set forth in 
paragraphs 3 through 22 above by countersigning and dating the corresponding form of 
confirmation set forth below, and returning one fully signed original of this 
amendment letter to us.  One fully signed original should be retained by the Borrower.
24.
Except as specifically amended hereby, all other provisions of the Development 
Credit Agreement remain in full force and effect.  Upon receipt by the Association of: 
(a) the copy of this letter of amendment duly countersigned by the authorized 
representative of the Borrower; (b) the Xinjiang Uyghur (Altai) Project Agreement, 
duly countersigned by the authorized representative of XUAR; and (c) evidence 
satisfactory to the Association that the Xinjiang Uyghur (Altai) Project Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by XUAR and is legally binding upon XUAR in 
accordance with its terms; the above amendments and the Xinjiang Uyghur (Altai) 
Project Agreement, shall become effective as of the date of countersignature of this 
letter of amendment or the date of countersignature of the Xinjiang Uyghur (Altai) 
Project Agreement, whichever is later.
Sincerely,
By /s/Yukon Huang
Country Director, China
East Asia and Pacific Region
CONFIRMED
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Ju Kuilin
Authorized Representative
Date: December 6, 2001
