Dormt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIuL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4177--GM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 6.3 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
FOR A
WATER AND ELECTRICITY PROJECT
April 30, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Dalasi (D)
US$1.00       - D 7.00
D 1.00        = US$0.143
D 1.00        = 100 Bututs
WEIGHTS AND MEASU-RS
1 millimeter (mm)             0.04 inch (in)
1 meter (a)                 = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 cubic meter (mn3)         - 264.2 US gallons *
or 220 imperial gallons (g)
1 kilometer (km)            = 0.62 miles (mi)
1 liter per capita          = 0:26 US gallon per capita per day *
per day (lcd)               or 0.22 imperial gallon per
capita per day (gcd)
1 kilovolt CkV)             = 1,000 volts (V)
1 kilovolt amperes (kVA)    = 1,000 volt-amperes (VA)
1 kilowatt (kW)             = 1,000 watts (W)
1 Megawatt (MW)             = 1,000 kilowatts (kW)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB      African Development Bank
ADF       African Development Fund (AfDB)
EEC       European Economic Community
EDF       European Development Fund (EEC)
ERP       Economic Recovery Program
GTZ       Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
(German Technical Assistance Agency)
GUC       Gambia Utilities Corporation
IDB       Islamic Development Bank
IFRR      Internal Financial Rate of Return
KfW       Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (German
Reconstruction Bank)
MLGL      Ministry of Local Government and Lands
MWC       Ministry of Works and Communications
ODA       Overseas Development Agency (UK)
SAC       Structural Adjustment Credit
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
* for information only - not used in the report



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE GAMBIA
WATER AND ELECTRICITY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower               : Republic of The Gambia
Beneficiary            :Gambia Utilities Corporation (GUC)
Credit Amount          :SDR 6.3 mi'llion (US$7.0 million)
Terms                  :Standard
Cofinancing            :ADF (US$4.0 m), IDB (US$4.0 m), and
EDF/EEC (US$2.6 m)
Relending Terms        :Government will onlend full amount of
US$7.0 million at 8.5Z interest per annum repayable
over 20 years including 5 years grace period.
Project Description   :The project will (a) expand the water supply
facilities in the Greater Banjul area;
(b) rehabilitate and expand public water supplies
in seven provincial urban areas; (c) improve the
electricity supply distribution system in Greater
Banjul; and (d) assist GUC to become a financially
viable public utility and to improve service to its
existing and new customers.
Project Benefits        The project will provide and/or improve, directly
and Risks             or indirectly, the water supply to 295.000 people
in Greater Banjul and to 25,000 people in seven
provincial urban areas as well as improve the
reliability of electricity supplies for 47,000
people in Banjul. The project will help the
principal sector institution, GUC, develop as a
commercially oriented public utility. This will be
achieved by improved financial performance and the
institutionalization of training across its
departments and at all levels of operation. The
main risks are if there is an interruption in the
technical assistance program currently being
undertaken with German financing and if the Gambian
Government intervenes in GUC's routine affairs or
withholds approval of timely tariff increases.
Steps are being taken to minimize these risks: the
Gambian Government has requested the German
Goverrment to continue the on-going technical
assistance; and assurances were obtained during
negotiations on the composition of GUC's Board to
make it more resistant to political pressure and to
ensure that tariffs are approved in a timely
manner.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaion.



- ii -
Estimated Costs -
Foreign   Local   Total
---   US$million
Greater Banjul Water Supply            5.9      2.1     6.0
Provincial Centers Water Supply        1.0      0.4     1.4
Banjul Electricity Supply              1.0      0.2     1.2
Reinforcement of GUC's Operations    1.0        0.3     1.3
Working Capital (Diesel Fuel)          2.0       -      2.0
Total Base Costs                  10.9     3.0    13.9
Physical Contingencies               0.9      0.3     1.2
Price Contingencies                  3.3      1.0     4.3
Total Project Costs               15.1     4.3    19.4
Financing Plan
Foreign    Local    Total
- US$ million
IDA                 6.5       0.5      7.0
EDF                 1.9       0.7      2.6
ADF                 4.0        -       4.0
IDB                 2.0      2.0       4.0
Government          0.7       1.1      1.8
Total            15.1      4.3      19.4
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA
FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94
~US$ million
Annual       1.1   1.7   1.1   1.0   0.9   0.6   0.4   0.2
Cumulative  1.1   2.8   3.9   4.9   5.8   6.4   6.8   7.0
Internal Financial
Rates of Return         Greater Banjul Water  : 11%
Provincial Water       :  7%
Banjul Electricity    : 19%
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5873-GM
Maps                   : IBRD Nos. 19167R & 19168R
1/ Net of taxes and duties, from which the project is exempt.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE GWMBIA FOR
A WATER AND ELECTRICITY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Republic of The Gambia for SDR 6.3 million
(US$7.0 million equivalent) to help finance a Water and Electricity
Project. The Credit would be on standard IDA terms. Additional external
financing for the project will be provided by a loan from The African
Development Fund (ADF) in the amount of US$4.0 million equivalent on terms
similar to IDA's and by a loan from the Islamic Development Bank (IDB) in
the amount of US$4.0 million equivalent on soft terms still to be
determined. The European Economic Community (EEC) is expected to provide a
grant of US$2.6 million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest economic report on The Gambia dated September 6, 1985
(The Gambia - Development Issues and Prospects, Report No. 5693-GY) has
been circulated to the Executive Directors. Its conclusions are reflected
in the following assessment of the state of the economy and its prospects.
Country data appear in Annex I.
The Land and Its People
3.        The Republic of The Gambia comprises a narrow east-west strip of
land bordering the Gambia River and surrounded on three sides by the
Republic of Senegal. The terrain is extremely flat, maximum elevation
being only 35 meters above sea level. Three regions can be distinguished
from the mouth of the River inlard: the mangrove belt, which extends
upstream for over 240 km; the "bantofaros" areas that become swamps in the
rainy season and parts of which are under rice cultivation; and, finally,
the plateau of the eastern portion of the country which is intensively
cultivated in groundnuts, millet, and other crops.
4.        The population (about 750,000 in 1985) is predominantly rural,
some 70 percent of the work force being engaged in agriculture and animal
husbandry. Average population density is 90 persons per km2 of arable land
and reaches higher levels in some areas. Migration to urban areas has been
extremely rapid over the past decade, and urban population growth in the
Greater Banjul area (comprising Banjul, the Kombos and Brikama) has
averaged 6.5 percent per year.
Structure of the Economy
5.        The Gambian economy is traditionally centered on the production
of groundnuts, the major source of foreign exchange. Apart from
groundnuts, cereals (millet, sorghum and rice) and livestock represent the



-2-
principal products of the agricultural sector, which accounts for more than
30 percent of GDP. Manufacturing activity is limited, with the principal
activities being groundnut crushing and a few other modest, resource-based
processing enterprises, all of which are located in Banjul.  Fishing
resources exist but appear to be substantially underexploited at present.
The country is heavily dependent on trade, importing about half of its food
supplies, all of its fuel and capital goods and most other manufactured
goods. Exports are highly concentrated, with groundnut products accounting
for 85-90 percent of the value of domestic exports. Other domestic exports
include small amounts of fish, hides and skins, cotton, and palm kernels.
6.        Outside of agriculture, the most important features of the
economy are its rapidly growing tourism industry, and a well-developed
commercial sector, which for most of The Gambia's history has been involved
in re-export trade to other countries in the region. This trade expanded
rapidly in the 1970s, as The Gambia maintained its traditional low tariff
policy, while neighboring countries increasingly resorted to high tariffs
and quotas to protect domestic industries. The Gambia's small size,
substantial openness and heavy dependence upon a single export crop make it
an inherently vulnerable economy, highly sensitive to shortfalls in
agricultural production, especially due to drought and to changes in the
terms of trade.
Evolution of the Economy
7.        In the 1960s and early 1970s, the economy of The Gambia grew at
close to 5 percent per year, one of the best performances in Africa. It
had a strong currency and a sound budgetary situation. However, over the
past decade, The Gambia has seen its economy deteriorate progressively.
Since 1975, the country has experienced one of the lowest GDP growth rates
- 1.8 percent per year in real terms - of any country in Africa not
affected by war and civil strife. Given the estimated population growth
rate of 3.4 percent per year over the same period, per capita income in The
Gambia has declined at a rate of about 1.6 percent per year. The estimated
per capita income in 1984 was only US$260, placing The Gambia among the
most impoverished countries in the world.
8.        Several critical structural changes underlie The Gambia's
economic deterioration. Foremost among these is the dramatic expansion of
the public sector -- a major cause of chronic fiscal imbalances after 1975.
Between 1975 and 1985, government employment close to quadrupled and the
share of GDP absorbed by government expenditures doubled, to 41 percent.
The rapid growth of public sector employment and public investment
expenditures contributed to large increases in imports due to the high
import consumption of the fast-growing urban population, especially public
sector wage earners, and the high import component of general government
expenditures and development projects. These factors created a "structural
deficit" in The Gambia's trade: domestic exports (as distinct from
re-exports), even in a good year, were increasingly unable to generate
foreign exchange sufficient to cover the cost of domestic imports
(principally fuel, foodstuffs, and capital goods). At the same time, the



softening of world prices for groundnuts and the hike in the world oil
prices combined to bring about a serious deterioration in The Gambia's
terms of trade. In 1982, these stood at one-third of the level attained in
the mid-1970s.
9.        The above factors brought about a significant deterioration of
the overall current account from 1979 to 1983. Severe adjustments that
might otherwise have been necessary were to some extent averted by a
massive increase in external assistance to The Gambia in 1980-81 in the
aftermath of a severe drought and an attempted coup d'etat in July 1981.
Total (net) resource flows rose to roughly US$80 million a year, double the
average level of previous years; the inflow of foreign resources was equal
to 35-40 percent of The Gambia's GDP. As a result of this assistance
(about half of which was grant aid) the country was able not only to
maintain annual investment at close to 20 percent of GDP but also to avoid
a decline in consumption.
10.       Although capital inflows returned to more normal levels beginning
in 1983, consumption - particularly government consumption - proved
difficult to restrain. Cumulative balance of payments disequilibrium by
1983 left the Central Bank unable to guarantee the convertibility of
Dalasis deposits into foreign exchange. This led to a rapid erosion of
confidence in the banking system and substantial outflows of private
capital. As a result, the country accumulated growing arrears on external
payments, which by 1985 equalled nearly US$60 million (32 percent of GDP).
Despite macroeconomic adjustments attempted in 1984, including a 25 percent
devaluation, The Gambia's foreign exchange position over the past two years
had become increasingly acute: supplies of essential imports such as
petroleum, rice and medicine have been severely disrupted, and the
Government's inability to make official debt service payments by the end of
1985 had forced most of the country's major donors to suspend
disbursements.
Government Adjustment Efforts
11.       Since 1980, the Government has made increasing attempts to adjust
the economy, including negotiation of two Stand-by Programn- with the IMF.
The first of these was a one-year Stand-by Program of SDR 16.9 million
adopted in February 1982. The program aimed at lowering the public sector
deficit through reductions in consumer subsidies and selective tax
increases, and stimulating production through higher purchase prices for
groundnuts and rice. The program produced mixed results. The fiscal
deficit was reduced from 21 percent to 14 percent of GDP, although this was
entirely accomplished through increased revenues and a drastic compression
of expenditures on material and current supplies; government wages and
salaries actually increased by nearly 30 percent under the program. There
also appears to have been a significant supply response to the producer
price increases: groundnut area planted rose to the highest level ever and
marketed production reached a record 135,000 tons. Unfortunately, however,
these results coincided with a sharp decline in world groundnut prices and
total export earnings did not improve.



12.       Continued balance of payments deterioration in 1983/84, a decline
in real GDP associated with poor rainfall and crop production, and an
increase in the fiscal deficit led the authorities to negotiate a further
IMF Stand-by Program In early 1984. Policy adjustments under the new
SDR 12.8 million Stand-by Program (covering the period April 1984-July
1985) included a 25 percent devaluation and upward adjustments in consumer
prices of rice, fertilizers and public transport. On the expenditure side,
the Government adopted a hiring freeze, except for pressing emergencies,
and limits on supplementary appropriations. Monetary adjustments included
increases in interest rates on deposits and guidelines to limit comercial
bank credit to the private sector. Although the Government implemented the
agreed measures, it was not able to meet the June 1984 targets for
reductions in external arrears and net credit to the Government, the
largest parastatal, the Gambia Produce Marketing Board (GPMB), and the
private sector. As a result, after one disbursement of SDR 2.63 million,
the program lapsed and was cancelled on April 22, 1985.
13.       The macroeconomic adjustments undertaken in early 1984
constituted a notable effort by the Government to redress The Gambia's
external and fiscal deficits. However, the exceptionally low (45,000 tons
marketed) 1984/85 groundnut crop caused real GDP to decline by 9 percent
and seriously exacerbated the acute shortage of foreign exchange.
Significantly, although rainfall was uneven in some parts of the country,
the low groundnut crop appears to have been less the result of drought than
of inadequate price incentives and institutional weaknesses, which continue
to have a crippling effect on the economy. According to the Ministry of
Agriculture, several thousand hectares were prepared for groundnut
cultivation but could not be planted due to the late distribution of seeds.
Pest infestation was also unusually severe, in part associated with the
lack of fuel and pesticides for the Ministry's crop protection services. As
a result, many of the potential benefits of the 1984 devaluation as well as
of the high world groundnut prices were not realized.
14.       During 1985/86, the economy has experienced an upturn, thanks to
good rains and a strong recovery of agricultural production, especially
food crops. Fishing and tourism also appear to be undergoing significant
expansion, and re-export activity has accelerated with the good harvests
and expanded purchasing power throughout the region. As a result, real GDP
growth for 1985/86 is estimated on the order of 8 percent, the first
positive per capita income growth in ten years in The Gambia.
15.       Nonetheless, the balance of payments situation continues to be
severely constrained. Record low groundnut export revenues
(US$16 million) and increasing external debt service due (US$18 million,
including IMF charges and repurchases) in 1984/85 have produced a further
deterioration of the current account deficit: from 17 percent of GDP in
1983/84 to 25 percent in 1984/85. As net capital inflows were not
sufficient to finance this deficit, additional external arrears which at
end 1984 had reached US$8.6 million, increased by another US$7.5 million at
end 1985. The continued accumulation of arrears is already having a
negative impacc on disbursements. However, it is expected that an IMF



agreement now under discussion would be followed by a debt rescheduling
agreement which would bring debt service more in line with The Gambia's
ability to pay (discussed further below).
The Recovery Program
16.       Faced with these increasing economic and financial difficulties,
the Government, over the past year, has become convinced of the need for a
comprehensive set of macroeconomic policy adjustments. In June and July
1985, it moved quickly to develop, in consultation with the World Bank and
the IMF, an Economic Recovery Program (ERP), which addresses the need to:
(a) achieve rapid output expansion in the short and medium term while
laying the foundation for the longer-term growth of productive sectors;
(b) bring the size and growth of the public sector into balance with the
productive capacity of the economy; and (c) maintain flexible exchange rate
and pricing policies in order to facilitate economic adjustments to changed
external conditions and to avoid economic distortions, critical for a
country of The Gambia's size and trade openness. The ERP was approved by
the Cabinet in August 1985 and strongly endorsed by The Gambia's principal
donors at an aid-coordination meeting in London in September 1985. The
major elements of the recovery programs are: adoption of a flexible
exchange rate system; price incentives and institutional reforms to achieve
a rapid expansion of agriculture production, both groundnuts and food
crops; removal of disincentives and other measures to stimulate faster
growth in other productive sectors (industry, fisheries, tourism); a
significant reduction in government consumption and a strong shift in the
composition of current expenditures to achieve a more productive balance
between expenditures on wages and salaries and expenditures on current
supplies; and adoption of a stringent core program of public investment
focused on (i) quick-gestation projects producing traded goods, and
(ii) rehabilitation projects which include donor support for recurrent
costs and lead to higher utilization of existing capacity.
17.       The Government has moved impressively to introduce the ERP
reforms and a number of politically difficult measures have already been
implemented, including the exchange rate reform, sharp increases in the
price of both agricultural products and inputs and the decontrol of
consumer rice prices and liberalization of rice imports. As of April 1986,
moreover, the Government had laid off close to 2,000 workers and the
comprehensive audit of the civil service, now in its final phase, is
expected to result in significant further reductions. The new flexible
exchange rate system went into effect on January 20, 1986 with the
assistance of a technical advisor from the IMF and by April 1986 had
resulted in a 100 percent depreciation of the Dalasi vis-a-vis the pound
sterling.
18.       Despite the courageous steps taken by the Government to
liberalize prices, adjust the exchange rate and reduce public employment,
problems of credit and fiscal management still threaten to jeopardize
The Gambia's economic recovery. In the period July to December 1985 money
supply was allowed to expand much faster than envisaged by the program
prepared in consultation with the IMF. In the past few months, however,



- 6 -
the Government has made a serious effort to bring these problems under
control, as well as to begin liquidating some of its arrears to the IMF.
It is hoped that an IMF Stand-by Program can be concluded in the near
future given the sequential link between an DMF program, debt rescheduling,
gap filling and expanded commitments. With the assistance of the Bank. the
IMF and bilateral donors. the Government is currently making a major effort
to mobilize donors' support for its Economic Recovery Program, while it is
trying at the same time to make separate arrangements for bridging finance,
in order to help liquidate its arrears to the IMF and enable negotiation of
the Stand-by Program to proceed.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE GAMBIA
19.       To date, the Bank Group has extended twelve credits to The
Gnabia, totalling US$62.1 million. Of these, four were in the transport
se:tor, three in the agricultural sector and one each in tourism,
education, rural and urb n enterprises, energy and urban development.
Project implementation has in general been satisfactory as far as the
execution of the physical targets is concerned. The disbursement
performance has also been reasonably good and compares well with other
similar countries in West Africa. Institution building, however, has
lagged behind, largely due to a dearth of skilled personnel in most
agencies. The situation has improved somewhat in the last five years, as
IDA projects are being increasingly designed with objectives better adapted
to existing manpower constraints in the country. Our policy dialogue was
minimal in the 1970s and, though it developed progressively, it remained
project oriented, with the IMF being the only institution conducting a
macroeconomic dialogue. This too has changed as our lending has become
increasingly policy-based. Projects approved in FY84 (the Second
Agricultural Development and the Urban Management and Development Projects)
and FY86 (Second Highway Maintenance Project) address major policy issues.
20.       Given The Gambia's urgent need to reverse current adverse
financial and economic trends, the Bank Group, in close cooperation with
the IMF, is assisting the Gambian authorities in the elaboration and
implementation of the Economic Recovery Program. This is a crucial and
necessary step for improving the country's prospects in the short, medium
and long term, as it would help in mobilizing balance of payments
assistance, negotiating debt rescheduling and stimulating an increase in
project aid commitments. In support of such a program, a Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAC) is under preparation. The acute shortage of
foreign exchange, together with inadequate policies, remain the main
obstacle to a recovery of the economy. The proposed SAC would finance most
urgently needed imports of capital goods and inputs. The adjustment effort
will have to be sustained over a number of years given the structural
nature of The Gambia's problems. The country will also continue for quite
some time to face a considerable foreign exchange shortage. We are,
therefore, considering a second SAC operation to follow the one currently
in preparation.



- 7 -
21.       While we expect to be heavily involved in the near future in
supporting macroeconomic policy changes and improved economic management,
in assisting the Government in debt rescheduling and mobilizing the
international community in support of The Gambia's rehabilitation program,
the Bank will continue to support The Gambia through project lending in key
sectors. Consistent with a strategy that emphasizes more effective
utilization of the existing cap. city, we are preparing projects that focus
on helping the Government rehabilitate essential economic, physical and
social infrastructure.
22.       Agriculture. Improving the performance of the agricultural sector
is critical for sustained economic growth in The Gambia. The Gambia has
good quality arable land, reasonable rainfall and diversified cropping
patterns. Yet, over the past ten years agricultural production has
declined by 1.4 percent on average per year; food imports have continued to
increase and now represent the largest item on the country's import bill.
Drought as well as inadequate government policies and institutional
weaknesses have contributed to the sector's poor performance. The main
policy issues which need to be addressed by the Government in order to
revitalize the sector are: (i) producer prices; (ii) marketing; (iii) input
delivery; (iv) a system of agricultural credit; and (v) the role played by
wOmen in agriculture, particularly rice production.
23.       The IDA-supported Second Agricultural Development Project,
approved in FY84, the Government's largest investment in the agricultural
sector, addresses the above issues, with particular emphasis on prices, and
input delivery. The project will also help strengthen the extension system
and reorganize the Ministry of Agriculture as well as increase the
availability of seeds. To improve our knowledge of the sector, we plan to
intensify our agricultural sector work.
24.       Transport.  In this sector, our basic objective is to strengthen
and improve maintenance management and streamline institutions.
Substantial investments were undertaken in the past ten years to expand the
paved road network, the Banjul Port and the Yundum Airport. The Government
has, however, been unable to meet the growing maintenance requirements of
its investments. The ongoing Second Banjul Port and First Highway
Maintenance projects address priority rehabilitation and maintenance needs
in the secqt. The recently approved Second Highway Maintenance Project
will address the long overdue periodic maintenance requirements of the
paved road network; it will also deal witn such important issues as: (i)
the organization and management of the Ministry of Works and Communications (MWC);
and (ii) reassessment of the Government's priorities in the transport
sector including river transport which plays an important role in
The Gambia for the movement of goods in bulk.
25.       Industry.  Prospects appear reasonably good for resource-based
processing activities. To be able to assist the Government in formulating
a program of action for this sector as well as other small scale enterprise
activities such as construction, fisheries, trade and agriculture, a small
scale enterprise review was undertaken in February 1986. A report on the



-8-
mission's findings is currently being prepared and could form the basis for
a possible small scale enterprise project. Technical assistance for the
financial and organizational restructuring of the Gambia Commercial and
Development Bank (GCDEB), the largest commercial bank and only term-lending
institution in the country, is being contemplated under the proposed SAC
operation.
26.       Health and Population.  Although the Government has taken steps
in policy and programs to improve the country's health situation, progress
in reducing morbidity, mortality and fertility rates has been
discouragingly slow. The country's high levels of poverty and illiteracy
are important constraints to an effective health care delivery system.
However, an important part of the problem stems also from the incapacity of
the system to finance recurrent costs and from shortcomings in the core
infrastructure of the services delivery system. With IDA assistance, the
Government is preparing a Population and Health project which will assist
with financing and policy reforms (through introducing cost recovery
mechanisms) in meeting short-term recurrent costs, and would undertake
selected long-term investments in manpower development, communication,
infrastructure and analytical capacity. The project will also help
strengthen family planning as well as assist the Government 4n developing a
comprehensive family planning policy.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY. SANITATION AND ELECTRICITY SECTORS
Sector Organization and the Gambia Utilities Corporation (GUC)
27.       The Gambia Utilities Corporation (GUC), the principal
organization in the sector, was created by an Act of Parliament in 1972 for
the generation, transmissi.on, supply and distribution of electricity as
well as the provision, distribution and conservation of the supply of water
for public, domestic and industrial purposes. In 1983 responsibilities for
sewerage and sewage disposal were legally added to its portfolio. GUC also
operates a small bottled gas activity. GUC was created out of a department
of its present parent Ministry, the Ministry of Works and Communications
(MWC). The Ministry of Water Resources and Environment (MWE) is
responsible for agricultural water needs and rural domestic water supplies,
met mainly through wells and boreholes.  Sanitation in rural areas is the
responsibility of the Ministry of Local Government and Lands (MLGL) through
its Community Development Department. The basic sector framework is
appropriate for The Gambia.
28.       GUC is governed by a Board of Directors, but the Minister of
Works and Communications is entitled to give the Board written directions
of a general nature. The Minister of Works and Communications, in
consultation with or on the approval of the Minister of Finance, is also
responsible for all major financial policy decisions and there is often
reference to the Cabinet on sensitive issues. The Board comprises seven



-9-
persons plus the Managing Director of GUC. The GUC Act of 1972 specifies
that membership should cover a wide spectrum of interests and experience to
represent industrial and domestic consumers and should draw on public
utility, financial and administrative skills. In fact, the members of the
present Board are all civil servants from either government departments or
parastatals. During credit negotiations, the Government agreed to amend
the composition of the Board in accordance with the 1972 Act by June 30,
1986. The Managing Director is GUC's chief executive having responsibility
over all acts and proceedings of the Corporation and its staff. Because of
GUC's poor performance in the past, there was a perceived need for
Government intervention in operational matters, but as GUC's performance
has improved, Government interference has decreased.
29.       Organizationally, GUC has six main divisions/departments
reporting to the Managing Director - the three operating divisions for
Water, Electricity and Sewerage plus the Finance, Sales (Commercial), and
Personnel Departments. The Internal Auditor and Transportation Manager
also report directly to the Managing Director. Operationally, the
Electricity and Water Divisions are both split between Greater Banjul and
provincial operations. The present organizational structure is
appropriate.
Wlater Supply Facilities and Levels of Service
30.       GUC operates reticulated water supply systems in Greater Banjul
and The Gambia's seven provincial urban centers and acts as agent for the
Government in the operation of the water supply systems of six health
centers in outlying areas. The supply source for all urban water supplies
is groundwater. Private hand-dug wells have met a large part of the demand
in the past, but, due to such factors as rapid urbanization and drought
conditions, the yield from these relatively shallow wells has decreased and
there has been an increasing reliance on GUC's systems. In the Greater
Banjul area about half the population of 212,000 is supplied by GUC from
three borehole fields. In the area there are also two small systems at
YundumlLamin and Brikama, which are only capable of meeting a fraction of
the water demand in the two urban areas they serve. Each of the seven
provincial urban water supply systems has its own supply source (borehole)
and distribution system. The yield from each of the boreholes is capable
of supplying additional consumers. At present only about half of each
provincial center's population is being served. The boreholes which only
supply the health centers also have spare capacity.
31.       Following the development of the third borehole field in 1979,
GUC was able to provide a 24-hour per day supply in the Greater Banjul area
up to 1984. However, since then increasingly severe water restrictions
have been imposed during the dry season (November to May) due to
accelerating demand. The supply from several of the provincial urban
systems has been unreliable partly due to pipelines which fail because of
the corrosive nature of the water and breakdowas in power generators.



- 10 -
32.       Almost 94 percent of the 6,420 connections to the GUC water
supply systems are in the Greater Banjul area. About half of the
population supplied in the urban areas is supplied through standpipes. All
supplies, including standpipes, are metered. GUC has an adequate number of
installed meters and records to provide a comprehensive picture of present
and past water usage. Water usage is generally not excessive, and
consequently, it is not possible to defer construction of the project by
adoption of conservation measures.
33.       In the rural areas, the traditional domestic supply source has
been hand-dug wells. Usually unlined, these wells are a major health risk
and often run dry during the dry season. Over the last ten years, several
hundred wells, lined and dug to an adequate depth, and boreholes have been
financed by several donor agencies to provide a reliable supply to over
60 percent of the 1,000 or so villages with populations greater than 100
people in The Gambia. These rural water supply programs are continuing,
but the irsue of maintenance has not yet been dealt with satisfactorily.
Sanitation Facilities and Levels of Service
34.       The only piped sewerage system in the country serves six tourist
hotels in the Bakau/Fajara area and was financed by the IDA assisted
Tourism and Infrastructure Project (CR.602-GM of December 1975). Sewage is
pumped to oxidation ponds which treat the sewage at low cost. Foul waste
disposal in Banjul city and the other urban areas is through a mixture of
collection of waste through a "pail" system, septic tanks and pit latrines.
The Government is concerned about the public health dangers and nuisance
arising from the present mixing of drainage and septic tank discharges and
has commenced construction of a piped sewerage system (financed by the
African Development Fund (ADF), the Federal Republic of Germany through
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) and the European Development Fund
(EDF)).
35.       Sanitation in the rural areas comprises a few septic tanks, a
large number of pit latrines and defecation in the open. Odor and fly free
ventilated improved pit (VIP) latrines have been introduced as pilot
projects in several villages. MLGL is currently preparing a demonstration
program to introduce health education and community participation through
rehabilitation of wells and construction of VIP latrines at 50 schools
throughout the country.
Electricity Supply Facilities and Levels of Service
36.       The energy sector of The Gambia was reviewed in 1983 as part of
the UNDP/World Bank Energy Sector Assessment Program (Report No.4743-GM of
November 1983). Production of electricity is based on imported diesel.
GUC operates three power stations in Greater Banjul. The newest and main
power station at Kotu was commissioned in 1981 and expanded in 1984. It is
equipped with three generating sets which have a total capacity of 12.8 MW.
Firm capacity is 6.8 MW. The former main power station at Half Die is used
as standby with a capacity of 0.5 MW. The Brikama station has a capacity



- 11 -
of 0.7 MW. In the provinces, GUC operates small generating plants to
supply six provincial centers and four of the government-owned health
centers. Many of the sets are over ten years old. As a result, frequent
and lengthy breakdowns were common until a rehabilitation program was
undertaken in 1984 by the UK Overseas Development Agency (ODA).
37.       Before 1981 irregular load shedding was frequent and caused many
customer complaints. Since then, the expansion of installed capacity has
enabled a regular pattern of load shedding to be established when required.
GUC now supplies 1,600 connections in the provinces and 10,300 in Greater
Banjul. Peak hour electricity demand in Greater Banjul is 8.5 MW. Because
of overloaded distribution lines and transformers, GUC operates a very
restrictive policy on new connections. GUC has started to rehabilitate
parts of its distribution system under IDA (para 43) and KfW
(US$0.8 million) financing.
Operation and Maintenance
38.       Better operation and maintenance of both its water and power
supply systems have improved the reliability of GUC's supplies in recent
years in the Greater Banjul area. Major breakdowns were caused by lack of
financing for spare parts, inadequately trained staff and poor maintenance
procedures. The technical assistance experts of Gesellschaft fur
Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ) and KfW have contributed significantly to
this improvement. Unaccounted-for water is relatively low at 20 percent of
the water produced.
39.       Problems of inadequate operation and maintenance of water and
power supply equipment in the provincial urban centers have been
particularly acute. Rehabilitation of the power generation units in 1984
under ODA financing also improved water supply, as the units provide the
power for the borehole pumps. The Water Supply Division of GUC does not
have adequate office accommodation or store facilities either in the
Greater Banjul area or in the provinces. Communication equipment,
particularly essential for work in the provinces is presently being
upgraded under GTZ assistance. About half of the Water Supply Division's
vehicles are more than five years old and need to be replaced.
Manpower and Training
40.       GUC employs approximately 600 permanent and 400 temporary staff.
The majority of the permanent staff are employed in the Electricity
Division. The functions and cost of both the permanent staff and temporary
workers will be revi3wed as part of a Government directive to take
measures, including streamlining staff, to reduce costs.
41.       GUC lacks an overall manpower development plan. Although
training is needed in all areas of GUC, there is presently no comprehensive
program for resolving this problem. A Personnel Department has been
functioning for about two years with the Personnel Manager also responsible



- 12 -
for training, but little or no progress has been made to identify and
implement effeccive personnel policies.
42.       Despite some difficulties in recruitment, qualified counterparts
have been provided to the GTZ and KfW financed expatriates. The German
financed technical assistance has been working well since commencement in
1981/82. A total of eight expatriates at senior level, mainly on the
technical side of GUC's operations, has been financed by GTZ and KfW. The
technical assistance is now entering its final phase, and in three
positions local staff have already taken over the line positions. It is
expected that the technical assistance program will continue. Training
operations are primarily conducted through technical assistance provided by
GTZ at the work station and abroad and at the Gambia Technical Training
Institute (GTTT). Training of counterparts has been successful, but
training of other staff has been less so. Functional illiteracy is a major
constraint to improving the efficiency and productive output of GUC
employees up to foreman and assistant superintendent levels. Both the
Government and GUC are aware of the need to improve literacy, and the first
of a series of government-sponsored literacy courses for GUC staff is
underway.
The Bank's Involvement in the Water Supply and Power Sectors
43.       The Bank has not previously participated specifically in a water
supply project in The Gambia and has only recently become involved in the
power sector. The initial involvement of IDA with GUC was under the
Tourism and Infrastructure Project (CR.602-Gf of December 1975), which was
completed in 1982 and successfully installed a sewerage system (para 34)
and helped to restore the power supply in 1979 and 1980. More recently GUC
has been the executing agency for the power component of the
SDR 1.3 million Energy Credit (CR.1187-GM of November 1981) under which GUC
has begun rehabilitation of the Banjul electricity transmission and
distribution system. The rehabilitation component of that project has been
successful and was completed in line with the original expectations. To
reduce the present gap between water supply and demand, a borehole
rehabilitation component will increase the water supply capacity for the
Greater Banjul area under the Urban Management and Development Project
(CR.1443-GM of February 1984).
44.       The Bank's strategy in The Gambia focuses on assisting the
country in developing a macroeconomic policy framework that would lead to
sustainable growth and supporting projects aimed at maintaining and
rehabilitating key economic, physical and social infrastructure. The
proposed project is consistent with this strategy. As indicated above
(para 31), there is an urgent need to rehabilitate and extend the water
supply system in Greater Banjul and the provincial urban centers where
water shortages occur frequently. In 1983, the Government asked the Bank
to assist in the preparation of the proposed project, which is included in
the country's cur.ent Development Plan (1981/82 - 1985/86). Water and
electricity supply operations under GUC have become more efficient during
the Development Plan period largely due to KfW and GTZ financed technical



- 13 -
assistance and ODA and IDA financed spare parts. GUC's financial
performance has been very poor, mainly as a result of low tariffs. The
Corporation is also overstaffed, particularly at the semi-skilled and
unskilled worker level, while there is a shortage of qualified mid-level
staff. The proposed project would address the above issues. It would
assist GUC in preparing a manpower development plan, streamlining the
workforce and implementing an intensive training program (para 48). Under
a recently approved operation of the Special Project Preparation Facility
(SPPF), consultants have been recruited to assist the National Investment
Board (the oversight agency for the public enterprise sector) in
consolidating public enterprise, economic and financial information. The
consultants will also assist three key public enterprises, of which GUC is
one, in preparing comprehensive enterprise rehabilitation plans and draft
performance contracts. The performance coatract for GUC will set out
objectives and performance targets for GiC including the administrative
procedures for affecting tariff changes, and would define the mutual
responsibilities of Government and GUC. The proposed project has been
designed to consolidate and complement the continuing effort to improve the
performance of one of the key public enterprises.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Objectives
45.       The main objectives of the proposed project are:
(a) To provide an essential service to the people of Greater
Banjul by increasing and expanding the public water supply
system;
(b) To provide improved water supply service in seven provincial
urban centers;
(c) To reduce line losses of the electricity distribution system
in Greater Banjul; and
(d) To assist GUC in achieving financial viability through
improved operational efficiency and financial management and
providing working capital support to GUC for the purchase of
about a nine-month supply of diesel fuel.
Project Description
46.       The project will expand the water supply system of the Greater
Banjul area to provide 86 percent of the projected 1993 population
(343,000) with potable water. In the provinces, the project will
rehabilitate and expand the water supply systems in the seven provincial
urban centers (Farafenni, Basse, Georgetown, Bansang. Mansakonko, Kerewan
and Barra-Kanuma) to meet projected demand up to 1995 in six of the centers



- 14 -
and 1990 in Kerewan. The share of the population supplied is projected to
be 90 percent of the projected 1993 population (28,000).
47.       Rehabilitation and reinforcement of the Banjul electricity
distribution system will enable GUC to provide a considerably more reliable
electricity supply, while at the same time allowing GUC to decrease its
electricity distribution system line losses from the present 18 percent to
about 15 percent. Provision of funds for a nine-month supply of diesel
fuel for GUC, in conjunction with recent and planned tariff increases, will
enable GUC to accumulate funds for future bulk purchases of diesel fuel at
advantageous prices.
48.       The project will provide 48 man-months of technical assistance to
assist GUC in upgrading its institutional capability in manpower
development, management accounting (including cost accounting), and
internal audit as well as to introduce systems for improved electrical and
mechanical maintenance in the provincial center systems. It will also
finance implementation of training programs, provision of operational
equipment and depot facilities. Through programs established under the
project, the GUC workforce will be streamlined and effectively organized,
and staff will be recruited, promoted and trained on the basis of defined
personnel policies.
Project Costs and Financing
49.       The estimated total cost of the project, net of taxes, is
US$19.4 million equivalent. The estimated foreign cost component is
US$15.1 million, representing 78 percent of total cost. Cost estimates are
in January 1986 prices. Estimated rates of inflation on foreign costs have
been applied to both foreign and local costs. This assumes that the
exchange rate will be adjusted for variations between foreign and local
rates of inflation. The project will be financed by IDA (US$7.0 million);
ADF (US$4.0 million); IDB (US$4.0 million); EDF (US$2.6 million); and the
Government or, preferably, GUC (US$1.8 million). The IDA Credit will be
made available to the Government which will onlend the credit proceeds to
GUC for 20 years including five years of grace at 8.5 percent per annum.
Execution of the onlending agreement between the Government and GUC,
satisfactory to IDA, will be a condition of credit effectiveness. Because
of GUC's relatively weak financial position, IDA would not object to the
Government's passing on to GUC other project financing on the terms
accorded by the co-financiers. Execution of lending agreements with all
co-financiers will also be a condition of credit effectiveness.
Prolect Implementation and Present Status of Project
50.       Implementation of the pro4ect will be the responsibility of GUC,
assisted by qualified consultants. There is adequate professional
experience within GUC to provide the necessary overall control. Project
co-ordination would be assigned initially (for a period of 12 months) to
the GTZ financed water supply advisor, assisted by a qualified Gambian
engineer, who will subsequently assume full responsibility.



- 15 -
51.       Detailed design will be financed under CR.1443-GM.  It is
expected that the consultant will start work in July 1986. The project is
expected to be completed by June 1993. The project design for the
provincial centers water supply rehabilitation and the Banjul electricity
distribution reinforcement is based on studies carried out by a Bank
consultant and GUC, respectively. Because all of the components are
straightforward, no delays in procurement or implementation are expected.
The implementation period for this project is estimated at seven years,
based on the country profile for The Gambia. It is, however, possible that
the implementation period could be reduced to five years. This would
result in project costs being reduced by about 6 percent, from
US$19.4 million to US$18.3 million. While costs would be incurred earlier,
the flow of benefits would also begin more quickly. Thus, impact on the
projected internal financial rates of return (IFRR) for the project would
be minimal.
Procurement
52.       Procurement arrangements are summarized in the following table:
amunts A- and YEtlods of Procuremnt
(0S$ udlln)
Procureset Method b/
Items to be Procured     _G    LCB    Sqng            Other c/  Proect Cast
Pm's. treatnet plait,     6.55      -        0.42       1.61       8.58
pipes and fittings. meters,  (2.58)  -      (0.20)        -       (2.78)
vedcles, cables,
trsfomers, spare parts
Bmrbole drilling, geneal    1.33   0.21       -         4.73       6.27
civil works, pipe laying,    (0.22)  (0.10)   -           -       (0.32)
hdlding dwol
Consultant servcLes,        -       -         -         2.50       2.50
tedmidcal assistawce and    -       -         -        (1.90)     (1.90)
Wondrig capital for         -       -        2.00         -        2.00
purchase of diesel fuel     -       -       (2.00)        -       (2.00)
Total project            7.88   0.21       2.42       8.84       19.35
(2.8J   (0.10)    (22Q       (10        Q7.O)
a/             ae inclixied In die awnts show.
bI/   m=ts eacesi In priMes lH cate amaunt of IDA psrdp x
7  Subject to change dponding on the re*dirmeats of dhe co-_finn4cirs.



- 16 -
53.       Goods and civil works procured with IDA financing will be under
contracts awarded in accordance with Bank procedures, on the basis of
international competitive bidding, local competitive bidding or
international shopping, except where otherwise agreed with IDA. Under IDA
financed contracts, goods manufactured locally would be given a preference
margin of up to 15 percent or the applicable customs duty, whichever is
less, while eligible domestic contractors will be given a 7.5 percent
preference margin. With the exception of the consultant services and
technical assistance directly related to the provincial water systems which
will be procured under EDF procedures, technical assistance and consultancy
services will be procured in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. All
other co-financed goods and services are expected to follow procurement
procedures applicable to the specific sources of financing. Procurement
decisions for goods whose estimated costs exceed US$100,000 equivalent and
for civil works whose estimated costs exceed US$200,000 equivalent will be
subject to IDA's prior review. Government intends to exempt all project
procurement from taxes and transfer payments.
Disbursements
54.       The project is expected to be substantially completed by June 30,
1993 and the proposed credit closing date is June 30, 1994. The estimated
disbursements for the project are based on the country profile for
The Gambia. The IDA Credit would cover 95 percent of the cost of
electrical and mechanical equipment and materials, 50 percent of the cost
of civil and building works and 100 percent of consultant services and
diesel fuel. Disbursement of the component for working capital to finance
about a nine-month supply of diesel fuel would be contingent upon GUC's
having established a procedure acceptable to the Association for continuing
economical bulk purchasing of fuel and lubricating oil.
55.       No disbursement applications less than US$30.000 will be accepted
by IDA. IDA would make an initial advance of US$220,000 to a Special
Account (revolving fund) in foreign exchange to be established on terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA. Amounts advanced to this account will be
used to finance small expenditures and amounts withdrawn for payment of
eligible expenditures would be replenished by IDA subject to submission of
satisfactory documentation. A counterpart fund account with an initial
deposit of D 750,000 will be established as a condition of credit
effectiveness.
Project Reporting and Auditing
56.       The project co-ordinator (para 50) will prepare comprehensive
progress reports, whose format and timing will be agreed with IDA, on the
various project components. Auditors acceptable to IDA will be employed to
ensure GUC's continued adherence to good accounting policies and practices.
Audit reports will be made available for review by IDA six months after the
end of GUC's fiscal year. The Special Account (para 55) will also be
audited annually.



- 17 -
GUC Financial Performance
57.       Primarily because of low tariffs, GUC's revenue generation has
not been sufficient to cover even cash operating expenses. As a result of
continued operating losses, GUC's capital has been eroded, and at times
GUC's short-term liabilities have exceeded current assets.
58.       GUC's water and electricity tariffs have never been sufficient to
achieve full cost recovery, even though a 30 percent across-the-board
increase for both water and electricity went into effect on January 1,
1985, and increases of 15 percent for water and 6 percent for electricity
went into effect on January 1, 1986. This last increase is part of a
three-year phased program of tariff increases approved by the Government in
November 1985 and designed to enable GUC to achieve full cost recovery. In
fact, at the current level of petroleum prices, GUC's electricity tariff
should have more than achieved full cost recovery. However, on January 20,
1986, the Government took a decision to de-link the overvalued Dalasi from
the pound sterling (it had been artificially maintained at a level of
D 5.00 = 1.00) and to allow the exchange rate to be set by the open
market. Since January 1986, the Dalasi has depreciated by about
100 percent. Although the substantial decline in petroleum prices
mitigates the effect of the depreciation, GUC's tariffs will require
further adjustment. In anticipation of this situation, in its Economic
Recovery Program approved in August 1985, the Government provided for
tariff adjustments to pass through to consumers increased operating costs
for those inputs denominated in foreign exchange. Implementation of
appropriate tariff adjustments will be a condition of credit effectiveness.
The 1972 Act prescribes that tariff proposals are to be approved by the
Minister of Works and Communications who is required to obtain the
agreement of the Minister of Finance, but in practice cabinet approval is
required to effect tariff increases. GUC's performance contract (para 44)
will, inter alia, establish the administrative procedures to be followed
for effecting tariff changes. In addition, during negotiations assurances
were obtained that any consents and approvals required in relation to GUC's
tariff increases would be given within 45 days after approval by GUC's
Board of Directors.
59.       Construction of the Banjul city sewerage system, financed by ADF,
EDF and Germany on soft terms, has commenced. Many of the population who
will be served by the new sewerage scheme represent the urban segment with
the least ability to pay. Improvement in sewage disposal in the densely
populated Banjul urban area will have a beneficial impact on public health,
but in order to reduce the financial burden on GUC, during negotiations
agreement was reached that:
(a) the Government would renegotiate on-lending terms with ADF
in order to transfer the assets of the new sewerage system
as an equity contribution to GUC's Sewerage Division;



- 18 -
(b) the Government would provide subsidies to the extent that
cash operating expenses 1/ exceed revenues from sewerage
charges generated from the operation of the system 2/, but
that such operating subsidies would be eliminated by the
time the connection program is completed; and
(c) sewerage charges would be limited to the amount necessary to
cover cash expenses for operation and maintenance of the
system, since in the short to medium term no expansion of
the system will be required.
60.       GUC's operations are dominated by the Electricity Division, which
currently accounts for 65 percent of connections and over 75 percent of
sales. In FY85 the cost of gas oil represented about 65 percent of the
Electricity Division's and 50 percent of GUC's total cash operating costs.
All fuel is imported. When sufficient foreign exchange is available, GUC
can purchase fuel at world market prices. More often because of funding
constraints (i.e., lack of foreign exchange). GUC has been forced to buy
fuel in rather small quantities at very high prices. GUC also pays
internal handling charges, but is exempt from import duties. Since GUC has
no real alternative to thermal generation, GUC's financial performance will
remain particularly sensitive to petroleum prices. To reduce the degree of
sensitivity, GUC intends to install a 6-8 MW 2-stroke generator operating
on heavy fuel oil, which is estimated to result in substantial savings
(about 40 percent) on fuel costs per unit produced over 4-stro6k generators
operating on diesel oil. In November 1985, the Danish International
Development Agency (DANIDA) appraised a project to provide such a
generator. GUC plans to commence generation of its baseload with heavy
fuel in FY89. If this is not possible, a substantial electricity tariff
Increase (15 percent higher than would otherwise be required) would be
required in FY89 for GUC to maintain financial viability.
61.       As previously mentioned (para 57), GUC's capital has been
substantially eroded as a result of its poor operating performance.
However, in conjunction with the 30 percent across-the-board tariff
increase effective January 1, 1985, the Government agreed to convert to
equity the debt as of June 30, 1984 owed by GUC to Government for debt
aervice and fuel oil purchases after offsetting amounts owed by Government
to GUC. GUC still has substantial accrued interest obligations due to the
Government which were not dealt with at the time the debt offset was
effected. Conversion to equity of overdue interest payable is a condition
of credit effectiveness.
I/   Total operating expenses excluding depreciation.
2/   This is compatible with the ADF's requirement that the Government
cover the operating deficits of the new sewerage system.



- 19 -
62.       GUC operates under a policy of universal metering and monthly
billing. Over the last two years GUC has succeeded in fully collecting its
current billings and has even achieved a Blight reduction in arrears. It
is anticipated that a new billing and accounts receivable system to be
provided by GTZ, in conjunction with continuing emphasis on improving
collections, should enable GUC to reduce receivables from the current four
months equivalent sales to about two months sales by FY90. On the whole,
GUC's financial accounting and reporting systems are adequate. Because
there is no professionally qualified Gambian accountant on its staff, GUC
has for the past seven years employed an expatriate chartered accountant an
financial advisor to the Managing Director. To ensure that GUC's financial
accounting capability does not deteriorate, during negotiations assurances
were obtained that &UC will at all times retain in its employ at least one
chartered or equivalently qualified accountant. GUC's management
accounting and internal control, however, need to be strengthened. To this
end, the proposed project will provide 24 mn-months of technical
assistance and training in management accounting and internal audit.
Future Financial Performance of GUC
63.       One of the principal objectives of the project is for GUC to
achieve full cost recovery 3/ on both water and electricity by FY89 and
increasing positive rates of return on net fixed assets in operation,
thereafter. To this end, the Project Agreement specifies that GUC should
achieve a positive rate of return from FY89, with increasing rates of
return on annually revalued net fixed assets to reach by FY93 a minimum of
3 percent for water supply and 8 percent for electricity 4/. The
improvement in GUC's financial performance envisaged under the proposed
project would decrease and ultimately eliminate the financial drain of GUC
on the Government.
Project Benefits and Risks
64.       The proposed project represents the least cost solution to
improve the availability and reliability of water supply in Greater Banjul
and seven provincial urban centers and of electricity in Greater Banjul.
Development of the aquifer for the Greater Banjul water supply component is
the next sequential step in the provision of water supply sources for the
area, and the size and scope of all components are based on engineering and
economic analysis to determine the most cost effective solution. The
3/  Total operating expenses including depreciation, which exceeds debt
service requirements.
4/  The rate of return covenant for sewerage set forth under the Energy
Credit (CR.1187-GM of November 1981) which requires an 8 percent rate
of return on net fixed assets will prevail until the program for
domestic connections to the new system has been completed (para 59).



- 20 -
rehabilitation and limited expansion of the provincial urban centers
existing water supply systems is the least cost solution to improve water
supply in the centers, and rehabilitation of the Greater Banjul electricity
distribution system represents the most cost effective approach to improve
the power supply in the urban area with the highest population density in
The Gambia.
65.       By increasing access to safe water, the water supply components
would yield health and productivity benefits to residents in Greater Banjul
and in seven provincial centers. About 45 percent of the water components'
beneficiaries have incomes at or below the urban property threshold.
Alternatively, when measured in terms of project benefits accruing to the
poor, the percentage of water consumed by the urban poor is about
36 percent of total incremental water produced by the project.
66.       About one-half of the urban population encompassing the lowest
income groups currently take water from the public standpipes at no charge
and will continue to do so throughout and beyond the project period. GUC's
tariffs are tiered to provide a degree of cross-subsidization to the lowest
income consumers who typically share a yard tap to provide water for
domestic consumption. The results of a recent household survey confirm
that current water tariffs are affordable. Future water tariff increases
will be set in consultation with IDA and particular attention will be paid
to the structure to assure affordability. During project preparation GUC's
domestic connection policy was reviewed; the issue is complex and will be
the subject of further discussions during project implementation.
67.        The electricity component consists of rehabilitating and
reinforcing the distribution network in Greater Banjul with a consequent
reduction in power line losses. The primary benefits of this component
would be to The Gambia's economy through an increase in the percentage of
power generated available for productive use.
68.       Internal financial ratea of return were calculated for each of
the projectts three main physical components. Expected incremental
revenues accruing to GUC were used as a proxy for minimum economic
benefits, and costs include all incremental capital and recurrent costs.
The internal financial rates of return (IFRR) so calculated are as follows:
Greater Ranjul water supply, 11 percent; provincial centers water supply,
7 percent; and Greater Banjul electricity rehabilitation, 19 percent.
Although the ' percent IFRR for the provincial centers water supply
comonent is less than the 10 percent assumed cost of capital, the
methodology adopted fer calculating IFRRs - i.e., using incremental
revenues as a proxy for benefits - does not capture the economic benefits
arising from improvements in health and time savings nor the consumers'
surplus. In view of this, the IFRR is considered acceptable.
69.       The proposed project represents the first major Bank/IDA
operation in the water supply and electricity sectors in The Gambia. The
executing agency, GUC, is at present managing its technical operations in a
satisfactory manner, but it still relies on expatriate technical



- 21 -
assistance. While GUC will probably remain vulnerable to the occasional
loss of qualified staff and the significant effect this may have on its
operations (particularly because of the relatively small size of its
trained staff), the manpower development plan should reduce this risk.
Technically, the water supply and electricity components are
straightforward and involve little risk. The project is not expected to
produce any environmental risks.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
70.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 30, 1986



- 22 -
AI4NEX I
Page 1 of 6
CA014  l               - TM  OCIALNIC AMU  MA MET3
Cum". TM                            i     i        3 (1511m1  AVUAS) la
Pon                      COST 3553 KS?INAT) lb
ioaL~ ~~ mu i,loL             1w1    095 micAII m2130
1&d.. 1.b t.tlU                     SOmI Ur )            ARC  b. U  ;
so91. *)
TOTAL                              I1A3        113         11..
IAUILM                              3.3         3.9         43.
Mm                                  - OM       .-       260.0 IL           223.3                   114.8
Cu ULa3s or OIL UlUIWAI )          14.0        33.0       7i.o               IL2 5l1.
WOeOIa?nn.MInUa  (11A.)           374.0       443.0      750.0 1
U1lm  e     0PuL4uo  c OF TrOAL)   12.4        19.3       30.0               20.1                     32.0
Pean?o10N9 TM* 00 ag ( suj                        -       1*.
%TATIOART 101     1  (ILL)                                3.1
FO*UAUI miuUl
an3   010                        33.1        41.2        41.7              33.2                     45.1
ega    l m. A1. Lam             103.9       119.2      153.0              112                      124.3
POPWATOU AM SSUCfl (I)
0-14  S                          42.7       43.9        42.4              4b.0                     45.4
1344 us                          54.2        53.1       55.3               30.8                     51.S
43D amA9                          2.9         Z.9 *.2                       2.9                      2.7
TOTAL                              1.2        2.2         3.1               2.4                      2.9
OuAN.                             2.8         7.1        4.5                4.4                      5.1
CWDE KM1 31 (P9& 1T30S)            4.3         4.2         49.0              47.2                     47.0
C-I  U     u am  (CPU T3005)       29.2        24.1       Z2.7               17.3                     15.0
--oS inuiiTTI0U am!!                3.0         3.1         3.2               3.3                      3.2
FAM IPL - ID
AC     . - 1L. ClimmU             ..          1.0
Una  (C0I 11Or 3A 3 l )           ..          ..                          sa 3.3
-  - mum
1155 or  O ROD3. MR CAPITA
C1969-71.100)                     101.0        90.0        42.0              33.3                     32.9
M CAPITA  10LY  CF
CALOI  CZ F or    UINTS)         109.0        a0         34.0              37.7                     S.LS
M     S (cam  1PM VAT)           43.0          .0       51.0               s1.9                     53.4
OF IME ANUAL ANeD FUL.X          310        13.0        13.0 la           1U.7                     14.3
cIla CAMS 1-4) Dll 3M              33.9        52.3        43.5              23.1                     10.4
LXII I110C. AT KUWX (13*35)        31.1        32.3        36.0              47.3                     SL0
13WAT mM. RATE (CUR TOM)          122.0       214.3      200.0              119.3                    10S.S
ACCss T SAM MATU (C20W)
TOTAL                             ..         12.0         .                27.1                     *2.4
03313                             ..         97.0       54 l S d           63.5                     67.5
UUL                               ..          3.          . .  -19.3                                35.3
ACCS5 TO  X2A DISPOSL
(Z or POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..          ..          ..               2b.5                     2.9
U                                 ..          ..          ..                3.4                     57.7
gUmL                              ..          ..          ..               70.3                     20.7
POWULATION PR WuIwI             24930.0    239S0.0    12310.0 la          27901.7                  11791.7
VW. WE MOuICNtC pe0n"            1390.0 if  1390.0       1770.0 7o         3303.4                   s5 9.3
POI. Zu NDITAL ue0
TOTAL                           920.0         ..          0.0 a          1273.6                    981.1
uu                              190.0 if      ..        170.0             * 423.2                  344.5
NIZAL                          9210.0 __      ..       38900 /           3292.5                   '371.9
ADM1SSla1S        OSPITAL           ..          ..         ..                ..                       27.2
A*nUE SIZE OF NOUSULD
TOTAL                             ..          3..                   
m                                 ..          *.1 7
RDUL                              ..          9.0         ..
AVERUE 90. oF l3SMIh3O0
TOTAL                              .          ..
AUU                               ..          ..         .                  ..
M.CzvrAg (W uViLUcs 111111 CWT.
TOTAL                             ..          ..
waL                              ..         ..          .                  ..
URL                               ..          ...



- 23-                                              ANNE I
Page 2 of 6
.1NIA. 131             -OC1AL lMIATM  6414 sow
CANURA, INS                               O1M0 UC(VP I           U3D     L
ST                       (MST aw.: LSTINTE) A
ucinut         LW EISCE  AftIA           NarnuL  IorU
1i,tdLb    19P70                     Sam*1~.  01 or SaAM"  AUtICA S. OF SIAKAU
AOJUfZD      CN t ATIOS
PtaLnt   STOL                     12.0       24.0        g6.0               *7.m                     95.7
HALg                   17.0        34.0       71.0               77A                     100.0
113.                    3.0        15.0        41.0              54. 93.2
SECC1t: TaOtAL                     3.0        *.0        14.0               13.5                     17.3
IULa                    4.0        12.0       22.0               17.9                     25.0
IumL                    2.0        4.0        10.0                9.1                     14.6
Vocna"TlaL CZ or S610N31)            1.4        3.4         0.1               13.2                      5.9
FUfL-ITAOUMRA3M1
IRDIA                             31.0       27.0        23.0               44.9                     41.1
sUCCm                             19.0       20.0        16.0               27.4                     25.5
*ASSENGR CARS/HOUSAD 90              2.1        4.2         3.5        /       3.6                     20.6
3A*1O RUIERIUUU  to                  5.3      107.5       111.4               55.6                    107.A
TV 3       /us*H  for                .           .          .                   .4                     20.6
um.sAM  ('OAx  CgUAIL
INTsr) C1L4A106
PER Tnoumo IoUTI                    4.0        ..          ..                 5.0                     1.
CI       AUNIAL _ hICMACIA           ..         ..          ..                0.5                       0.4
TOTAL LAWS lIDE  (Tum)             193.0      227.0       331.0
PEWS (FERGeH)                     446.       44.2        43.1               34.2                    3:*2
ACICULIOUS (RPcER!)               65.0       62.0        700                77.5                     54.5
3300w (EC EN)                      7.           0         9.0 7i            9.7                      16.3
PARTICFATIOS S=1 PRC111
TOTAL                             51.7       46.7        42.5               3.3                      36.6
HALE                              5G.2       53.5        53.4 id            50.9                     47.1
IeSLK                             47.4       44.2        4L8 Td             26.1                     27.2
EGUOISIC  D9W C I  3*RA0             0.9         1.0        0.9                1.3                      1.3
-scf or MinAiN  x
RECEIvED w
3 31 51 OF NosUoIZ                 ..          .....
RICNST 201 or  ousnmr              ..          ...
LOWSr 201 O    _S                  ..          ..         ..                 ....
LOISS An3 OF RIUSUmoLDs             ..
-a or --
LUll. USSA 1OL   POCAF i
U3aASN                             ..          ..         ..               155.5                    590.7
UAL                                ..         .. *.                        95.0                     275.3
-S'ad4SED CMT       DCJL1 
LEVEL (U1S PER CW1TA
..                                           ..        Iis.0 e            113.1                    545.4
RUAL                               ..         ..         90.0 79           67.A                     201.1
C573*1A   POP. SCUM* A*3SL
POVER   ICEE LV. (C)
URSIn                              ..         ..          ..               34..
RAL                               ..          ..         4.D l.            elJ
IIOT AWAIAUZ
MrT APPL1CALE.
IIDT~~~~~~~ ~               a LC 
Ia  The grap awerqe. for ea*   lacwtor are popelatlee er *ted arltltLc _arn   CWe46  of mette."
mog the luwl1cecre depenk - .eallablty at date eat Is mt  lteis.
lb  UnIlea otbawLse eoted  'hata for 160 refer to eq year be,amrn 1959 ean  1961; 'Utta for 197W  btiem
1969 and 1971; ean data for -ftsc _acra adinee" betome 1961 eau 1953.
/c  1977;  la 1960; /a 19U7; If 162; IA 1976; l 1973; A  1960; Li 1965-
JUIS 1965



- 24 -
ANNEX t
Page 3 of 6
DWFEWdmOF CSOaML W4DICATO115
inparahlr hems_ Ik lek orstededm dllti and muoaM  d_ by di_tmunum in mmaing tI dat. lt dt an. amotheluagmd to
Mme    t   ops am_ (I) the ems eeu,y pow of th subec counAry end (2)  cunry pou wah lmewha baer areg scoxe *Fte th twry
_ouptt.sbjectcoestycesupefrHNig IomeOil Epoer grouhe -Midl Ince Nonh Afrcaand MiE-i 1adee hbame. ur
_de.cutu  ads), b doeI   ro.p dat te *avare          populainwegtdanhwp nmuftr me iniar and sw   ly wn hmmonty
dItheODSt i iUapouphdata bri.Ws indictnSine_ the pofantus e mogtbhenco       ndep onthevwkilnbityo deaad   n uiforimL
ematns bue     d 'in stdng   mo_  ao .irmska  teanxth. Thm safn e only umful in comprmg twh  done indiwt ater um _eg
the moy ed  Im   _or
AREA (ihounmnd sq.km.)                                        C rib RAte (per thonam)-Number of live births in the year
Tend-Total surfac am comprisin land ams and inland wters     p   h         of mid-yecr populao: 1960.1970. and 1963 data.
t960. 1970 and 1963 data.                                    Cauk Oei Rae (pr uaJ-Number of deathk in ith year
AgvftutmwI-Esimate of agricultural are used tempormry or      per thournS of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1913 data.
pn nenly for cro   putue market and kitchen prdes or to       GCa h      Apr.kdmi  br-Average number of daughtr a womn
lie falow. 1960. 1970 and 1912 data.                          wil bear in ber nonnal reproductive period if she exis
presnt age-pefic ritility ztes ully five-year avages ending
GNP PER CAPFITA (UWS)GNP per capita estimat  at current       in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices calculated by -am  conversion method as Wordd   &s(  lqA pw.Am   tadjAms  us
BaptAiutr(1911143 bais) 1983 data                          F&-T        _             As,    Natnk)Annuallnum-
*..k  tlas(19153 hrniaL1963data  berof accet  of birth-contl devices under auspices of nationl
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                 famiy planning pgrn.
consumption or cmmercial primary energy (coal and lignite.    Fu* P1-Usl-em (percent .fm.wkd sterna-The pn-
perolum naturl  ps and hydro-. nucilr and gehnnal ec.-    uf or mared women of child-bearing agc who are pracucing or
tricity) in kilogpram  of oil equivalent per capitn 1960. 1970. and  wbos husbands are practicing any fonn ofontraception. Women
1982 data.                                                   of chld-bearing age are gcenlly women aged 15-49. although for
some countres contmceptive usge is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                               groupL
Tea hFaIL u. MidYw (uhm.JkD-As of July 1: 1960. 1970.        FOO  AND NUTRMON
and 1913 data.
p (*ax effed Prab ih  Cata{ (If9-71- IN) - -Index orper
Man Pop_ hwimm lb_b   m of nar W-Ratio Or urban tO toul      capit annual production of all food comnodities. Production
populatiO  difrt definto of uban  -  my affct conmpar-       excdudes anial feed and seed for agriculture. Foild cmmodities
ability of data among countrier: 1960.1970. and 1983 data.    incdude primary commodities (e.g. sugarcan  instead of sugpri
tpufeieuhPkaias                                               which ar edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
hpuArimn h veer 2000-The projection of popution for 000.      excluded): they comprise cereals. root cras. pulies. oil seds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on  vegetabls fruits. nuts. sugprcane and supr bes. livestock. and
total population by age and sex, fertility rates mortaity rates, and  livestock products Agggte production of each country is based
intrnational migration in the bae year 190. de  parameten     on national average produce. price weights: 1961-5. 1970. and
wre  prr'ected at five-year intervals on the basis of geberalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population becae sationary.             hr COOSr Suppl ofCa re- (Pecet aqfa11aWtflmp-CotPut-
Satonr; populioe--ls one in which ag- and srx-specific mor-   ad rrom calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while ag cfic  per capita per day. Availabk- supplies comprpse domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacnt level tion. imports less exports and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate - 1). In such a population. the birth rate is    exdude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also  food processing. and losses in distribution. Requircments were
constant. and the growth rate is reo. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physioogical needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and healt; ccnsidering environmentl temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution or population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacernent level.                                   waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1912 dua.
bpulatwon Moenreu-ls the tendency for populatis. growth to    Per Copae Suppy of Proa  (gnras per lly-Protein content or
continue beyond the time that replacement-levd fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
ahieved. that is. even after the net reproduction rte has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year r is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of tota proton per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of antmal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year t. gven the assumption that fertility remais at replace-  should be animai protein. These stndards are lower than those of
ment klvel from year r onward. 1915 data.                    75 grams of tol -protein and 23 grams of animal protoin as an
peffinbridle D&dt*Y                                          average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
hr sqkm.-Mid-year population per square kilmeter I 1  hec-   Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tam) of totI aman 1960.1970. and 1913 data.                   hrr CtaW Prote  Supply emi A.u sdf Plse-Protein supph}
Per sq.m. ariodmwl lao d-Computed as above for agricultural  of food derived fron animals and pulses in grams per day: 1461-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1912 data.                         1970 and 1977 data.
Papubtiom Age St_rure (percsr--Children 10-14 yearsl. work-  ChW(ages 1-4 Deub Rae (perth.ined)-Number of daths of
ing age (15-6 yearsl. and rctred (65 years and over; as pcntae  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children an the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.      >    group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Pepui em Growt Raze (percaatera-Annual growth rates of        from life tabks; 1960. 1970 and 1953 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.  HEALTH
Popuate G*wth Rale (pervear)-ehmr-Annual growth rates         WeEr rpectmacat -irb jeyrwu-Nuumber of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.   infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



- 25 -
ANNE I
Page 4 of 6
at the me or of its birth w    to stay te sam  throughout its fire:  Ae bi-chw  Ail - prhwy. and secmudlrj-Total studet en-
1960. 1970 and 1913 daL                                        rolled in primary and sndary kls divided by numbrm of
_  MWmEIp Poe (pe          milk--Number of infants who die      taches in the cotesponding level.
before reacing oue year of age pcr thouand live birhs in  given
year. 1960. 1970 and 19S3 data.                                 CONSUMflON
Ames tS     Efw  (p .( )eeetof                  MA, and               RW Cms p  r( Mud _           uPu            cars comn-
Nwd-Number of people (totaL uban, ad rural) with rsonable       prim motor er saing  w thon eight peons eaclde  mbul-
arm  to sfe watr supply fmded tretd surface wae  or             ances, hbea    and military vehicel
Utmitted but u     _ouuated war  sth a that from protected      5X   Rebes (per -piue.J-All types f  eivr
bogehaleS, *ptinma and innituiy wellr)as pernattag. of thir  c-  for radio broadasuts to ginal public per thousand of p apulation
pptieloat io In an uban ar a  public fountain or amnipost
locted not mom thtn 200 mets frm a hou  my be          m       reistrtio rc rad ee as in corut dioa         infen yeas may
as being widl   onabie able of b   ho. In rua a                 not be comparble srice mw st countwies abole licensing
reasonable arm  wowd imply tt the houswife or member of te.
houweol do not have to spend a diproportionate pat of the day    Vflcurper    hem- V  ree s for broadcat
in fetchng the fiilys water nindL                              to  oerml public per toUand populan excdudes unlicnd TV
Amm to Erom Dbpd Jpow ofcl p kdmJ                    ,          frcever in countti and in yep when  gaion of TV ss was
Access o Errat. Diqed (pmof pspIau5mfew.r  W*o      in efrect.
_d wel-Number of people (totaL urban. and ural) sd by
eaceta dispoal as percentage of their espective populatis.       I uC          t   (pmr   mhows the aver-
Excreta disposal may include the collection and dil  with or   age ciculation of daily  nl intet newspaper.- defind as a
without trement of human exreta and wast-water by watr-         peiodical publcati  devoted primaly to mcoidng gnal newL
born syste  or the  e of pit privies and smlu inu llaion.L     It is conidoed to be -daiy' irit appeas at least four tmes a week.
P_psiduli. Pr Phisl-FPopulation divided by number of prac-        a    A _ Azu_    per C_pir per Yr-Baued on the
twing physians qualified fnrm a medical school at university lewd.  number or tickets sold during the year. induding admissions to
P_Apdi per Neni._ Pse   Popuation divided by number of         dmnve-n cinema and mobde unitL
prticing male and female giraduate nutres, assstant nurses.
practical nurs and nursing auxiliarie                           LOR FOICE
Aepidule p   IlmpirAd-eool wbn   drsi*~                         Tota Lab- Forc (,tmdsis)-Economically actve persons. in-
(total  urban, and rural) divided by their respetVive number or  dudig armed forces and unemployed but excluding houseives
hospita beds  lavadble in public and privatz. gen l  peclmd     studcnts. ctc.. covering popuation of al ages. Definitions in
hospia  and rehalitauion centr  Hospitals are ic                varous countries ame not compamble: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
permanendy staffed by at let one physicin Estb  ments prov.     Faur (perceutrt-Female labor force as percentage of total labor
ding prinipaDy custodial care ame not included. Rural hospitals.  f
however. include healtih and medical eteus not permanently stffed  A-icawe (perm)-Larbor foe in fanings fort.y hunting
by a phyician (but by a medical asistnt  nure. midwife. etr)   and fishing as perentage of total abor forc  1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient acommodation and provide a limited rnge  data.
of medical facilie                                              IA;s fy)percaa-Labor force in mining, construction. manu-
Adrduuiuu per Hospital Bed-Total number of adminions to or      racturing and electricity. water and gas as prentag of total labor
dichargcs from hospitals divided by the number or beds.        rorce 1960. 1970 and 1910 data.
P-rdpa   mu R   (pircear)-wd. _. mdJinsu-Pirticpation
HOUSING                                                        or activity rtes am computed as totaL male. and female labor force
A-ice Si:  of Householf (pmu  p-e h-ehudJ-*o w        hrbin,   as perentaws or totaL male and female population of all ages
Amdwd-A householdconsistsofa group of individuals who share    respectively; 1960. 1970. and 1913 data. Tbes are based on ILOs
wving quarters and tbeir main meals A bouder or lodger may or   pnicipation rates relecting age-sex sructum of the population. and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates ame from national sour&es.
Arag Number of Perwar per Ream-tosal  m, and rWa-               Eckmir Depeadecy Rato-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of pesons per room in all urban. and rural      65 and over, to the working age population ithose aged 15-641.
occupied conventional dwelings. respectively. Dwelinp excludc
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts                  INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Pere-te ofDweESus wit Ekcicrp-totaL rba, ad rriL-              Aeceme of Tod Drpsole Icme (boh in end md kia.)-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen.-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked bv total house-
tage of total urban, and rural dwellings respectively,         hold income.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4m&d ff.itfa Rauues                                           The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
ftniary schoold total. muk and f-nk-Gross total. male an       levels and should be interpreted with considerable cauton
female enrolnment of all ages at the prmary level as percentages of  Estimoted AJnu e hverty iome Levl (USS per capiturileJa
resptive prinary school-age populations. While many countries  and rmaF-Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years others do not. The  below which a minimal nutriuonally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not aFordable.
are reflected in ihe ratios given. For some countries with universal  Eimued Reaive RPerty Iacmwe Leel (USS per capii)-orbax
education. gross enrolhment may exeed 100 percent sinre some   md emi--Rural relative poverty income level as one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita pesonal income of the country Urban level is
age-                                                           derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secoswy school - total, me and female-Computed as above;       living in urban aeas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Estmued  1akmu Arkw Absolte  1weef Incom  Leel rper-
mary instruction: provides general. vocational, or teacher training  cent --hen amd rral- fPercent of population turban and rural
instructions for pupils usualy of l2 to 17 years of age correspond-  who are "absolute poor.-
ence coures ame genraly excluded.
Voio/ EiuolMuni fperrent of secomdaryi-Vocatonal institu-                 Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions indude tchnial, industrial, or other programs which operate      Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independendy or as deprtments of secondary institutions.                                June 1935



-26-                                    ANNE[ I
Page 5 of 6
uC.aMC   INDICATORS- TIE GANBA
GRSS UTIONAL PUD=  TX 19114                                        ANWAL RAIE OF  ROWTH (M. Constant Prices)
uS$ Kin.           S          1975-79 (Av.)            1979-81           1986
GCP at Market Prices                 1i8             100              3.8                    1.9            -7.6
Gros Domestic Investment               31             16             21.8                   -7.6           -32.6
Gross National Saving                  -1             -1
Currcet Account Balance               -32            -17
Exports of Goods, MPS               I11               59             21.5                   -1.7            11.2f
Imports of Goods, UPS               -13B             -73               .4                     .2            -1.0
oUTPUr. DUPLIII AND PRODUIVITr IN 1984 'I
Value Added               Labor Force                  V.A. Per Uorker
SS Min.            S        housand            9sS                           %9
Agriculture                        51              28           232             70             233            39
Industry                           25              13            30             9              833           141
Services and Unallocated          117              59            69            21            1.696           286
Total J Average               196             100           331            100             592           100
CENTL GOVERNMUNT FINANCE                      D. Min.                                   Percent of GDP
i1947                           1984 a/                    N979 a/
Current Receipts                               128                              21                         23
Current Expenditure                            141                              23                         21
Current Balance                                -13                              -2                          2
Capital Expenditure                             70                              12                         12
Overall Balance                                -83                             -14                        -10
1980            l981            1982             1983            1984
(Hil1ions of Dliasis, outstindLng End-June)
INEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
bmney Supply                                 76              90             104              135             140
Bank Credit to Gowernment (net)              27              55              37               75              81
Dank Credit to Private Sector                91              98             105              131             143
Dank Credit to Public entities               56              69              98              142             161
(PercentaSe or Index Numbers)
Money as S of GDP                          17.9            21.9            23.0             25.6            23.2
General Price Index (1980-19g8)           100.0           1Q8.0           116.9            127.7           147.6
Anumal Percentage Change in:
General Price Index                         5.0             8.0             8.2              9.3            15.6
Bank Credit to Government (net)              -            103.7           -32.7            102.7            -8.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector                -              7.7             7.1             24.8             9.2
Bank Credit to Public entities               -             23.2            42.0             44.9            13.4
I/ Fiscal year ending June 30th.
September 6, 1985



- 27 -                                 ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                HERCHANDISE EXPORTS (1981-84 AVERAGE)
1982     1983       1984                                     (USS Hln.)     S
(USS millions)
Exports of Goods, NFS         100.3    105.6    121.2              Groundnuts                  22.5       85.9
Imports of Goods, NFS        142.3    131.7    138.0               Fisb and Fish Products       2.1        8.0
Resource Gap                 -42.0    -26.1    -26.8               All Other Goods              1.6        6.1
Domestic Exports      I      Gi Z i
Interest Payments and
Other Factor Payments (net)   -5.4      -9.1       -8.0            Reexports aJ                58.0
Private Transfers (net)        3.0       2.6       2.4             Total Mercandise exports  84.2
Balance on Current Account   -44.3    -32.5    -32.4               EXTERNAL DEBT AS OF DECEKBER 31, 1984
USS Mln.
Direct Investment                .5       -.1        .1
Official Transfers and Grants 43.8       35.3      30.4            Public Debt, Incl. Guaranteed         263.3
Public M & LT Borrowing (net)  30.1      13.5      18.5            Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Disbursements               34.7      20.3      25.1            Total Outstanding and Disbursed       263.3
Amortization                 4.6       6.8       6.6
Other Capital (net)          -46.9    -48.0    -28.3               DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1984             S
Cange in Official Reserves  -16.8    -31.8    -18.2                Public Debt, lncl. Guaranteed          22.3
(net) (+ - increase)                                           Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total Outstanding and Disbursed        22.3
Net Foreign Assets           -65.9    -92.0   -106.5
(end June)
Petroleum Imports              14.0      13.0      14.5           IBRD/1DA LENDING AS OF JUNE 30. 1985
USS Hln.
IDA
Oustanding and Disbursed           .2
Undisbursed                       21.1
Outstanding Incl. Undisbursed
RATE OF EXCHAIGE
Annual Averages                                End Period
1981          1982           1983           1984               April 1985
USS 1.00 - Dalasis              1.97           2.29           2.64           3.58                  4.02
a/ Includes staff estimates of unrecorded reexports.
September 6, 1985



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE GAMBIA *
A. Statement of IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1986)
Amount (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                  (US$ million)
Number    Year        Borrower          Purpose                     IDA 1/ Undisbursed 1/
Six credits fully disbursed                                          22.49
897-GM    1979      Republic of      Highway Maintenance
The Gambia       Project                        5.00       0.47
1187-GM    1981      Republic of      Energy Project                  1.50       0.42
The Gambia
1266-GM    1982      Republic of      Second Banjul Port
The Gambia       Project                        6.50       2.09
1443-GM    1984      Republic of      Urban Management and
The Gambia        Development                  11.50       9.94
1476-GM    1984      Republic of      Second Agricultural
The Gambia      Development                     9.40       8.99
Total                         56.39       21.91
of which has been repaid    0.30
Total now held by IDA 21      56.09
Total undisbursed                         21.91
1/   Beginning with Credit 1187-GM, Credits shown here have been denominated in Special
Drawing Rights. The dollar amounts in these columns represent the dollar
equivalent at the time of credit negotiations for the "IDA" amounts and the dollar
equivalents as of March 31, 1986, for the "undisbursed" amounts
(I SDR - US$1.13827).
2/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
*    The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page   of 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of March 31, 1986)
Fiscal Year            Obligor              Type of Business    Loan  Equity      Total
1983            Kombo Beach Hotel Ltd.        Tourism Hotel       2.9     _        2.9
Total Gross Commitments
Less Cancellations,
Terminations, Repayments
and Sales                                       -      -
Total Commitments now
held by IFC                                    2.9               2.9
Undisbursed Balance                              0.0     -         0.0
March 1986



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
THE GANBIA
WATER AND ELECTRICITY PROJECT
SUPPLENENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project             : December 1983 - May 1985
(b)  Project prepared by                       : Consultants, Bank
consultant and Gambia
Utilities Corporation's
staff, assisted by GTZ
financed experts.
(c)  First IDA mission to consider project   : May 1983
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission  : May 1985
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations        : February 1985
(f)  Planned date of credit effectiveness    : November 1986
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
Actions Proposed to Be Taken by the Government
(a) Reconstitute the GUC's Board of Directors in accordance with the
GUC Act of 1972 by June 30, 1986 (para 28);
(b) Provide any consents and approvals required for tariff increases
to become effective within 45 days after approval by GUC's Board
(para 58);
(c) Renegotiate on-lending terms with ADF in order to transfer the
assets of the new Banjul sewerage system as an equity
contribution to GUC (para 59);



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) Provide sewerage subsidies to the extent that ca-h operating
expenses exceed cash generated from the operation of the Banjul
sewerage system, but eliflkiLlate operating subsidies by the time
the connection program is comkpleted (para 59);
Actions Proposed to Be Taken by the Gamb'a Utilities Corporation
(e) Limit sewerage charges to the amount necessary to cover the cash
costs of operating and maintaining the system (para 59);
(f) Retain at all times in its employ at least one chartered or
equivalently qualified accountant (para 62);
(g) Manage its operations and set tariffs, in consultation with IDA,
so as to achieve full cost recovery for water supply and
electricity by FY89 and thereafter to achieve positive rates of
return on revalued net fixed assets, increasing to 3Z for water
supply and 8% for electricity by FY93 (para 63);
Conditions of Credit Effectiveness
(h) Execution by the Government and GUC of an agreement, acceptable
to IDA, for onlending IDA funds (para 49);
(i) Execution of lending agreemerts with all co-financiers
(para 49);
(j) Establishment of a counterpart fund account with an initial
deposit of D 750,000 for the project (para 55);
(k) Adjustment of water and electricity tariffs to effect a
pass-through of increased operating costs related to devaluation
of the Dalasi (para 58);
(1) Conversion to equity of overdue interest owed by GUC to the
Government (para 61); and
Condition of Disbursement
(m)  For the US$2.0 million equivalent working capital component it
was agreed that GUC would establish a plan for accumulating funds
to continue bulk purchasing arrangements for gas oil (para 54).
WAPWS
April 1986



T E G MI A        .                                               rT M E  e



TUE GAJ.EI
GREATER aANJUL
WATER AND ELECTRICITY PROJECT
EXISTING WATE SUPPL SYSTEM AND PROCT WE \RKS
ATLANTIC  OCEAN ~ ;(a g   ie
*  S ~ ~   ~ ~ KMMSW
, -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Gr -biU9fY         
r~~~~~~OB SOU                           -                                 -/g-/  
--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f-d". IOBSt       
A.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S' /E /                                                           i
y - / -3rdt / ;)7w':-- i n -_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OUOU EE






