Document of
THE WORLD BANK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16197
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
WATER SUPPLY AND ELECTRICITY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1724-GM)
December 31, 1996
Water, Urban, and Energy 2 Division
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties.
Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Dalasis (D)
US$1.00      = D 7.00 (at appraisal May 1985)
US$1.00      = D 9.683 (average for first quarter of 1996)
Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I millimeter (mm)          = 0.04 inch (in)
1 meter (m)                = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 cubic meter (m3)         = 264.2 US gallons *
or 220 imperial gallons (g)
1 kilometer (km)             0.62 miles (mi)
I liter per capita           0.26 US gallon per capita per day
or 0.22 imperial gallon per
capita per day (gcd)
I kilovolt (kV)              1,000 volts (V)
I kilovolt amperes (kVA)   = 1,000 volt-amperes (VA)
1 kilowatt (kW)            = 1,000 watts (W)
I megawatt (MW)            = 1,000 kilowatts (kW)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADF                 African Development Fund
AfDB                African Development Bank
DANIDA              Danish International Development Agency
DCA                 Development Credit Agreement
EEC                 European Economic Community
EC/EDF              European Community/European Development Fund
EIB                 European Investment Bank
GBA                 Greater Banjul Area
GUC                 Gambia Utilities Corporation
GTZ                 Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
(German Technical Assistance Agency)
ICR                 Implementation Completion Report
IDA                 International Development Association
IDB                 Islamic Development Bank
lFRR                Internal financial rates of return
NAWEC               National Water and Electricity Company Ltd.
O&M                 Operations and Maintenance
PA                  Project Agreement
SAR                 Staff Appraisal Report
SDR                 Special Drawing Rights
UHC                 Utilities Holding Corporation



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of contents
Preface ...............................................
Evaluation Summary .............................................. ii
PART 1. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .............................................I
Background ..............................................1
A. Statement/ Evaluation of Objectives ..............................................2
B. Achievement of Project Objectives ..............................................5
C. Major Factors Affecting The Project ..............................................7
D. Project Sustainability ..............................................9
E. Bank Performance ..............................................                                                                                           9
F. Borrower Performance .............................................. 10
G. Assessment of Outcome .............................................                                                                                      11
H. Future Operations ..............................................11
I. Key Lessons Learned ..............................................12
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES .............................................                                                                                      14
Table 1. Summary of Assessments .............................................                                                                              14
Table 2. Related IDA Credits .............................................                                                                                 16
Table 3. Project Timetable ............................................. 16
Table 4. Credit Disbursements: Estimated and Actual .............................................                                                          16
Table 5A. Project Costs ..............................................17
Table 5B. Project Financing .................. 17
Table 6. Economic Costs and Benefits ...........................................                                                                           17
Table 7. Status of Legal Covenants ...........................................                                                                             18
Table 8. IDA Resources: Staff Inputs ........................................... 19
Table 9. IDA Resources: Missions ...........................................                                                                               19
Table 10. Utilities Holding Corporation Balance Sheet ...........................................          .                                              20
Table 11: Utilities Holding Corporation - Income Statements ............................................                                                  23
Appendices:              A. Mission's aide-memoire
B. Borrower Contribution to the ICR
C. Organization Chart of UHC
D. Map
Vice President:                                   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Director:                                      Mahmood Ayub
Technical Manager:                                   Max Pulgar-Vidal
Staff Member:                                      Yvonne Powers
Ths document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
off icial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
WATER AND ELECTRICITY PROJECT
(Cr. 1724-GM)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Water and Electricity Project of The
Gambia, for which Credit 1724-GM in the amount of SDR 6.3 million (US$7.0 million equivalent in 1986)
was approved on July 8, 1986 and was made effective on May 25, 1988. The Credit was made to the Republic
of The Gambia. Cofinancing for the project was provided by the African Development Fund (ADF), the
European Investment Bank (EIB), the European Community/European Development Fund (EC/EDF), and the
Austrian Government.
The credit was to have been closed on June 30, 1994; however, the closing date was extended twice.
It was extended to June 30, 1995 to oversee the recently signed management lease contract, an important step
to introduce commercial principles. The credit was again extended to February 29, 1996 to allow completion
of the Banjul-Serrekunda transmission main contract. Final disbursement took place on June 25, 1996,
following which an amount of SDR 103,953.86 was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Marie Yvonne Powers (Financial Analyst) of the Water, Urban, and Energy
2 Division of the Africa Region and S. 0. Fye (Consultant) and reviewed by Messrs. Alberto Harth, Lead
Specialist, and Emmerich Schebeck (Consultant). The beneficiary and implementing agency, Utilities Holding
Corporation (UHC), formerly Gambia Utilities Corporation (GUC), contributed on behalf of the Borrower, the
Government of The Gambia, to the preparation of the ICR by presenting its viewpoints on different matters
and events which are reflected in the mission's aide-memoire (Appendix A), preparing its own evaluation of
project preparation and implementation (Appendix B), and commenting on the draft ICR. In August 1996,
UHC was transformed into NAWEC (National Water and Electricity Company Ltd.).
Preparation of this ICR began during IDA's April 1996 supervision/completion mission. The ICR is
based on material in the project file and on information provided by UHC. Comments were also received from
staff who had been involved in different stages of the project; these have been incorporated in the report.



i.
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
WATER AND ELECTRICITY PROJECT
(Cr. 1724-GM)
Evaluation Summary
Credit Number                     Cr. 1724-GM
Credit Amount                     SDR 6.3 million (US$7.0 million)
Beneficiary                       Utilities Holding Corporation (formerly Gambia Utilities
Corporation)
Date Effective                    May 25, 1988
Date closed                       February 29, 1996
Cofinancing:                      EC/EDF (US$7.8m equivalent); ADF (US$5.2 m equivalent); EIB
(US$11.3 m equivalent);Austrian Government (US$12.2 m
equivalent)
Introduction
1.    The project evaluated is the first major IDA involvement in the water sector in The Gambia.
Largely due to rapid population growth and urbanization, water and electricity demand in urban centers
throughout The Gambia increased rapidly over the past fifteen years. At the time of appraisal, despite
rapid development of supply sources, the Greater Banjul Area (GBA) suffered from water supply
restrictions because demand was greater than supply capability. In the provincial urban centers,
breakdowns in supply systems necessitated their rehabilitation and expansion. Relying exclusively on
imported oil, electric power generation was confined to urban areas, in particular to the Greater Banjul
Area. With the rapid expansion of city limits due to urbanization, demand rapidly exceeded generation
capacity. Because of overloaded distribution lines and transformers, the Gambia Utilities Corporation
(GUC) operated a very restrictive policy on new electricity connections and had a regular pattern of load
shedding when required. The project aimed to cover the portable water supply demand for both the GBA
and the provincial urban centers, improve the reliability of electricity distribution and improve the
financial and managerial performance of GUC. At appraisal, IDA, IDB, EEC and AfDB were involved
in financing the project but by effectiveness IDB had withdrawn its participation. The Austrian
Government and EIB became the new co-financiers. No private participation was foreseen at appraisal.
Project Objectives
2.    AtAppraisal. The project's main objectives were to: (a) to provide an essential service to the people
of GBA by increasing water supplies in areas of suppressed demand and expanding the public water supply
system; (b) to provide improved water supply service in seven provincial urban centers by rehabilitation and
limited expansion of the existing systems; (c) to reduce line losses through the reinforcement and rehabilitation
of the electricity distribution system in Greater Banjul; and (d) to assist GUC in achieving financial viability
through improved operational efficiency and financial management by implementing adequate tariff increases
for water and electricity, designing and implementing a system of human resources management which
included training, and providing working capital support to GUC for the purchase of about a nine month
supply of diesel fuel.



iii
3.     During Implementation. Due to various co-financiers dropping out and project costs increasing
drastically in part because of implementation delays and unavailability of detailed engineering at appraisal, the
project scope had to be revised at least three times and new financing plans prepared. Since the water sub-
sector was established as the priority area, and because of the need for IDA to finance the elevated tanks due to
the unavailability of ADF financing, the electricity component was not implemented. The project was not
officially restructured to take into account this reallocation. On several occasions IDA considered financing
repairs to the generators or rehabilitation of the electricity network; however, no proposals were ever
formulated by GUC/UJHC. Consultant costs for supervision more than doubled from the estimate provided at
appraisal due to construction works starting at different times mainly on account of the unavailability of
funding. GUC remained insistent on executing its own fuel.purchases and in 1990 a system was established
whereby 75% of GUC's income was paid into an escrow account. With this in place, the use of IDA funds for
purchase of heavy fuel oil was no longer necessary.
4.     From project effectiveness, inadequate institutional and managerial capacity as well as Government
interference hindered the achievement of the institutional building objectives of the project. The various
approaches used to improve performance, such as technical assistance and the signing of a performance
contract also proved to be disappointing. Although IDA seriously considered canceling the credit given the
unsatisfactory performance of GUC, IDA decided to continue financing the physical components and urged
the Government to involve the private sector by the letting of a management lease contract to operate the
utilities. Expectations were high that this strategy would resolve the problems affecting the achievement of the
project objectives. However, wide-spread problems arose and the management lease contract was unilaterally
terminated by the Government on February 23, 19951 .
5.     Evaluation of Project Objectives and Risks. The objectives of the project were justified given the
need to improve the water supply and electricity systems in the urban areas. However, the objectives at
appraisal were far too optimistic about the willingness of Government to limit its interference in the daily
operations of GUCIUHC and to approve needed tariff increases as well as the ability of the utility to manage
its operations with a commercial orientation. The result was a project that experienced severe delays in
appraisal, project signing, board presentation and effectiveness. This led to lengthy delays in implementation
of the physical components. Because donors were not fully identified at appraisal, the scope of the project was
informally restructured and re-programmed due to the uncertainty of cofinancing. In addition, the project
costs increased significantly (from US$19.4 million at appraisal to US$45.2 million) which required donors to
commit to larger amounts than originally foreseen.
6.     One of the main risks identified, interference of Government in the utility's routine affairs and its
withholding of timely tariff increases did in fact affect the achievement of project objectives. However, the
following risks not identified at appraisal hindered implementation: (a) weak institutional capacity and
ineffective technical assistance; (b) complete breakdown in electricity generation capacity; (c) absorptive
capacity of GUC/UHC to cope with numerous funding agencies as well as the funding shortfall; and (d) delays
in construction works due to unavailability of funding and increased costs.
Implementation Experience and Results
7.     Achievement of Objectives. While the objectives of increasing water supply in areas of suppressed
demand in the GBA and the provision of improved services in seven provincial urban centers were achieved,
weak institutional capacity, poor management and continued Government interference made it difficult for the
project to achieve these objectives as well as making the sector institution, GUC/UHC, financially viable.
A report prepared by AQUANET on the Management Lease Experience in The Gambia is available in the Africa Files for those readers interested
in a more detailed account.



iv
8.     Achievement of the financial objectives was negligible because: (i) Government interfered in the
daily operations of GUC including the withholding of tariff increases; (ii) projected revenues for the electricity
side of operations was over-estimated due to the unavailability of 2 generators for more than several years; (iii)
a deficient billing system; and (iv) unaccounted-for-water, estimated at appraisal to be 20%, reached levels of
about 30% throughout most of the project. Although audits were conducted, these were always late and often
qualified.
9.     On the institutional development side, the achievement is negligible. The high level of expatriate
operational support provided over the years has only enabled GUC to operate on a day to day basis without
noticeable transfer of knowledge to local staff partly because the expatriates did not see their role as building
local capacity. UHC is currently operating on principles of crises management with little time or capacity to
put in place a long term plan for the utility.
10.    The physical objectives of the project have been partially met in that the project expanded the water
supply system by about 55% from 21,000 to 32,500 m3/day in GBA. In the Provinces, UHC was unable to
provide the data on production although the data on sales volume was available which shows an increase of
over 500%. The objective of improving the electricity supply distribution system in Greater Banjul did not
materialize because this component was not implemented due to increased costs in the other components.
11.   Assessment of Sustainability. The project's sustainability is uncertain. Continued Government
interference in the management of the utility and its unwillingness to implement an appropriate tariff policy
will not likely change over the foreseeable future. Limited institutional capacity has been achieved by the
project. Without a long term plan for the utility in place, the likelihood of the physical investments
deteriorating is high.
12.    Cost and Delays. The original project implementation schedule was not even minimally adhered to,
and delays were extensive with credit effectiveness taking place 22 months after the original date planned.
The following contributed to implementation delays: (i) non-compliance with agreements by the Borrower at
preparation and during appraisal led to delays in credit effectiveness; (ii) withdrawal by a major financing
agency (IDB) created a financing gap that required extra time to identify a new cofinancier; (iii) significant
delays in delivery of contract material as well as circulation of bidding documents; (iv) IDA withheld its non-
objection on a couple of contracts in order to enforce compliance with legal agreements (such as submission of
audit reports); (v) the unilateral termination of the management lease contract by the Borrower resulted in a six
month delay in the completion of the Banjul Serrekunda Transmission Main Contract; (vii) after the coup
d'etat, IDA took close to 4 months before deciding that ongoing projects could continue to be supervised.
13.    Bank Performance. Bank performance is rated deficient. At the preparation stage, the Bank could
have paid greater attention to project costs, detailed engineering, and scope as well as cofinancing. The project
would also have greatly benefited from a more thorough assessment of GUC's management, especially in
view of the fact that GUC had never complied with financial covenants in previous operations. . IDA also
miscalculated the level of commitment of the Borrower to the project. Although IDA continued to note the
need for tariff increases and other measures to ensure the financial viability of GUC, it relied in vain on
pressure to improve on Borrower performance. In the management lease experience, although not part of the
original project design, it also underestimated the difficulty of creating an oversight agency as well as the lack
of commitment on the part of the Borrower and the utility to the management lease arrangement.
14.    Borrower Performance. Borrower performance is rated deficient. The Borrower was not fully
committed to the objectives of the project and it continued to interfere in the day to day operations of the
utility. There was political pressure to keep the generators running without regard to maintenance. Lack of



v
Borrower action to meet cofinancing arrangements delayed effectiveness. It did not comply with the financial
covenants especially those related to tariff increases. Poor management decisions led to maintenance neglect.
Weak intemal control mechanisms and a deficient accounting and financial management system led to
unacceptable delays in submitting audit reports. Costs savings estimated at about 20% never materialized due
to GUC's insistence on executing its own fuel purchases.
15.   Assessment of Outcome. The projects' outcome is rated highly unsatisfactory. Although the project
contributed to improvement in the supply of water by 55% to the country as a whole, it achieved little in terms
of resolving several long-standing sector wide problems such as tariffs, institutional development, and
investment planning for both the water and electricity sub-sectors. The sustainability of the project is
uncertain.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
16.    Summary of Findings. There was tangible achievement of the water supply component both in the
GBA and the provincial urban centers, but the project's impact on the sector institution's management and
sustainability is negligible as evidenced by high revenue losses, large debts, poor service delivery on the
electricity side, inadequate tariff policies, lack of local capacity, and failure with the management lease
contract.
17.    Future Operations. UHC is faced with the enormous challenge of providing an acceptable level of
service for water, electricity, and sewerage at an affordable price. It has prepared a draft Corporate Plan which
is a good start. However, the plan still lacks targets and indicators. Although the Manpower Development
Plan is soon to be updated and will establish the necessary training requirements and suitable institutional
structure, the financing of these requirements is uncertain. Considering the high level of unaccounted-for-
water compared to the level at appraisal, UHC needs to focus on reducing these as it is more economical than
developing new supplies. An energy sector review prepared by IDA is expected to be available by end of
1996. Institutional and financial improvement with up-front delivery of conditionalities, greater cost-recovery,
commercialization of service delivery, and Government commitment are likely to be prerequisites to further
IDA lending.
18.    Key Lessons Learned  The following reflect the lessons leamed: (1) the Bank should be more
decisive in enforcing compliance with covenants. Constant use of threat without follow through action does
not produce the desired results. The Bank should not hesitate to suspend a project for non compliance with
covenants and it should be willing to cancel a project when it deems that any altemative will not resolve the
problem; (2) measures to improve institutional and financial performance have to be initiated up-front and
have a more comprehensive approach, i.e. include monitoring indicators for example, than what was included
in the project; (3) projects should be presented to the Board only when preparation is sufficiently advanced
with detailed engineering for the first phase completed, and not to meet lending targets; (4) a genuine and
continuous commitment from Government to a carefully analyzed and planned program is a prerequisite for
IDA support and IDA should not hesitate to suspend or cancel a credit if the Government is not sufficiently
committed to the objectives of the project; (5) the maximum time allowed for credit effectiveness should not
exceed 12 months; (6) project financing should be secured and finalized before appraisal and contracts
awarded in good time to avoid delays; (7) in management leasing contracts the necessity of an adequate
institutional framework, a carefully designed incentive environment, an effective regulatory capacity plus the
participation of not only the Government and the utility but also its staff and customers are key.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
WATER AND ELECTRICITY PROJECT
(Cr. 1724-GM)
PART 1. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Background
1.     Largely due to rapid urbanization and population growth, water and electricity demand in
urban centers throughout The Gambia increased rapidly over the last fifteen years. At appraisal,
despite rapid development of supply sources, the Greater Banjul area suffered from water supply
restrictions because demand was significantly greater than supply capability. Relying exclusively on
imported oil, electric power generation was confined to the urban areas with demand rapidly
exceeding firm generation capacity. Because of overloaded distribution lines and transformers, the
Gambia Utilities Corporation (GUC) operated a very restrictive policy on new electricity connections
and had a regular pattem of load shedding when required.
2.    IDA had not previously participated specifically in a water supply project in The Gambia.
The initial involvement of IDA with GUC was under the Tourism and Infrastructure Project (CR.602-
GM of December 1975) which successfully installed a sewerage system in the tourism area. GUC
was also the executing agency for the power component of the Energy Credit (CR. 1187-GM of
December 1981) under which IDA financed transformers and cable and spare parts. The benefits
derived from this Credit led to the inclusion in the current project of further rehabilitation work and
augmentation of the electricity distribution system in Greater Banjul. To reduce the gap between
water supply and demand, a borehole development component was included in the Urban
Management and Development Project (CR.1443-GM of February 1984). In the project evaluated,
the main focus for the water component was intended to be the Greater Banjul Area, but breakdowns
in several provincial urban water supply systems led to the inclusion at appraisal of a rehabilitation
component for these systems.
3.     Several donors were involved in the water and electricity sector. Although DANIDA did not
participate officially in the project, it had been active in the electricity sub-sector for many years.
GTZ had been providing technical assistance since 1981/82; it is largely due to the substantial size of
GTZ-financed technical assistance that only a modest TA component was proposed in IDA's
operation. ODA had indicated its interest but withdrew its participation in project financing by
appraisal. At appraisal four lending agencies were to be involved in financing the project: IDA
(US$7.0 m), IDB (US$4.0 m), ADF (US$ 4.0 m), and EDF/EEC (US$2.6 m). With the withdrawal
of the IDB, IDA took on a role of assisting with aid coordination. The Austrian Government and the
European Investment Bank eventually accepted to participate in the financing of some of the project
components.



2
A. StatementV Evaluation of Objectives
A.1. Project Objectives
4.     AtAppraisal. As stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR, Report No. 5873-GM April 30,
1986), the main objectives of the project were (i) to provide and improve, directly or indirectly, water
supply to 295,000 people in the Greater Banjul Area (GBA) and to 25,000 people in seven provincial
urban areas by expanding the water supply facilities in GBA and rehabilitating and expanding public
water supplies in the provinces; (ii) to improve the reliability of electricity supplies for 47,000 people
in Banjul by improving the electricity supply distribution in GBA; and (iii) to develop the principal
sector institution, GUC, as a commercially oriented public utility.
5.     To achieve these objectives, the project would finance civil works, equipment and materials,
consultant services, training and technical assistance to carry out the following five components:
(i)    Greater Banjul Water Supply Expansion: provision of supply source works
comprising eight boreholes, construction and rehabilitation of 2 treatment
plants and rehabilitation of a pumping station; construction of nine elevated
storage tanks; transmission and distribution pipelines; service connections;
power supplies to the boreholes and treatment plant;
(ii)    Provincial Centers Water Supply Systems Rehabilitation: rehabilitation of
supply sources, rehabilitation and expansion of distribution systems
including a new supply source and treatment plant, four elevated tanks,
about 28 km of distribution pipelines;
(iii)   Greater Banjul Electricity Distribution Reinforcement:  augmenting the
existing ring circuit with Banjul, replacement of nine substations with II Kv
400 V substations, relaying 217 km of overhead low voltage lines, and
vehicles;
(iv)    Reinforcement of GUC's Operations: technical assistarnce, training, and
operational equipment; and
(v)    Working capital to finance bulk purchase of diesel fuel.
6.     During Implementation. Due to various co-financiers dropping out and project costs more
than doubling, the project scope had to be revised at least three times and new financing plans
prepared. Since the water sub-sector was agreed as the priority area, and because of the need to
finance the elevated tanks due to the unavailability of ADF financing for this component, the
electricity component was not implemented. The project was never officially restructured to take into
account this reallocation. In 1990, DANIDA indicated that it would be willing to finance repairs to
Generators 1 and 2 if IDA would finance the auxiliaries. Although IDA agreed, the Govemment
never made a formal request to IDA. In 1991 IDA indicated it could finance rehabilitation of the
electricity network. However, no proposals were made by GUC. Consultant costs for supervision
more than doubled from the estimate provided at appraisal due to construction works starting at
different times mainly on account of the unavailability of funding. Implementation was always slow
but the political changes in 1994 (coup d'etat) further aggravated an already unsatisfactory situation.



3
As of the writing of this report, most major donors involved in the sector are awaiting the return to
democracy before resuming full active participation.
7.     At appraisal, US$ 2 million was provided to facilitate bulk purchases of fuel oil which was
believed would result in considerable cost savings and provide a breathing space for the Government
and GUC in obtaining foreign exchange for fuel. Fuel oil expenditures would only be financed if
GUC opened at a commercial bank an account to be used exclusively for the purchase and submit a
plan on how it would make regular deposits into said account. Even though IDA urged GUC on
numerous occasions to comply with these conditions, it remained insistent on executing its own fuel
purchases,. A financial supervisory committee was finally set up in 1990 to oversee the financial
operations of GUC and 75% of GUC's income was paid into an escrow account for purchase of fuel
costs and arrears to the Government. With this in place, the use of IDA funds for purchase of heavy
fuel oil was no longer necessary and a reallocation of funds was initiated without formal restructuring.
8.     From project effectiveness, inadequate institutional and managerial capacity as well as
Government interference hindered the achievement of the objectives of the project. The various
approaches used to improve performance, such as technical assistance and a performance contract,
proved to be disappointing. IDA seriously considered canceling the balance of the credit given the
unsatisfactory performance of GUC. However because various donors had already committed to
financing other parts of the Greater Banjul Water Supply Expansion the system couldn't be justified
without the elevated tanks which IDA was to finance, IDA decided to continue with the project and
considered alternatives for changing the institutional arrangement of a poorly performing
Government-owned institution. Consequently, IDA and other donors urged the Government to
involve the private sector by the letting of a management lease contract to operate the utilities. The
studies leading to this were financed by the EC. Expectations were high that this strategy would
resolve the problems affecting the achievement of the project objectives.
9.     Management Lease Contract. Preparatory studies for the management lease contract were
financed by the European Community. A private operator, with IDA's strong endorsement, took over
the operation of the facilities on July 15, 1993. However, take-over had an ominous start with one of
the electricity generators failing on the eve of take-over. This was the start of a descending spiral that
finally ended in the management lease contract being unilaterally terminated by the military
Government on February 23, 1995. The problems that arose during the leasing experience are the
following1: (a) lack of precision with regard to certain clauses in the management lease contract
(calculation of the surcharge, definition of Operating & Maintenance functions, reporting
requirements to mention only a few); (b) from the start, the asset holding company inherited a number
of problems (accumulation of debt without the corresponding revenue to meet its obligations, weak
institutional and human resources capacity to carry out its mandate of monitoring and control, lack of
appropriate incentives to carry out its function, etc.); (c) little communication between UHC and the
private operator; (d) lack of commitment by the Government and some staff of UHC(GUC) to the
management lease undertaking; (e) lack of staff, planning and design capacity, financial resources and
monitoring of the private operator's activities; (f) absence of a public education campaign to explain
the rationale of the utility reform to the public; and (g) lack of commitment to transfer expertise to
local staff. Six months after the unilateral termination, the Government and the private operator
reached an agreement to settle the differences that arose out of the termination of the management
lease arrangement. Although IDA requested a copy of this agreement, it was never provided with one
by the Government. IDA was informed that the main aspects of this agreement are the restoration of
A report prepared by AQUANET on the Management Lease Experience in The Gambia is available in the Africa Files for those
readers interested in a more detailed account.



4
the billing system, repair or replacement of Generator 4, the establishment of mutual indebtedness
levels, as well as the mechanisms for settlement.
A.2. Evaluation of Project Objectives and Risks
10.    At appraisal, the objectives of the project were overly ambitious, but on the surface justified
given the urgent need to rehabilitate and extend the water supply system in Greater Banjul and the
provincial urban centers where water shortages occurred frequently and to reduce the line losses
through the reinforcement and rehabilitation of the electricity distribution system. The objective to
assist GUC develop as a commercially viable public utility, although worthwhile, was less realistic
given the history of Government's interference in the utility, GUC's non-compliance with the rate of
return targets under both CR.602 and CR. 1187, and GUC's continued reliance on long-term technical
assistance.
11.    Two main risks were identified at appraisal: (i) interruption in the technical assistance
program provided by German financing; and (ii) Government intervention in GUC's routine affairs or
their withholding of approval of timely tariff increases. The following actions were designed to
minimize these risks: (a) a comprehensive program of manpower development to upgrade GUC's
staff capability to operate and maintain the facilities; and (b) reconstitution of GUC's Board to make it
less resistant to political pressure and inclusion of covenants in the Development Credit Agreement on
timely tariff increases. Both risks indeed materialized. When the GTZ counterparts left, GUC
management was incapable of efficiently managing the utility, in part because the Manpower
Development Plan was only completed in 1991, three years after project effectiveness. Government
interference continued and tariff increases were either not approved or approved too late.
12.    The following risks that had an impact on implementation were not identified at appraisal:
(a)    Weak institutional capacity and ineffective technical assistance. The project design
was based on the assumption that continued technical assistance by GTZ and less
Government interference would be sufficient to implement the project and provide
the needed leadership. Although the SAR noted that 50% of GUC's supervisory
staff and 90% of the lower level staff were illiterate, this shortcoming was not
perceived as a risk. In fact, there were enormous difficulties in recruiting qualified
candidates, especially for management positions. Worse, the problem was deeply
rooted in the enterprise culture; in 1991, a commission of inquiry established to
review the events surrounding the explosion of Generator 3 found no human error
directly responsible for the explosion although it did find signs of negligence,
indifference, and lack of commitment on the part of most GUC staff. As regards the
high level of operational expatriate support that was in place for many years, it only
enabled GUC to operate on a day to day basis without noticeable transfer of
knowledge to local staff. Moreover, the Manpower Development Study disclosed
that the development of manpower alone would not improve performance
sufficiently but that essential changes in organizational structure would be equally
needed;
(b)    Complete breakdown in electricity generation capacity.  Generator Number 3
exploded in 1991 - one month after the maintenance period expired. It was later
discovered that GUC had failed to insure the generator. Due to weak institutional
capacity, GUC was slow to react. Generator Number 4 failed on the eve of takeover



5
by the private operator (July 1993) and again in December 1993 during the testing
period after the repairs were completed;
(c)    Absorptive capacity of GUC to cope with numerous funding agencies. There were
four funding agencies financing the project. In addition, DANIDA and GTZ were
also involved in the sector. The various donors requirements over-stretched the
already limited capacity of GUC to deal with so many agencies;
(d)    Delays in construction works due to unavailability of funding and increased costs.
The Government was negligent in formally requesting donors to participate in
project financing. Due to changes in the cofinanciers, the scope of the project had to
be revised several times and new financing plans prepared. IDA accepted to finance
the elevated tanks, but retendering had to take place so as to follow IDA's
procurement rules. Implementation delays in general contributed to increase in
costs: (i) cost estimates were based on January 1986 prices but the project was only
declared effective 22 months later; (ii) detailed design was not available until late
1988; (iii) the scope of the project was revised at least 3 times;
(e)    Environmental risks. The projected was not expected to produce any environmental
risks yet GUC/UHC still does not have a policy to deal with the barrels of sludge
produced as the result of using heavy fuel oil. A study was conducted by DANIDA
which recommended the construction of an incinerator but this solution can only be
implemented when donor financing is once again available;
(f)    Level of Government Commitment to the Letting of a Management Lease Contract.
Although this activity was not foreseen at appraisal, the risk that Government and
GUC were not committed to this line of action was very much under-estimated by
the Bank. The difficulty of creating a competent oversight agency (UHC) was also
underestimated.
13.   In summary, the objectives at appraisal were overly ambitious about the willingness of
Government to limit its interference in the daily operations of GUC/UHC and approve needed tariff
increases as well as the ability of GUC/UHC to adequately manage its operations with qualified local
staff.
14.    The result was a project that experienced severe delays in appraisal, project signing, board
presentation and effectiveness. This was followed by implementation delays in the physical
components because the financing plan prepared at appraisal had to be modified, forcing the scope of
the project to be redefined numerous times. In addition, the project costs increased significantly
which required donors to commit to larger amounts than originally foreseen.
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
B.1. Degree of Achievement of Objectives
15.    Macroeconomic Policies. Not applicable.
16.    Sector Policies. Not applicable



6
17.    Financial Objectives. The achievement is negligible. UHC is technically bankrupt. The
financial covenants to raise tariffs to reach a rate of return of not less than 3% with respect to its water
supply operations and 8% with respect to its electricity operations have not been met in any of the
years of the project. Audit reports were never submitted on time and were usually qualified. From
preparation through project closing, IDA was in the unenviable position of threatening to cancel or
suspend the credit because tariffs were not increased or the financial covenants were not respected.
Such circumstances hardly set the stage for a partnership between the Bank and the Borrower.
18.   Institutional Development. The achievement is negligible. There has been a level of
operational expatriate support for many years. GUC employees received training both in The Gambia
and Overseas, but this has only enabled GUC to operate on a day to day basis without noticeable long
term benefits. Other forms of technical assistance were provided during the life of the project. The
IDA-financed twinning arrangement between a British water utility and GUC provided the
corporation with a billing expert, a tariff specialist and a financial controller. This arrangement
allowed GUC to operate more efficiently for the duration of the contract but no long term benefits
were achieved. After the unilateral termination of the management lease contract, UHC immediately
signed a management contract with another international consortium for one year. This technical
assistance terminated in March 1996 and the long term benefits of this assistance are questionable.
19.    Physical Objectives. The physical objectives of the project were partiallv met: (a) The
water distribution of the GBA has significantly improved by the expansion of the water supply system
by about 55% from 21,000 to 32,500 500 m3/day compared to 33,800 m3/day expected by the SAR
The project financed the replacement of the entire Banjul distribution system in Banjul (22 km of raw
water mains and 43 km of distribution pipes), nine new boreholes were drilled and equipped, 5
existing boreholes were commissioned, ten elevated storage tanks were built, and the commissioning
of the existing Salagi wellfield was completed. The project also financed the rehabilitation of the
Fajara Treatment works and the replacement of sections of the Banjul-Serrekunda Transmission Main.
With ten new elevated tanks in the GBA, the total water storage capacity of 13,500 m3 is now
available which is equivalent to about ten hours of the maximum day demand. At the end of 1995
there were 11,732 water supply connections in the GBA (compared to 6,010 at the end of 1984); (b)
In the Provinces, UIHC was unable to provide the data on production although the data on sales
volume was available which shows an increase of over 500%. At the end of 1995 there were 1,533
connections (compared to 410 in 1984). Regarding unaccounted for water in GBA, estimated at
appraisal to be about 20%, the data provided indicates that since 1985/86 the average is about 35%
although according to the January and February 1996 figures, the unaccounted for water is calculated
to be around 25%. This figure needs to be confirmed over the coming months, although it is not an
unrealistic figure given the replacement in December 1995 of the Banjul-Serrekunda transmission
main which was subject to frequent and severe bursts. Some of the elevated tanks have begun to leak
and the central telemetry system doesn't work. The contractors, technical representatives, and
supervising consultants are dealing with problem.
B.2. Economic Evaluation
20. S At appraisaL Internal financial rates of return (IFRR) were calculated for each of the
project's three main physical components. Expected incremental revenues accruing to GUC were
used as proxy for minimum economic benefits, and costs included all incremental capital and
recurrent costs. At appraisal the IFRRs were as follows: (i) Greater Banjul Water Supply - 11%; (ii)
Provincial Centers Water Supply - 7%; and (iii) Greater Banjul Electricity rehabilitation - 19%.
Although the 7% IFRR is less than the 10% assumed cost of capital, the methodology adopted for
calculating IFRRs, i.e., using incremental revenues as a proxy for benefits - did not capture the



7
economic benefits arising from improvements in health and time savings nor the consumers' surplus.
At appraisal the IFRR was considered acceptable, although in retrospect, the risks were not
adequately appraised and linked to the economic evaluation.
21.   After Project Completion. The lack of reliable data on water production, cost of operations,
and sales did not permit the calculation of the rate of return for the either the GBA water or Provincial
Growth Centers components. The disappointing and ineffective performance of UHC is very
apparent in that records on water production were either missing or incomplete, tariff history was not
readily available, sales figures were not coherent, and an audit report was missing from the files.
Since the reporting requirements of the private operator from the start of the leasing arrangement were
not clearly spelt out, UHC experienced difficulty in maintaining certain key records. Considering that
the electricity component was not implemented, a IFRR was not calculated.
C. Major Factors Affecting The Project
C.1. Factors Not Generally Subject To Government Control
22.    The depreciation of the US dollar vis-a-vis the pound sterling to which the Gambian currency
was pegged affected project costs. The coup of July 22, 1994 caused donors to withdraw their
support although this came at a very late stage in the project cycle. Disbursements were held up for at
least 4 months after the coup pending IDA's decision whether to continue with project supervision or
not.
C.2. Factors Generally Subject To Government Control
23.    Delays in formally requesting donors to participate in the financing of the project, late-
payment of arrears to some donor agencies which held up execution of their lending agreements; and
non-follow-up on various requests to IDA (financing of auxiliaries, inattention to IDA and other
donors' advice on matters such as accounting and auditing, tariff policy, reduction of GUC personnel,
privatization of public standpipes) were generally under the control of the Government.
24.    Government interference. The continued interference by Government in UHC internal affairs
led to delayed and low tariff increases and to non -compliance with the financial covenants in the
DCA. Political pressures were apparent to keep the generators running regardless of maintenance
requirements. Government interference in the management lease contract (interference in the
disconnection policy, etc.) eventually led to it ternination on February 23, 1995.
25.    Fuel taxes. Removal of import duty waivers on fuel oil increased the operating costs of the
private operator. This became a hotly debated topic and was resolved during the negotiations between
Government and the private operator outside of arbitration.
26.    Government reluctance to settle the debt between it and GUC and the restraint exercised by
Government in GUC's debt recovery program through disconnection coupled with its concern about
tariff increases on low income customers of GUC even though they were protected by the social block
elements of the tariffs seriously affected performance and revenue.
27.    Poor selection of Board members and GUC staff Board members and Managing Directors,
whose selection were based on political affiliation and not competence, contributed a great deal to
poor decisions on policy issues. The removal of 6 Managing Directors over 10 years from preparation



8
to completion contributed significantly to the lack of continuity and to poor implementation
performance.
C.3. Factors Subject To Implementing Agency
28.    Overstaffing. IDA urged GUC to make all possible efforts to reduce its personnel from 1010
to 800 as per the performance contract but instead the numbers increased during implementation.
29.   Inexperienced workers. Workers were not fully experienced with maintenance and operation
and this lack of competence led to damage of important equipment both for the water and electricity
sectors.
30.    The lack of discipline due mainly to the lack of control by management as well as the lack of
incentives contributed to the poor implementation perfornance by staff.
31.    Poor management decisions led to maintenance neglect culminating in the explosion of
generators. The Kotu Power Station needed careful managerial attention and discipline as well as
satisfactory financial outlays to maintain the generators.
32.    Slow delivery of contract material. Civil works were hampered by slow delivery of contract
material giving rise to delays in completion of some components as well as cost overruns.
33.    Delays in submission of Annual Accounts and Audit reports  Weak internal control
mechanisms and a deficient accounting and financial management system, the consequences of which
were not fully acknowledged at appraisal, led to unacceptable delays (as much as two years) in
submitting audited accounts and reports to IDA.
34.    GUC's insistence on executing its own fuel purchases. At appraisal it was estimated that
considerable savings (up to 20%) could be realized through bulk purchases which would provide
a breathing space to Government in its obligations to meet foreign exchange requirements.
These costs savings never materialized.
35.    Although a tariff study was carried out in 1991, GUC did not act on any of its
recommendations. IDA also recommended a number of measures to make water and electricity
more affordable to the public ( reduction in the number of GUC staff, revision of the tariff
structure, privatization of standpipes, etc.) but GUC failed to take any action.
C.4. Implementation Delays
36.    The following all contributed to implementation delays: (i) non-compliance with
agreements by the Borrower at preparation and during appraisal led to delays in credit
effectiveness; (ii) withdrawal by a major financing agency (IDB) created a financing gap and
filling that gap took over three years; (iii) significant delays in delivery of contract material as
well as circulation of bidding documents led to implementation delays; (iv) IDA withheld its
non-objection to the elevated contract until the back log of overdue audits were submitted; (v) in
1995 IDA withheld its non-objection to the Banjul Serrekunda Transmission main contract until
Government agreed to appoint a facilitator to assist in resolving the disputes between UHC and
the private operator; (vi) the unilateral termination of the management lease contract in 1995



9
resulted in a six month delay in the completion of the Banjul Serrekunda transmission main
contract; (vii) after the coup d'etat in July 1994, it took IDA close to 4 months to decide that on-
going projects could continue to be supervised.
C. 5. Cost Change
37.    The increase of costs can be attributed to (i) implementation delays (cost estimates were
based on January 1986 prices whereas the project was only declared effective 22 months later); (ii)
preliminary appraisal estimates (detailed design and bidding documents were not available until late
1988); and (iii) tied cofinancing with the Austrian Government (cost of some material significantly
higher than if ICB had prevailed).
D. Project Sustainability
38.    The sustainability of the project, including the physical achievements, is rated uncertain for
the following reasons:
(a)    Continued Government interference in the management of UHC and its
unwillingness to implement an appropriate tariff policy will not likely
change over the foreseeable future. Unless UHC is financially restructured,
fully commercialized, and an appropriate tariff policy put in place, the
likelihood of attracting private sector participation in future investments is
practically non-existent;
(b)    Limited institutional capacity building has been achieved by the project.
UHC is currently without Technical Assistance of any kind and is on
principles of crisis management with little time or capacity to put in place a
medium or long term plan for the utility. Under such circumstances, the
likelihood of the physical investments deteriorating is high. It should be
noted, though, that the current'management has taken a number of initiatives
that potentially could improve UHC's situation, among others, management
style, new work culture, computerization of accounts, emphasis on training,
updating of the 1993 Manpower Development Plan so as to emphasize
institutionalized training, and the adoption of a Corporate Plan. If these
initiatives are successful and the utility's autonomy is respected by
Government, the chances of the sustainability of the project could be
increased.
E. Bank Performance
39.   In project identification.  Performance is rated satisfactory: The project was well aligned
with the Bank's strategy which focused on assisting The Gambia in developing a macroeconomic
policy framework that would lead to sustainable growth and supporting projects aimed at maintaining
and rehabilitating key economic, physical and social infrastructure
40.   In project preparation. Performance is rated deficient: IDA's assessment of GUC's ability
to achieve financial viability and commercialization with autonomy was overly optimistic. The
project would have greatly benefited from a more thorough assessment of GUC's management and
institutional structure, especially in view of the fact that GUC had never complied with financial



10
covenants in previous operations. The Bank could also have paid greater attention to detailed design,
project costs and scope and to the financing plan. Moreover, there were no performance indicators to
monitor results nor any mechanism built into the project to counter any of the identified risks.
41.   In project appraisal. Performance is also rated deficient. Although IDA's assessment of the
urgent need to improve utility services and the sector institution was realistic, it was too optimistic
about the leadership role of the technical assistance in project implementation. It also miscalculated
the level of commitment of the Borrower to the project. This was very evident as it took a threat of
canceling the project before the Government signed the DCA and PA by end of November 1987.
Although IDA understood political implications of major tariff increases, it was too confident that
Govemment would abide by the covenants in the DCA. It was also evident that Government, while
recognizing the urgency and importance of the investments, was not willing to take the difficult
decisions with regard to tariff increases. In retrospect, IDA should not have dropped several of the
conditions of effectiveness and should have canceled the project before it became effective. It is hard
to justify why 22 months were needed to fulfill conditions of effectiveness when some of these
conditions (such as the subsidiary loan agreement) are solely dependent on a specific Government
action. It is also highly likely that due to the reorganization of the Bank in 1987 that staff follow-up
was somewhat lacking here.
42.   In supervision. The supervision is rated generally satisfactory: In spite of the substantial
resources devoted to supervision (on average 14 sw per year), IDA was unsuccessful in helping
transform an under-performing utility into a commercially-run entity. Although IDA continued to
note the need for tariff increases and other measures to ensure the financial viability of GUC/UHC, it
relied mostly in vain on pressure to improve Borrower performance. IDA seriously considered
canceling the balance of the credit given the unsatisfactory performnance of GUC/UHC. However,
various donors had already committed to financing other parts of the Greater Banjul Water Supply
Expansion. Because the system couldn't be justified without the elevated tanks which IDA was
financing, IDA decided to continue with the project and urged the Government to involve the private
sector in the operations of the utility. However, IDA greatly overestimated the commitment of the
Government and GUC towards this undertaking. It also underestimated the difficulty in putting in
place a competent oversight agency (holding company) in the management lease undertaking. Lack
of continuity is evident in the project being managed by at least 6 Task Managers.
F. Borrower Performance
43.    Borrower and Executing Agency performance is rated deficient for the following reasons:
(a)    The Borrower was not fully committed to the objectives of the project. It was
extremely slow in formally requesting donors to finance certain components of the
project. The Borrower continued to interfere in the day to day operations of the
utility and its refusal to implement needed tariff increases;
(b)    GUC/UHC had numerous problems coordinating the procurement as well as the
bidding procedures, which caused delays in the implementation of the physical
components;
(c)    Neither GUC nor UHC improved their performance in accounting, auditing and staff
issues despite the Bank's expressed concem over the issues. It also had deficient
billing and budgeting systems;



11
(d)    There was deficient coordination of repair, maintenance and provision of spare parts;
(e)    Although a performance contract was prepared, it was not rigorous nor effectively
applied;
(f)    Although the commission of inquiry found no human error directly responsible for
the explosion of Generator 3, it did find signs of negligence, indifference, and lack of
commitment on the part of most of GUC staff.
G. Assessment of Outcome
44.    The project's outcome is rated highly unsatisfactory because the project failed to achieve
most of its objectives. The final project cost US$45.2, more than double the estimate at the time of
appraisal. UHC is technically bankrupt. The only achievement of the project is the tangible impact
the supply of water had in both the GBA and the Provincial Urban Centers. The sustainability of the
project is uncertain.
45.    Financial Performance. Very little progress, if any, has been made in this area.  The
principal objective - to assist GUC/UHC become a financially viable public enterprise has not been
met. Billing efficiency improved under the management lease contract but after its termination UHC
had to resort to a locally developed billing system which created a two months delay in the issuance of
bills. The termination of the management lease contract also affected UHC's ability to produce
financial statements. As part of the agreement reached in October 1995, the private company is again
managing the billing department as of January 1996. A tariff study was conducted in 1991 but its
recommendations were never implemented. UHC's needs recapitalization plus a comprehensive tariff
study as well as a willingness to pay study, all the more urgent since tariffs have not been increased
since 1992. Comparison of the financial projections made during project appraisal with the actual
financial statements for the 1985-1995 period reveals large discrepancies, owing mainly to: (a) the
electricity production capacity of the utility has been greatly reduced due to the failure of 2 generators
(1991 and 1993) which are yet to be replaced or repaired; electricity sales accounted for over 75% of
revenues in the projections; (b) unaccounted for water was estimated at 20% throughout the
projections - more recent figures place it at about 25% with an average of over 30% during the life of
the project; and (c) working expenses were much higher than anticipated; and (d) provision for the
effect of currency fluctuations on loans repayable in foreign currencies became an important element.
H. Future Operations
46.    UHC is faced with the enormous challenge of providing an acceptable level of service for
water, electricity, and sewerage at an affordable price for urban consumers. It has prepared a draft
Corporate Plan which is a good start. However, the plan still lacks targets and indicators. The
Manpower Development Plan, which will be updated shortly, should establish the necessary training
requirements However, the financing of these requirements is uncertain. Considering the high level of
unaccounted-for-water as compared to appraisal, UHC needs to focus on reducing these as it is more
economical than developing new supplies. An energy sector review prepared by IDA is expected to
be available by end of 1996. Institutional and financial improvement with up-front conditionalities,
greater cost-recovery, commercialization of service delivery, and Government commitment are likely
to be prerequisites to further IDA lending.



12
I. Key Lessons Learned
47.    There are nine key lessons learned from this operations:
(a)    A project should be presented to the Board only when it is sufficiently prepared and
not to meet lending targets;
(b)    Project financing should be largely secured and finalized before appraisal;
(c)    Detailed design should be completed by appraisal for the first phase and bidding
documents available no later than project effectiveness;
(d)    Government commitment to the objectives and non-interference of the project are a
prerequisite;
(e)    Donors need to coordinate more effectively;
(f)    Use Bank remedies such as cancellation of a project, suspension of disbursements,
for Borrower compliance. Constant use of threat without follow through action does
not produce the desired results in the long term. The Bank should not hesitate to
suspend a project for non compliance with covenants and it should be willing to
cancel a project when it deems that any alternative will not resolve the problem. It
must be recognized that the Bank has evolved since the inception of this project and
that the nature of change process is now heading in this direction;
(g)    When launching an initiative such as a management lease arrangement, obtain true
borrower and stakeholder ownership and commitment prior to starting the process
and maintain it during implementation;
(h)    Ensure that the right skill mix of staff are available for Bank supervision. Given that
one of the components of the project dealt with electricity, it would have been
beneficial to include an energy specialist as part of supervision missions. This only
took place prior to project closing;
(i)    The lessons learned from the management lease experience are the following: (i) the
role of the actors (state, asset holding company, operating company) needs to be
clearly defined; (ii) there needs to be a clear definition of O&M functions (operating
equipment, maintenance, renewal, extension, and rehabilitation); (iii) the
responsibilities between the state, the asset holding company, and the private
operator need to be clearly defined and respected; (iv) the asset holding company
needs to be set up efficiently and staffed with competent people; (v) the asset
company needs to have credible autonomy and work in total synergy with the private
operator; (vi) the asset holding company needs to have adequate incentives, in the
form of penalties or rewards, to perform according to expectations; (vii) IDA should
have encouraged Government to embark on a public education campaign to explain
the rationale of the utility reform to The Gambians; (viii) realistic tariffs need to be
put in place before the private operator takes over so that they are not blamed for the
increases; (ix) the responsibility for planning, investment, and debt service is
separated from the responsibility for operations in this arrangement. Even though



13
the arrangement give each party a large degree of accountability, the holding
company may not be the best placed to make wise investment decisions and the
private operator has no voice in planning new investments and therefore its
incentives to operate efficiently may be compromised.  The failure of this
management lease contract has provided important lessons to other countries and has
helped to shape the Bank's current thinking. The lessons learned have already been
reflected in the Senegal - Water Sector Project.



14
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1. Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial     Parial       Negligible    Not applicable
Macro policies                           7              7                         M
Sector policies                          m                           LI          EZ
Financial objectives                    Z              L                          LI
Institutional development               LI             LI                        L
Physical objectives                                    7      
Poverty reduction                      L               E             LI[
Gender issues                            n7 L                         o 
Other social objectives                  n             o              o           E
Environmental objectives               LI              E             LI]
Public sector management               L               L             L            E
Private sector development             L               L             L            Em
Other (specify)                         L              L             L            LI
B. Project sustainabilitv             Likely               Unlikely            Uncertain
Ol                    LO                  E



15
C. Bank performance                    hly
satisfactory         Satisfactory        Deficient
Identification                                                  1               K]E
Preparation assistance                  a                      ]               [
Appraisal                               a                      ]                 m
Supervision                                                                    E Z  L
D. Borrower perfofnance              LiGhbY
satisfactory         Satisfactory        Deficient
Preparation                                                                     M K  K
Implementation                           ]                  K                   K
Covenant compliance                    K                     E                  K
Operation (if applicable)              K                                        K
E. Assessment of Outcome       Highly                                            Highly
satisfactory   Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
K]    K]                         K]                m



16
Table 2. Related IDA Credits
.i.,   ..  ,g,.,., .. , ,.,.,.,., , ~..... .. .........  ,,,,..... ... ..  .. "'"''''''
CR. 1443-GM Urban Management           The main objectives of the project were: (a) to                   1994                            Closed
and Development Project                strengthen the Ministry for Local Govemment
and lands (MLGL), the Banjul City Council
(BCC), the Kanifing Municipal Council (KFC)
and the Social Securityv and Housing Finance
Corporation (SSHFC), to improve the
management and operational efficiency; and (b)
to demonstrate the feasibility of exctending basic
infrastructure, low-cost and affordable serviced
and shelter to the hulk of the low-income
populations, and generate foreign savings
wherever possible, through the use of indigenous
materials.
Table 3. Project Timetable
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..,,,%_....,,..,.,..                                    ,.                    ........................ 
I                                                                                                       d ent - fic a tio n   ........ .... .......................... early 1983~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .   . . . . . . . .
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                     . . .   Prpaa t o . . . . Dcme 93Mrh19
Pre-appraisal~~~~. .. .. ..                             ..... . .   Mach1017.18
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .                                                     .p r ia ...... . .   . a ......98
Negotiations                                                                         November  1985                       April 1986 (concluded)
Board Presentation                                                                     May 20, 1986                             July 8, 1986
Signing                                                                      ____________BthK inM caC nlKNovember 23, 1987
Effectiveness                                                                        November 1986                             May 25, 1988
Project Completion                                                                       June 1993                            December 1995
Credit Closing                                                                           June 1994                          February 29, 1996
Table 4. Credit Disbursements: Estimated and Actual
Appraisal estimatetannual                     1.1         1.7          11          10         0.9       0 fe6 |s0.4i               0.2   T             la
Actualiannual                                 0.0         0.0         0.59        0.69        075          034         288         1.43         1.05        0.84   l
Actual as % of estimate                       0%          0%         54%         69%         83%         57%        720%         715%           1.87        2.74
Appraisal estimate cumulative                            o2.8         3.9         4.9          5.8         6.4         68          7.0
Actual cumulative                             0.0         0.0         0.59         1.28       2.03         2.37        5.25        6.68        7.73         8. 57
Actual as % of estimate                       0%          0%         15%         26%         35%         37%          77%         95%l
mateials



17
Table 5A. Project Costs
(US$M)
.. .............-...................... ... ...  ... ..  -.
Greater Banjul Water Supply                         11.6                               36.2
Provincial Centers Water Supply                      2.1                                7.8
Banjul Electricity Supply                            1.8                                0.0
Reinforcement of GUC's Operations                    1.9                                1.2
Working Capital                                      2.0                                0.0
Total Project Costs                                 19.4                               45.2
Table 5B. Project Financing
(US$M)
ID                                                      70                                     87l              ^ 1      ?l E } 1         1
EDF/EC                                                 2.6                                   7.8
ADF                                                    4.0                                   5.2
IDB                                                    4.0                                   0.0
EIB                                                    0.0                                  11 .3
Austrian Government                                    0.0                                  12.2
Govermnent of The Gambia                               1.8                                   0.0
Total                                                 19.4                                  45.2
Table 6. Economic Costs and Benefits
Provincial Water Component                             7%                             Data not available
Banjul Water Supply Component                          11%                            Data not available
Electricity Component                                  19%                            Data not available



18
Table 7. Status of Legal Covenants
E~ ~ ~~~. . ..                       .....                                                .... .................          ......
Wie Z ~~...         .. . .....   .........   .........   .   . ...........   B    !afg    ::          ZS................  .n>...... .....   ..... ... .    b..8888a :88
88. ..........                                        V........  .......  .....   ........   .   . ......              ..   ...... ..........:.-:g:
4 01 (a)          F           OK                                     to have its accounts & financial           This was done but       l
statements audited by independent          always with delays. 
l                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~auditors
r            ~~~4.01 (b) (i)      FOK                                                submit audit no later than 6 months after    Audit report due
close of financial year                    December 31, 1995. 
Only received mid-     l
___________   ____________                 __________________________________         ~~~~~~~~Februaiy    1996.l
4.01 (b) (ii)    F & M          OK    _______fumnish to IDA any relevant information
4.01 (c)(i)      F & M         OK                                     to maintain all necessary documentsl
regarding expenditures andl
l                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~disbursements made
4.01 (c)(ii)     F & M         OK                                      to retain such documents as per 4.01 (c)l
l ~ ~   ~    _______                         ____      _______         ______        (i)  at least for  1 year                  ____________
4.01 (c)(iii)    F & M         OK                                      To allow IDA access to such information 
l ~ ~    ~    _ _ _ _ _                      _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _      _ _ _ _ _     as per 4.01   (c)(ii)_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
4.01 (c)(iv)     F & M         OK                                      ensure that separate accounts are          Special account and    l
maintained & separate opinion issued       Project account were l
l ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ __________    _____                                                                               both closed in FY93
l             ~~~4.02 (a)        FGUC shall produce for FY1988 total                                                            This was not met in
revenues equivalent to not less than the   1988.l
sum of its total cash operating expenses    l___________
4.02 (b)          F           OK                                     Before 3/31 of each fiscal year, prepare   This was not complied
forecasts to show that it would meet       with during most of    l
l~ ~ ~ ___________   _______   ______   requirements in 4.02 (a)                                                                the project.
l             ~~~~4.03(a)        F          ACT                                     rate of retumn on water: 3%; electricity   This was never
8%                             ~~~~~~~~~~the timing was not l
increases due to the   l
problems with the      l
____________                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~management lease. l
l             ~~~~4.03(b)        F          NYD                                     before 3/31 of each fiscal year, on basis  The project closed on
of forecasts, indicate whether above will   Fhebruaretis 29, 1996 l
___________  _______                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~done  for 1996.l
| DCA          _ _  _  _  __                                               _  _  _                                                 _  _  _  _  _  _  _
4.01 (b)          MOK                                _Qualifications, experience and terms and    New MD was in put in
conditions of employment of MD is          place in February      l
l~  ~ ~ ____________    satisfactory to Association                                                                             1995.
4.02          F &M                                                  approval in relation to tariff increase be  UHC not willing to    l
given no later than 45 days after approval ask for tariff increasesl
of GUC's board                             due to poor service    l
delivery and consumerl
dissatisfaction.
4.03(a)           F         SOON                                     Borrower to transfer to GUC, upon          Although aide-
completion of sewerage system, all assets memoires pointed outl
as equity contributionIDA informed this willl
be done together withl
the financial 
____________  _______  _____________  ____________                         restructuring  of UHC. l
4.03(b)           F          OK                                      Govemnment to make budgetary provision    This to be reviewed
for sewerage services                      with the restructuring l
I                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~exercise.
Covenant Tvpe:                              Status:
E          Economic              ACT        Needs use of formal remedies to bring about compliance
F          Financial             NYD        Not yet due
M          Managerial            OK         Covenant complied with
T          Technical             RVS        Needs to be revised
SOON       Compliance expected in reasonably short time



19
Table 8. IDA Resources: Staff Inputs
$.@.;@@&3:  .................   . . . .. . ........   ..... .. .. . .      ..... ...
Preparation to appraisal                                                                    57.425         102.400
Appraisal                                                                                   33.900          59.085
Negotiations through                                                                        14.575          26.404
Board approval
Supervision                                                                                127.850         289.782
Completion                                                                                   9.000          22.800
TOTAL                                                                                      242.75          500.471
Table 9. IDA Resources: Missions
Performnance rating
Stage of project cycle  Month/year       No. of      Person     Specialized staff  Implement  Developm      Types of
persons     Days in    skills represented   ation     ent impact    Problems
field                        Status
Through appraisal
Appraisal-Board
Board-Effectiveness     Oct /1986          1            7             FA              2           1
Board-Effectiveness      OctV1987          3           43         FA,EC,ENG           2
Board-Effectiveness     March/1988         1            5             FA              2           1
Board-Effectiveness   Apr-May/1988         2            5          ENG, EC           N/A         N/A
Board-Effectiveness    Sept-Oct/1988       3           19          EN,FA,TS           3           2
Supervision I            Feb/1989          3           23          EC,EN,TS           3           2
Supervision 2           June/1989          1            8             FA             N/A         N/A
Supervision 3            Feb/1990          3           18          EN,TS,FA           2           1
Supervision 4           July/1990          2           14           FA,EN             3           3
Supervision 5            Oct/1990          I            8             EN              3           3
Supervision 6            Jan/1991          1            7             EN              4           4
Supervision 7           June/I991          1            8             EN              4           4
Supervision 8            OctV1991          1            7             FA              4           4
Supervision 9           June/1992          2           16           FA,EN             3           3
Supervision 10           Jan/1993          2           26           FA,EN             3           3
Supervision II          May/1993           2           10           FA,EN             3           3
Supervision 12          Aug/1993           2           15           FA,EN             2           2
Supervision 13          Nov/1993           3           21          FA,EN (2)          2           2
Supervision 14          July/1994          4                    FA,EN,C(2),DC         S           S
Supervision 15           Feb/1995          I           11             FA              U          -U
Supervision 16          May/1995           1            8             FA              S           S
Supervision 17          July/1995          2           14           FA,ES             S           S
Supervision 18           Nov/95            1            3             FA              U           U
Completion              April/1996         2           10            FA,C             U           U
Specializations:
EC = Economist                             TS=Training Specialist
FA = Financial Analyst                     ES=Energy Specialist
EN = Engineer                              C=Consultant
DC=Division Chief



The Gambia
Utilities Holding Corporation (NAWEC as of July 1996)
Balance Sheet
FY85            FY88     _       FY7                FYFY8Y89FY9 0
Estimate Actual Projected Actual Projected  Actual  Projected  Actual  Projected   Actual  Projected  Actual
ASSETS_
Fixed assets                        30,815 25,790   31,446 19,908   34,530   16,157   48,278   18,741- 61,312   19,262 _ 66,754   28,929
less. acc. depreciation               13,646 11,672   15,1   9,800   17,588    8,650  _20,407   10.604   23,933   11.437   28,173 _   2.466
Net fixed_as'set-s  __      _        17,169 14,118   16,334 10,108   16,942    7,506   27,871    8,138   37,379    7,625   38,581   26,463
wokin-progress ____ _____           1,065  1,690    6.150  2,638   16,235    3,034   14,113    5.411    7,962    8,999   10,282   10,590
Total FixedpAs-sets   _     ___       18,23~4 15,808   22,484 12,746   33,177   10,540   41,984   13,549   45,341    16,823   48.863   37.053
Invest m-ents                               ____o0    _0                                                                         __0
Accounts Receivables:--
Private                               1,853  1,428    1,862~ 1,144     1,871    1,047    1,880    1,381     1,890    2,636     1,899 -3,473
Less allowance for Bad debts          .408223  _ 451 _ --174    -494   --177  --  536               221       577       264     617       227
Net Private                           1,445  1,206    1411    971    1377        870 _   1,344    1,160    1,313 -~2,372       1,282    3.2460
Central Government                     361    473       398 _741        437      701       481      54-- 529           65        82       988
-Local Government                    2--0   12   2 96     7   1811 -327 --235  -3360     157                 396         867
Miscellaneous                          777    498      727    495   -677         545       627    1,240  -577            6~~ 527__ 
TOTAL ACCOU1NTS RECEIVA~BLES-          2,8-53- -2,302    283238         288       ,5       ,1        ,5      2,81   -3,356    2.826    4.902
ntories                   ~~~~2,209  2,089    2.745  2,160    3,106    2,294    3,5311    3.241-   3,888  3,086    4,172     4,194                   2
Service connections in progress ___     156      0       194  --0        220         0      250        0-250                     296         0
Cash andl Bank____    1,921  1,702  _   898    579 __906    1,195    1,345                           656    3,021       797    5,157       458                  c
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS____               7.139  6.093    6,670  5,'128    7,050    5,840    7,938    7,049    9,999    7,238   12,451    9~.554
TOTAL ASSETS                         25,37  -21,1901   29,154 17,87-4  -4-0,227- 1-6,380-  49-,922  -20,598- _ 55-,3-4,02-4,,0-6-2  -6-1,3-1-4 -4-6,6-07
EQUIT  & LIABILITIES            -_ -__                                                                                                    __
Equity:
Gdo-v-em-men-t_Equ-ity & F-un-ding ---  116,20-914,274- --24-,18-0 1-0,5-0-5 -33,056    7,854   38-,7-6-3-  11,712   39,293   11,464 _39,803   10,962
Reserves        __                   8,594  7,031    8,817  5,548    9,993    4,377   11,146    5,555_ 13,041    6,111 _  15.657        7,2
Accumulated Losses                  -13,369 -11,408  -13.995 -8.555  -13,581   -6,231  -12,989 _-8,949  -11.793   -8,431   -107         -,5
-kieven- --  -   - --    -- -    --    - -   - ---  -  -__   _ -_                                   -11,097    -9,559- 
D-fe6edReveue                                                                      0                  0 _                0                                      CD_ 
T-OTAL EQUITY__                       11.434  9.897   19.0602  7,499   29,468    6,000  3-6,920O    8.318   4054      9,14    4433      28,523
Longj- Term d e b-t  ____             -6,0 7-9 -5-,-91-8   -5,53-0 --5-,3-95 --6,8-8-1   4,97-8 ---9-,6-8-1-7,275   -12-,03- 0 --8,84-5   14,379    9,624
Accrals & Trade Payables               3,957  1,655    3,928  1,304    3,325    2,417    2,854    3.129    2,234 __3,726    1,785    5,956
Bank  vedrf                                                                         8                  8                 27_10
Loaan nterest Payable  --   --        2.656  2.187      144  1,770       154    1,414       216    1,868      284    2,306 __ 335    2.481
Shor-Te-rm Portion of LTdb            1.249  2,224  -  5491.7            40      1,6        250               21         14       5i2
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES              7,626,085    4.621  4.9801   3.879    5,0&,21               505       2,6d,7             2,571    8459
TOdTA-L EQUITY -& LIABIULITIE~S      25,375 21,901   29,153 17,874   40,228   16,380   49,922   20,598   55,340   24,062   61313   4,0
- 10116)9167:54   _ __ _ _ _
iNumbers may not add up due to roundin~g   ____________                        ____ _________                       ____ ___
Average exchange rate for the period per the Central Bank of The Gambia used to convert Dalasis to US Dollars



The Gambia
Utilities Holding Corporation (NAWEC as of July 1996)
Balance Sheet
_._~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~                                                               ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ .R r%itm I  (Inn
FY91              FY92               FY93              FY94               FY95
Projected  Actual  Projected  Actual  Projected  Actual  Proiected  Actual  Projected  Actual
ASSETS  _         ____________ (N/A)
Fixed assets    _       __          72.474   29.505   78,392   62,075   91,208   85,038   94,857   85,801              87,367
less: acc. deprecation     ___    32.960    4,896  37,289         7,444   42,117   11,730   47,427   13,818             18,813
Net fixed assets                    39.514   24,609   41,103 _ 54,630  49,091  73,308    47,430   71,983               68,554
work in progress  ______             14,302   18,108   16,392    3,193   10,642         0   13,642 __  123                1,354
Totai Fixed Assets      ________   53,816   42,717   57,495   57,823   59.733   73,308   61,072 _2 72,106                69,908
Investments                                        0                  0        -      151               391                  0
Accounts Receivables:
Prnvate                              1.908    6.149    1,917    8,499    1,926   11,359    1,936  _5.247___              7,712
Less allowance for Bad debts           656      185      695      396       734      499 _=771 .        106 _               0
Net Private                      =1,252    5,964  _1,222  _8,103    1,192   10,860    1,165    5,142 --             _   7,712
Central Government___                  640    1,333      704    1985        775    1,685      852    4,309              4,183
Local Goverment       _                479      669      527      689       579 _ 518_   637           322                271
Miscellaneous                          477        0      427      203       377      189      327      166                112
OTA ACCOUNd S RECEI ABLE S            2,848    7,966    2,880   10,980    2,923   13,252 _2,981        9,939       _    12,278
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _____ .   _   __     _         _   _  _  .  _ __         5 _9   3,52      5,0 _   __                  2,260
Inventories                           4,457    3.583    4.935    2,126    5 491    3,052    5 800       692               2 260
Service connections in progress         316 _-_0 0                      __3  0  389     0      411        0           __: 0
Cash and Bank                         5,534      398    4,010       718    3,485      330    3,724       710              1541
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS           _ _13,155 _11.946   12,174   1382    12_,288    16,634   12,916 _11,341  __. _   _16,079_
TOTAL ASSETS                         66.971   54,664   69.669   71,647   72.021   90,093   73,988   83,839 --        +  85,986
EQUITY & LIABILITIES                                                                                    __  _
Equity:_____   _        _             _               __       _
Goverment Equity &_Funding          40,243   11,350   40,553    9,344   40,673   26,074   40,673   23,795               21,925
Reserves                            18,397   26.787   19,977  24,018 _21,621   24,373   23,585   23,403                 22,945
Accumulated Losses  _          _    -10.74i2   -9,677  -10,177   -7,121   -9,182   -5,285   -8.298  -25,381  ___       -32,080
DjeferredRevenue                       0_00                                                               0                 0
TOTAL EQUITY              __Y        47.898   28,460   50,353   26,241   53.112   45,162   55,960   21,817        _      12,790
Log gTermmdebt                  .=16,428   18,454    17,011   37,273   16,794   38,488   15.877   52,681         5_ 58,374
Accr-uals & Trade Payables_           1.346    4,9-0      987    4,574       803    2,654      861    3.0-88 _3         _5,541
Bank OverdraHft   -                                0                  8                 0                 0              __ 0
Loan interest Payable    _3 79    2,741                   400    3,539       395    3,592      371    4.729               6,446
Short-Term Portion of L-T debt_917                1 8     917        11      917      197      917    1,522               2,836
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES             2.642    7,750    2,304    8,133    2,115    6.443    2,149    9.340   _           14,823
TOTAL EQUITY b LIABILITlIE-S    _   _66.968 =54,664   69,668   71,647   72,021   90,093   73,986   83,839                85,987
___________   10/16/96 7:54
Numbers may not add up due to rounding
Average exchange rate for the period per the Central Bank of The Gambia used to convert Dalasis to US Dollars



The Gambia
Utilities Holding Corporation (NAWEC as of July 1996)
Balance Sheet
____    _   ___ _FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95
_     _                         Actual   Actual   Actual       al   Actual   Actual   Actual   Actual   Actual   Actual   Actual
Dalasis   Dalasis  Dalasis  Dalasis   Dalasis  Dalasis  Dalasis   Dalasis  Dalasis   Dalasis   Dalasis
.    ET _S                         _ ___                    _  _   _ _   _ _,       ____         _._ .___    __ _  _   ____ _ _    ,
Fixed assets  1___      __     _ 102,901  109,692  119,074  127,629  136,762  236,638  245,774  548.740  758,536  797,092  836,103
less: acc. depreciation             46,571 -53,996   63,753   72,21i0   81,206   20,172 _40,7       65809  i04,628  128,368  1 i80 042
Net fixed assets                   56,330   55,696   55321   55,419   55,556  216,466  204,992  482.931  63 .908  2668724  656_061
work in progress   ____6,744   14,535   22,360   36,848   63,890 _86,626  150,843 __28,222                        0  _.  __ 1.144   12.954
Totai Fixed Assets                   63,074   70,231   77,681   92,267  119,446  303,092  355,835  511,153  653,908  669,868  669,015
Investments                              0        0        0        0         0        0         1       0    1,345    3637         0
Accounts Receivables:.                   0        0 __   0  _    0            0        0        0        0        0        0         0
Private                             5,699    6,306    7.720    9,403   18,715   28,408   51,219 7_ 75,131  101,323   48,749   73,801
Li ess allowance for Bad debts        888      956    1,308     1,503    1, 871 --1-,- i   1 -- 4-  1,541    3.503    4,454  983   0
Net Private                         4,811    5,350    6,412    7.900   16.844   26,554 _ 49,678   71 ,628   96.869   47.766   73,801
Central Govermment                   1,887    4,085    5,165    4,044    4,938    8.085   11,108   17,547   15,030   40,031   40,031
Local Govemment                       501      998    1,732    1,072    2,045    5,459    5,570    6.094    4,623    2,994    2.589
Miscellaneous                        1.987    2,727    4,018    8,445        0        0        0    1.796    1,683    1,544      1,076
TOTAL ACCOUNTS RECEVABES _            9,186   13,160   17,327 _21,.461   23,827   40,098   66,356   97,065  118,205 _92,335  117-,497
Inventes            -----__.    8,336   11,903   16,908   22,074   21,909   34.303 _29844   18.793   27,226 _6i-29   21,628
Service connections in progress               0 0          0        0         0        0        00000
Cash and Bank                         6,789    3,192    8,808 8    4,468   5,657    3,749    3,313    6,346    2,948    6,595   14,750                        I
TOTAL CURR  NTASSETS______   _24,31i _28,255 _43,043 _48,003   51,393 _78,150 _9,51   122,204 _148,379  105,359 _153,875
TOTAL ASSETS=         -              87,385   98,48 _120,724  140,270 _10,839  381,242  4M5.348 6333657  803,632  778,i64  82890
EQUITY & LIABILITIES
Equity:_____
Govemment Equity & Funding          56,953   57,885 _ 57,885 _ 79,758   81,396   89,671 _ 94,543 _ 82,603  232,585  221,061  209,820
Reserves                            28,054   30,572   32,257   37,828   43,388  221,842  223,138  212,321  217,411 2i17,41   219,585
Accumulated Losses                 -45,516  -47,140  -45,920  -60,943  -59,862  -78,192  -80,612  -62,953  -47,146  -235,785  -307,005
Deferred Revenue                 _       0   _      ___ 0  0       0        0=       0        0     __ 0_    0   _                0
TOTAL EQUITY                         39,i9i   41,31i   44,222   56,643   64,922  233,321  237,069  231,971  402,850  202,688  122,400
Long Term debt                       23,613   29,729   36,687   49,540   62,797   78,727  153,725  329,492  343,309  489,410  558,636
Accruals & Trade Payables _           6,604    7,185   17.812   21,307   26,455|  48,721   41,568   40,433   23,676  2861    53,025
Bank Overdraft _ __                     80      167       57 |      57      194 =     82        0      73 =_0    __  0              0
Loan Interest Payable  __8,725    9.754   10.419   12,723   16,371   20.291   22.836   31,288   32,039   43,937   61,690
Short-Term Portion of L-T debt     _8,872   10,334   11,527          0 _           100   100 _   150  _100    1,758   14,138   27,139
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES            24,281   27,440   39,815   34,087   43,120   69,194   64,554   71,894   57,473   86,766  141,854
TOTAL EQUITY & ABILITIES             87,385   98,486  120,724  140,270  .170,839  381,242  455,348  633,357  803,632  778864  822,890
10/16/96 7:55                                                           _                 _          _
Numbers may not add up due to rounding                                                               .
Average exchange rate for the period per the Central Bank of The Gambia used to convert Dalasis to US Dollars



THE GAMBILA
UTILITIES HOLDING CORPORATION (NAWEC as of July 1996)
INCOME STATEMENT - WATER
US Dollar ('000)
____________ ___________ ___________ FY85           FY86                FY87                FY88                FY89           _ _  FY90
_____________  Eistimate   Actual   Estimate   Actual  Prjce      cuF Projected   Actual  Projected   Actual  Projected   Actual
Watfe_rProdu_c_tion Sales
Pouctionq (millIConglos                1393      1174      150       15         80      1369      1870      15600     1870on)16  1M -6iO-1    1434 _ 1 720  1449
Water Sales (million gallons) -___       1114       829      1248   ~857  -1288             95~7    1:338     1040      1336        89       1376      1009
Unaccounted-for water (est.%)            20%       320%      20%/      34%   -200%         32%/      20%/      33%       20        34%       20%       35%
AverageWkatelrRate (l000gaions)1         1.15      1.119L    1.37      1.78      1.57      0.97      1.81      2.05      2.08 --0.96         2.28      2.58
Does not include Proclcfion figures for the Provinces as these were_not available  _____
REEUES                            __-
At    ffs- --18                             ,19       1704_  1 ,012       1,880      90       1,51     1,257     1.951     1,233      2,009     1,476
Other Income                       j           _-                        0       142        0        462         0       824         0   1,125          78
TOTfALREVENUES                          1,8         ,1174             1,012     2,022       970  2,4113    1,5          2,776     123       3315
OPERATING EXPENSES                          .__ ___    -87-
erone                                  297      132       30         56       322         87      344       118       37        124        393- 140
ElectrcityilChem icasantenance           681      812     1,105       655     1,197       536     1,298       721     1,367       515     1,428 -~706
Other     _________ ____ 139 ____ ~~           ~~~0 140   _  68     150       53       161        37  _    7       _   8        149
HOQOverhead    ____38                             183        371 -    128        398       159      425       181 -     453  -   475         485_267
O6PERATIN_GdCosts                       1,483     1,127     1,917      907     2,087       815     2,228     1,037     2,359     1,141      2,490     1,204 
Depreciation    ___293                            18 6       312    ~ 0          330        93-     389       110 -     418        146       472       787
TOTAL COSTS                             1,778     1,308     2,229       907     2,397       908     2,595     1,148     2,777  -1,287       2,962     1,991
Befor Ineet           -    40        -289     -55-        106     --375       62      -182       110         -2      -54        172 __   437
Less_Interest charges                       0        0          0  ____0           17 --      0        7   ___             8         5   __22__   8
Exchange loss                              0_        0         0         0     _ 0             00           0         0     _   0              0 ----0                                 e
Su_rplus (Deficit)After Interest         -40       -8   _   55          108   _-392          62     .258        1106     -167      -312       -90      -625 
Working_Ratio  _________  1.15 _   1.11      1.13     ~~~~0.90   1.02      0.8    -0.92       0.82       0.85      0.93      0.79      0.78
Operating Ratio                          1.38      1.281     1.31      0.90      1.19      0.94      1.08      0.91      1.00      1.04      0.95      1.28 
Underl!Managemnent Lease              __      _ _       ___ _ _ _ _ _                 _ _ _                                               _ _
** artia!ly.under Management Lease                       ___    __ 
10/11 118/ 8  :5~31  I__ _                 _  _
kD
Es



THE GAMBIA
UTILITIES HOLDING CORPORATION (NAWEC as of July 1996)
INCOME STATEMENT - WATER
US Dollars ('000)
FY91               FY92  ___          FY93          _ FY94           _     FY95 *
0  ____  .  __ 0___  Projected   Actual  Projected   Actual  Projected   Actual  Projected   Actual  Pojected   Actual_
Water Production & Sales     __         __                                                                         N/A
Production (million gallons)           1730      1419    2070       1568      2550      1926     2600      2882               2597
Water Sales (million gallons)          1384       934      1656     1025      2040      1459     2080
Unaccounted-for water (est.%)           20%      39%       20%       42%      20%       33%      20%       39%                27%
Average Water Rate (1000 gallons)       2.39      1.23     245 #VALUEI         2.45      _        2.55 _
Does not indude Production figures for the Prov
REVENUES
At present tariffs    __2,021                   1,729    2,418     2358      2,978    3,700     3,037 -    912 .1,864
Other Income                          1,289        50     1,639       46     2,019       15    2,262        46                 299
TOTAL RIIEVENUES_ --3,310                        19       4,057    2,40      4,997     3,715     5,299     E958 ____=   2,163
OPERATING EXPENSES
Personnel                              421 ____ 86         438      279       455       440      474        50                126
Electincity/Chemicals/Maintenance    1,470      653     1,844       687     2,304      925     2,383        0                  76
Other                                  189       134       196       78       202        . 76    208         0                  6
HQ Overhead                            520       307       540      321       562       664      585   _1_193                1,526
OPERATING Costs                -      2,600     1,180    3,018     1,364    3,523     2,105    3,650       243               1,735
Depreciation  ___         =__          529       70 _      613 _1,192         835     1,476     1,022    1,306               1,290
TOTAL COSTS                            3,129     1,959    3,631     2,556    4,358     3,581     4,672     1,548              3,024
Surplus (Deficit) Before Interest       181      -181       426     -152       639       134      627   .                      -861
Less Interest charges                   348       102       402      639       417       882      404     1,091               1,546
Exchange loss   _  ___          __                 0        0                  0                   _     3,205              1,754
Surplus (Deficit) After Interest       -167      -282        24      -791      222      -748  _   223    -4,886              -4,161
Working Ratio     io                    0.79      0.66     0.74      0.57      0.71     0.57      0.69   N/A                   0.80
Operating Ratio                         0.95      1.10     0.89      0.96     0.87      0.96      0.88   N/A                   1.40
Under Management Lease                      ______                                                                            .
Partially under Management Lease                                ___
10/16/96 8:53 



THE GAMBIA
UTILITIES HOLDING CORPORATION (NAWEC as of July 1996)
INCOME STATEMENT - WATER
_______   _______   ________          ~~ ~~Dalaisis   ('000)   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
_____                      ~~~~~     ~~~~~FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89      FY90      FY91     FY92      FY93    FY94 * FY95
Actual   Actual   Actual   Actual   Actual -Actual   Actual   Actual   Actual   Actual   Actual
Water Produhction &Sales -          Dalasis  Da-lasis  Dalasi-s  Dalas-i-s  -Dalasis   Dalasis   Da lasis   Dalasts   Daai   aasis Daai
Prodluction (million gallons)    ___   1393      1560      1810  1_w670       1870      1720 __1730    _2070 - 2550            MO200__
Water Sa-les (million gallons)         11 14     1248      1288  __1336       1 330     1376     1384      1658      204      280        -
Unaccounted-for water (est.%)           20%      20% _ 20%  __20%             20%       20%       20%      20%       20%       20%  ___
Average Water Rate (looo0gallons)       1.15      1.37          1.57 181       2.08     2.28      2.39   _ 2.45  __2.45        2.55 ___
'Does not inrlude Production figures for the Prov
RIEVENUIES    _____
At presenttfar_fitfs      -          4,6       558       7,149   _8,583 ___8,75,4   11,9C55  _14,402    20,848    33,004    8,476    17,84:2
OtherIncome     -                        0         0         0-       0  --     0  _  633 _   415_    409            132____ 424  _ 2,861
TOTAL REVENUES_                       4,065   5,5786      749     8,563      8,754    12,588    14,81 7    21,257    33,136  8,900    20,703
OPERATING EXPENSES
-Personnel                              57       37        495   - 67-        881      1,133      713 --2,464      3,928       462     1,209
Elcrcity/ChemicalslMaintenance     3,240    3.610     3,951     4,911    3,659     5,719     5,439    6,073     8,247         0      729
Other                                    0      374       391       251- 186           744     1,120      66 9 - 681  __        0        57
-HQ Overhea                            79_   706  _1,17            1,097     3,373    2,160     2,555    2,835     5,924     1,793    14,605
OPERATING Costs ___         __-   _4,496    4,996        6,009    7,064     8,099    9.756    _9,827    12 ~,06_1  _186,780  _2,25516,6_00
Dere c iati on  _____     __         722         0      685       752     1,039    6,372     6,495    10,538    13,162    12,130    12,341
TOTAL COSTS __                __      5,218     4,998     6,694    7,816     9,138    16,128    16,322    22,599    31,942    14.385    28.941
Surplus (Deficit) Be f-ore I n-t-ere st-  (1, 15-3)  582   455       747      (384)   (3,540)   (1,505)   (1,342)    1,194    (5,485)   (8,238)
Less Interest charges         __          0         0   --0-           0     1,829     1,519   _8747      5,648    7,868    10,13     14,796
Excangeloss__                             0     _0 0         0         0_ 0                         0        0_        0    29,773    16,783
Surplus (Defic'it) After Interest     (1,153)     582      455       77     (2,213)   (509a     (,5)m890) -     _(6,64)   4,9)(987
Worki_ng Ratio ______                   1.11      0.90     0.84      0.82      0.93     0.78      0.66      0.57     0.57      0.25      0.80
Operating Ratio     ___   ___            .2       .90  0__.94        0.91      1.4      128       11         .06     0.6       1.62      1.4
;Under MaaemnLes
**Partially_under Management Le-as-e ____
10/16/96   8:591  __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _         __  _ _   I__  _                     I         I__   __ _ _



THE GAMBIA
UTILITES HOLDING CORPORATION (NAWEC as of July 1996) 
INCOME STATEMENT - ELECTRICITY
____________________________                                   ~~~~~~~~~~US Dollars ('000)
FY85               FY86               FY87                FY88               FY89               FY90
______      ____  ~~~Projected   Actual  Projected   Actual  Prjced Ata   Projected   Actual  Projected   Actual  Projected   Actual
Elcrct  rdction & Sales
Installed capaItyO(100   h)--     90,228   128.000   116,508   128.000   116,508   128,000   184,688   128,000   184,688   128,000   164,688   227,000
Avalale capacity  i_ 2,001800                                                       200o2,0 128,000                                          227,000
Available energy                               112,128            112,128            112,128             112,128            112,128 __198,852
Load factor (% of capacity)             46%      32%       37%A-   37%  __-39% -   41%            29%      46% -- 31%          42% __   330%      26%wul
Production (kWH 1000)                 41,500    41,595    4355    47.389    45,754    52,226    47,426    59,463    50,444    53,989    53,663    59,536
Electricity Sales (thousand kWh) ___    31,955    3079   33,53  35,300    35,230    39,679    36,992    49,849    38,842    43,738    40,784    47.544
System losses (est. %)  __23%                    26%       23%       26%      23%       24%       22%      16%   _23%  __19%__ 24%  __20%
Averag-e-Unit Ra-te (kW-h)              0.6        .1      0.19      0.09 ___0.20       0.08      0.21      0.10     0.22      0.09      0.22     0.12
At present tariffs                    5,103    4,569     6,290     4,371    6,797     4,188 __7,136      5,663 - -7,493 -5,121         7,868    6,816
Other Inco m-e                                     0            ___0          204         0      655         0       926        0 _    972        361
Grants and subsidies                               0  ___0                        ____0 _                    0 _0                                   0
6TOTLIREVENUES                     -5.1103    -4,5-6-9 -  6,2 9-0-   -4-,3-71   -7,0-0-1  -4,188-  -7,7-9-1  --5-,663    8-,41-9   5-,121-    8,840  7,-177
OPERATING EXPENSEs
Personnel                      -       584    -~158        592i     105       83         0        7         7   __723  _   245 _         7  _     256
Gasoil         ____      3,645    2,200     3,~~~~~~~1 159  1,765  2,654  144     2,987     208       307       1,618    3,756     3,161
Heavy fuel                 __1,429 __                              1,146                938              1349    .106         ,5      -.2       2,052
Lube oil  _____                         2        19        23 3     15        263   -130         291       187      33         46       36O_   284
Ma i nt en-an c-e      __2 6 5   -1 103-     2-9 7                   83      385 __  68          426       97       634        76      685       148
Other                                  235       112       238  _   173    __256 _     136       273       117       291       98 ___312          151
HQ Overhead    __592                             769 _     600 -    523       643       650 -    687       678      733 -     659       785     1,095
OPERATING Cos-ts __   ___              .4      4,969     519       353      4,835     3,474     5,341    4,682     4,942     3,891    5,566     7,147
Depreciation ____                      808     9,779       939      466     1,000 _    336  _1,104         366     1,442      286     1,794     1.025
TOTAL COSTS__              ____        6,351    14,748 ___6,058     4,419     5,835    3.810     6,445     5,49 6,384         4,77      7,60    8,17
Surplus (eficit) Bfore Inteest --   - -1,248   -10,178  232  -49    1,166      378     1,346 - 614 -2,035             945 - 1,480       -995
Less Interest charges               - 360           0  -~288  _         0      291 _       0      359         0      404       286       408       108
ExChange- los-ses-                                00                                     0                  0                  0                   0
Surplus(Deficcit) After Interest     --1,608   -10,178      -5        49       875       378 - 97           64      131        658-  1.072-- -1,103
Working Ratio  ---1.9                             109      081       09        06       08         .6-9    0-.83-    0.59   -0.76        0.3_   10
Operating Ratio                         1.24      3.3      0.96      1.01      0.83     0.91      0.83     0.89      0.76-  0.82         0.83-1.14
~iUnder Management Lease Contract
**Partially under Lease_Contract       __
10/16/967:58d        I        ~__



THE GAMBIA
UTILITIES HOLDING CORPORATION (NAWEC as of July 1996)
INCOME STATEMENT - ELECTRICITY
______________________________                                 ~~~~~~~~~US Dollars ('000)
____                     ~~~~~~~~~                      ~~FY91  FY92  FY93 ___     FY94   __          FY95 *
_____   _______        ~~~~~~Projected   Actual  Projected   AcItual-Projected   Actual  Prjected   Actfual  Projected   Actual
Installed capacity (1000 kWh) --     164,688   227,000   164,688  227,000   164,688  227,000   164,688   227,000            227,000
Available capacity  -_____i_ 59,00o__                           -_125,0006           185_m,000  ___     125,000 ___         125,000
Available enrgy~_                              139,284 ___        109,500            162,060            109,500             109,500
Load factor (% of capacity) __34%   _27%   _  36%                    34%      38%       38%  __40%   __36%/                    37%
Production (KWH 1000) __   _56,346    60,942    59,163    78,000    62,121    85,291    8 65227   82,342                     8,0
Electricity Sales (thous_andkWh)      42,823   47,568    44,64    60,27    47,212   64,821    49.573    56,267               52,109
Systeim losses _(est-. %_)   ___        24%_ -_2_2%_  -2-4-%  _ 22% -    2-4%-          24'% _    2 4_%_   3 2_%_            _38%/
Average Unit Rate (kWh) ---0.22                   0.14     0.23      0.13      0.23     0.15      0.23      0.03               0.08
REVENUES             -___
-At pre-se-nt-tariffs          -      8,6       8,1       887     1047       9108     1,931    9,56-4      60500
Other Incomne                         1,160      242     1,1 _1_T1_1__97     1,9"0-2    __52    1,99i7     -30, _  _           03
Gra-nt sa an d  s-ub s i d ie s                   0                   0                  0               1,804 ____         1,215
TOTAL REVENUES               _ __    9,421 ___ 8659    10,18       10o, 244   ilOlO    12,982 _1_1,561    2,437 ____          7-,0-28
bOERATING ExPthENsE-                            _          _          _      _
Personnel  ____              ~~~~829 ___195      862 ___419         8.97   _ --612_        933___33 '-----  _215
Gasoil                     ___        4,276    2,965 --4,808- _3,620         5,251 --- 4,619 --5,734        -0               1,436
Heavy fuel                           -1, 199    1,925    -1,263    2,351    -1,352    2,999    -1,406        0 __871
Lube oil           _____~~~~~         ~~~~ 42-3  2 6-7   -  46- 2- - -   326       -5-04  -  4-1 5    551  0         120
Mahintenance                           740O_   139         774    _166        807 __  1           4                        _   0
Other -         --                     334       238       347      252       361       434      376         0           _     30
HO Overhead                            840      1,243 _    874  1,190         909  _1,403        945       127 _     _       4,101
OP0E R A TING Ccs~t s        _        6_, 24 3  697      68 64     8,326&    7,':377i      106.98  7,973 ___160      _       6,879
Dbepreciation                          1,939    1,004     2,060     1,007    2,151     1,9      224       198226
TOTAL COSTS                 ___        8,182     7,976 _   8,924    9.334     9,528    1 1.887    106,2_1_3  __2.18_____ 08_9,11 4-4
Surplus (Deficcit)_Befiorne Interest   1,239      683 ai  1,264- --9-10- _1, 4-8-2  _1-,0'9-5    1,-348-  -3-2 9 ____        -2,-11-5
Less Interest chrgs ___                 41          9       399 ___   1        372-       81      39        28____             323
Exchange losses                                   0                   0 -                0____                          ___8M
S urpl us (Deficit W-Afte Inte-rest      8296    _625       865 ___  8-2"9'   _1,'1 1 0-   _1,0 14   -1, 00-9  101           -2,438
Working Ratio    ____    0.66      0.81     ~~~~~    ~~~0.67  0.81  0.67  0.82     0.69     0.07 ___            0.98
Operating Ratio             ___          .87      0.92     0.188     0    .91   0_.87   0.92     0-.8 8-   0.87                1.30
Under Management Lease Conitract-                              _    _.__-___
Parlially under Lease Contract_
l~6oll   7.58



/                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~THE GAMBIA
UTILITIES HOLDING CORPORATION (NAWEC as of July 1998)
INCOME STATEMENT - ELECTRICITY
________________________________  ________                     ~~~~~Dalasis ('000)                ____
Installed capacity (1 000 kWh)      128,000  128,000  128,000   128,000   128,000  227,000  227,000  227,000  227,000  227,000  227,000
Availablie capa-city  ___128,000  128,000  128,000   128,000  128,000  227,000   159,000  125,000  185.000   125,000   125,000
Aviabe energy-    _              112,128    112128   112128   112128  112,128   198,852  139,284  109,500  182,060   109,500   109,500
Load factor (%. of capacity)  __       32%      37%       41%      46%       42%/      26%      27%      34% ___38%         36%       37%
Product I on r  (kWHk  1 000 6_       4 1-595   -4 7 389   -52 2- 2 6  -5-9-4-63    53989    59536    60942    78000    85291 -82342    83705
E~ctrcity ales thouand kWh)      30729 _35300    39679    4984         4378     454       458      682        42       66        20
System losses (est. %)       ~~26 % - --  26% -,- 2-4%,-o --   16%-  19%     2 0 %-    2-2-%    22       2-4-%    -3-2,%-    -38%-
Average Unit Rate_(kM)                  0.44     0. 51    0.08- _  0.10-     0.09-    0.1-2   -0.1-4      0.13     0.15      0.03     0.08
At present tariffs   -        -     18,232   24,082   30.863    38,562    36,362    55.207   70,114   88,817   115,343    5,598   47,943
Ot-herlIncom-e ------0   _   0                             0 --      0    _   0    2,926    2.016    1,743        460      283    7,687
Granitsand subsidies      ______0-                0        0         0 _      0         0   --- 60   0-           -- 0- 16,759    1-1,-631
TOTAL REVENUES  -  -~    i8~32    24,0862 _3083   356          36,362    58,133    72,130   90,560  115.8063 - 22.640   6,6
O-PERATIN  EXP64ENSS                                                                                                         _
Personnel    _____631                           579      863  _ 1,95       1740     2,07W2    1,626    370      5,459      305      ,05
Gasoil        __879                          9,723    10,6453-14-,152    11,489725,602    24,699   32,003   41,199            0    13,743
Heavy fuel       ___5,700    6,313    6,910                      9,189    7,459    16,623    16,036   20,779   26,750        0    8,334
Lube oil  --789                                 874      957     1,273     1,033    2,302     2,221    2,878    3,705         0     1, 151                                          0
Mainten ance    ____41                        455        498       662      537     1,197 -- 1,-155    1,497_   1.927_____    0     1,018
Other                                 448       954 -1,004        799       693     1,22 4    1,983    2,228    3,873 __    0_       288
HO Overhead                          3,070    2,884    4.790    4,618    4,677      8,867    10,356   '10,519   12,5`11    1,184    39.244
OPERATING Co-sts--                19,2    21,781    25,605-  31,887    27T,628   57,888  58-,076-  73,606   95,-423       1,489    65,866
Depreciation    ___       __         2,068    2,568  _2,474    -2,494  -2-,028      8,304    8,361    8,906   10,611    18,097    21,668
TOTAL COSTS                          2,9      2439      28,079   34,38129,65         6,9   6-6,437  -8-2-,5-12  1I06,-03-4  9I-g,58-6- -8-7.504-
Surplu-s (beficit) B-efo-re-1In-teres-t  -- - -(3,661-)    - (-2-6-7-)   _ 2,7-8-4    - 4,181---   6,706  (8-,059) --5,.6-9-3  8-,04-8  9,7-69- -   -3,05-3 (-2-0-,-243-)
Less Interest chagrges__0                          0        0__   0        203         82       40       78         2       ,1       ,9
Exchange losses____0__0___                                                              0 0--                      0   -5, 122  8-,37-1
Surplus (Deficit) After Interest     (3,661)    (267)-   2,784  _4,181     4,673 - (8,931) _5,20-3    7,332 ----9,047-  -(4,184)  (31,705)
Working_ Raio ____        __10                    .0      08         .3      07         .0      0.81      0.81     0.82      0.07     0.98
Operating Ratio             ___         1.20     1.01 __0.91        0.89     0.82      1.14     0.92      0.91     0.92     0.87      130
*Under Mnagement Lease Contract    __                  _______ ______
*Partially under Lease Contract   ___                   ______
--10/16/968:49 6__--__



29
Appendix A
Completion Mission's Aide-Memoire
MINISTRY OF TRADE, INDUSTRY AND EMPLOYMENT
UTILITIES HOLDING CORPORATION (UHC)
WATER AND ELECTRICITY PROJECT CR. 1724-GM
AIDE-MEMOIRE
Introduction
A World Bank supervision mission, consisting of Ms. M.Y. Powers (task manager) visited The
Gambia from April 3-29, 1996 to supervise, among others, the above-mentioned project. Mr. J. Van
Gastel (Consultant) joined the mission from April 3-5. The objective of the mission was to carry out
the final supervision of the implementation of CR1724-GM. The objective of Mr. Van Gastel's visit
was to gather data and discuss with relevant parties, the management lease experience so that an
independent report can be prepared on what went well, what could have been done better, and the
lessons learned from this unfortunate experience. This report is expected to be completed no later
than end of May 1996 and a copy will be forwarded to UHC for information. This aide-memoire
summarizes the mission's findings, recommendations and agreements reached, subject to confirmation
by the World Bank management in Washington. The mission wishes to express its appreciation to all
Government and other officials, especially UHC, for their assistance and cooperation.
The list of people met is given in Annex 1.
Implementation Completion Report
As a normal requirement of credit closure, the Mission commenced the preparation of an
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the above project. The mission obtained some of the
data required to complete its report. The mission also discussed the Borrower's contribution to the
ICR.
Field Inspections
It was agreed with UHC that Mr. M. Fall (AF5IN) will carry out the inspection of the physical
components financed by the project. This mission is tentatively set for the first week of May. Mr.
Fall will prepare a report on his site visit, the results of which will be included in the final assessment
of the project in the ICR. As the mission was informed that the most of the elevated tanks financed
under the project are beginning to leak and that the telemetry system is not fully functioning, he will
pay particular attention to these problems.



30
Achievement of Project Objectives and Covenants
The ICR will address in detail the extent to which the Project objectives and covenants had been met.
Brief mention is made here particularly to those areas which appear not to have been achieved to a
satisfactory extent: financial performance of UHC including tariff adjustments to achieve cost
recovery, reduction of unaccounted-for-water and electricity line-losses, and development of UHC.
Financial Performance of UHC
Despite sizable tariff increases in 1987, 1988, 1989, 1991, and 1992 UHC is technically bankrupt.
The financial covenant to raise tariffs to reach a rate of return on net revalued assets of not less than
3% with respect to its water supply operations and 8% with respect to its electricity operations has not
been met in any of the years of the project. It should also be noted that throughout the project, UHC
did not submit its audit reports on time and that on many occasions the audit was qualified.
Financial measures are urgently needed to redress the situation. A draft Corporate Plan for the period
1996-2001 was prepared by ESBI/BIWATER in collaboration with UHC management. This is a
good first step although it is not clear how the projected capital investment requirement of Dalasis 527
million over the period to 2001 will be financed. UHC's huge existing debt burden will make future
profitability unlikely. UHC's capital structure needs to be reviewed. The mission recommends that a
comprehensive tariff study as well as a willingness to pay study be carried out in the very near future
as a matter of urgency. The fixed assets should also be revalued and the corresponding depreciation
entered into the tariff calculation. Tariffs have not been increased since 1992; this is not a sustainable
situation considering that inflation has not been taken into account. Although tariffs are already high,
a mechanism needs to be put in place to allow UHC to not only recover its operating costs including
depreciation, but also to contribute to future investments. Provisions for transparent Government
subsidies for non-commercial activities also need to be in place. The mission was informed that the
management support contract with ESBI/BIWATER terminated on March 29, 1996. UHC is
pursuing the urgent replacement of G3 with Mirrlees Blackstone.
Unaccounted for water and electricity line losses
At the time of appraisal, the unaccounted for water was 20% and the electricity line losses were 18%.
The situation has deteriorated to where unaccounted for water now stands at 35% and technical and
non technical electricity losses at 29%. Considering the unacceptably high level of unaccounted for
water, it would be more economical to focus on reducing these losses than to develop new supplies.
With regard to line losses, efforts need to be made to reduce these, especially given the current
generation capacity and load shedding situation. The Corporate Plan assumes reducing water losses
from the current 35% to 30% and electricity losses from 29% to 20% by the year 2006. Given UHC's
vulnerable situation, every effort should be made to reduce these losses to a more acceptable level
over the next 5 years. An action plan to reduce these losses together with appropriate indicators
should immediately be prepared and included in the final Corporate Plan. The mission therefore
stresses the importance of developing a sector strategy to address the root causes of the current
situation (of which tariffs, tax on fuel, debt burden, depreciation, exchange losses, and internal UHC
management are the most important), as the cost of both water and electricity from future projects will
rise significantly, adding further to the financial deficits and jeopardizing the sustainability of essential
services.



31
Development of UHC
After the unilateral termination of the management lease contract on February 23, 1995, a one year
management contract was signed with ESBI/BIWATER. Given the cost and questionable benefits of
long term technical assistance, UHCIMTIE intends to pursue the provision of appropriate forms of
technical assistance from bilateral/multilateral organizations. In view of Government's intention to
enlist private sector investment, the mission recommends that UHC and the Government, with the
assistance of experts, carry out a thorough study before introducing any changes to the organizational
and institutional setup of UHC. The lessons learned from the unfavorable management lease contract
should no doubt serve as a good starting point.
The mission was informed that a number of initiatives have recently been taken which have the
potential to improve UHC's situation. Among others, these include: management style, new work
culture, computerization of accounts, ermiphasis on training, updating of the 1993 Manpower
Development Plan so as to emphasize institutionalized training, and the preparation of a Corporate
Plan. UHC's challenges are enormous and will require unpopular and radical measures if it is to
become a financially viable institution, Regarding the Corporate Plan which has the provision of a
HFO tank in the Port area, the mission wishes to take the opportunity to draw the attention of UHC to
the HFO study that was conducted and financed under the project and to review the recommendations
contained in the report. UHC informed the mission that the lack of a bulk storage facility near the
Port has had significant cost implications since 1990.
Summary of Assessments
The assessment of the mission is, that although performance with physical implementation of the
project appears to be satisfactory and coverage of water has expanded considerably, the sectoral and
financial objectives of the project have not been met to a significant extent and the Borrower has been
unable to meet financial covenants leading to a less than satisfactory overall assessment. The overall
project cost to UHC has more than doubled from the appraisal figure of US$19.4 million. This is due,
in part, to delays in implementation, bilateral procurement conditionalities, and increased supervision
costs due to the nature of the contract with the sole consultant.  Institutional and financial
improvement, greater cost-recovery, and commercialization of service delivery are therefore likely to
be prerequisites to further Bank lending.
Future Operations
UHC has expressed its desire for the Bank to consider funding a future project focusing on the power
supply sub-sector. UHC/MTIE would also like to receive a copy of the Energy Sector Review that
was carried out in 1994 to follow up on the recommendations.
Next Steps
It was agreed that the Bank would forward a draft report to UHC for its review and comments no later
than June 30, 1996. UTHC has agreed to forward its own final evaluation report on the project together
with the comments on the Bank's draft ICR within 2 months after receipt of the draft ICR. The Bank
will also make available the draft ICR to the other donors involved in financing the project (EC/EDF,
EIB, ADF, and the Austrian Government)for their comments. As the mission was not provided with
the data necessary to complete economic analysis of the water supply components, UHC has agreed to



32
continue to search for the required information. UHC has also agreed to provide any additional
internal information or data that may be necessary for the Bank to finalize the report.
Marie Yvonne Powers                       H.P.B. Baldeh
Task Manager, AF5IN                       Managing Director
IDA                                       UHC
April 26,1996



33
WORLD BANK IDA 1724 CREDIT FUND
NAWEC'S CONTRIBUTION TO WORLD BANK'S IMPLEMENTATION
COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
FOR THE GREATER BANJUL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
In 1963 the population of the Gambia was 315,486 and increased to 493,499 in 1973. During the
project appraisal the population size increased from about 800,000 (in 1986) to 1,025,867 (in
1993) of which the water supply project was expected to provide portable water for 86% of the
projected population figure of 429,948 for The Greater Banjul Area and the seven provincial
urban centres. In this regard, the appraisal figures were not only conservative with regard to
population growth but also optimistic in terms of coverage.
Due to this rapid population growth and urbanisation, water and electricity demands in urban
areas throughout the Country increased significantly before and during the project period. This
resulted in significant water shortages and extensive rationing for people in the Urban areas.
Hence the justification, amongst others, of this project (appraised in 1986).
The main objectives of the project at appraisal were as follows:-
a)    To provide an essential service to the people of Greater Banjul by increasing water
supplies in areas of suppressed demand and expanding the public water supply system;
b)    To provide improved water supply service in seven provincial urban centers by
rehabilitation and limited expansion of the existing systems;
c)    To reduce line losses through the reinforcement and rehabilitation of the electricity
distribution system in Greater Banjul; and
d)    To assist GUC in achieving financial viability through improved operational efficiency
and financial management by
(i)   implementing tariffs for water and electricity which will permit GUC to initially
achieve full cost recovery and ultimately a reasonable rate of return on fixed
assets;
(ii)   designing and implementing a system  of human resources management
(including training) within GUC which will enable GUC to utilize staff
resources effectively; and
(iii)  providing working capital support to  GUC for the purchase of about nine
month's supply of diesel fuel.
To achieve the above project objectives, the scope of works included the provision of boreholes
and storage tanks to expand the water supply facilities, rehabilitation and expansion of the
Transmission and Distribution systems of both electricity and water, reinforcement of GUC's
operation through technical assistance, training and operational equipment as well as working
capital for nine month's fuel requirements. However, upon implementation of the project only
about 90% of the appraised scope of works were realised inspite of the collosal overall project
cost. Works not realised in the project (as per appraisal document) included 215 km of overhead



34
Low Voltage line and replacement of nine sub-stations with 500 KVA transformers etc... Also
not implemented was the institutionalisation of training of GUC/UHC/NAWEC staff at all
levels, particularly for middle to top management levels.
PROJECT COST/FINANCING
Several funding Agencies were involved at the beginning, but some co-financiers (ODA and
IDB) pulled out before the implementation due to unclear guidelines and issues which were not
addressed at appraisal. Furthermore, no sufficiently detailed engineering design of the project
was done prior to appraisal.
IDA's contribution under credit fund 1724 was for 6.3 million SDR (equivalent to about US$7
million) representing about 15% of the overall funding of the Greater Banjul Water Supply
project and the main provincial centres, although the world bank component was restricted to the
Greater Banjul Area only. The project was appraised in April 1986 by a World Bank Mission
headed by David Howarth. The credit agreement was entered into with the Republic of The
Gambia on November 23rd, 1987 and implemented in the following year with the first
disbursement from the credit made on 11th January 1989 (i.e. 3 years after the appraisal of the
project).
The world bank loan component funded the supply of materials and Civil works for seven out of
the nine elevated storage tanks, The Fajara Rehabilitation works and the replacement of an 8
kilometre transmission mains connecting Banjul (the Capital city) and Serrekunda.
The project was carried out under eight (8) contracts with that of Contract 25 co-financed by
IDA and EIB. Lewin Fryer & Partners were the sole consultant for all eight contracts. Details of
the funding agencies for other components of the overall project are as follows:
CONTRACT NO.           CONTRACT            CONTRACTOR          FUNDING       CONTRACT VALUE
AGENCY                ()
4.                Banjul Distribution    Strabag            Austrian              2,857,904.66
Government
7.                Transmission Mains     China Henan        ADF                   1,476,365.13
8.                Borehole Drilling      Prakla Seismos     EIB                     434,574.74
9.                Treatment Works        Sogea              EIB                   4,812,036.75
10                Distribution Systems   Strabag            Austrian              4,012,787.36
Government
13                HV Electricity Supply  Nettenbouw         EIB                     822,018.45
14                Supply of Transmission  Uponor            African               1,487,530.86
Main Materials                            Development
Fund
25                9 Elevated Storage Tanks   Sogea          WorldBNK(7)E.I.       2,996,865.81
B (2)
Fajara             Rehabilitation works  Sogea              World Bank              512,834.41
Banjul/S/kunda    Replacement  of  8km  Sogea               World Bank              462,122.20
Transmission Mains   Transmission Mains
Consultancy       Consultancy  fees  for  Lewin  Fryer  &   World Bank            1,008,792.00
above projects        Partners Ltd.
GRAND TOTAL                                                   20,883,832.37



35
The overall project cost at appraisal was USD 19.4 million compared to an actual cost of USD
45.2 million which is more than double the project cost for a reduced scope of supplies. This cost
over-run was mainly due to non-availability of secured financing before appraisal; significant
delays before and during implementation resulting partly from late submission of bidding
documents and partly from an inadequate Project Management Unit (PMU) to handle the whole
affairs of the project, no pre-appraisal detailed designs of the project; restrictive trade practices
in one of the donor agency's country as opposed to a more cost-effective international
competitive bidding policy.  It should be noted that although the "execution of lending
agreements with all co-financiers" was a condition for credit effectiveness, this was not the case
leading to the above delays and hence, cost over-runs.
Furthermore, it should also be noted that the Government of the Gambia (i.e the borrower) was
to make a contribution of US$1.8 million as one of the conditions of credit effectiveness.
Instead GMD750,000 was paid once in relation to the IDA funded part but never replenish.
The overall objective of the project was to provide good quality water to the Greater Banjul Area
and its environs as well as the main provincial urban centres to meet the expected growing
demand up to the year 1993 in an efficient and effective manner. Instead what occurred is a
project appraised in 1986 to meet the above mentioned objectives being commissioned in 1993.
(i.e the end of the year for which it was projected to serve the expected growing demand)!
BENEFITS OF THE PROJECT
WATER SUPPLY FACILITIES
To some extent the project has assisted immensely in meeting the growing demand for water
both in the Greater Banjul Area and the provincial centres. Before the completion of the project
the Gambian people suffered a lot particularly inhabitants of the Capital city especially when
there was a major burst pipe along the Serrekunda-Banjul transmission Mains supplying the city.
People would be trekking for two (2) kilometers with buckets and basins on their head to fetch
water from the nearest source. Before the project GUC had three operating borehole fields with
total capacity yield of 15,900 cuM/day within Greater Banjul Area serving about 212,000 people.
In addition to this GUC had two other boreholes in Yundum and Brikama with production
capacities of 450 and 650 cuM/per day respectively meeting 25% of the demand. Although each
of the seven provincial urban centres had a borehole with adequate capacity yield (according to
appraisal report) to meet the projected demand, the standby generators and the distribution
systems were in such a poor state that less than half the provincial centres' population were
being served. However, an additional borehole was needed for each of the four biggest centres.
Since the commissioning of the project in July 1993 there has been 24 hours of water supply at a
very reasonable pressure. This has made an important contribution towards the reduction of
water borne diseases and the improvement in the public health and living conditions of the
people in the Greater Banjul Area and the development in the served area. To some extent the
project has also discouraged migration of the rural people to the Urban Greater Banjul Area. In
fact the level of services in the Greater Banjul Area and provincial Centres improved greatly in
terms of both quality and quantity. The capacity production yield for boreholes within Greater
Banjul Area increased to 24,624 cuM/per day - an increase of 55% on a daily basis. The only
hitch with the project works is the serious leakages of the storage water tanks (sub-contracted to



36
Franklin Hodge of U.K.) within two years of commissioning due to liner problems. This
problem still remains unresolved as this report is prepared.
ELECTRICITY SUPPLY FACILITIES
All water from boreholes is pumped using electricity. Kotu Power Station was commissioned in
1981 with a capacity of 6.8 MWs and expanded in 1984 with an additional 6.0 MW engine
financed through a Japanese grant. In 1990 GUC commissioned another 3.4MW generator under
the Greater Banjul Water Supply project to meet the electricity demand of the various water
supply facilities constructed, and a 6.5 MW engine under a Danida grant. Unfortunately the 3.4
MW engine broke down 15 months after commissioning due to material failure followed by the
Japanese set (6.0 MW) in 1993. This did not only bring about severe extended loadshedding but
also restricted GUC's ability to increase the number of service connections from 10,300 (for
GBA) to a projected figure of about 50,000. Instead only about 35,000 electricity and water
service connections are made countrywide of which 45% (i.e 15,750) are electricity connections
within the Greater Banjul Area. However, the project has constructed high voltage lines (1 IKV)
connecting Sukuta Treatment Works to all boreholes, although the cancelled construction of the
215 KM of overhead LV lines and replacement of nine 500 KVA transformers would have
greatly increased coverage and revenues.
INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING
Between 1981 and 1987 UHC had about 1, 000 employees of which the number of middle to top
level qualified personnel in key functional areas was very low and in fact neglible. The lower
level staff which constituted about 90% of the workforce were illiterates. The 1990 GTZ
training program was devised to address this problem leaving the manpower development
requirement for middle and senior level management to be taken care of by the Project (due to an
ineffective 1982-1988 GTZ Technical Assistance package).
In attempting to address this acute problem, the appraisal report recommended the
institutionalisation of training at all levels. This was never realised, although there were
marginal short-term benefits from a twinning arrangement with Wessex Water of U.K.
In 1991, IDA and other donors, convinced Government that a Management Leasing Contract
(MLC) arrangement with a reputable European Utility was the only long-term solution to GUC's
numerous problems. This culminated in the formation of UHC and the leasing of the operations
and maintenance of its assets to a local private limited liability Company in July 1993. The
MLC was terminated by UHC in February 1995. In June 1996, UHC was transformed into a
limited liability Company, National Water and Electricity Company (NAWEC) by an Executive
Order, and restructured to attract domestic institutional and foreign private investors.
PROBLEMS ENCOUNTERED WITH THE PROJECT
FINANCIAL ASPECTS
It should be noted that the Credit agreement was signed on 23rd November 1987 when the fixed
assets for the erstwhile GUC were valued at GMD 23 million. In the following year, a fixed
assets revaluation exercise conducted by U.K based external auditors, Panell Kerr Forster;



37
indicated a revised replacement value of GUC assets to GMD 432 million for the same GUC
assets; bringing about a revaluation reserve of about GMD 219 million with average annual
depreciation charge of GMD 35 million.
Furthermore, most of the loans on-lent to GUC had repayment terms expressed in foreign
currencies for which GUC/UHC/NAWEC has no financial instruments to hedge against the
foreign risk exposures due to our locally-based customers nor was GUC/UHC allowed to operate
any foreign account by the Government. Loans expressed in foreign currencies (e.g. IDA,
Austria and ADF) are translated into Dalasi annually and this has increased GUC's external loan
profile from an initial figure of D345,067,000 (in June 1993) to D507,548,000 (in June 1994) -
an increase of D162,481,000 of which D37,948,000 is attributable to Foreign Exchange losses in
one year! This did not only have a significant impact on an unacceptably high gearing-ratio but
also contributed to the high losses reported by the Corporation which led to its technical
bankruptcy in the July '95 to June '96 Financial Year.
Since the targeted rate of return (ROR) of 8% for Electricity and 3% for water on net assets
during the appraisal of the project were a carbon copy of the rushed GUC Performance Contract
at the time. The fixed assets revaluation exercise thus rendered the project's financial targets
unrealistic and unachievable even before the implementation of the project. Little wonder
GUC's Performance Contract with Government was not renewed in 1991, and Government was
not also keen in approving tariff increases for GUC/UHC just to recover the inherent huge
accounting expenditures (e.g. Depreciation, interest on loans and foreign exchange losses), when
average house-hold incomes had barely increased in real terms.
Non-the-less Government increased tariffs between 10% and 20% each year from 1988 to 1992.
The fact that real household incomes have been stagnant over the same period, coupled with
electricity and water tariffs that are amongst the highest in Africa , led to a steady build up of
receivables to the tune of GMD90 million in FY 1994-95. (Despite the presence of a very
aggressive private operator).
SCOPE OF WORKS/SUPERVISION
The splitting of the scope of works into different contracts for different contractors was probably
due to financing reasons. However, the untimely availability of funds from different funding
agencies created a lot of problems mainly attributable to lack of co-ordination resulting in actual
construction works starting very late. Although there were eight components constituting the
overall project, all except one were contracted to Lewin Fryer and Partners for the design and
Supervision of the works: Only the provincial centres were contracted to Howard Humphreys, a
much bigger and a more experienced Consulting Company. The Supervision Contract with
Lewin Fryer and Partners was not a "fixed-time related" contract, given the number of
simultaneous on-going project components, but open-ended.  This increased the original
consultancy fees of 562,550 Pounds Sterling to 1,008,792 Pounds Sterling to the detriment of
GUC/UHC. On the other hand GUC/UHC incurred unnecessary additional costs mainly because
some funding agencies would not welcome International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Instead
they would apply restrictive trade practices as a condition for issuing loans.  This also
contributed to the significant increase of the Austrian funded component by 2,909,743 Pounds
Sterling.



38
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
During the appraisal period, a key objective was to develop GUC's institutional set- up. At the
time, GUC had no computerised systems apart from a deficient computer billing system (Wang
Computer System obtained through a Grant) and a semi-automated payroll system. All
accounting was done manually, and bi-annual management accounting reports were difficult to
produce. Problems were thus identified too late, leaving little room for effective corrective
actions. It was therefore a fundamental pre-requisite of the Project and GUC to have an effective
Management Information System (MIS) to cope with the increasing transactions and processing
of relevant management reports.  This was not the case and up till December 1995,
UHC/NAWEC struggled to address these problems on its own. However, NAWEC is now up-to-
date with its billing and annual reports using the IBM billing and accounting systems acquired
after the termination of the Management Leasing Contract, with the support of two expatriates in
the Commercial Division.
The fact that GUC/UHC/NAWEC had six Managing Directors and four Project Managers since
Project appraisal also impinged negatively on the implementation of the Project.
The lack of UHC's staff training under the Project prompted management to initiate its own
training program based on the manpower development plan updated in May 1996 by Landweher
and Partners under the GTZ programme. So far four senior staff members are currently sent on
training fully sponsored by NAWEC. A Gambian Human Resource Development Manager was
also recruited in March 1996 to complete the fully Gambian and professional NAWEC senior
management team.
MEASURES TAKEN BY THE WORLD BANK
Due to inevitable failures on GUC's part to meet the unrealistic financial covenants of the project
agreement with IDA, the World Bank recommended the Management Leasing Contract (MLC)
concept (the most damaging policy initiative promoted by the World Bank) as the only effective
way forward to streamline the workforce size of GUC as well as improve its management and
financial performance.
Having invested over US$ 55 million in GUC between 1990 and 1993, Government was
conditioned to hastily lease GUC's assets to a locally formed private limited liability Company,
leaving UHC with all GUC liabilities. The numerous loopholes and other inadequacies in the
MLC left an under-staffed UHC powerless and at great financial risk, since the meagre annual
surcharge income of GMD15 million was not even enough for UHC to meet its operating costs
including average annual depreciation charges (D35 million), nor its annual foreign exchange
losses (D37 million) let alone meet its asset replacement and investment obligations
countrywide for the Utility sector.
In addition to this the lessee was not co-operative in terms of providing the lessor (UHC)
information or management reports or even allow UHC personnel access to some of its
installations or records for which UHC had a contractual right to.
Furthermore, the private operator who relied heavily on expatriate staff, had no incentive to
institutionalise training, and did not make any use of the GTZ training centre at Kotu. UHC staff
were also over-worked and could not implement any training at all. The end result was that the



39
most vital resource that any Company has, human resources, was neglected. The popular
unilateral termination of the MLC on 23rd February 1995 was certainly in the National interest
of a small and poor nation like the Gambia which heavily relied on external aids before.
PROPOSED FUTURE PROJECTS
In 1994 an energy sector review for UHC/NAWEC was conducted by The World Bank but no
report has yet been provided. However, UHC/NAWEC has developed a Corporate Plan during
the one year management support agreement with ESBI-BIWATER of U.K. Amongst the most
urgent projects to be undertaken within the foreseeable future include the following:-
(i)    Rehabilitation and expansion of the overhead low voltage line network up to the coastal
lines and the surrounding areas within the Greater Banjul Area to reduce losses and
expand the customer base.
(ii)    Replacement of overloaded and faulty transformers as well as new 11 KV transformer
sub-stations for the expanded network to reduce losses.
(iii)   Erection of more fuel storage tanks - preferably not far from the sea port for economical
reasons.
(iv)   Two additional generating sets of at least 6.5 MWs each within Kotu Power Station or a
new Power Station to be strategically located within the Greater Banjul Area.
(v)    Additional boreholes, transmission mains and storage capacity to meet the expected
growing water supply demand up to the year 2020 estimated to serve additional 750,000
people more within the Greater Banjul Area.
(vi)   Expansion of the sewer network in the Tourism Development Area.
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR FUTURE PROJECT FINANCING
As much as borrowers of funds would like to have good value for money on loans provided to
them, lenders should also impose certain conditionalities for borrowers inorder to ensure better
returns from projects financed by them to enable borrowers to repay on time without diffculties!
As far as the Greater Banjul Water Supply Project and the seven main Provincial Centres'
Project are concerned the following suggestions are put forward to providers of funds to ensure
both parties (i.e borrower and lender) benefit in future:
(i)    All project financing should be secured followed by detailed engineering design(s)
before appraisal. Implementation action plan(s) should also be prepared and agreed
upon before any financier can disburse funds. This should also be applicable to the
borrower's counter-part funds which should be called in advance and paid to an escrow
account to show the commitment of the borrower.



40
(ii)    Clear and measurable performance indicators should be agreed to in advance by both
parties to facilitate project monitoring and evaluation. As there are penalties imposed on
borrowers so too should there be penalties on providers of funds, contractors and
consultants for either delays in execution or when in breach of contractual obligations
such as disbursements.
(iii)   Projects that comprise various components should be properly documented, their
relationships clearly spelt out and a systematic implementation order be agreed upon by
all parties and strictly adhered to. Furthermore, there should be limits to the number of
projects that should be simultaneously designed and supervised by a sole consulting
firm.
(iv)   Project appraisal is an estimate of the future. As a result , there should be a mechanism
incorporated in project appraisal documents to allow parties to review periodically the
reasonableness of targets, level of funding, scope of works, etc... inorder to reflect the
prevailing conditions as opposed to what was expected at appraisal and is no longer the
case.
(v)    Peripheral issues such as financial and mangement system are often sideline in project
implementations.  These should be given the attention required if the project
effectiveness is to be achieved.
(vi)   The adequacy of the human resources and management information systems needed to
meet project objectives should be objectively assessed and made available.
(vii)  Instead of focusing on tariff increases and rates of return, tariff studies should also look
at affordability issues and loss reduction and efficiency gains as a substitute for tariff
increases.   Furthermore, transparent subsidies to vulnerable groups should be
encouraged.
(viii)  The MLC concept was considered a panacea for GUC/UHC problems. The objectives
and role for involving any foreign private operator in utilities must be clearly articulated,
and an equitable sharing of risks should be ensured.  Indigenous private sector
participation, including employee ownership schemes, should also be encouraged for
sustainable development.



A                                                                                                                       Iy                                                                                                                   IBRD 2738637
v  <     1 3                                                                                                                                                      c3enorounofuons ond  on         l      ,               \       MAU31TANIA             l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ U   ITN  
4 .                      ;       NE A
$  E  N        F   ~~3             A                                                              m.w,,IAE~--,-------                                                 ERIANEGAL  -
A 5   \dai>2                                                                        _                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1K_5f3od3yr2P3e).m= o / - s
tfJwff ~    ~        ~        ~        ___________________                          _                                                                               /f    D ,'s,on hecoTqNorsers                                                                                      7        t\
f3St  L5 i.o i   0/Dlan boundories 
. ._._.Internqtioncl~~~~~ bojndor,es        
N    K                                                                                                        F          N         E          0         A
S.,. K~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~Td/.,.
%k-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SPEBR19



