Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1724 GM
Development Credit Agreement
(Water and Electricity Project)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated November 23, 1987
CREDIT NUMBER 1724 GM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 23, 1987, between THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the Austrian Government a loan (the 
Austrian Loan) in an amount of not less than $4,000,000 equivalent to assist in 
financing Part A (2) and (3) and Part C of the Project on the terms and conditions set 
forth in an agreement (the Austrian Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the Austrian Government;
(C)
the Borrower has applied to the European Investment Bank (EIB) for a loan 
(the EIB Loan) in an amount of not less than $4,000,000 equivalent to assist in 
financing Part A (1) and (3) of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in 
an agreement (the EIB Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and 
(EIB);
(D)
the Borrower has applied to the African Development Fund (ADF) for a loan 
(the ADF Loan) in an amount of not less than $4,000,000 equivalent to assist in 
financing portions of Part A (3) of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth 
in an agreement (the ADF Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and 
ADF;
(E)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the Commission of the European 
Economic Community (EEC) a grant in an amount of approximately 2,600,000 ECU to be 
made from its Economic Development Fund Resources (the EDF Grant) to assist in 
Page  2
financing Part B of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement 
(the EDF Financing Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and EEC;
(F)
the Project will be carried out by the Gambia Utilities Corporation (GUC) 
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to GUC the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and GUC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and GUC 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and GUC pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)
"GUC" means the Gambia Utilities Corporation established by the Gambia 
Utilities Corporation Act, 1972 (No. 19);
(d)
"the GUC Act" means the Gambia Utilities Corporation Act, 1972 (No. 19);
 
(e)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(f)
"Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 of the 
Project Agreement; and
(g)
"Dalasi" means currency of the Borrower.
 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to six million three hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 6,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such 
Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the 
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) 
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in the Central Bank of the Gambia on terms and conditions 
Page  3
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount 
of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from 
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement to the respective 
dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or 
shall be cancelled.
(b)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March I and September 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in 
semiannual installments payable on each March 1 and September 1 commencing September 
1, 1996, and ending March 1, 2036. Each installment to and including the installment 
payable on March 1, 2006, shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be one and one-half per cent 
(1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern 
Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause GUC to perform in accordance with the provisions of the 
Project Agreement all the obligations of GUC therein set forth, shall take and cause 
to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and 
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable GUC to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to GUC under a 
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and GUC, under terms 
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association which shall include 
repayment of principal in 20 years (including five years of grace for both principal 
and interest) and interest at eight and one-half percent (8.5%) per annum.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
Page  4
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule 
to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by GUC 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall reconstitute GUC's Board of Directors by 
appointing to the Board persons with the varied background and experience required 
under the GUC Act including directors representative of industrial and domestic 
consumer interests.
(b)
The Borrower undertakes that the qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment of GUC's Managing Director shall be satisfactory to the 
Association.
Section 4.02. The Borrower undertakes that any consents and approvals required 
in relation to GUC's tariff increases shall be given no later than 45 days after a 
tariff increase has been approved by GUC's Board of Directors.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall transfer to and vest in GUC, upon 
completion of Banjul City's new sewerage system, all the works and assets relating 
thereto as the Borrower's equity contribution to GUC's capital; provided that those 
portions of the sewerage system as are being  financed by ADF shall be transferred to 
and vested in GUC on the same terms as are required in the agreement with ADF 
providing for such financing.
(b)
The Borrower shall make budgetary provisions for, and promptly pay to 
GUC, amounts which shall not be less than the amounts by which GUC's cash operating 
expenses for sewerage services exceed GUC's sewerage services revenues; provided that 
the Borrower shall not pay any such amounts after the connection program designed for 
the new sewerage system has been installed.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
GUC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement;
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that GUC will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement;
(c)
the GUC Act shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of GUC to perform any of 
its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(d)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of GUC or for the suspension of its 
operations; and
(e)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
grant or loan 
made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Page  5
Project (including the 
Austrian Loan, the EIB Loan, the ADF 
Loan, and the EDF Grant) shall 
have been suspended, 
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to 
the terms of the agreement providing therefor, or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof;
 
(ii)
subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, 
cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement, and (B) 
adequate funds for 
the Project are available to the Borrower from other 
sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
the events specified in paragraphs (c) , (d) and (e) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur subject in the case of the event specified in paragraph (e) 
(i) (B) of that Section to the proviso of paragraph (e) (ii) thereof.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and GUC;
(b)
the Borrower has converted into equity overdue interest payments on GUC's 
debts to the Borrower and said debts have been removed from the books of accounts of 
the Borrower and GUC;
(c)
GUC has opened the Project Account and paid in the initial amount 
required under Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement;
(d)
the Austrian Loan Agreement, the EIB Loan Agreement, the ADF Loan 
Agreement and the EDF Financing Agreement have been duly executed; and
(e)
GUC has adjusted its tariffs for water and electricity to a level 
consistent with current exchange rate alignments and current fuel prices.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by GUC, 
and is legally binding upon GUC in accordance with its terms; and 
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and GUC and is legally binding upon the Borrower and GUC in accordance 
with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Page  6
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister responsible for Finance and Trade of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Trade
The Quadrangle
Banjul
The Republic of the Gambia
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINFIN
2264
The Republic of the Gambia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
By /s/ Ousman Ahmadou Sallah
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Michael J. Gillette
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Page  7
                                 Amount of the
                                Credit Allocated        % of
                                (Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                        SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Mechanical and                 1,260,000        100% of foreign
    electrical equip-                               expenditures
    ment, pipes
    and fittings,
    vehicles and
    spare parts
(2) Civil works                      680,000        100% of foreign
                                                    expenditures
(3) Consultant                 
 1,500,000        100%
    services and
    training
(4) Fuel oil ex-               
 1,600,000        100%
    penditures under
    Part D.4 of the
    Project includ-
    ing working
    capital
(5) Unallocated                
 1,260,000
 
   TOTAL                    6,300,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
 
(b)
expenditures under Category (4) unless: (i) GUC has opened at a 
commercial bank an account to be used exclusively for the purchase of GUC's fuel and 
lubricating oil needs; and (ii) the Borrower and GUC have furnished the Association 
with a plan satisfactory to the Association under which GUC will make regular deposits 
into said account for its fuel oil purchase needs.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to increase the supply of water to the 
Greater Banjul area and expand the public water supply system; (ii) to provide 
improved water supply services to seven provincial urban centers; (iii) to reduce 
electricity line losses; and (iv) to assist GUC to achieve financial viability through 
improved operational efficiency and financial management.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Greater Banjul Water Supply Expansion
 
1.
Construction of supply source works at Yundum to meet water supply demand in the 
Greater Banjul area up to 1993.
2.
Provision of overhead 11 KV power supplies to the Yundum and Brikama boreholes 
and the Yundum Treatment Plant.
3.
Provision of distribution system works to distribute additional water from 
Yundum and Brikama including about nine storage tanks, about 82 km of transmission and 
Page  8
distribution pipelines and 3,000 service connections.
4.
Supervision of construction of works required under sub-Parts 1 and 3 above.
 
5.
Studies relating to GUC's operations including preparation of a follow-on 
project and a study of groundwater in the Banjul peninsula.
6.
Upgrading of the Abuko laboratory including provision of equipment and supplies.
 
Part B:
Provincial Urban Centers Water Supply Systems Rehabilitation
 
1.
Rehabilitation of supply sources, and rehabilitation and expansion of 
distribution systems for seven provincial urban centers (Bansang, Barra-Kanuma, Basse, 
Farafenni, Georgetown, Kerewan and Mansakonko) including construction of a new supply 
source and or treatment plant at Bansang,
construction of elevated storage tanks in four provincial urban centers and the laying 
of about 28 km of distribution pipelines.
2.
Supervision of construction of works required under sub-Part 1 above.
 
Part C:
Banjul Electricity Distribution System Reinforcement
 
1.
Reinforcement of GUC's electricity supply operations including augmenting the 
ring circuit within Banjul City; replacement of about 9 substations within Banjul 
City; relaying of overhead low voltage lines in the Banjul secondary system; 
installation of new meters; and purchase of vehicles.
2.
Studies relating to reduction of electricity line losses.
 
Part D:
Reinforcement of GUC's Operations
 
1.
Improvement at GUC of manpower development, financial management and operation 
and maintenance including provision of associated training, tuition and equipment.
2.
Purchase of materials and equipment to improve GUC's urban water supply systems 
operations including a four-year supply of materials for maintenance.
3.
Construction and upgrading of depots and storage facilities for GUC's Water 
Division.
4.
Bulk purchases of fuel and lubricating oil by GUC.
 
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1993.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to SDR 
200,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special 
Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
Page  9
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for replenishment 
of the Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. On the 
basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the 
Special Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence 
supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, 
such and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, showing that such 
payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Association when either 
of the following situations first arises:
(i)
the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be 
made directly by the Borrower from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement; or
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible 
Categories less the amount of any outstanding special 
commitment entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions with 
respect to the Project, shall be 
equal to an amount equivalent to twice the 
amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice have been or will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association, deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such 
deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the Credit Account.
Page  10
