DOCU MEt
CREDIT NUMBER 1724 GM
Project Agreement
(Water and Electricity Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
THE GAMBIA UTILITIES CORPORATION
Dated                              , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1724 GK
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1987, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and THE
GAMBIA UTILITIES CORPORATION (GUC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of The Gambia (the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
six million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 6,300,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that GUC
agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as
are set forth in this Agreement;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and GUC, the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available
to GUC on the terms and conditions set forth in the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS GUC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, and
in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. GUC declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project


﻿-2-
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial, engineering and public utility
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
Section 2.02. GUC: (i) shall open and thereafter maintain at
a commercial bank a project account to be used exclusively for
payment for goods and services required for the Project; (ii)
shall pay into the Project Account an initial amount of at least
750,000 Dalasis; and (iii) shall keep the Project Account
continually replenished so that there shall at any time during
the execution of the Project be in the Project Account not less
than 150,000 Dalasis.
Section 2.03,, Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultantst services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule
to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. GUC shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.05. GUC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, GUC shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) GUC shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) GUC shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit,
or the performance by GUC of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of GUC
Section 3.01. GUC shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
engineering and public utility practices under the supervision
of qualified and experienced management assisted     by competent
staff in adequate numbers including at least one chartered or
equivalently qualified accountant.
Section 3.02. GUC shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from
time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and public utility practices.
Section 3.03. GUC shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) GUC shall maintain separate records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
(b) GUC shall:
(i)  have   its  accounts   and  financial   statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements), the Project Account and
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year: (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said


﻿-4-
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and financial statements
as well as the audit thereof and said records, as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, GUC shall:
(i) maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Associa-
tion has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the   Association's  representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the pro-
ceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of such
expenditures were used for the purposes for which
they were provided.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, GUC shall produce for its fiscal year 1988 total revenues
equivalent to not less than the sum of its total cash operating
expenses.
(b) Before March 31 prior to each of the said fiscal year,
GUC shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by GUC and satis-
factory to the Association, review whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year


﻿-5-
and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the
Association the results of such review upon its completion.
(c) If any such review shows that GUC would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for GUC's fiscal years
covered by such review, GUC shall promptly take all necessary
measures (including adjustments of the structure or levels of its
rates) in order to meet such requirements.
(d) For purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "total revenues" means the sum of total
operating revenues and net non-operating income;
(ii)  the term "total operating revenues" means revenues
from all sources related to operations;
(iii)  the term "net non-operating income" means the
difference between:
(A) revenues from    all sources not related to
operations; and
(B) expenses, including taxes and payments in
lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation of
revenues in (A) above; and
(iv) the term "total cash operating expenses" means all
expenses related to operations, including adminis-
tration, adequate maintenance and taxes and pay-
ments in lieu of taxes but excluding provision for
depreciation and interest and other charges on
debt.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association s all otherwise
agree, GUC shall earn: (i) for each of its fiscal years 1989 and
1990 a positive annual rate of return with respect to its water
supply and electricity operations on the average current net
value of GUC's fixed assets   i. operation; (ii) for each of its
fiscal years 1991 and 1992 an annual rate of return of not less
than 2% (with respect to its water supply operations) and 6%
(with respect to its electricity operations) of the average
current net value of GUC's fixed assets in operation; and (iii)
for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on
June 30, 1992, an annual rate of return of not less than 3% (with


﻿-6-
respect to its water supply operations) and 8% (with respect to
its electri,ity operations) of the average current net value of
GUC's fixed assets in operation.
(b) Before March 31 prior to each of the said fiscal
years, GUC shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by GUC and
satisfactory to the Association, review whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year
and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the
Association the results of such review upon its completion.
(c) If any such review shows that GUC would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for GUC's fiscal years
covered by such review, GUC shall promptly take all necessary
measures (including adjustments of the structure or levels of its
rates) in order to meet such requirements.
(d) Fc purposes of this Section:
(i) the annual rate of return shall be calculated by
dividing GUC's net operating income for the fiscal
year in question with respect to its water supply
operations or, as the case may be, its electricity
operations by one-half of the sum of the current
net value of GUC's fixed assets in operation at
the beginning and at the end of that fiscal ycar;
(ii) the   term  "net  operating   income"  means  total
operating revenues less total operating expenses;
(iii) the term "total operating revenues" means revenues
from all sources related to operations;
(iv) the term "total operating expenses" means all
expenses related to operations, including adminis-
tration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments
in lieu of taxes, and provision for depreciation
on a straight-line basis at a rate of not less
than 3.2% per annum with respect to its water
supply assets and 5.4% per annum with respect to
its electricity supply assets of the average
current gross value of GUC's fixed assets in
operation, or on other basis acceptable to the
Association, but excluding interest and other
charges on debt;


﻿-7-
(v) the average current gross value of GUC's fixed
assets  in   operation  shall  be   calculated  as
one-half of the sum of the gross value of GUC's
fixed assets in operation with respect to its
water supply operations or, as the case may be,
with respect to its electricity operations at the
beginning and at the end of the fiscal year, as
valued from time to time in accordance with sound
and consistently maintained methods of valuation
satisfactory to the Association;
(vi) the term "current net value of GUC's fixed assets
in operation" means the gross value of GUC's fixed
assets in operation with respect to either its
water supply operations or, as the case may be,
its electricity operations (but not both opera-
tions) less the amount of accumulated deprecia-
tion, as valued from time to time in accordance
with sound and consistently maintained methods of
valuation satisfactory to the Association.
Section 4.04. Subject to Sections 4.02 and 4.03 of this
Agreement, GUC shall limit its sewerage charges to levels that
will yield revenues adequate to cover GUC's cash expenses for the
operation and maintenance of its sewerage schemes and debt
service and no higher.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of GUC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date 20 years.after the date of this Agree-
ment.


﻿-8-
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
GUC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For GUC:
The Gambia Utilities Corporation
P.O. Box 609
Banjul
The Republic of The Gambia


﻿-9-
Cable address:                     Telex:
ELECTRICITY                      2302 GUCUTLS
Banjul
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of GUC, or by GUC on behalf of the Borrower
under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed
by GUC's Managing Director or such other person or persons as GUC
shall designate in writing, and GUC shall furnish to the Associa-
tion sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By/i        Regional Vice President
Africa
THE GAMBIA UTILITIES CORPORATION
Authorized Repre'sentative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods estimated to cost
an amount equivalent to $100,000 or more and works estimated to
cost an amount equivalent to $200,000 or more shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Bidders for civil works shall be prequalified as described
in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the
Gambia may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A.1 hereof, GUC may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Fuel and lubricating oil under Part D of the Project may be
purchased under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of
price quotations solicited from at least three suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Association.
2.   Goods estimated to cost an amount equivalent to less than
$100,000 and works estimated to cost an amount equivalent to less


﻿- 11 -
than $200,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part E.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of prequalification:
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost an amount equivalent to $100,000 or more and each contract
for works estimated to cost an amount equivalent to $200,000
or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appen-
dix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such proce-
dures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract required to be furnished to the Association
pursuant to paragraph 2 (d) of said Appendix shall be furnished
to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments
for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to para-
graph 3 of said Appendix shall be furnished to the Association as
part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Asso-
ciation has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall
be retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this
Agreement.


﻿- 12 -
3.   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist GUC in carrying out the Project, GUC
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


