Report No. 881a-NIR
Appraisal of Maradi                                                          FILE CPY
Rural Development Project
Niger
November 14, 1975
Western Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the Worid Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00   CFAF 225
CFAF 100 = US$ 0.44
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric ton = 0.984 ton
1 kilometer - 0.6215 mile
1 hectare    = 2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS
ALC         =  Association Locale de Coopératives
CFDT        =  Compagnie Française pour le Développement des Fibres Textiles
CNCA        =  Caisse Nationale de Crédit Agricole
CND         =  Conseil National du Développement
CSPPN       =  Caisse de Stabilisation des Prix des Produits du Niger
FAC         =  Fonds d'Aide et de Coopération
MD          -  Ministère du Développement
MERC        =  Ministêre de l'Economie Rurale et du Climat
MIP-T-U     =  Ministère des Travaux Publics et du Tourisme
MSP-AS      =  Ministère de la Santé Publique et des Affaires Sociales
OPVN        =  Office des Produits Vivriers du Niger
PEU         =  Project Evaluation Unit
PHU         =  Project Management Unit
SONARA      -  Société Nigérrienne de Commercialisation de l'Arachide
UNCC        =  Union Nigérienne de Crédit et de Coopération
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



NIGER
MARADI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMSARY AND CONCLUSIONS ..........................                 i-vi
I.    INTRODUCTION .....................................                  1
Il.    BACKGROUND  .......................................                 1
A.  General ......................................                  1
B.  The Rural Sector ....................-                          2
C.  Ongoing Rural Development Projects ....           .......       6
III.    PROJECT AREA .....................................                  7
IV. THE PROJECT ................                                          10
A.  Suummary Description ..........................                10
B.  Detailed Features ............................                 il
V.    COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS             ........     17
A.  Project Costs ................. ...............                17
B.  Proposed Financing ............ .. .............               20
C. Procurement   .                       .22
D.  Disbursement        .................. ................        23
E.  Accounts and Audit ............ .. .............               24
VI.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ......................                 24
A.  Organization .......          ..........................       24
B.  Staffing ................... ..................                26
C.  Staff Training ..............      ..     ...............      28
D.  Cooperatives and Credit .......... .. ..........               28
E.  Irrigation Schemes  ............ ..         .............      29
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission which visited
Niger in November 1973, and of an up-dating mission composed of Mr. J. Ropiteau,
Mr. J. Ginnsz, and Mr. E. Sinodinos (RMWA), which visited Niger in May 1975.



Table of Conteats (Continued)                                    PaE No.
VII.   YIELDS AND PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES,
FARMER RENEFITS, GOVERNIENT BENEFITS AND
C(  PERATIV?  BENEFITS   .............................   30
A.  Yields and Production .....      ...................  30
B.  Marketing and Prices .........................       3j
C.  Farmer Benefits ..................                   34
D.  Impact of Project on Government Finances  .....      35
E.  Capital Recovery in Irrigation Schemes .......       35
VIII.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS ....    .........   36
IX.   RECOMMENDATIONS ..................................       38
ANNEXES
Annex 1  -   Agricultural Statistics
Table 1 -  Land Use, Population by Area
Table 2 - Gross Domestic Product at Current Prices
Table 3  -  Exports by Major Commodities
Table 4 - Areas and Production of Major Crops
Annex 2  -    Institutions Involved in Rural Development
Annex 3   -   Agricultural Credit in Niger
Table 1 - Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole Comparative
Balarnce Sheets
Annex 4   -   Agricultural Practices and Yields
Table 1 - General Agricultural Production
Table 2 -  General Agriculture - Farm Budgets - Gross Income
Table 3 -  General Agriculture - Farm Budgets - Net Income
Table 4 - General Agriculture - Labor Requirements
Annex 5   -    Road Project Component
Annex 6   -   Health Project Component
Annex 7   -    Irrigation Schemes
Table 1 - Water Requirements
Table 2 -  Farm Budget
Table 3  -  Labor Requirementg
Table 4 - Project Production



Table of Contents (Continued)
Annex 8   -    Training
Annex 9   -    Livestock Project Component
Table 1 - Livestock Production
Annex 10  -    Evaluation and Planning Unit
Annex 11  -    Project Costs
Table 1  - Page 1 - Summary of Project Cost and Financing
Table 1  - Page 2 - Summary of Project Cost and Financing
Table 2  -  Page 1 - Staff Salaries
Table 2  -  Page 2 - Staff Salaries
Table 3  -  Building and Civil Works
Table 4  -  Equipment
Table 5  - Vehicles
Table 6  -  Page 1 - Operating Expenses
Table 6  -  Page 2 - Operating Expenses
Table 6  -  Page 2 - Operating Expenses
Table 7  -  Revolving Funds
Table 8  -  Consulting Services, Studies, Audit, Scholarships
Table 9  -  IDA Disbursement Schedule
Annex 12  -    Terms of Reference
Organization Chart
Annex 13  -    Project Impact on Government Cash Flow
Annex 14  -    Economic Prices
Table 1 -  Groundnuts and Cotton Lint
Table 2  -  Shelled Groundnuts
Table 3  -  Cotton Lint
Annex 15  -    Economic Calculations
Table 1 -  Rainfed Development - ALC without Roads
Table 2  -  Rainfed Development - ALC with Roads
Table 3  -  Irrigation Schemes
Table 4  -  Forestry and Livestock
Table 5  -  Sensitivity Analysis
MAPS






NIGER
MARADI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary and Conclusions
(M)       The Republic of Niger has asked IDA for assistance in financing a
rural development project in its Departement de Maradi. A feasibility study
of the project was prepared by Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC), and the
project was appraised by IDA in the fall of 1973.  A change of Governnent
occurred in 1974, and it was not until early 1975 that the new Government
reached agreement with IDA on the general organization of the project. A
second appraisal mission visited Niger in May 1975.
(ii)      Government strategy for the rural sector is, first to attempt to
introduce measures to maximize the rainfed potential in both crop and live-
stock production, and second to increase the area under controlled irrigation.
Improvement to the rainfed agriculture is the only way to help the great
majority of people in the short run. In the long run, however, the impact
of such projects will be eroded unless population pressure on the land can
be lessened. It is clear that the problem of population growth requires
priority attention.
(iii)     Broad development policy is established by the Conseil National du
Developpement (CND). Although originally intended as a planning unit, solely
responsible for making broad policy proposals for consideration by the Conseil
Militaire Supreme, Government intends that CND directly supervise development
projects.
(iv)      The project area comprises the Departement de Maradi, the head-
quarters of which is the city of Maradi. The Departement exhibits to the
fullest the highly intractable problems faced by many Sahelian areas. First
its population is greater than its resources can support at anything much
better than at subsistence level. Second, the scope for effecting any major
improvement in living standards is low. Potential for gains in productivity`
through using available technology is unlikely to exceed 30-50% above present
low levels. The flood plain of the Maradi River,-the so-called Goulbi de
Maradi, constitutes the most prominent natural feature of the Departement.
(v)       The project would be carried out over a three year investment
period, 1976-1978, by a Project Management Unit (PMU) established for this
purpose. The project would comprise: (a) provision of production packages
in the areas covered by 15 selected Associations Locales de Cooperatives
(ALC); (b) strengthening of cooperative institutions; (c) expansion of
educational and training programs including a functional literacy program;
(d) expansion of an agricultural training school; (e) study of optimum means
of developing the irrigation potential of the Goulbi de Maradi; (f) pilot
development of irrigation in the Goulbi de Maradi through exploitation of the
Goulbi's underground water resources; (g) construction of 80 km of feeder



roads; (h) planting of 500 ha of trees in fuel wood plantations; (i) improve-
ment of livestock services and preparation of a livestock development project;
(j) provision of credit for the purchase of livestock by pastoralists who
lost their herd during the Sahelian. drought; and (k) establishment of a
project evaluation unit.
(vi)      The 15 ALC that would participate in the project have been selected
on the basis of their members' demcnstrated acceptance of cooperative
activities and receptiveness to change. On the basis of necessarily crude
data, it is estimated that the 15 ALC would comprise 150 primary cooperatives,
750 villages and some 37,500 farm families. The ALC and their member coopera-
tive societies would be strengthened with trained staff; they would benefit
administratively and financially through being used as the channels for credit
and input supply and through marketing project induced production.
(vii)     The project includes the expansion of educational and training pro-
grams among the project area community: principally, functional literacy
courses which would be taught by farm level extension agents, who would double
as functional literacy teachers, du-ring the season when agricultural activity
is at a standstill. Participants would be taught reading, writing and simple
arithmetic in Hausa, the vernacular. Some 11,000 adults would participate,
of whom 2,000 would become fully literate. The health training program would
be carried out under the supervision of the Ministry of Health. About 100
first aid assistants and 100 midwives would be trained under the program.
(viii)    Under the project, alternatives would be examined to determine the
optimum means of developing the irrigation potential of the Goulbi de Maradi.
The river supplies an underground aquifer, which can be tapped at depths of
between 1 and 15 m in the flood plain. Up to now, Government has favored
regulation of the river through a major barrage and the development of
surface irrigation. This solution appears very costly and thus far, external
financing agencies have exhibited little interest in such a project. Con-
sequently, the irrigation potential of the Maradi River is largely un-used.
Following studies of alternative development and provided that the selected
alternative constituted a viable investment opportunity, a detailed feasibility
study and plans for the irrigated development of the Goulbi would be prepared.
Prima facie development of irrigation using groundwater is most economic, thus
the project provides US$0.9 million for the development of an estimated 500 ha
through wells. The finance would be provided in the form of a fund not res-
tricted solely to the development of relatively large schemes (10 ha), but
which could also be used for financing small developments such as simple wells
or other hydraulic structures such as bas fond development.
(ix)      About 80 km of feeder roads would be built southwest of Maradi to
facilitate project actions and generally improve communications in one of
the most fertile areas in the Departement. A total of about 500 ha of fuel
wood plantings would be made in the areas of the 15 ALC. The objective



- iii -
would be to establish one plantation of about 3 ha in one out of every five
villages. The livestock services of Ministere de l'Economie Rurale et du
Climat (MERC) in the Departement of Maradi would receive equipment, vehicles
and finance to conduct routine vaccination campaigns and to treat calves,
sheep and goats against internal parasites. About 800 destitute pastoralist
families who lost everything during the drought would be provided herds
to help reestablish their means of livelihood. A Project Evaluation Unit
would be established to quantify project results.
(x)       Project costs net of import duties and other clearly identifiable
taxes are estimated to total CFAF 2,670 million (US$11.9 million) of which
the foreign exchange component would be US$5.9 million or 50%. Construction
costs of the irrigation schemes assume that the labor needed in these opera-
tions would be provided by the prospective users, who would be prepared to
work for half the minimum daily wage for rural areas. Physical and price
contingencies amount to CFAF 570 million (US$2.5 million) or 24% of base
costs including taxes.
(xi)      It is proposed that IDA make a credit of US$10.7 million to finance
90% of total project costs excluding import duties and other identifiable
taxes. The credit would cover the foreign cost estimated at US$5.9 million,
and 81% of local costs excluding import duties and other identifiable taxes.
The remaining 10% of project costs, and the taxes estimated at 10% of total
project costs, or a total of US$2.5 million, would be met by Government.
To ensure the efficient and timely execution of the project, assurances were
obtained from Government that it would deposit an initial amount of CFAF
125 million into the Project's bank account, and that it would replenish
the account quarterly. Retroactive financing by IDA of up to US$0.3 million
is proposed to finance expansion of the extension workers' training center
and to initiate the seed multiplication program for the 1976 cultivation
season.
(xii)     The following procedures for procurement would apply:  orders or
contracts for equipment, vehicles, or chemicals with a value of more than
US$50,000 would be through international competitive bidding. Such procure-
ment is estimated to have a value of US$1.0 million.  Contracts of less than
US$50,000 would be procured on the basis of locally advertised competitive
bidding procedures. Items too small to warrant competitive bidding would be
procured locally under procedures acceptable to the Association. Construc-
tion of the irrigation schemes would be by their prospective users. As there
are no local contractors able to build the roads, and as these are too small
and disperse to attract foreign contractors, the roads would be constructed
by the Ministere des Travaux Public by force account. Contracts exempted
from international competitive bidding would aggregate no more than US$1.9
million. Some US$6.7 million would be for expenses unsuitable for competi-
tive bidding. Consultants providing technical assistance and carrying out
various studies (US$1.1 million) would be recruited internationally. The
remaining US$2.5 million would be for contingencies.



- iv -
(xiii)    The project would be carried out by a Project Management Unit (PMU).
In the case of its agricultural production components, implementation would
be through farmers' cooperatives. PMU would be headed by a Project Manager
responsible for day-to-day project implementation. He would report to the
Prefet who in turn would be accountable to the CON.  Coordination between
PMU and other government activities in the Departement de Maradi would be
assured by the Prefet assisted by the Comite Technique Departemental
(COTEDEP). PMU would have four sections: Administrative section, Technical
Operations Section, Cooperative Affairs Section and Community Development
Section. PMU would be staffed with personnel seconded from the Ministere de
l'Economie Rurale et du Climat (MERC) and Ministere du Developpement (MD).
A number of project activities would be "contracted" with MERC-Service de
l'Elevage for the livestock sub-project, - Service des Eaux et Forets for
fuel wood planting material supply; Ministere des Travaux Publics et du
Tourisme (MTP-T-U) for the road sub-project and Ministere de la Sante Publique
et des Affaires Sociales (MSP-AS) for the health sub-project. During their
initial two to three months with the project all staff would receive in-
service training courses to acquaint them fully with project objectives and
policies. Selected individuals would receive scholarships and fellowships
for overseas training.  All farm level extension workers would receive up
to seven months training at the Centre de Formation des Jeunes Agriculteurs
(CFJA) in Maradi.
(xiv)     Farmers cooperatives in Niger are concerned mostly with crop mar-
keting and still require governmnent assistance. Thus UNCC functions as a
Government agency rather than as an autonomous apex cooperative organization.
UNCC staff seconded to PMU's Cooperative Affairs Department would continue
assisting cooperatives and ALC, and would seek to establish for each ALC and
its member cooperatives a schedule with specific targets for the training of
cooperative members to take over increasing degrees of responsibility for the
management of their societies.
(xv)      The agency responsible for providing agricultural credit throughout
the country, CNCA, has not had a very good record and has only just recently
been reactivated. For these reasons it is proposed that PMU would operate
the credit scheme for participating farmers and employ the cooperatives as
the delivery system for such credit. Interest on all agricultural loans
under the project would be at 10%, and no down payment would be required
in view of the poverty of project area farmers. This rate is considerably
higher than that prevailing in the rural sector, 2-3%; but reflects the cost
of credit delivery, and the necessity to establish a revolving fund to finance
agricultural credit in the project area.
(xvi)     The overall impact of the project, at full development in 1982 is
estimated as bringing up average yields in the 15 project area ALC close to
those which were obtained in the years of most favorable rainfall over the
period 1967-1975. Yield increases are estimated to result in increments in
annual production amounting to 18,100 tons of millet, 19,800 tons of un-
shelled groundnuts and 600 tons of cowpeas by 1982. New production from



- v -
project established irrigated schemes is estimated at 500 tons of seed cotton,
900 tons of sorghum and 7,000 tons of tomatoes and other vegetables. Project
induced livestock production would amount to 18,700 tons liveweight compared
with 15,700 tons without the project.
(xvii)    Primary marketing of groundnuts would be done by the cooperatives
which would sell to Societe Nigerienne de Commercialisation de l'Arachide
(SONARA). Marketing of cereals, cowpeas and vegetables would be through the
traditional network of private traders to whom participating farmers would
sell their produce, and through Office des Produits Vivriers du Niger (OPVN).
Groundnut producer prices, as well as prices paid SONARA by groundnut
crushers, are presently adequate. However, to ensure that prices remain
adequate, Government would establish a clear pricing and marketing policy.
Objectives of the policy would be producer prices that provide adequate
incentives to farmers, announcement of producer prices as early as possible
and paynent of economic prices by the groundnut processing industry.
(xviii)   Farmers' gross income from crop production, at 1975 prices, ex-
cluding any income from participating in either the irrigation or the live-
stock component of the project would increase some 47% between 1976 and 1982,
and net income per day worked would increase from an average of CFAF 179 to
CFAF 298 by 1982.  Net income from a 0.50 ha holding of irrigated scheme is
estimated to amount to CFAF 67,000 by the fourth year of its development after
payment of all direct expenses and capital recovery.
(xix)     As the project disbursement period is only for 3 years and experi-
ence in Niger has shown that it usually takes up to 5 years for cooperatives
participating in an 'intensive agricultural project to generate sufficient
funds to pay for cooperative extension workers, it has been assumed that
Government would finance all support services until 1984, after which coop-
eratives would become entirely self-supporting. Thus, Government in addition
to making a capital contribution to project costs of CFAF 563 million would
be required to allocate some CFAF 380 million annually after the end of the
disbursement period until 1984 to maintain agricultural and other services
needed to sustain project benefits. Cost of support services at the above
level (equivalent to CFAF 10,000 per farm family) appears justified, given
the incremental value of production induced by the project of CFAF 44,000
annually per farm family, or more than four times the cost of support
services.
(xx)      The project's direct benefits would be the increased production
lt would generate which would result in higher incomes for some 37,500 farm
families and 14,000 pastoral families. The economic rate of return from
investment in the project is estimated at 39% over 25 years. Individual rates
of return for the principal activities would be: Improvement of rainfed cul-
tivation, 27%; Irrigation schemes, 20%; Livestock, 100%; Important assumptions
used in the calculations are:  (a) inclusion in the cost stream of the rain-
fed development sub-project of costs incurred by PMU's Cooperative Affairs
and Community Development Sections on the grounds that without these "social"



- vi -
services, the anticipated yield increases from rainfed crops would not be
achieved; (b) no additional farm family labor would be required under the
rainfed agricultural program, and, the additional farm family labor required
on the irrigation schemes should be priced at the wage rate prevailing in
the area or about half the official daily wage rate for the rural sector.
(xxi)     The sensitivity analysis indicates that the rainfed cropping com-
ponent is most sensitive to changes in benefits or costs. Each variation
of benefits or costs of 1% would for all main project components, except
livestock, result in an absolute change of about 0.5 percentage points in the
economic rate of return.
(xxii)    The project would have a number of secondary benefits not reflected
directly in the economic rate of return calculations. Among these: (a) the
impact of the functional literacy and health training programs; (b) the de-
monstration effect of an integrated approach to rural development; (c) the
planning of the development of the irrigation potential of the Goulbi; (d)
the expansion of non-farm rural employment; and (e) the improvement of
nutrition.
(xxiii)   The technical risks attached to the project are not considered
large. A risk that cannot be eliminated or significantly reduced is that
inherent in the climatic vagaries which bedevil Niger. However, given the
project's relatively high rate of return, its economic viability would not
be jeopardized by the statistically unlikely recurrence of drought of the
magnitude experienced in the period 1967-1974.
(xxiv)    On the basis of the assurances set out in Chapter IX, the project
is suitable for an IDA credit of US$10.7 million.



NIGER
MARADI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Republic of Niger has asked IDA for assistance in financing
a rural development project in its Departement de Maradi. A feasibility
study of the project was prepared by Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC)
of France, and the project was appraised by IDA in the fall of 1973. A
change of Government occurred in 1974, and it was not until early 1975 that
the new Government reached agreement with IDA on the general organization
of the project. A second appraisal mission visited Niger in May 1975 to
update project details, and this report was prepared by that mission which
consisted of Messrs. Ropiteau and Ginnsz (HQ) and Sinodinos (RMWRA).
1.02      The proposed project would be the second in Niger's agricultural
sector to be financed by IDA. The first, Credit 207-NIR for US$0.6 million
was made in 1969 and signed in 1970. The project was designed to assist
farmers by providing credit through the Government agricultural credit bank,
Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA), and by strengthening the coopera-
tive movement by financing additional extension agents for Union Nigerienne
de Credit et de Cooperation (UNCC). The project covered the period 1971 through
1974 thereby coinciding with the worst drought of the century. Undoubtedly
this depressed farmer response, and the volume of farm credit disbursements
was about 23% of that estimated at appraisal. It would appear, however, that
an equally and probably more significant constraint was Niger's poorly devel-
oped credit, input and extension delivery systems. Credit, input supply
and extension arrangements incorporated in the project appraised in this
report would be integrated, an approach that elsewhere has been shown essen-
tial for the success of a program aimed at helping large numbers of small
farmers. Credit 207-NIR lacked this integrated approach. It is proposed
that Credit 207-NIR be closed and that the US$260,000 remaining in the IDA
credit account be cancelled. In retrospect it would appear that Credit 207-NIR
was premature and failed to achieve its objectives chiefly because of insti-
tutional deficiencies.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Niger is o e of the largest landlocked countries in Africa, covering
about 1.3 million km . Lying between latitudes 100 and 250 ( see Map), its
rainfall decreases from between 700 and 800 mm annually at its southern
border with Dahomey and Nigeria to amounts inadequate to support permanent



farming systems, less than 150-200 km further north.  About 75% of the country
is desertic, less than 10% suitable for crop production and much of this of
very low potential. About 2% of the land area is cultivated. Rainfall is
highly variable both within years and from year to year, and consequently,
drought to one degree or another is a common occurrence. In the period
1968-1973, drought reached catastrophic proportions.
2.02      About half of the country's some 4.3 million people live between
the southern border and the 500 m isohyet, the best rainfall area. In this
area fff approximately 100,000 km population pressure averages only about
20/km 2 although in valleys where the soils are better it may be as high as
100/km . Population growth is estimated at a minimum of 2.1% p.a.  GNP is
low and was estimated in 1972 at about US$90 per capita; because of the drought,
it is believed to have decreased in 1973 and 1974. Agriculture, including
animal husbandry, contributes some 41% of GNP, but its growth is hardly keeping
pace with population growth. The Sahelian drought of 1968-1973 brought about
sharp declines in the contribution of the rural sector to GNP, from 61% in
1972 to 38% in 1974. The situation is returning to normal following the
average rainfall which occurred in 1974. In 1975, agriculture's contribution
to GNP is expected to increase to 47%, although the national livestock herd
is still well below its pre-drought level in the zone north of the 500 mm
isohyet.
2.03      Rural activities account for about 60% of exports, mostly groundnuts
and livestock. In 1972, such exports amounted to CFAF 9.3 billion in value
(US$41 million) of which groundnuts, CFAF 4.6 billion and livestock (mostly
live animals), CFAF 2.7 billion. The balance of exports is principally
uranium from the Arlit mines; uranium production and exports have been grow-
ing steadily since production started in 1971, prior to which agriculture
accounted for some 90% of exports. Recently there have been indications that
petroleum may be present in economically exploitable volumes.
B. The Rural Sector
2.04      The rural sector, statistics of which are at Annex 1, directly
supports about 90% of Niger's population. The large bulk of these are mem-
bers of farming families, about 80%, and the remainder nomadic or semi-noma-
dic pastoralists. There are two major farming zones. First, the 550 km of
the valley of the Niger River where the seasonal flooding of low-lying areas
is uséd for the cultivation of floating rice (yields average some 600 kg/ha)
and where about 2,000 ha are equipped for modern double crop irrigation.
Second, and by far most important, is the roughly 10% of the country lying
between the country's southern boundary and about the 400 mm isohyet.  In
this area rainfed agriculture is practiced, the main crops being millet for
home consumption and groundnuts for export; the project area forms an import-
ant part of this second zone, Chapter III.



- 3 -
2.05      The rural people are universally poor.  Crop farmers, with an
insignificant number of exceptions, are small farmers cultivating their land
with hand tools and without the use of modern methods or inputs. Per capita
incomes of farm family members were estimated at an average of about CFAF 14,000
annually in 1970 (US$60), of which about one-third cash income, compared to
CFAF 90,000 for urban people. Those of pastoral families were estimated
to be lower. Rural incomes decreased significantly in 1972 and 1973 as a
result of the drought, perhaps by as much as 50%.
2.06      The potential of the sector in terms of scope for increasing total
production and for generating the means of improving the living standard of
rural people is not large. This is because of the sector's dependence on a
rainfall that is low in total amount and variable in distribution, and of a
rather restricted potential for irrigation. The rainfall constraint places
a relatively low ceiling on the potential of the rainfed agriculture that
supports the great bulk of rural people, and worse, makes it inevitable that
from time to time production and incomes will be sharply depressed through
drought. Thus in the drought period 1968-1973, sizeable food imports became
necessary, groundnut production dropped to about a quarter of normal levels,
at least one-third of the national cattle herd was lost, and the economy as
a whole was seriously disrupted.
2.07      Government Strategy.  Government strategy for the rural sector is,
first, to attempt to introduce measures to maximize the rainfed potential
in both crop and livestock production, and second, to increase the area under
controlled irrigation. Improvement of the rainfed agriculture is the only
way to help the great majority of people in the short run, and the project
appraised in this report is an example of implementing this type of action.
In the long run, however, the impact of such projects will be eroded unless
population pressure on the land can be lessened. It is probable that in
many areas population already exceeds the level that is in equilibrium with
the area's natural resources, and this excessive population may be irreversi-
bly depleting these resources. It is clear that the problem of population
growth requires priority attention; so far, however, Government has yet to
tackle this crucial issue. In the case of irrigation, Niger has about
55,000 ha that could be irrigated from the Niger River, and possibly another
100,000 ha from the water resources of the Lake Chad complex.  Government
sees a modern and substantial irrigated sector insulated from the rainfall
constraint inter alia as a cushion against the disruptive impact of drought
years and through diversifying crop production as a means of developing new
agriculturally based industries, replacing farm originating imports and
possibly generating new exports. Importantly, it believes that irrigation
is a means of assuring rural people of a standard of living reasonable in
terms of income and security. Up to now, however, the costs of irrigation
in Niger have been high and thus irrigation cannot be considered a panacea for
the rural sector's problems. Nonetheless, Government correctly has embarked
on a modest program of irrigation development, about 800-1,000 ha annually
that should permit the growth of the institutions and acquisition of skills
that are essential if Niger is to efficiently realize its irrigation poten-
tial. Government has asked the Bank Group for help in financing this program.



- 4 -
2.08      Implementation of programs to help any large proportion of the
population will be costly. Rainfed farming production schemes typically
involve capital costs per family vn the order of CFAF 80,000 (US$360).
Livestock programs are more costly at about CFAF 180,000, and irrigation
extremely expensive at about CFAF 1 million (US$4,500) per farm family.
Thereafter, significant recurring costs are associated with such programs.
Despite much foreign aid, the costs of programs capable of assisting signifi-
cant numbers of people, as well as those essential for improving the country's
limited social and physical infrastructure are enormous compared with the
country's restricted resources and very thin tax base.
2.09      In order to achieve development with its limited resources, Govern-
ment has embarked on a policy of sponsoring community development and farmers'
cooperatives. This is an attempt to mobilize to the fullest possible extent
the contributions that can be made by the people themselves in, for example,
contributing their labor to the construction of schools and wells, organizing
themselves for the delivery and recovery of credit, and employing their own
extension agents and other advisory and educational aides.
2.10      So far, Government has had success in programs such as the teaching,
outside of formal school, of people to read, write and count in their tribal
languages, and organizing self-he:Lp, for example, in the construction of sim-
ple village water supplies. Also, through the joint efforts of Government's
agency responsible for sponsoring farmers' cooperatives, UNCC (Annex 2), and
Government's community developmeni: services, the Service de l'Animation, a
cooperative movement is developing among farmers. Government, aware of its
severe financial restrictions, is determined to pursue these programs as
being the only courses of action likely to bring permanent benefits to a sig-
nificant proportion of the community. The approach is practical, deserves.
support, and would be so supported under the project described in this report.
2.11      Broad development policy is established by the Conseil National du
Developpement (CND). CND is headed by the Vice-President of the Conseil
Militaire Supreme who is also Ministre du Developpement (MD).  CND has its
own secretariat, including a smalL group of specialists in economics, agronomy
and planning, and is authorized to conduct studies on its own account. Al-
though originally intended as a pLanning unit, solely responsible for making
broad policy proposals for consideration by the Conseil Militaire Supreme,
Government intends that CND direcl:ly supervise development projects; this
would be so in the case of the proposed Maradi Project. Within the frame of
policy and strategy established by CND and the Conseil Militaire Supreme, the
MD is responsible for detail planning assisted by the planning units in the
operational ministries; in the case of rural development, the Ministere de
l'Economie Rurale et du Climat (MERC).
2.12      Government Fiscal Intervention.  Government fiscal intervention
in the sector is concerned with price fixing for the principal commodities,
especially the export crops, and :he subsidization of farm inputs and credit
(Annex 3). Price fixing is of practical consequence only in the case of



-5-
groundnuts, the single most important foreign exchange earner, and cotton,
for which there are monopoly buying agencies: Societe Nigerienne de
Commercialisation de l'Arachide (SONARA), and Compagnie Francaise pour le
Developpement des Textiles (CFDT). Official producer prices for foodcrops
tend to be important only when Government's Office des Produits Vivriers
du Niger (OPVN) makes purchases of grain for reserve storage or for distri-
bution in deficit areas, or in the case of UNCC supervised irrigated per-
imeters when the official price for paddy rice is imposed and is offset by
producer subsidies in the form of cheap water supply for irrigation. Until
1974, official producer prices paid by OPVN were well below free market
prices which reflected the general shortage of food in the country and was
a direct consequence of the drought.  However, the present official producer
price of CFAF 20/kg for sorghum is adequate, and competitive with the free
market price. In the case of groundnuts and cotton, producer prices, prior
to 1974 were fixed below the economically feasible level.  This allowed
SONARA and CFDT to make sizeable remittances to Government's Caisse de Sta-
bilisation des Prix des Produits du Niger (CSPPN). SONARA remitted CFAF 1.8
billion (US$7.2 million) to CSPPN in the fiscal year 1972/1973, and CFDT,
CFAF 0.1 billion (US$0.4 million). Government treated CSPPN funds as a
quasi-tax and used them for taking equity in commercial ventures and making
loans to public agencies and the treasury. In 1973/1974 groundnut production
fell 70% from 1972/1973 level, and SONARA was unable to make any remittances
to CSPPN.
2.13      The new Government's political decision to favor the rural sector
has been translated into significantly increased producer prices, heavy
subsidization of inputs, and of credit terms. This undoubtedly will result
in a short term boost of agricultural production, but raises the question
of how long this policy can be pursued without endangering the economic
development of the country. In 1974, Government increased producer prices-
for cash crops significantly: 129% for decorticated groundnuts, from CFAF
24/kg to CFAF 55/kg, and 29% for first quality seed cotton, from CFAF 37/kg
to CFAF 47/kg. The producer price for groundnuts now reflects the full
economic value of the commodity and most likely will have to be reduced
in the future, if the price projections of the Bank's Economic Commodities
and Export Projections Division (ECEP) obtain. At the present level of
producer prices no surplus will accrue to CSPPN from groundnut production,
and SONARA will most likely operate at a loss, unless its expenses are
covered by Government subsidy transfers. It is unlikely that Government
could reduce groundnut producer prices, as it just increased them and as it
has to take account of actions taken in Nigeria. In Nigeria, Government is
subsidizing groundnut growers by paying them more than the full economic
value of CFAF 66/kg (20% more than in Niger). Given the ease of movement
between the two countries (para 3.03), a relatively high price in Niger
is needed to reduce the risk of groundnuts moving illegally from Niger
to Nigeria and the loss to Niger of official foreign exchange earning
exports. Furthermore, Niger cannot take the risk of announcing its groundnut
producer prices before Nigeria, and prices are usually announced too late to



- 6-
have any meaningful impact on the area under cultivation. The present
producer price for seed cotton is some 20% below the full economic value of
CFAF 58/kg. This should leave adequate operating margin to CFDT and allow
a small surplus to accrue with CSPPN.
2.14      Government practices a policy of heavy subsidization of agricultu-
ral inputs. Fertilizer prices to farmers have been kept at CFAF 20/kg since
1972, while import prices of fertilizers have nearly doubled. Insecticides
were given free to cotton growers in 1974, and will be sold for CFAF 450/
liter in 1975. The subsidy element in 1975 is 80% for fertilizers and about
67% for insecticides. Given the very high cost of fertilizers and pesticides,
all of which must be imported, and the generally backward nature of Niger's
agriculture, subsidies appear necessary to encourage input use. However, a
subsidy of 80% for fertilizers appears unnecessarily high, and a program
leading to a reduction of the subsidy level was agreed with Government at
negotiations (para 5.05).
2.15      Agricultural credit is provided by CNCA (Annex 3).  CNCA is wholly
owned by Government and works closely with UNCC, with which it shares a common
board of directors, and through whose agents it operates in the field. Total
lending is low, and at September 30, 1974, medium-term loans outstanding
totalled only CFAF 423 million. Marketing and other seasonal credits have
been running at about CFAF 300 million annually. In the past, interest rates
have been around 10% compared witlh a central bank discount rate of 5.5% in
recent years. Government is now considering an interest rate of 2-3%, which
would involve a major subsidy. For the Maradi Project, it is proposed that
interest rates should be 10% for both short and medium-term credit, and it
is not believed that this rate wiLl significantly limit the demand for credit.
Demand for credit in the Departement outside the Project area would be minimal,
and there should be no conflict between the Project and the other areas over
credit terms and input prices.
C. Ongoing Rural Development Projects
2.16      Under its plans for the intensification of rainfed agriculture
Government has initiated with the assistance of foreign aid donors integrated
projects in the Badeguicheri (FED, 1971); Zinder (FED, 1972); and Dosso
(FAC, 1974) areas. The objectives of these projects are similar to those
of the project appraised in this report, i.e., improvement of agricultural
production through the provision of credit, extension and inputs and provision
of improved infrastructure - especially roads and water supplies. In all
three projects, as will be the case in that of the Maradi Project, cooperatives
and the UNCC play a key role. Performance has not been in line with expecta-
tions, not least because farm prodluction has been badly disrupted by the
drought. Nonetheless, it appears that problems have arisen in project manage-
ment that, even given good growing, conditions, would have constrained perform-
ance. The basic problem appears to be that the Project Managers are not fully



in control of project operations. This situation has arisen because Govern-
ment has chosen to permit each of the agencies involved in project operations
to work independently in the frame of an effort coordinated, but not defini-
tively controlled, by the Project Manager. For each of the three projects
the Project Manager is the senior UNCC official in the area and he is required
to call upon his colleagues of equivalent rank in a number of Government
agencies, importantly, the technical services of the Direction de l'Agri-
culture in MERC, of the Services de l'Animation (Community Development Service),
and of the Services de l'Alphabetisation (Functional Literacy Service), in MD.
This form of coordination has proved only partially successful, and in the
Maradi Project, the Project Manager would directly control the equipment and
staff required to execute the project satisfactorily (see Chapter VI). It
is believed that this new arrangement should remove the organizational
problems that have bedevilled the ongoing projects.
III. PROJECT AREA
3.01      The project area comprises the Departement de Maradi, the headquar-
ters of which is the city of Maradi. Administratively the Departement is in
the charge of a Prefet. The Prefet is responsible directly to the President
of the Comite Militaire Supreme for the administration of the Departement, and
he is the representative of CND, the supreme instrument for directing develop-
ment policy (see para 2.11).
3.02      The city of Maradi is the market center for central Niger and for
trade between Niger and Nigeria, see Map 10833. Maradi and Kano, the principal
city of northern Nigeria, which is an important railhead and which has an
international airport, are linked by about 250 km of paved road. This road
is in excellent condition on the Nigerian side, and its 50 km in Nigerien
territory are being repaired and widened, with Bank Group assistance, to
better enable it to provide for traffic now in excess of 250 vehicles/day.
On the other hand, the road link with Niamey, the nation's capital, is poor.
3.03      Ninety percent of the Departement's population are of the Hausa tribe,
the predominant ethnic group of northern Nigeria. Official trade movements
north and south with Nigeria, the almost uncontrolled crossing of livestock
herds on north-south transhumance, and difficulties in controlling the move-
ment of people and goods across the border have tended to maintain a strong
connection between Maradi and the towns and districts of northern Nigeria,
despite the erosion of traditional ties. This relationship is and will con-
tinue to be a very important factor in plans for economic development in the
Departement.
3.04      The climate of the Departement is Sahelian; this is characterized
by a dry season of eight months in which crops will not grow without irriga-
tion. There are no major surface water resources available for irrigation in
the district, except the seasonal Maradi River (see para 3.10). This conceiva-
bly has the potential for about 3,500 ha of irrigation, but the exploitation



- 8 -
of this reqource is fraught with many problems and inevitably will be expensive.
Groundwater resources are adequate for domestic and livestock consumption
throughout the Departement, but it appears that there is no renewable ground-
water source, other than that asscciated with the flood plain of the Maradi
River, that could permit any significant amount of irrigation. Consequently,
agricultural production in the district primarily is rainfed, and the intensity
and type of production governed by rainfall. At the border with Nigeria
rainfall is about 750 mm annually; at the latitude of Maradi about 600 mm;
thereafter it declines by about 100 mm for each 50 km of latitude (see
Map 10834). Soils are generally heavier in the south, becoming increasingly
less fertile and lighter with increase in latitude. Sorghum and millet are
the principal cereal crops (60-652% of the area farmed in most cases), niebe
(cowpeas) is the major grain legume grown for domestic consumption, and ground-
nuts are the cash and export crop. Small amounts of cotton and tobacco are
also grown. In the flood plain of the Maradi River some primitive shadouf
irrigation from open wells is practiced and vegetables such as peppers,
tomatoes, and fresh corn are grown. In the south of the Departement, around
Maradi, the land is intensively farmed, and because of population pressure the
opportunity for fallowing land is very limited. North of Maradi farms become
larger and soils, rainfall and yields much poorer. At about latitude 15°N,
more or less that of Dakoro, the second largest town of the district, and
where rainfall is around 350 mm, major arable farming activity ceases and
is replaced by pastoral activities, principally the traditional herding of
cattle, sheep and goats by nomadic. and semi-nomadic tribesmen.
3.05      The Departement of Maradi extends over 38,600 km2 and in 1972 had
a population estimated at 770,000, or 16% of Niger's total population. Town
dwellers, mostly in Maradi and Dakoro, are estimated at 40,000 persons; mem-
bers of farm families at 650,000; and pastoralists, mainly Peuhls, at 80,000.
Population is estimated to be growing at 2% annually. Most people live in'
villages that typically are of around. 300 inhabitants. The average farm
family appears to be about 6.3 persons, 3 of whom are adult (Annex 4). In
the south farms average about 5.5 ha and are somewhat larger further north.
Farmers do not hold land titles but have the right of usufruct which gives
them satisfactory security of tenure.  Most farms are cultivated by hand;
while relatively large by West African standards, these farms are quite
manageable by the average family because of their light and easily worked
soils.
3.06      The Departement of Maracli exhibits to the fullest the highly intrac-
table problems faced by many Sahelian areas. First, its population is greater
than its resources can support at anything much better than at subsistence
level. Second, the scope for effecting any major improvement in living
standards is low because (a) excepting a major mineral discovery, the develop-
ment of industry on any scale in this isolated area is inconceivable, and
(b) low rainfall, lack of irrigation potential, indifferent soils, and heavy
and increasing population pressure make the potential for gains in product-
ivity through using available technology unlikely to exceed 30-50% above pre-
sent low levels. Per capita incomes in the Departement now average about
CFAF 14,000/annum (US$60). Clearly, therefore, agriculture will never be the



- 9 -
means through which the people of Maradi will attain levels of nutrition
and consumption minimally acceptable in developed countries. Worse, however,
there is a probability that whatever improvements can be made in the short
run, for example as the result of actions described in this project, will be
vitiated in the long run by deterioration in the environment due to increasing
population pressure. Clear results of this pressure are events such as the
movement of farming further north into agriculturally more inhospitable areas
and the consequent forcing of pastoralists closer to the fringes of the desert,
and the development of a shortage of wood for domestic fuel because of the
progressive removal of tree species.  A very few years ago farming ceased
just north of Maradi; today it extends as far north as Dakoro. Consequences
of these events are the destruction of tree and shrub cover, increasing deser-
tification, and the placing of an increasing proportion of the Departement's
population at severe hazard in the event of drought. In the long run signifi-
cant improvement in rural incomes, living standards, and food security in the
Departement appears possible only through significant migration from the land,
the reduction of population pressure and the adoption of farming and pastoral
systems in better equilibrium with the area's limited natural resources.
3.07      The Departement's internal road network is thin.  There are some
580 km of national roads, of which 190 km are Class I and surfaced with
bitumen; 224 km Class IIA and laterite surfaced; and 166 km Class IIB,
unsurfaced sandy tracks. Further details are in Annex 5. Many important
farming areas are more than 50 km from a surfaced road.
3.08      Social infrastructure.  Medical services are staffed by four doctors.
There is no hospital but there are 23 dispensaries and four maternity clinics.
The health situation generally is poor, see Annex 6. The Departement has
120 schools with an attendance of about 15,000; this attendance is equivalçnt
to about 11% of the school age population and is about standard for the country.
3.09      Rural development services.  All arms and agencies of the Ministries
concerned with development are represented in the Departement. Lack of funds
and staff are the principal constraints, but despite that, good work has been
done in activities such as cooperative development. There are some 400 primary
marketing cooperatives in the Departement, which are further organized into
40 Associations Locales de Cooperatives (ALC), which through the agency of
UNCC maintain the accounts of the primaries and handle secondary marketing,
and 155 functional literacy training centers. By and large, however, services
such as credit, input supply and effective agricultural extension are insignif-
icant or absent.
3.10      The flood plain of the Maradi River, the so-called Goulbi de Maradi,
constitutes the most prominent natural feature of the Departement. It lies
south and southeast of Maradi. The Goulbi de Maradi is seasonal, flowing
for about five months, May-October. Over a period of time the river has
built uy a flood plain of alluvium over which it spills out of its channel
at times of peak flood. The river bed is being built up by the deposition
of silt; this is slowing down the river's flow and in turn increasing the
rate of siltation. A consequence of these developments is that the river



- 10 -
now breaks out of its channel and floods the plain more frequently; in 1974
this resulted in severe flooding cf Maradi town. The river supplies an
underground aquifer which can be tapped at depths of between 1 and 15 m in
the flood plain. This aquifer could be a source of irrigation water, and a
groundwater development program is one means of using this resource. Up to
now, however, Government has favored regulation of the river through a major
barrage and the development of surface irrigation. This solution appears
very costly, and thus far, external financing agencies have exhibited little
interest in such a project.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Summary Description
4.01      The project would be carried out over a three-year investment
period, 1976-78, by a Project Management Unit (PMU) established for this
purpose, see Chapter VI. The PMU would be provided with vehicles, equipment
and a headquarters. Rousing for PMU personnel would not be constructed, as
sufficient Government owned or rentable housing is available. The project
would comprise:
(a) provision of production packages - extension, applied
research, credit, and input supply - aimed at the im-
provement of the productivity of groundnuts, millet
and cowpeas grown in the areas covered by 15 selected
ALC's;
(b) strengthening of cooperative institutions;
(c) expansion of educational and training programs,
including a functional literacy program among
the project area community;
(d) expansion of a training school for extension
workers from a capacity of 40 to 100, and the
provision of training scliolarships for project
personnel;
(e)  study of the optimum means of developing the
irrigation potential of the Goulbi de Maradi;
(f) pilot development of irrigation in the Goulbi
de Maradi through exploitation of the Goulbi's
underground water resources;



- il -
(g) construction of 80 km of feeder roads to provide
communications within a fertile but hitherto
isolated sector of the project area;
(h) planting of 500 ha of trees in fuel wood plantations;
(i) improvement of livestock services in the project
area and preparation of a livestock development project;
(j) provision of credit for the purchase of livestock
by pastoralists who lost their herds during the
Sahelian drought; and
(k) establishment of a project evaluation unit to
establish and record the economic and social
impact of the project.
B. Detailed Features
Production Packages
4.02      The 15 ALC's that would participate in the project have been selected
on the basis of their members' demonstrated acceptance of cooperative activ-
ities and receptiveness to change, see Annex 4. Nine of the ALC's are in the
Southern Sandy Zone (SSZ) and six in the Northern Sandy Zone (NSZ). On the
basis of necessarily crude data it is estimated that the 15 ALC's would com-
prise 150 primary cooperatives, 750 villages and some 37,500 farm families.
About half the primary cooperatives are already operating in the project area,
and the other half would be established (para. 6.13).
4.03      Details of the production packages are given in Annex 4.  The tech-
niques advocated by the extension service for adoption by farmers and sup-
ported by the input supply and credit programs would be relatively simple,
proven through past testing in the Departement and known to be acceptable to
reasonably receptive growers. Fertilizers would be recommended only for
groundnuts - the principal cash crop of the SSZ, and for cowpeas (niebe)
which holds the same position in the NSZ. Other recommended inputs would
be fungicidal seed dressing on all crops, improved varieties of groundnuts,
cowpeas, and millet - the project would organize the multiplication of the
seed of these, see para 4.04, and the chemical control of the fungus and
insect pests of cowpeas. Farmers would also be advised and encouraged to
adopt the more timely planting and weeding of their crops. Importantly a
major effort would be made to introduce ox-drawn cultivation in the project
area. Provision is made in project costs of CFAF 22 million for the purchase
of cultivation equipment that would be sold to farmers on credit.



- 12 -
4.04      Seed required by project: farmers would be multiplied under programs
operated by PMU. The first two st.eps of groundnut seed multiplication would
be conducted by selected farmers under contract to PMU, and the third and
final steps by the "blanketing" of' chosen cooperatives from whom it would be
purchased by PMU at a premium of tFAF 2/kg for distribution. Multiplication
of improved millet and cowpea seed would also be by farmers under contract.
The objective of the project's seed multiplication activities would be to
renew all groundnut seed used in the project area once every four years. By
the third year of the project it iLs estimated that some 800 tons of improved
groundnut seed would be required, together with 200 tons of millet and 50
tons of cowpea seed.
4.05      To further support the productivity program, the project would
finance an agricultural research worker who would be resident at the Tarna
research station located at Maradî. Research conducted would be of an
adaptive nature, including field trials within the project area. The
research worker would act as liaison between PMU and its need for research
results of a practical and economic value and the USAID assisted national
research agency operated Tarna station.
Strengthening of Cooperative Institutions
4.06      The ALC's and their member cooperative societies would be strength-
ened with trained staff, see Chapter VI; they would benefit financially
through being used as the channels for credit and input supply (by project
year 3 credit requirements should amount to some CFAF 150 million annually)
and through marketing project induced production, see Chapter VII. Coop-
erative institutions would also be strengthened by providing farmer members
with training both in agriculture and in cooperative affairs and management.
Such training would be provided in the five-month season, roughly December
through April, when agricultural activity is at a standstill. The objective
would be to provide 7,500 farmers, one in five, with such training.  Train-
ing sessions would be short, a maximum of one week and thus would not upset
the family life of the participants. Training courses would be held at
existing centers at each of the 15 ALC's participating in the project.
Tests would be made of the feasibility of providing more comprehensive
courses for younger farmers (18-25). Under these, farmers would attend
courses at some of the centers in which they would alternate two weeks at
the center and two weeks at home through a single growing season. The
objectives of these courses would be the achievement of literacy and a
deeper knowledge of the basics of agriculture.
Expansion of Educational and Training Programs among the Project Area Community
4.07      Principal among these programs would be those devoted to functional
literacy and health. The community development section, see Chapter IV,
would operate these programs. Functional literacy courses would be taught
by farm level extension agents who would double as functional literacy
teachers. Participants in the courses, mainly working farmers, would be



- 13 -
taught reading, writing, and simple arithmetic in Hausa, the vernacular.
Some 250 functional literacy centers, one for each farm level agent, would
be equipped with simple teaching aides under the project. Each course would
last 3 months in each of two consecutive dry seasons. It is expected that
some 11,000 adults would participate, of whom about 2,000 would become fully
literate. The health training program would be carried out under the super-
vision of the Ministry of Health.  Volunteer first aid assistants and mid-
wives would be selected by PMU for training in basic skills at the Maradi
dispensary. A total of about 100 first aid assistants and 100 midwives would
be trained under the program. Each person trained would be provided with a
basic kit financed under the project. Renewal of the kit would be paid for
by the community from fees charged by first aid volunteers and midwives.
4.08      In order to support the development of ox-drawn cultivation, train-
ing would be provided in blacksmithing, see Annex 8. The objective would be
to train and establish one blacksmith to serve two cooperatives participating
in the project, i.e., to train 60 blacksmiths over the three-year project
period. Training would be conducted in the shop of an established black-
smith under the supervision of PMU's technical services section. The proj-
ect would provide equipment for these training shops and provide on credit
the basic tools needed by graduating blacksmiths, an estimated CFAF 70,000
per blacksmith.
Extension Workers and Scholarships for Staff Training
4.09      The Centre de Formation des Jeunes Agriculteurs (CFJA) located at
Maradi would be expanded under the project with the buildings and equipment
necessary to enable it to increase its output of farm level extension agents
from 40 to 100 annually. Graduates from CFJA, who would receive training
over one seven-month long growing season and who would be paid by the proj-
ect during this period would be employed as cooperative extension agents
under the project. An amount of CFAF 15 million would be provided under
the project to fund scholarships for deserving project staff in either
national or foreign institutions.
Study of Optimum Means of Developing the Irrigation Potential of the
Goulbi de Maradi
4.10      The potential of, and the prospects for and means of realizing
the irrigation potential of the Goulbi is referred to in para 3.10 and in
more detail in Annex 7. Two major alternatives for exploiting the Goulbi
exist; surface water irrigation and irrigation using groundwater. Possibly
a mixture of techniques is a third alternative. Under the project the
alternatives would be examined to determine their comparative merits in tech-
nical, economic and financial terms. Following this and provided that the
selected alternative constituted a viable investment opportunity, a detailed
feasibility study and plans for the irrigated development of the Goulbi would
be prepared. Such a study, which would necessarily cover means of regu-
lating the flood of the Maradi River, would also address itself to the
specific needs of protecting the town of Maradi against flooding and of



- 14 -
connecting Maradi, most probably by bridge, with fertile areas to its
west and southwest, which are now cut off for a substantial part of the
year. An estimated 52 man-months of consultants' time would be required
for study of the alternatives, draft terms of reference for which are at
Annex 7. Development using the groundwater supply appears to offer the
highest return, at the least cost; for this reason the project includes an
irrigation fund to finance small scale groundwater irrigation schemes. A
condition of disbursement of the :irrigation fund would be the satisfactory
conclusion of the study of alternative methods of irrigation development and
its recommendation to pursue groundwater irrigation development. The river
is in the process of fossilizationi, i.e., it is drying up, albeit at a very
slow rate. The possible arrestation of the process will depend upon whether
conservation measures are practiced in its catchment area, which lies prin-
cipally in the Katsina Province of Nigeria. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that Government would open discussions with Nigeria with a view
towards reaching agreement on the use of the water of the Maradi River and
on a material program of catchment conservation.  These discussions could
take place in the frame of the Niger River Commission. The Commission's
headquarters are in Niamey.
Pilot Development of Irrigation
4.11      Annex 7 details the prospects for groundwater development in the
Goulbi. Prima facie groundwater development appears substantially cheaper
than a surface irrigation alternative such as that proposed by the French
consulting firm SOGREAH in 1964 aad for which a cost of at least US$7,000/ha
irrigated in terms of 1975 dollars is indicated. Under the project, finance
would be provided for the developmnent of an estimated 500 ha of irrigation,
at an estimated capital cost of US$1,900/ha. Such irrigation development
typically would be in the form of small perimeters of about 10 ha provided
with water from a well sunk into the aquifer and equipped with a pump. It
is estimated that 20 such wells and perimeters could be constructed in project
year 2 and a further 30 in project year 3. Consequently, before construction
started, preliminary results of the Goulbi irrigation studies would be known
and, in the event, as expected, that the groundwater alternative would be
shown to be economic, the 500 ha of proposed irrigation would serve as a
pilot to implementation of a major scheme of Goulbi development. In any
event there are areas of the Goulbi where groundwater and surface water
exploitation would not be mutually exclusive and where given the time taken
to plan, finance, implement and commission a major surface water irrigation
scheme, some earlier development of the groundwater potential would be fully
justified.
4.12      Under the project a total of US$0.9 million excluding price and
physical contingencies would be provided in the form of a fund for irriga-
tion development. The IDA share of these funds would be committed through
a system of IDA approval of the detailed proposals for each well and its
perimeter. Assurances to the foregoing were obtained at negotiations.



- 15 -
Evaluation of these proposals would include technical, social, economic
and financial analyses. Niger has experience of such an approach through
the Drought Relief Fund Project, Credit NIR 441. Law 68/28 of 1960 which
regulates allocation of land on Government developed irrigation schemes
would apply: (a) farmers already cultivating where a scheme is established
would receive priority; (b) they would be guaranteed security of tenure as
long as they cultivate their plots personally; and (c) they would be allotted
0.25 ha per active member ot the family. In addition, participating families
would have to provide the unskilled labor needed for sinking the well, land
leveling and for construction of the irrigation canals and flood protection
dikes. The organization of the schemes is discussed in para 6.15. Use of
the irrigation fund would not be restricted to such relatively large develop-
ments; but would also be used, if needed, for financing small individual
developments such as a simple well from which water would be lifted by hand
or animal power for garden irrigation, or other hydraulic structures in the
project area such as bas fond development, i.e., the construction of retain-
ing dikes in depressions to collect and utilize rainfall that otherwise
would run off. The cropping pattern of the irrigation schemes would be
approximately as follows: wet season - cotton and sorghum using supple-
mentary irrigation, and dry season - vegetables, especially tomatoes,
and onions. More details of the proposed irrigation fund and its use
are at Annex 7.
4.13      Feeder Roads.  To the Southwest of Maradi an area of fertile
soils is cut off from Maradi in the flood season of the Maradi River.
Access to the area is then possible only through fording the river about
30 km north of Maradi. Within this area, which would be subject to the
project's rainfed cropping improvement program, there are only unimproved
tracks. Direct all-weather linkage between the town of Maradi and the area
will be possible only when the river's flood is regulated, see para 4.10. In
the meantime, however, it is proposed that 80 km of roads should be built
within the area to facilitate project actions and generally to improve
communications that for nine months of the year would link directly with
the town of Maradi (and eventually with a bridge across the river) and that
for the remaining period of the year would link with the town via the north-
ern river crossing; 35 km of the roads would be 3.5 m wide with passing places
every 500 m, and 45 km would be 6.0 m wide. The roads would be surfaced
with 0.15 m of laterite.
4.14      Fuel Wood Plantations.  A total of about 500 ha of fuel wood plant-
ings would be made in the areas of the 15 selected ALC's. The objective
would be to establish one plantation of about 3 ha in one out of every five
villages. The plantations would be established by the village communities
under the supervision of the PMU rural engineering section who would work in
cooperation with the Forestry Service of MERC. Maintenance and protection
of the plantations would be assured by the village community. As production
would start only eight years after planting, it is not practical to plan
reimbursement of Government investment costs in the plantations by the village
cormunity.  Planting material would be purchased by PMU from nurseries managed



- 16 -
by the Forestry Service in the Department of Maradi. Varieties planted
would include eucalyptus, dalbergia and neem, depending on the soil suitabi-
lity. As described in para 3.06, increasing population pressure is resulting
in a shortage of fuel wood, and the cutting of trees for fuel is worsening
and already unsatisfactory ecological balance.
4.15      Improvement of Livestock Services.  The livestock services of MERC
in the Departement of Maradi are short of equipment and finances to conduct
vaccination campaigns. Under the project, 5 vehicles, the necessary ice
machines, and other vaccination equipment would be financed as well as
the purchase of vaccine. Specific programs implemented under the project
would include: (a) routine vaccination in each of the three project years
of all cattle in the Departement against rinderpest and pleuropneumonia, and
(b) provision, on a fee basis, of treatments against internal parasites in
calves and sheep and goats. The value of such treatments is appreciated
by the farming community who are prepared to pay for them. It is esti-
mated that 40 percent of all calves in the Departement would be so treated
on an annual basis by project year 3 and some 50,000 sheep and goats. As
the value of major vaccination campaigns is radically diminished unless
executed on a nation-wide basis, assurances were obtained at negotiations
that Government would conduct similar campaigns in the other Departements of
Niger. Currently only the Zinder Department is not subject to such a campaign.
This project component would be executed by the Livestock Service of MERC
under the arrangement described in para 6.07.
4.16      Apart from improving animal health conditions, there is scope
for major and economic improvements in animal husbandry in the crop farming
areas in the south of the project area, see Annex 9. Under the project,
funds would be provided for 10 man-months of consultants' services to
examine and make recommendations on issues such as the development of
stall fattening and the better integration of livestock and crop produc-
tion. Stall fattening using crop residues is an attractive possibility
given the major market for livestock offered by Nigeria.
Provision of Credit for Livestock Purchase
4.17      This component of the project would not result in additional pro-
duction benefits but would contribute to a redistribution of income. It would
amount to CFAF 140 million or US$640,000 prior to price and physical
contingencies. It would be carried out in the northern Arrondissements
of Mayahi and Dakoro, where pastoralists suffered most from the Sahelian
drought. Under the credit progran, pastoral families who lost their herds
as a consequence of the drought would be provided loans in kind as follows:
Peuhl families (cattle herders) would be eligible for five breeding cattle
and 10 goats and sheep and Touareg families, five breeding camels and 10
goats and sheep. The loans would be interest free with a term of seven
years including three years of grace for cattle and three years with one
year of grace for sheep and goats. The total value of loans per family
would be about US$800 equivalent, and they would have no security other



- 17 -
than the pledge of the tribal authorities that the family was a good risk.
Selection of the pastoral families would be by a committee comprising the
local authorities, traditional leaders and members of the Livestock Service.
About 750 families would participate in this program, which would provide
the means for now destitute families to regain economic self-sufficiency.
4.18      Project Evaluation Unit (PEU).  The PEU would be established to
quantify the results and assess the sociological impact of the project in
the areas of the 15 chosen ALC's (Annex 10). The unit would collect the
data which would be analyzed by an evaluation unit recently created at the
national level within MERC. The national unit would also assist in develop-
ing the methodology to be used. A base line survey would be made at the
beginning of the project, and thereafter, developments in representative
villages would be monitored and compared. Aside from the permanent staff
in the PEU section, about 300 functionally literate farmers would assist in
the collection of data. PEU would utilize cadastral and aerial surveys.
PEU also would be responsible for monitoring the effectiveness of marketing
of project produced commodities. Findings of PEU would be utilized in
planning further projects in the Departement. Each village would be equipped
with a rainfall gauge to record rainfall data.
4.19      The Project would have no adverse impact on the environment or
on the health of the people in the area. The build-up of the livestock
herd would be to levels below those prevailing prior to the drought, and
the small irrigation component (500 ha) would not increase the incidence
of schistosomiasis, as it would use the groundwater supply, and no irrigated
area would be permanently underwater. On the contrary, the project would
have a positive impact on the environment as farmers would be taught soil
conservation measures, and the project's health component would improve the
general health of the people in the area.
V. Cost Estimates and Financial Arrangements
A. Project Costs
5.01      Project costs net of import duties and other clearly identifiable
taxes are estimated to total CFAF 2,670 million (US$11.9 million) of which
the foreign exchange component would be US$5.9 million or 50%.
5.02      Project costs are detailed in Annex 11 and summarized in the fol-
lowing table:



-   1 
CFAF
Millions              US$ '000
% of Foreign
Total  Local  Foreign   Total    Exchange
Staff Salaries
- Local Staff                       470   2,090         0   2,090         0
- Expatriates                       230     510       510   1,020        50%
Buildings, Civil Works and
Tree Seedlings                      140     370       250      620       >40%
Roads Construction                    170     370        390     760        51%
Irrigation Fund                       210     330        610     940       65%
Equipment and Vhidcles                160     140        570     710       80%
Parchase of Animale                   140     620          °     620        0
Vehicles' Bnning and Other
Operating Costa                     380     840       850   1,690        50%
Incrmeental Agricultural Crodit
- Inputs                            160     280       430      710       61%
- Improved Seeds                     50     170         50     220       21%
- Farn Equipment - Blacksith Kits  30       110         30     140       23%
- Vaccine                            10      40         10      50       25%
Irrigation Devdlopmnt Surveys
and Studies                         140       0        620     620      100%
Other Studies, Technical Assistance,
Audit., Scholarships                110       O        490     490      100%
Sub-Total                    2,400   5,870     4,810  10,680        45%
Physical Contingency               160     400        320     720       45%
Price Contingency              -410        990        810   1,800       45%
Total Expected Project Co0t      2,970   7,260      5,940  13,200       45%
Less Taxes                        :300) (1,350)         O   1,320
Total Expected Project Cost
Net of Taxes                   2,70 5,940         5,940  11,880        0



5.03      Project costs include the salaries and relted costs, travel for
exar 2le, of all staff employed `v-, PMfJ in its foru  sections (para 6.04).  On
the grounds that such staff W& d' l. v t e vo3re X of their activities to implementa-
tion of the project  which woiul  înt a-  eve its fina] objectives until beyond
the proposed three year IDA c:9    Jistursement peri.d, these costs have been
capitalized. Project cosCs do cot include the operating costs of irrigation
perimeters, as these woulu be met by partici"ating farmers, nor the salaries
and on costs of staff employed by the Forestïy, Health and Livestock Services,
since such staff would participate in the project on a part time basis only.
5.04      PMU staff would be paid in accordaace with the civil service scale;
exceptions would be any staff recruited internationally, whose emoluments
would match those presently paid to expatriates in Niger and other Sahe]ian
countries. Building construction, equipment and vehicle costs are based on
recent contractors' and dealers' quotations. Construction costs of the
irrigation schemes assume that the labor needed in these operations would be
provided by the local communities and would be paid at CFAF 150 daily, half
the minimum daily wage for rural areas. This has been a common and successful
practice in Niger for the construction of com:nunity projects. Project costs
include a physical contingency of 15% on road construction and on the
irrigation fund, and 5% on all other project items, and in addition, a
contingency to cover expected inflation over the three year disbursement
period.  l/  Physical and price contingencies amount to CFAF 570 million
(US$2.5 million), or 24% of base costs including taxes.  Base costs have been
estimated as at July 1, 1975.
5.05      Because of the high cost of inputs and lack of familiarity of
farmers with their benefits, fertilizers used by project participants would
be subsidized during the IDA credit disbursement period.  As discussed in
para 2.14, current subsidy levels on fertilizers and insecticides are very,
and probably unnecessarily, high (80%Zand 67%, respectively). It is believed
that fertilizer subsidies equivalent to 50% of delivered cost to the farmers
would be sufficient. At a 50% subsidy rate, fertilizer costs to farmers
would be about CFAF 50/kg. Insecticides used under the project would be
mainly for fungus treatment of cowpeas grown in village blocks. Cowpea
cultivation under close extension staff supervision should result in very
satisfactory yields, making insecticide subsidy unnecessary. At negotia-
tions, assurances were obtained that fertilizer subsidies on a national
level would be reduced to 50% of their delivered cost to farmers by October 15,
1977.
1/   1975:     5.4%
1976:     8.8%
1977:     8.0%
1978:     7.4%



- 20 -
B. Proposed Financing
5.06      It is proposed that IDA make a credit of US$10.7 million to finance
90% of total project costs excluding import duties and other identifiable
taxes. The credit would cover the foreign cost estimated at US$5.9 million,
and 81% of local costs excluding import duties and other identifiable taxes.
The remaining 10% of project costs, and the taxes estimated at 10% of total
project costs, or a total of US$2.5 million, would be met by Government.
Details of the project financing plan are at Annex 11 and are summarized in
the following table:



21 -
Financing Plan
US$ '000
Financed By         Total Project Cost
IDA   Government -Net of Taxes  With Taxes  % of Total
Staff Salaries
- Local Staff          870   .1,220          1,870         2,090         16
- Expatriates          910       110           910         1,020          7
Buildings and
Civil Works,
Wood fuel
Seedlings              580        40           550           620          5
Roads C listruction      680        80           680            760          6
Irrigatlmn Fund          820       120           840            940          7
Equipmient and
Vehicles               640        70           630           710          5
Purchase of
Animals                560        60           550            620          5
Vehicles' running,
and other oper-
ating costs         1,490       200          1,510         1,690         13
Incremental Agri-
cultural Credit
- Inputs               630       80            630            710         5
- Improved Seeds       210       10            200            220          2
- Farm Equipment
and Blacksmith
Kits                100        40            130            140         1
- Vaccine               30       20             40            50          -
Irrigation Devel-
opment, Surveys
and Studies            620      -               620           620          5
Other Studies,
Technical Assis-
tance, Audit,
Scholarships          440        50            440           490          4
Sub-Total        8,580    2,100           9,600        10,680         81
Physical Con-
tingency         620       100            640           720          5
Price Con-
tingency      _      ,300               1,640                       14
Total           10,700    2,500          11,880        13,200        100
% of total Proj-
ect cost net
of taxes            90%        10%
1/   Including taxes.



- 22 -
5.07      It is proposed that the IDA credit of US$10.7 million would be
made on standard terms to the Government who would pass it on to the Proj-
ect Management Unit on a grant basis together with the Governnent contri-
bution of US$2.5 million. Assurances covering the financing arrangements
were obtained during negotiations.
5.08      To ensure the efficient and timely execution of the project, fur-
ther assurances were obtained from Government during negotiations that it
would:
(a)  ensure that an account in the name of PMU is estab-
lished with CNCA;
(b) deposit an initial amount of CFAF 125 million
(US$0.6 million) into the account;
(c) replenish the account quarterly on the basis
of PMU cash forecasts in order to provide PMU with
sufficient funds to meet project expenditures
for the following three months; and
(d) ensure that seasonal and short-term credit
repayments for farm inputs, seeds, equipment,
blacksmith kits and vaccines would be made
to revolving fund accounts administered by
PMU and deposited with CNCA.
It was agreed at negotiations that the establishment of the revolving fund
account with an initial deposit of CFAF 125 million would be a condition of
credit effectiveness.
5.09      Retroactive financing by IDA of up to US$0.3 million is proposed
to finance the expansion oa the extension worker training center at Maradi
which started on January 1, 1974 and was completed in early 1974, and to
initiate the seed multiplication program for the 1976 planting season.
C. Procurement
5.10      The following procedures would be used:  orders or contracts for
equipment, vehicles, or chemicals with a value of more than US$50,000 would
be through international competizWive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA
guidelines. Such procurement is estimated to have a value of US$1.0 mil-
lion. Contracts of less than US$50,000 would be procured on the basis of
locally advertised competitive bfdding procedures.  Fuel, spare parts and
items too small to warrant competitive bidding would be procured locally
under procedures acceptable to the Association. Construction of the irriga-
tion schemes would be by their prospective users under the supervision of



- 23 -
PMU. As there are no local contractors able to build the project roads, and
as these are too small (US$0.8 million) and too disperse to attract foreign
contractors, the roads would be built by the Department of Public Works on
force account. Project buildings costing an estimated US$0.6 million would
be constructed under local competitive bidding procedures which are acceptable
to the Association. Contracts exempted from international competitive bidding
would aggregate no more than US$1.9 million. Some US$6.7 million would be
for expenses unsuitable for competitive bidding, such as salaries, vehicle
operating costs, etc. Consultants providing technical assistance and carrying
out the various required studies (US$1.1 million) would be recruited inter-
nationally according to IDA guidelines. The remaining US$2.5 million would
be for contingencies.
D. Disbursement
5.11      The IDA credit would finance 100% of the foreign exchange cost
of studies, auditors, and scholarships and 89% of all other project items,
except the salaries of civil servants posted to the project, which would be
financed 100% by Government. The disbursement categories would be as follows:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1)  Civil Works              1,200,000                 89%
(2)  Vehicles, Equipment         600,000      100% of foreign expenditures
or 89% ot local expenditures
(3)  Eertilizers, in-         1,000,000       100% of foreign expenditures
secticides, improved                     or 89% of local expenditures
seeds and other
farm inputs
(4)  Animal purchase             600,000      100% of foreign expenditures
and vaccines                             or 89% of local expenditures
(5)  PMU expatriate              900,000      100% of foreign expenditures
staff salaries
(6)  PMU local staff          2,400,000       100% of foreign expenditures
salaries and PMU                         or 89% of local expenditures
operating costs



- 24 -
(7)  Irrigation fund             900,000                  89%
(8)  Studies, audit,           1,200,000       100% of foreign expenditures
scholarships,                             or 89% of local expenditures
technical
assistance
(9)  Unallocated               1,900,000
TOTAL               10,700,000
5,12      Disbursements of the IDA credit would be against import documenta-
tion and certified records of expenditures. For disbursements made against
certified records of expenditures, documentation would not be submitted for
review as a matter of course, but would be retained by PMU for scrutiny by
Bank Supervision Missions. Any surplus credit funds after completion of
the project would be used to furtlher develop services to farmers. The
estimated schedule of disbursement: of the IDA credit is at Annex 11,
Table 9.
E. Accournts and Audit
5.13      Accounts for PMU would be kept under acceptable commercial
accounting procedures. Accounts would be audited annually by independent
auditors mutually acceptable to Gcvernment and IDA. Audited annual accounts
would be submitted to IDA within four months of the closing of the finan-
cial year. Assurances to the above effect were obtained at negotiations.
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Ogranization
6.01      The project would be carried out by a Project Management Unit
(PMU), whose establishment would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
la the case of its agricultural production components implementation would
be tlirough farmers cooperatives. Initially such farmers cooperatives would
receive assistance from PMU in the form of seconded staff, technical assistance
and finance. It has been estimated that it takes about 5 years participation
ïn an intensive development project for individual cooperatives to generate
sifficient surpluses through their input supply, credit and marketing activi-
ties to tinance farm level extension agents at a ratio of about one agent to



- 25 -
150 farmers. Achievement of such self-sufficiency would be a prime objective
of the project.
6.02      PMU would be headed by a Project Manager responsible for day-to-
day project implementation. He would report to the Prefet, who in turn
would be accountable to the CND. A Project Manager has been appointed.
His experience and seniority level are acceptable to IDA. Annual work
programs and budgets would be prepared by PMU and approved by the Prefet and
CND. Coordination between PMU and other Governmental activities in the
Departement de Maradi would be assured by the Prefet, assisted by the Comite
Technique Departemental (COTEDEP), an existing committee comprised of all
the heads of Government services in the Departement. The Project Unit Manager
would be a member of COTEDEP. Agreement on this point was obtained at
negotiations. Coordination at the national level would be through the CND.
6.03      As the project would be the first phase of a development program
for the Departement, PMU activities would initially cover only part of the
Departement's area. Existing services, agricultural and social, would have
to continue to be extended to other parts of the Departement. Consequently
there would be two distinct services operating in the Departement, the Proj-
ect Service, under which project activities would be extended (para 4.02) and the
regular Government service which would operate outside the project area. Various
means of combining the two services have been considered in attempts to minimize
overhead and staff requirements. Government has decided, however, that given
the priority of the project, and the necessity to distinguish project and
non-project activities, the creation of a separate PMU to handle project
affairs would be the most practical alternative. The proposed arrangements,
although they still imply some duplication, are satisfactory since if the
project is successful, it will be followed by further phases and eventually
all rural services would come under the control of a single entity of which
PMU would be the forerunner.
6.04      PMU would have four sections, whose heads would report to the
Project Manager:
(a) Administrative Section, responsible for project
accounting, staff administration, financial
arrangements for agricultural credit and for
crop marketing, and project evaluation.
(b) Technical Operations Section, responsible for
planning and implementing either directly or
indirectly all physical aspects of the project.
The Technical Operations Section would comprise
five sub-sections: Rural Engineering, General
Agriculture, Seed Multiplication, Applied Research,
Extension Staff training and Blacksmith training.



- 26 -
(c)  Cooperative Affairs Section, responsible for coop-
erative development, s.aff secondment to coopera-
tives, delivery of inputs, crop marketing, and
audit of cooperative accounts.
(d) Community Development Section, responsible for all
actions involving the motivation of rural communi-
ties to participate in the project, and training
programs for rural people in cooperative activities,
functional literacy, health and mid-wifery.
6.05      PMU would be headquartered in Maradi, and have branches in
four 1/ of the six Arrondissements that comprise the Departement. Each
branch would be staffed by a representative of the four Headquarters
Sections, one of whom would be appointed by the Project Manager as
branch manager. The branches would liaise closely with the Arrondissement
administration to achieve at this lower level the same type of cooperation
and coordination as would be provided at the Departement level. The branches
would be responsible for assisting and supervising the activities of those of
the Departement's 15 ALC's that are located in their Arrondissement. PMU
staff representation at the ALC, and individual cooperative levels would
depend upon the degree of development of each ALC and be at the discretion of
the Project Manager.
B. Staffing
6.06      PMU would be staffed with personnel seconded from the following.-
Government ministries:
(a) Ministere de l'Economie Rurale et du Climat (MERC)
-    Direction du Genie Rural:  for irrigation and
other works relatedl to soil and water manage-
ment and conservation.
-    Direction de l'Agr:Lculture:  for agricultural
extension, seed mu;Ltiplication, applied research
and extension agents' training.
-    Union Nigerienne de Credit et Cooperation:  for
cooperative development, input supply and credit,
and blacksmith training.
(b) Ministere du Developpement (MD)
Service de l'Alphabetisation:  for functional
litteracy.
1/   Tessaoua, Mayahi, Madarounfa, Guidam Roumji.



- 27 -
Service de l'Animation:  for community
development and training of farmers.
It is expected that most staff who are now part of these ministries, and
working in the ALC's to be covered by the project would be transferred to
PMU (para 6.09).
6.07      Other project activities would be carried out by the existing
Government services on behalf of PMU. PMU would agree with the services
on programs of activity, their timing and financing. Such programs would
form part of the project's annual work program which would be approved by
the Prefet and CND, and consequently, the Government Service concerned
would be required to execute its commitment in a timely manner and within
a budget which would be controlled by PMU. Services so "contracted" would
include Ministere de l'Economie Rurale - Service de l'Elevage, for the live-
stock sub-project; - Service des Eaux et Forets, for fuel wood planting
material supply; Ministere des Travaux Publics- et du Tourisme, for the road
sub-project, and Ministere de la Sante- Publique et des Affaires Sociales
for the health sub-project.
6.08      PMU and each of its four Headquarter Sections would be headed by
Nigeriens. An internationally recruited adviser would assist the Project
Manager. Specialists in rural engineering/small scale irrigation, in applied
research and seed multiplication would also be recruited internationally to
fill executive positions in PMU. The expatriate staff are needed to compensate
for current shortages in local expertise. It is assumed that the four interna-
tionally recruited staff would be required throughout the three-year proj-
ect period, and that the three expatriates in executive positions would
train their deputies to take over their functions by the end of this period.
During negotiations Government requested IDA's assistance in the recruitmexit
of such expatriate staff. Ternms of reference for key staff are at Annex 12.
Assurances were obtained that all section heads of PMU and all expatriate
staff would have qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA, and that
the adviser to the Project Manager would be appointed within three months
of signing the credit agreement. A condition of effectiveness is the appoint-
ment of the four section heads.
6.09      Staff for PMU would be seconded from the services listed in para
6.06 following selection by their Service Chiefs, endorsement by the Proj-
ect Manager, and final approval by the Prefet and CND. The Project Manager
would have a right of veto over the appointment of any staff member and the
power to return unsatisfactory staff members to their own service and obtain
a replacement.
6.10      An estimated 69 staff members would be seconded to PMU in Project
Year 1 (PY 1), most of whom would be permanent civil servants. Most section
heads would be professionals and graduates of French universities. Senior
technical staff would be mostly graduates of the Katibougou Agricultural
School in Mali, if agriculturalists; of the Saria School in Upper Volta,
if rural engineers; and of the Institut Panafricain de Developpement in



- 28 -
Cameroon, if working in administration, planning, and community develop-
ment. Most junior technical staff would be graduates of Institut Pratique
de Developpement Rural at Kolo in Niger. By the end of the project period
a total of 132 seconded staff nembers are expected to be in post.  It is
also estimated that by the end of the project development period some 285
cooperative extension agents would be required. Government has stated that
the necessary numbers of staff would be made available to the project.
MIuch of the project success will be due in great part to the quality of the
staff assigned to PMU. Government is aware of this and has stated that the
project would be given foremost priority and would be assigned the best staff
available.
C. Staff Training
6.11      During their initial two to three months with the project, all
staff would receive in-service training courses to acquaint them fully
with project objectives and policies. Additionally, refresher courses
for all staff would be held annually. Selected individuals would receive
scholarships and fellowships for overseas training, see para 4.09. All
farm level extension workers would receive up to seven months training
during one cultivation season in the agricultural practices that would
be extended under the project at the Centre de Formation des Jeunes
Agriculteurs (CFJA) in Maradi. Further details of staff training are
in Chapter IV and at Annex 8.
D. Cooperatives and Credit
6.12      Farmers Cooperatives.  Farmers cooperatives in Niger are concerned
mostly with crop marketing and still require Government financial and technical
assistance. Thus UNCC (para 2.10, and Annex 2) functions as a Government agency
rather than as an autonomous, apex cooperative organization. These arrangements
are appropriate given the backwardness and poverty of the agricultural sector and
the current very low standards of literacy. Thus, although the average co-
operative elects and appoints its own officers, the principal of whom are
President, Weigher and Secretary and reaches decisions through a committee
formed of its members, UICC at the ALC (i.e., union) level keeps inventory
and cash accounts for the ALC and its member societies. Even in the more
developed cooperatives where responsibilities for inventory control and cal-
culation of members' bonuses have been delegated to the cooperative itself,
UNCC still retains cash control and supervises the payment of cooperative
staff.  In some ALC, on-the-job trained farmer accountants are now beginning
to keep accounts under UNCC supervision. UNCC staff seconded to PMU's Co-
operative Affairs Department wouid continue these types of activities for ALC
participating in the project, and PMU would seek to establish for each ALC and
its member coooperatives a schedule with specific targets for the training of



- 29 -
cooperative members to take over increasing degrees of responsibility for the
management of their societies. Functional literacy and other training pro-
grams carried out under the project would support this latter activity.
6.13      In areas where new cooperatives are required, the procedures would
be as follows: Following motivation of the people of a specific farming
village or of a group of farmers engaged in some common project activity
such as the block cultivation of cowpeas, or the establishment of irriga-
tion schemes, a pre-cooperative would be formed, the so-called Groupement
Mutualiste Villageois (GMV). The farmer members of the pre-cooperative
would elect a committee comprising a Chairman and Secretary/Treasurer and
four to five members and appoint officials - the produce weigher, etc.
The GMV so formed would be associated with 5 to 12 other existing or new
GMV to form a cooperative. The cooperative would have its own committee
elected and a staff appointed by representatives of its constituent GMV,
and several cooperatives would be joined together in an ALC. This develop-
ment of new cooperatives would be sponsored by the Cooperative Affairs and
Community Development Sections of PMU.
6.14      Credit.  Since the agency responsible for providing agricultural
credit throughout the country, CNCA, has not had a very good record and has
only just recently been reactivated (para 2.15), it is proposed that PMU
would operate the credit scheme for participating farmers and employ the
ALC, Cooperative, and GMV channel as the delivery system for such credit.
Farmers would be eligible for seasonal credit for fertilizers, fungicides,
insecticides, improved seed and livestock vaccines; and short-term, 3 years,
credit for crop sprayers and animal drawn farm equipment. Medium-term credit,
5 years, would be provided for blacksmiths' equipment. Interest on all loans
would be at 10%, and no down payment would be required in view of the poverty
of project area farmers. The 10% interest rate compares with a central bank
discount rate of 5.5% and is appropriate given the security of loans provided
under the GMV system of each GMV guaranteeing loans made to its members
and the relatively low overhead of administering credit under the project.
Interest rates would need to be reconsidered as more information on the
cost of credit delivery and recovery became available. This would be a
task for the Project Evaluation Unit. Assurances that a 10% interest rate
would be applied to all farm credit given under the Project were obtained
at negotiations.
E. Irrigation Schemes
6.15      Given the conclusion of the study of alternatives of irrigation
development of the Goulbi (para 4.10) that groundwater irrigation should be
pursued, the irrigation schemes to be financed under the project would be
operated as follows. Where physical conditions are adequate (proximity to
the water table, soil suitability), farmers would form a cooperative and
jointly apply for an irrigation credit. They would provide the casual labor



- 30 -
to dig the well down to the water table, to build the flood control bunds
and irrigation canals, and they would be paid approximately half the prevailing
wage rate. PMU would provide ttechnical assistance and would finance digging
below the water table, the well filtering system, pumping equipment, a reservoir
of some 20 m3 capacity and all irrigation structures. The cooperative would
sign a contract with PMU stipulating inter alia the recovery of investment
costs and that the scheme would be operated under PIU supervision. Water
application would be organized by the users themselves. Each scheme would
keep its own record of expenses, fuel maintenance, capital recovery and appor-
tion them to the users pro rata to the size of their scheme holdings. Capital
cost recovery is discussed at para 7.12.
VII. YIELDS AND PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES, FARMER BENEFITS,
GOVERNMENT BENEFITS, AND COOPERATIVE BENEFITS
A. Yields and Production
7.01      The table below compares current yields of rainfed crops grown
in the project area with those t:hat project participants are expected to
obtain.



_ 31 -
Millet             Groundnuts             Cowpeas
(grain)         (unshelled nuts)          (grain)
-------------------kg/ha--------------------
Current (without
proj ect)
Range of annual
national averages
1967-1975                310-660              210-850               70-160
Average used in
report calcula-
tions                       470                 490                    100
Expected (with
project, by 1982)
Range                    425-1,000            550-1,150               600
Average used in
report calcula-
tions                       570                 780                   600
Increment as conse-
quence of project            100                290                    500
Percentage increase          21%                59%                    500%
The ranges of annual national averages are from official statistics; the
current average used in report calculations is the weighted average of
estimates made by the Direction de l'Agriculture of MERC for the two major
agricultural sub-zones of the project area. It is assumed that, without
the project, yields would not improve but would remain at current levels.
The expected yields are the mission's best estimates based on experience
in the Departement de Maradi and elsewhere in Niger and West Africa. To
develop these yield estimates, assumptions have been made on the rate of
farmer acceptance of project innovations in the two major, climatically
different sub-zones of the project area. The details of these assunptions
are at Annex 4. In brief, it is assumed that it will take farmers about
five years from the start of their participation in the project to take up
the package of improved techniques that would be available to them under
the project; that the extent of acceptance will vary from one crop to
another; and that some project area farmers will decline to take up any
of the improved techniques. By 1982, at full project development, i.e.,
when farmers taking up project recommended practices in the last year of
the proposed IDA credit disbursement period (1978) will have completed
their five years, the situation has been estimated to be as follows:



- 32 -
Percentage of Farmers Using Improved Techniques-
Principal Techniques                                 Millet    Groundnuts
StÊge 0  -  No Change                                  25           10
Stage 1 - Seed Dressing,
Improved Varieties, Proper
Seeding Density for Groudnuts                        35          50
Stage 2 - Fertilizer for Groimd-
nuts; Residual Effects of Fe:r-                         /2            /2
tilizer for Millet                                20-2_-L       25-30--
/1   Excludes cowpeas, which wuder the project would be grown in coop-
erative blocks.
/2   Depending whether in Northern or Southern sub-zones.
The table shows that the assumed degree of acceptance would be highest for
groundnuts, the most profitable crop for the farmer, and the second best
for millet, which is less profiLtable in terms of cash, although a food
staple. By project year 3 at the end of the credit disbursement period,
only a fraction of farmers would have started adopting improved cultiva-
tion methods: i.e., it is estimated that only 13% of project farmers
would have reached stage 1 by 1978. The overall impact of the project
at full development, in 1982, i.s estimated as bringing up average yields
in the 15 project area ALC's close to those which were obtained in the
years of most favorable rainfall over the period 1967-1975. The large
expected increment in cowpea yields is the result of both a change in
cultivation method from mixed to sole cropping, as well as the use of a
package of improvements.
7.02      The yield increases dlescribed above are estimated to result in
increments in annual production amounting to 18,100 tons of millet, 19,800
tons of unshelled groundnuts aid 600 tons of cowpeas by 1982.
7.03      New production from project established irrigated areas is esti-
rmated at 500 tons of seed cotton; 900 tons of sorghum; and 7,000 tons of
tomatoes and other vegetables annually by 1981. These estimates are based
on tIhe model irrigated farm plans discussed in Annex 7; in practice, the
output mix could be different, although it is assumed that the value of
output would be similar.
7.04      Without the project, ît is estimated that the cattle herd in the
Departement would increase fromi 371,000 head at present to 380,000 head in
1978, an annual growth rate of about 1%. With the improvements to be
introduced through the project,, it is estimated that a more rapid growth



- 33 -
of 4.0% would be obtained and that the herd would increase to 431,000 head
during the same period. Assuming an off-take rate of 13%, as at present,
project-induced marketed livestock production would amount to 18,700 tons
liveweight valued at CFAF 1.5 billion in 1979, compared with 15,700 tons
liveweight valued at CFAF 1.3 billion without the project.
B. Marketing and Prices
7.05      Cattle and other livestock would be marketed privately.  Primary
marketing of groundnuts would be done by the cooperatives, which would sell
them to SONARA (para 2.12) for export as nuts or as oil after crushing by
local processors. Until 1973/1974, an average of two-thirds of the marketed
groundnut crop was sold to oil seed crushers, and one-third was exported
unprocessed. Marketing of cereals, cowpeas and vegetables would be through
the traditional network of private traders to whom participating farmers
would sell their produce. OPVN (para 2.12) would make some purchase of
cereal grains and cowpeas through the medium of the cooperatives as part of
its role of price stabilization, and also to organize an export market for
cowpeas. Except for a short period immediately following the harvest when
OPVN is given priority over private traders for the purchase of cereals to
establish Government emergency stabilization stocks, marketing of cereals is
free. Assurances were obtained that the official prices for cereals paid by
OPVN would always be kept at an adequate level and be published early enough
to induce farmers to produce for the market.
7.06      Government price fixing of producer prices for cash crops is
discussed at para 2.12. Government also determines prices that groundnut
crushers should pay SONARA. Prices paid by crushers were 54.5% of the CIF
Europe price in the past, but were raised in 1974 to 65% of the CIF Europe
price. Those prices are presently adequate, considering the diseconomy of
scale facing the local processors compared to those in Europe, and the
employment benefits the local industry generates. To ensure that prices
paid by local processors remain adequate, that producers' incentives are
maintained, and that Government recovers its investment and recurrent
expenses through the quasi-tax (para 2.12) levied by SONARA, Government has
agreed to keep groundnut producer prices at a level sufficient to provide
adequate incentives to farmers; to announce producer prices early; to review
producer prices annually; and to undertake no new commitments to subsidize
the local groundnut crushing industry.
7.07      The following table shows the economic and financial prices used
in report calculations for the two main commodities that would be produced
under the project. For groundnuts, three economic prices are shown: those
expected to be obtained in 1976 and in 1985, after which stable prices are
assumed, and the lowest expected price in the ten year period. These prices
reflect the world price forecasts made by the Bank's Commodities and Export



- 34 -
Division (Report No. 814 of July 1975) and are expressed in constant 1975
terms; prices for millet are those prevailing in the country and which,
given the expected supply and demand situations, are expected to remain
at or above present levels. The economic import substitution price for
imported cereal grains is about 40% above local prices.
CFAF/kg
Shelled Groundnuts       Millet
Economic Price                       60-30-53               35
Farm Budget                             55                  35
C. Farmer Benefits
7.08      Farm budgets representing typical farms in the two main agricul-
tural zones of the Departement are shown in Annex 4. It is assumed that
the situation without the project would remain unchanged from the present.
Farmers' gross incomes from crop production (at 1975 prices), excluding
any income from participating Ln either the irrigation or the livestock
component of the project, would increase some 48% when farmers reach
stage 1 (para 7.01), and 87% when they reach stage 2. The overall proj-
ect impact on all farmers in the area between 1976 and 1982 is equivalent
to all farmers' reaching stage 1 of development.  The farmers' average
gross incomes would increase 47%, from CFAF 92,000 in 1976 to CFAF 136,000
in 1982, and their net incomes, 67%, from CFAF 53,000 to CFAF 89,000 in the
same period. No increase in family labor would be required (294 days aver-
age), and consequently, net income per day worked would increase from an
average of CFAF 179 at present to CFAF 298 by 1982. The latter figure is
equivalent to the minimum official daily wage in the agricultural sector
(CFAF 300).
7.09      Direct benefits enjoyed by participants as a consequence of the
project have been assessed only in terms of the value of incremental crop
production. Farmers would also profit substantially from increases in
livestock production induced bv the project, as they own 50% of all the
cattle (Annex 9), and the major proportion of sheep and goats in the
Departement. However, the extent of livestock ownership varies widely
within the farm community, and thus, the impact of the livestock compo-
nent on typical farmers' incomes is difficult to assess and has not been
calculated.
7.10      To demonstrate the financial returns from irrigated development,
units of about 10 ha each, uti]ized by 20 farm families, have been assumed.
Net income from a 0.50 ha holding is estimated to amount to CFAF 67,000 by
the fourth year of its developmient (Annex 7) after payment of all direct



- 35 -
expenses and capital recovery. The irrigated holdings would be cultivated
by iarmers who would also practice farming under rainfed conditions. Anal-
yses of labor requirements at Annexes 4 and 7 indicate that in the month of
November, when farmers harvest groundnuts and cereals and prepare their
irrigated holdings for planting, a tight labor supply situation would develop.
For that reason, irrigated holdings should be limited to 0.5 ha per family.
D. Impact of Project on Government Finances
7.11      The project disbursement period is only for three years, and
experience in Niger has shown that it usually takes up to five years for
cooperatives participating in an intensive agricultural project to generate
sufficient funds to pay for cooperative extension workers (para 6.01). It
has been assumed for the purpose of this report that Government would finance
all support services until 1984, after which cooperatives would have become
entirely self supporting. Thus Annex 13 indicates that Government in addition
to making a capital contribution to project costs of CFAF 563 million would
be required to allocate some CFAF 380 million annually subsequent to the 3-
year project development period until 1984 to maintain agricultural and other
services needed to sustain project benefits at the levels achieved during
the project development period. The size of the allocation has been calculated
on the assumptions that (a) as currently, prices would be fixed at levels
precluding any significant surpluses accruing to SONARA and thus being avail-
able for transfer to Government's revenue account (see para 2.12), (b) the
subsidies on inputs would be at the levels described in para 5.05, and (c)
the project area would not be the subject of a second follow-up project
financed by external assistance. An annual allocation of CFAF 380 million
would be equivalent to CFAF 10,000 (US$45) per farm family in the project
area.  Cost of support services at the above level appears justified, given
the incremental value of production induced by the project of CFAF 44,000
annually per farm family, or more than four times the cost of support services.
E. Capital Recovery in Irrigation Schemes
7.12      As there is not much experience in Niger of similar small scale
irrigation development schemes, there is no understanding of the level of
incentives, financial and otherwise, necessary to motivate farmers to
participate in such schemes. It has therefore been assumed, based on
experiences elsewhere, that farmers participating in the project irriga-
tion schemes would be assessed the full cost of operation and a charge of
not more than 25% of the farmers' net incomes at full development, or CFAF
44,000/ha, to enable Government to recover its investment. This is equiv-
alent to Government's recovering its investment in each irrigation scheme
over a 30-year period and at a 10% interest rate. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that payment terms to recover Government investment in irri-
gation schemes would be mutually acceptable to Government and IDA.



- 36 -
VIII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS
8.01      The project's direct benefits would be the increased production
(paras 7.02, 7.03 and 7.04) it would generate, which would result in higher
incomes for some 37,500 farm families and 14,000 pastoral families, and in
increased net foreign exchange earnings of US$2.0 million annually by 1982.
The economic rate of return from investment in the project is estimated at
39% over 25 years (Annex 15). As the project consists of a number of dis-
crete activities individual rates of return have been calculated for the
principal of these, as shown below:
Irrigation
Improvement of Rainfed Cultivation            Schemes    Livestock  Aggregate
ALC without    ALC With
Project Roads  Project Roads  Aggregate
31%             20%           27%             20%          100%      39%
Roads to be financed under the project are considered essential to reach
expected increases in production in the ALC's they would serve. The very
high rate of return on the livestock component of the project is typical
of the returns achievable through the prophylactic and curative treatment
of livestock. The credit scheme for destitute pastoralists is excluded from
the economic calculation for the reasons given in para 4.17. No economic rate
of return for woodfuel plantations has been calculated as it is impossible
to quantify all the benefits that the plantations would have, particularly
in arresting the deterioration of the vegetative cover.
8.02      Important assumptions used in the calculations are:
(a)  economic farm gate prices in 1975 constant CFAF terms as
detailed in para 7.07;
(b)  inclusion in the cost stream of the rainfed development sub-
project of costs incurred by PMU's Cooperative Affairs and
Community Development Sections on the grounds that without
these "social" services the anticipated yield increases from
rainfed crops would not be achieved; and
(c)  no additional farm family labor would be required under the
rainfed agricultural development program; the additional farm
family labor required on the irrigation schemes has been costed
at the wage rate prevailing in the area, about half of the official
daily wage rate for the sector.
8.03      Sensitivity analyses of the economic rates of return of the prin-
cipal project components are at Annex 15, Table 5, and are summarized below:



- 37 -
Benefits (percentage)         100      90     110      100     100
Costs (percentage)            100    100      100       90     110
----------rates of return----------
Improvement in Rain-
fed Cultivation              27      22      31       32      22
Irrigation Schemes             20      16      24       24      16
Livestock                     100    100      100      100     100
These sensitivity analyses indicate that the rainfed cropping component is
the most sensitive to changes in benefits or costs. Except in the case of
the livestock component each variation of benefits or costs of 1% would,
for all the main project components result in an absolute change of about
0.5 percentage points in the component's rate of return. For the project
overall and again excluding the livestock component costs would have to
rise by some 25% for the composite rate of return to fall to less than 15%.
8.04      The Project would have a number of secondary benefits which are
not reflected directly in the economic rate of return calculations. Impor-
tant among these are (a) the impact of the functional literacy and health
training programs, (b) the demonstration effect of a concerted and inte-
grated approach to rural development, (c) the planning of the development of
an as yet unexploited natural resource, the irrigation potential of the Goulbi,
(d) the expansion of non-farm rural employment, for example in blacksmithing,
and in the two existing groundnut shelling and crushing factories in the Depart-
ement; and (e) the improvement of nutrition and health.
8.05      The technical risks attached to the project are not considered
large; the improved agricultural techniques that would be promoted by the
project have been tested extensively in similar ecological zones in Niger
and elsewhere in West Africa, and have been shown to be acceptable to farmers.
The livestock activities are similarly well tested and appreciated. Technical
risks in the pilot irrigation scheme are considered small and here, social
issues, such as land reallocation, could prove greater constraints. However
in the case of irrigation, disbursements of the IDA credit would be conditional
upon the conclusion of a study of alternatives of irrigation development and
the approval of IDA of detailed plans, for the implementation of individual
perimeters. A risk that cannot be eliminated or significantly reduced is
that inherent in the climatic vagaries which bedevil Niger. Because of the
project's relatively high rate of return, the economic viability of the
project would not be jeopardized by the statistically unlikely recurrence of
drought of the magnitude experienced in the period 1967-1974.



- 38 -
IX. RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that:
(a)  Government would open discussions with Nigeria with a view
towards reaching agreement on the use of the water of the
Maradi River and on a material program of catchment
conservation (para 4.10).
(b)  The IDA share of the irrigation fund would be committed
through a system of IDA approval of the detailed proposals
for each well and its perimeter (para 4.12).
(c)  Government would undertake vaccination campaigns similar
to those conducted under the project in the other Departe-
ments of Niger (para 4.15).
(d)  Government would decrease its subsidies on fertilizers to a
level not exceeding the equivalent of 50% of their cost to
farmers by October 15, 1977 (para 5.05).
(e)  The IDA credit would be passed on to the Project Management
Unit along with Goverament's contribution, in the form of
a grant (para 5.07).
(f)  Government would:
(i)  ensure that an account in the name of PMU is
established with CNCA;
(ii) deposit an initial amount of CFAF 125 million
(US$0.6 million) into the account;
(iii) replenish the account quarterly on the basis of PMU
cash forecasts to provide PMU with sufficient funds
to meet project expenditures for the following three
months; and
(iv) ensure that seasonal and short-term credit repayments
for farm inputs, seeds, equipment, blacksmith kits and
vaccines would be made to revolving fund accounts
administered by PMU and deposited with CNCA (para 5.08).
(g)  Accounts would be audited annually by independent auditors
mutually acceptable to Government and IDA, and audited annual
accounts would be submitted to IDA within four months of the
end of the financial year (para 5.13).
(h) The Project Unit Manager would be a member of Comite Technique
Departemental (COTEDEP) (para 6.02).



- 39 -
(i) All sections heads of PMU and all expatriate staff would have
qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA, and that the
adviser to the Project Manager would be appointed within three
months of signature of the Credit Agreement (para 6.08).
(j) A 10% interest rate would be applied to all farm credit provided
under the Project (para 6.14).
(k) The official prices for cereals paid by OPVN would be set at
a level sufficient, and be announced early enough to induce
farmers to produce for the market (para 7.05).
(1) Government would set groundnut prices at a level sufficient, and
announce such prices early enough, to induce farmers to produce
for the market; review producer prices annually; and would not
make any new commitments for the purpose of subsidizing the pur-
chase of groundnuts by the local groundnut crushing industry
(para 7.06).
(m) Arrangements to recover Government investment in irrigation
schemes would be mutually acceptable to Government and IDA
(para 7.12).
9.02      Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a)  the establishment of a revolving fund account in the name
of PMU at CNCA with an initial deposit of CFAF 125 million
(para 5.08);
(b) the creation of the Project Management Unit (para 6.01);
(c)  the appointment of the four section heads (para 6.08).
9.03      A condition of disbursement of the irrigation fund would be the
satisfactory conclusion of the study of alternative methods of irrigation
development (para 4.10).
9.04      With the above assurances the project is suitable for an IDA
credit of US$10.7 million to the Republic of Niger.






ANNEX 1
Table 1
NIGER
MARADI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Statistics
A. Land Use (ha)
'Departement'    Total Area      Area Under Oultivation     % of Total Area
1971/1972    1972/1973        1972/1973
Niamuey            9,030,000        969,800    1,021,100          11.3
Dosso              3,100,000        484,500      40l,900          13.0
Tahoua            10,668,000        368,400      380,200           3.6
Maradi             3,858,000        3844,700     424,ooo          11.0
Zinder           14,543,000         429,900      434,100           3.0
Diffa            14,022,000          92,400       15,800           0.1
Agadez            71,479,000           -            -               -
Total         126,700,000      2,729,700    2,677,100           2.1
B. Population by Area
____Population------
Rainfall        Area        Total    Inhabita ts
Cliatiîc Zone            mm          ,o0o km2     '000         per km
Sahelo-Soudanian        550-850         100        1,900        19.0
Sahelian                350-550         200        1,300         6.5
Sahelo-Saharian         100-350         300          750         2.5
Saharian                  3-100         700          -            -
of which (a)            75-100    100 to 150        -
(b)             3-75      600 to 550       -            -
1,300        3,950



ANNEX 1
Table 2
NIGER
RA.RADI RUPAL DEVELOPME,T PROWJECT
Agricultural Statistics
Gross Domestic Froduct at Current Prices 19i2-1975
1972-'     19731'      197I, /     1975- 
(In billions of CFA francs)
Rural sector                                    60.8        L6.8        37.8       46.8
Agriculture                                  (34.0)      (30°0)      (21.0)     (30.0)
Animal husbandry                             (21.0)      (11.0)      (11.0)     (11.0)
Forestry                                      (5.8)      .(5.3)       (5.8)      (5.8)
Mining and quarrying                             1.5         1.6        1.9         2.2
Manufacturing industries                         8.9        10.7       11.9        14.3
Electricity, gas, and water                      0.5        o.6         0.6         0.7
Construction                                     3 4         3.7         ,.l        4.3
Commerce                                        15.5        15.5  :    15.5        13.3
Transport                                        4.4    '               5.2         4.8
Banking                                          3.5         3.8        4.5         h.1
Services                                         3.8         3.8        3.8         3.8
Administration                                   5.9         6.3        6.7         7.1
Others                                           0.5        0.5         0.5         0.5
Total GDP                                108.7        97.7        92.5       101.9
Annual change (in percent)                          (-10.1)      (-5.3)      (10.2)
(In percent of total)
Rural sector                                    55.9       47.9        hO.9        45.9
Agriculture                                  (31-3)      (30.7)     (22.7)      (29.4)
Animal husbandry                             (19.3)      (11.3)     (11.9)      (10.8)
Forestry                                      (5.3)       (5.9)      (6.3)       (5.7)
Mining and quarrying                             1.4     '  1.6         2.1         2.2
Manufacturing industries                         8.2       U.0         12.9        14.0
Electricity, gas, and water                      0.5        0.6         0.6         0.7
Construction                                    3.2         3.8         4.4         4.1
Commerce                                       1i.2       15.9        16.8        13.0
Transport                                        4.0         4.5        5.6         4.7
Banking                                          3.2         3.9        4.9         4.0
Services                                         3.5         3.9        4.1         3.8
Administration                                   5'4         6.4        7.2         7.0
Others                                           0.5        0.5         0.5         0.5
Total                                    100.0       100.0       100.0       100.0
Sources:  Data provided by the Niger authorities; the BCEAO (Niger); and staff estimates.
V  Estimates.
21 Projections.



NIGER
MARADI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Statistics
Exports by Major Commodities, 1970-75
(In millions of SDRs)
1970        1971         1972         1973-/      19741/       19752
Exports officially recorded                      36.15       49.58        51.82        6h.82        62.52       97.06
Uranium concentrate                                -           7.13        7.92        25.35        26.64        4o.47
Groundnut products                               22.72       21.39        2h.48        16.89         8.51        27.80
Shelled groundnuts                            (19.99)      (16.96)     (17.68)      (10.30)      ( -          (10.59)
Oil                                            (2.05)       (3.49)      (5-51)       (5.37)       (7.61)      (15.66)
Cakes                                          (0.68)       (0.94)      (1.29)       (1.22)       (0.90)       (1.55)
Livestock                                         5.80         9.03       14.37        13.00        11.h2         9.46
Cattle                                         (5.22)       (8.17)     (13.25)      (11.42)       (.)          ( .,
Other                                          (0.58)       (0.86)      (1.12)       (1.58)       (..          (   )
Ginned cotton                                     0.58         2.02        0.86         0.36         0.35        0.61
Hides and skins                                   0.65         1.19        1.55         2.23 )
Onions                                            0.32        0.65         0.65         0.4° )
Meat                                              0.36         0.50        0.40         0.43 )      15.60        18.72
Other                                             5.76        6.12         6.77         9.72 )
Total                                       36.19       48.03        57.00        68.38        62.52       97.06
Entrepôt trade and miscellaneous            -0.04        1.55        -5.18        -3.56          -
Unrecorded exports                               10.52         8.61       12.71         5.°4         6.50         8.02
Total exports                                    46.67        58.19       64.53        69.86        69.02       105.08
Sources:  Direction de la Statistique, Bulletin de Statistique: balance of payments data provided by the BCEAO
and other Niger authorities; and staff estimates and projections.
j]  Staff estimates in consultation with the Niger authorities.                                                      I
2/  Staff projections in consultation with.the Niger authorities.                                                    Cr
/ Customs data adjusted by the BCEAO.



NIGER
MARADI RURAL DEVELOPM)O1T PROJECT
Agrieultural Statistics
Areas and Production of Major Crops2/
1966/67      196-/68      1968i'69    1969/70      1970/71      1971/72      1972/73       1973/74      19714/75g/
Millet - area ('000 ha)                            1,740        1,865        1,895        2,270        2,380        2,350        2,370        2,008        2,339
- proiduction ('000 t)                        841        1,000          732       1,095          880          958           918          627          896
- yield (kg/ha)                               480          535          385         480          370          1405      .  380           312          383
Sorghum - area ('000 ha)                             545          530          556          595          605    *    580           580           447          554
- production ('000 t)                        280          350          215         290          337          267           208          126          237
- yield (kg/ha)                              508          660          390          485         555          460           360          282          428
Cowpeas - area ('000 ha)                             608          689          745          968          980          999          920          803           930
- production ('000 t)                         67           77           74          159          81L           72         i141           99          128
- yield (kg/ha)                              110          112           99          164          85            72          155          123          138
Rice - area ('000 ha)                                   9           il          15           15           16           17            17           18           18
- production ('000 t)                            20           32           39           39           37           2(           32           46           26
- yield (kg/ha)                               2,200        2,800        2,550        2,500       2,300         1,60o        1,900        2,600        1,600
Groundnuts - area ('000 ha)                          339          357          432          320          356          394          417          364          .254
(unshelled)- production ('000 t)                     288          298          252          207          205          256          260           77          130
- yield (kg/ha)                           849          836          584         61L7         575          650          620           212          512
Cotton - area ('000 ha)                               16           17           17           20           20           21           15            10         NA
(seed) - production ('000 t)                           6.7          6.2          7.0         10.6          9.2          8.9          6.o          4          NA
- yield (kg/ha)                               411          360          4014         623         460           420          4oo          400          NA
Total Cultivated Area ('000 ha)                    3,257        3,1469       3,660        14,188       4,357        4,361         4,319       3,650        4,095
Sources  'Direction du Service de l'Agriculture'.                                                                                                                     <b
2   October 1 - September 30
2   Provisional



ANNEX 2
Page 1
NIGER
MARADI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INSTITUTIONS INVOLVED IN RURAL DEVELOPMENT
A. General
1.        The development of the rural sector is the prime objective of four
government services: Direction de l'Agriculture, Union Nigerienne de
Credit et de Cooperation (UNCC), Services de l'Animation and Services de
l'Alphabetisation; the latter two are now part of the Ministere d'Etat Charge
du Developpement, while UNCC is a parastatal agency, reporting to the
Ministere de l'Economie Rurale et du Climat. Direction de l'Agriculture
is one of the four "directions" of the Ministere de l'Economie Rurale. The
four services work independently of one another.
2.        There have been several attempts in the past to coordinate the work
of these agencies. In 1966 the four agencies joined together to create so-
called "Zones d'action integree", in which they coordinated their operating
plans. This resulted in some improvements in efficiency but did not lead to
the adoption and execution of a comprehensive agricultural development strat-
egy. In 1968 there was an abortive attempt to create a "comite permanent du
developpement rural" under the chairmanship of the Ministere de l'Economie
Rurale et du Climat to evolve and supervise such a strategy and arrange for
the regrouping of the four agencies under one ministry.
B. The Conseil National de Developpement
3.        The Government which took over in 1974 created the Conseil National
du Developpement, CND (National Development Council), by presidential decree
dated July 26, 1974. Although the texts creating and organizing the CND
limit its role to the screening of the development programs for final con-
sideration and decision by the Conseil Militaire Supreme, Government in-
tends to use the CND, not only as an instrument for developing policy, but
also to oversee the execution of development programs. CND would execute
the latter function in the case of the proposed project.
4.        Under the proposed project the staff and functions of the services
mentioned above, i.e., Direction de l'Agriculture, UNCC, Animation and
Alphabetisation in the parts of the Departement de Maradi affected by the



ANNEX 2
Page 2
project would be amalgamated 1/ (Annex 4). Outside these specific areas, the
services would remain under the direction of their existing departement
dire tors. The Project Unit would be responsible to CNT for the implementa-
tion of the project, with the Project Unit Manager reporting to CND through
the Prefet du Departement de Maradi. The Prefet is appointed by the
President of the Conseil Militaire Supreme and is the local representative
of CND.
C. The Ministere de l'Economie Rurale et du Climat
5.        The Direction de l'Agriculture is one of the four "directions"
of the Ministere de l'Economie Rurale, the others being: Elevage, Eaux et
Forets, and Genie Rural. The functions of this Directorate are defined by
Decree No. 8/MER of June 22, 1966 as being to:
-    organize, improve, and increase agricultural
production;
-    prepare agricultural development plans, and
supervise their execution;
-    protect crops thrcugh phytosanitary inspection
and control of packing and storing of agricul-
tural products;
-    teach farmers modern agricultural techniques;
-    work with cooperatives and marketing agencies to
improve the quality of agricultural production.
6.        The Directorate's staff totals 179 and includes 4 graduate agricul-
turalists, 12 senior agriculturalists, 52 senior extension workers ("conduc-
teurs de travaux agricoles", "agents techniques d'agriculture"), and 111
"moniteurs". The Directorate is compartmentalized into 7 administrative
departements and 30 arrondissements and in 149 agricultural extension
units, each headed by a "moniteur". Each extension unit serves about
20,000-30,000 people, or 3,000-4,000 farmers.
7.        The results of this very low ratio of extension workers to farmers
have been poor. The main achievement to date has been farmer acceptance of
fungicides for seed dressing. Il: is estimated that about 50% of improved
groundnut seeds were treated in 1972. The use of fertilizers, however, is
very slight, being 435 tons in 1971, 680 tons in 1972, and 542 tons in 1974.
1/   In the area covered by the t5 following Associations Locales de
Cooperatives: Chadakori, Aguie, Koona, Gabaouri, Dodori, Dan Mero,
Sabon Mache, Gabi, Maraka, Atchidakofoto, Rafinwada, Kanan Bakatche,
Mayahi, Souloulou, Madarounfa.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
8.        The functions of the Direction de l'Elevage as defined by Decree
No. 8/MER are to:
-    organize health protection for all animals, and
take all appropriate measures, technical and ad-
ministrative, to stop and prevent epidemics and
parasitic infestations;
-    inspect meats for quality and disease;
-    supervise preservation of meat, slaughterhouses,
and use of products of animal origin; and
-    take all measures to improve livestock.
9.        The Directorate staff totals 315 and includes 9 veterinarians,
6 graduate livestock specialists, 32 livestock assistants, 183 innoculators,
and 85 hide and skin inspectors. The Directorate is overall well staffed,
and has two good training schools: L'Ecole des Assistants et Agents
Techniques de l'Elevage which opened in 1971 at Niamey and graduates 80
students yearly, and l'Ecole des Moniteurs des Cuirs et Peaux (Hides and
Skins), et Surveillants d'Elevage at Maradi, which trains 15 students yearly.
10.       The Directorate has 4 stations, one each at Kirkissoye and
Toukounouss, and two at Maradi. Kirkissoye has been researching cattle
fattening using irrigated fodder crops. Of the two Maradi stations, one has
been concentrating on developing a special breed of the Sokoto goat (valued
for its skin), and the other on poultry.
I1.       While the Directorate is competently staffed, it has never received
sufficient finance to carry out its responsibilities, especially disease con-
trol, at a sufficiently high level.
D. Union Nigerienne de Credit et de Cooperation (UNCC)
12.       UNCC is a parastatal organization, with a board of 20 directors.
The managing director is appointed by the Council of Ministers. UNCC was
established in 1962 and reorganized in 1967, when its banking and credit
activities were transferred to Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA).
13.       UNCC's functions as defined by the law of September 20, 1967 are to:
(a) promote the establishment of cooperatives and
train their representatives;
(b) assist cooperatives in marketing their produc-
tion and in providing farm inputs;



ANNEX 2
Page 4
(c) provide cooperatives with technical assistance; and
(d) manage irrigation schemes.
14.       UNCC employs 384 people, including 112 extension workers whose
training has been financed under IDA Credit (207-NIR).  Less than 15% of the
staff have civil servant status; the remainder have been hired under UNCC
terms of employment. There are a total of 16 French technical assistance
personnel, financed by French aid programs.
15.       UNCC has three divisions:  administration, cooperatives, and pro-
duction. The cooperative division is responsible for the creation of new
cooperatives, and together with "Animation" and "Alphabetisation", for train-
ing farmers. It keeps accounts for the cooperatives and supervises the
cooperative education and mutual guarantee funds.  It arranges financing for
crop marketing, partly using cooperative savings deposited with it, and is
the middleman between cooperatives and marketing agencies.
16.       The production division is responsible for organizing cotton pro-
duction in the country. Compagnie Francaise des Textiles (CFDT) has provided
it with technical assistance since 1964. In 1972 UNCC had 41 extension agents
in cotton areas, serving 405 villages and a total population of 293,000
people. Cotton production increased regularly until 1969/1970, when it
reached nearly 11,000 tons of seed cotton.  Thereafter it declined to 4,000
tons in 1973/74, mostly as a consequence of the Sahelian drought. The coun-
try's production potential is estimated at about 20,000 tons.
17.       The production division L.s also responsible for supervision of
certain irrigated perimeters; these number 15 and involve a total area of
1,900 ha. Farmers participating in the schemes are usually organized in
cooperatives, and are charged an annual fee which covers operating and main-
tenance expenses.
18.       The production division is also responsible for a blacksmith train-
ing program; since 1968, 108 blacksmiths have been trained at 12 training
centers established in the shops of more advanced blacksmiths.
19.       UNCC has achieved a significant degree of success in the organiza-
tion and supervision of irrigated perimeters, the development of cotton pro-
duction, and organization of cooperatives for groundnut marketing. On the
other hand, it has not yet achieved any real measure of success in promoting
the use of inputs and improved techniques on rainfed crops other than cotton.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
E. "Animation"
20.       "Animation" services were established in 1962 and incorporated into
the Ministere de la Promotion Humaine in 1972. The Ministere de la Pro-
motion Humaine was merged into the Ministere du Developpement in 1975.
"Animation" functions are to:
(a) promote the active participation of rural
populations in their own development;
(b) facilitate the organization of cooperatives
with the technical assistance of UNCC;
(c) establish better working relationships between
populations, local administrations and the
representatives of the various Government tech-
nical services.
21.       Today "Animation" covers about one million people (25% of total
population), with heavier concentration in the south where it started. As a
first step in the process of "Animation", the service's personnel make a
thorough study of the area to determine the problems faced by the population.
Second, they organize meetings with traditional leaders and representatives
of Government services to inventory rural development problems, consider
possible solutions, and explore the possibility of Government programs to
deal with these problems. Third, "Animation" in cooperation with the tech-
nical services trains individuals in the specialized techniques needed in
implementing these programs.
22.       The most common projects initiated by "Animation" are:  health
(establishment of village dispensaries, training of first aid personnel);
cooperatives (training of cooperative personnel); water resources and forests
(establishment of village woodfuel plantations); and civil works (creation
of small irrigation schemes). After the projects have started, the village
representatives meet with "Animation" officials twice a year to assess results
and to adjust the development program, if required.
23.       "Animation" was at first oriented largely towards men.  Since 1966
a branch of "Animation" has been addressing itself specifically to the needs
of women. This has resulted in projects being implemented, such as the
training of midwives; improvement of children's diets; and the care of small
animals (fowls and goats), which are usually the responsibility of women.
24.       "Animation" has been relatively successful in motivating rural
populations, especially for projects in the health sector.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
F.  "Alphabetisation" Services
25.       "Alphabetisation" services (Service de l'Alphabetisation et de
l'Education des Adultes) are part of the Ministere du Developpement. Thiey
were created in 1961 and started operating in 1962 in the district of Maradi.
In 1966, teaching switched from French to one of the five local languages
(Hausa, Djerma, Peulh, Tamacheq, Kanuri). In 1969, a functional literacy
program was introduced, geared to the training of cooperative personnel, and
more recently as a component of larger agricultural development programs in
the Zinder, Badiguicheri, Dollol Maouri and Tillaberi projects.
26.       "Alphabetisation" services include a team of three teachers at
headquarters responsible for training staff and supervising the quality of
teaching materials; a team of five translators, one in each of the languages;
and a team to coordinate activities with formal education representatives in
the Departement. Headquarters pub.Lishes a newspaper (Gangaa) in Hausa and
some technical brochures jointly with the various technical services. Departe-
ments are becoming more involved in the production of teaching materials and
in the definition of teaching programs. "Alphabetisation" is present in all
Departements and in 1972 had 359 centers: 261 in rural areas and 98 in towns.
27.       The results of "alphabetisation", although appearing only modest
(40,000 adults were reached in the period 1962-72, of whom less than 20% are
entirely literate in reading, writing and arithmetic), are extremely encour-
aging, because these graduates can now be used to staff functional literacy
centers. Finance has been the main constraint to a more rapid development of
functional literacy, as the staff of functional literacy centers are paid
from budgets of the local administration, for which there are many competing
laims.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
NIGER
MARADI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT IN NIGER
A. General
1.        The development of agricultural credit in Niger has been particular-
ly slow due to several factors:
(a) harsh natural conditions which limit the economic
use of farm inputs especially on the staple cereals;
(b) lack of adequate extension services, and other farm
support services to ensure the most efficient use
of credit (Annex 2);
(c) absence, until recently, of any concerted policy
toward agricultural credit; and
(d) the disruptive effects of drought; for example
over the period 1967-1973, drought upset the tradi-
tional cultivation and accompanying use of inputs.
2.        The Government that came to power in 1974 has therefore taken pos-
itive steps to encourage cash crop cultivation and the use of inputs and
credit. It has raised producer prices for cash crops significantly: pro-
ducer prices for shelled groundnuts were increased 129% in 1974, from CFAF
24/kg to CFAF 55/kg. These measures should stimulate the demand for inputs
and thus for credit.
3.        However a clear cut policy for agricultural credit dealing in par-
ticular with interest rates and lending channels is still lacking. These
issues are under review by the Conseil National du Developpement (CND) and a
decision should be forthcoming shortly. Current indications are that Gov-
ernment will opt for very low interest rates to farmers in the range of 2-3%
thus involving a major interest subsidy. Equally it appears that the Caisse
Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA) will be chosen as the principal agency
for prôviding agricultural credit; in the recent past Banque de Developpe-
ment de la Republique du Niger (BDRN) appeared to be taking over from CNCA
as the principal source of agricultural credit, but recently Government has
provided CNCA with additional funds. CNCA applied 2 and 3% interest rates to
its agricultural credit lending in 1974.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
B. Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA)
4.        As a probable indication of Government's int-ntion to make CNCA
the main cliannel of agricultural credit to the rural population CNCA's equity
was increased from CFAF 170 million in 1973 to CFAF 370 million in January
1974, through a Government grant of CFAF 200 million (Table 1). Government
deposits and treasury cash balances are now held in part at CNCA.  CNCA re-
ceived CFAF 400 million Treasury deposits in 1975. These actions reverse
earlier Government actions of withdrawing deposits from CNCA and thus nearly
bringing CNCA to bankruptcy.
Objectives and Organization
5.        CNCA is 100% Government owned.  It has a Board of Directors of 20
members (the same board as UNCC) which comprises the Ministers of Rural
Economy, Finance, Interior, Economic Affairs, Economic Development; the
President - Director General of BDRN; the Directors of BCEAO and Credit du
Niger, three deputies of the National Assembly, seven representatives of
cooperatives, and the President of a Government import-export corporation.
The Director of CNCA is appointed by the Council of Ministers.  CNCA accounts
are kept in accordance with commercial banking practices. The Ministry of
Finance carries out an audit on Government's behalf and, in addition, at
IDA's request, a private auditor has been appointed.
Management and Staff
6.        CNCA has a staff of 10 at. headquarters in Niamey and is represented
by UNCC agents in the seven departrients. It opened two new branches, in
Tahoua and Zinder in 1974.
Sources of CNCA Funds
7.        CNCA has no share capital.; its permanent resources are Government
grants totalling CFAF 370 million (US$1,680,000) at present (Table 1).
Another source of financing has been current and short term deposits by
Government owned corporations, which are presently at record levels (CFAF
410 million in 1975).
Lending
8.        CNCA operations have included (a) medium and short-term loans to
finance agricultural production development; (b) short-term advances to UNCC
to finance primary marketing of groundnuts, cotton and rice; (c) short-term
loans to other Government and semipublic corporations to finance the marketing
of different agricultural products



ASNEX 3
Page 3
9.        Lending to cooperatives was significant between 1968 and 1970
mainly for financing groundnut seed stockpiles. Since then lending to in-
dividuals has increased, mainly for shallow wells, pumps and fencing used in
gardens and orchards, in the vicinity of Niamey. Beneficiaries of such opera-
tions are mostly Government employees. Lending for the purchase of oxen and
implements has been negligible. Some individual loans were granted to grad-
uates of the Centres de Formation des Jeunes Agriculteurs (CFJA), and are in
default as most beneficiaries purchased equipment which was too costly for
their small farms and did not receive proper supervision.  CNCA has made very
few other equipment loans. Since 1974 CNCA is prohibited from lending to
Government employees and is required to reserve all its available resources
for the rural sector.
CNCA Performance Under IDA Agricultural Credit Project (207-NIR)
10..      Under the project, CNCA had the responsibility for final approval
of loans to farmers and cooperatives and for the accounting of these loans.
Loan appraisal was the responsibility of UNCC. As of June 30, 1975 amounts
disbursed for agricultural equipment, fertilizer, and insecticides to be
purchased under the project were 23% of appraisal targets, mainly for pesti-
cides used for cotton treatment. The failure to meet the appraisal target is
due to the series of factors enumerated in para 1. Amounts spent for tech-
nical assistance to CNCA and UNCC extension staff training were on target.
Overall, some US$260,000 or 45% of the original credit of US$584,000 remained
undisbursed at June 30, 1975. Cancellation of this credit balance will be
discussed with Government at negotiations.
11.       At September 30, 1973 maturities on these loans totalled CFAF 484,000
and repayments were CFAF 369,000 or 75%, which can be considered satisfactory
given the drought conditions prevailing.at that time. It is assumed that
collection has not deteriorated since then. CNCA has pursued a policy of not
granting loans to cooperatives or farmers in arrears.



NIGER
MARADI RURAL DEVELOPhENT PROJECT
Agrlool1tuool Crdit In Niger
Ci,,o N.tio,9_1u J, C,0dlt
( C NCA)
Counr,raîîve Ilolonro Shleeto
- CFAF '000 -
*t S.Ptetaber 50                                         1970/71      1971/72      1972/73      1973/74                                                                 1970171       1971/72      1972t73      1973/74
ASSET5                                                                                                                             LIABILITIES
C..h on h.nd or in benk.                                    36,597        51,760        13,164       19,737                Short teon  Bank odvone.                          -             -           16,844          -
T-m  dppo,i  in b..ka                                      130,000       338,000          -            -                   Current depocit.                                56,ô30       317,073   *  178,227        43,941
Co.ooroi,1 Potfoli.                                          3,227         2,152       106,086      129,864                B.rroeor d.pooite                               57,640        59,050         9,244      308,504
Short tr   1°n.                                             22,936        47,107       104.655      306,743                Short ter. depo.it.                             40,000        51.000        40,000       61,488
tdor       1r a*n                                        135,244       159,009      231,100      423,082                 C.ntrcî BOnk redioountin,                         -             -
Mlccîîaneoan  lDbtro.                                          896         7,737          -           6,393                Mi c...ennoo. Creditore                          4.971         7,268          -          15,952
Soîpùnoe .nd MibceîlîoeoN. Account.                          5,093         7,173        22,501        1,404                Su.peo a..nd Mtacello.....  Accounte            13,629         7,023         S,7-32       4,615
Bad and Doubtful debte                                      62,715        48,361        51,806       62,296                Equity:
Secorîitib                                                   2,18û         1,723           893        1,144                  Gover=..ent grant. for Cnrerol purpo..       170,000       170,000       170,000      372,802
Guar.nto. depolitO                                              66           237          -            _                     Govornent 8ronts IDA Funde                      -        .     354            354
Fi..d A-toc                                                    542           792         1,462        3,707                P,-ovinbO  for lad end doubtfuId.btn
54d generol probision,  or r-isik             68,369        57.957        83,012       125,085
13,414        13,000          -            -                   Onar.otee Fund                                   3,150         5,538        15,755         -
rF-vi... rf                                             i;,4i4         i5.C,86 GEi                                        -1ot    A-A   l.t.r                             -             -             -            -
Curront FY                                                1.674          -             -                                         - C-rrent enercie                       -           33.876        12,499       21,983
TOTAL                                             414.539       709.139       531,667      954.370                                       TOTAL                   414 589       709,139       531.667      954,370
FXpeNSES                                                 Cooparative 1rome Statements                                              INCOME
P.rtooool                                                    8,436         9,022        10,363       15,413                Minrrto  aoCo.                                  35,359         17110        40,664       64,417
Taoo-                                                         .841             1        4,012         3,925                9ia.-I1-....                                       518         1.102         1,053-
Sopplb.. and ont.ide Servite.                                2,344         2,947        4,296         5,905               lh ,tc -c- ,o     e îoon,ted avallo fond.         2,553         7,96h         6,796
Ttr.n-port .nd TraneI                                          288           193            20          459                SubALea-                                                       1,807         1,884          303
M1ocoil.n1oe.  H.l.gemeot eopense                            1,562         1,199         1,627        2,147                Op.e4st1ag DofUbit                              21,271          -             -
PFi.nc.lo  Cnet,                                             6,2d4         2,719        4,610         3,956
lrfrnrierltî                                                    57          202           450        1,173
Provls,loo,                                                 39,889        16,496       23,604       21,034
Oporotini Profit                                                           5,206         2,215        8,708
TOTAL                                                            377985        51.197       64.720                                        TOTAL                                 37988         51
Conoarattie Profit and Los. Account
EXPESSES                                                                                                                           INCOME
opera.ctg doficit                                           21,271                                                         Operationol profit                                -            5,206         2,215        8,708
tooeptbo.nc  Ineoe- on c.cet..                                                                                             8e1e,bnre.ent of  rlttaen off debt.                895           304           281          424
Lo.sce  from prv-io.. yY.re                                                  796            11          114                Profit fron  rrvIollo yr  Ond ni ...ce11-.ne.. 1014           2.481           960        6,568
Ute_oofl of b.d dîbt.                                                                                  _                   Toant- r fronc pno'ioîîoae                      20,782        26,873         9,054        6,404
Enceptîon of pOoviion for b.d dbt.-                                          28         -            -                    Not Lo..                                         1,674          -                          -
EXteptlool prov.. ioec                                       3,094           164          -               6
N.t Profit                                                    -           33,876        12,499      21.984
TOTAL                                              24.365        34.864        12.510       22.104                                        TOTAL                   24,365        Y,, `4        12,510       22.104



ANNEX 4
Page 1
NIGER
MARADI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL PRACTICES AND YIELDS
A. Agricultural Zones
1.        Project activities would be carried out in three of the four dis-
tinct agricultural zones of the Departement, see Map No. IBRD 10834, through
rainfed development in the Northern and Southern Sandy Zones and development
of irrigation in the Goulbi Zone.
2.        The Northern Sandy Zone (NSZ) lies between isohyets 600 mm and 500
mm. Its soils are sandy and their fertility decreases from south to north.
In this area the tree and shrub cover is very thin except along the Goulbi
N'Kaba. Agriculture is basically subsistence with millet the major crop.
A typical farm is as follows:
-    number of people:  6.2 including 2.8 adults;
-    total cropped area:  5.8 ha/farm with 4.8 ha under
millet of which 1.0 ha inter-
cropped with cowpeas and 1.0 ha
under groundnuts;
-    average yields:  about 400 kg/ha for groundnuts (un-
shelled) and millet and 100 kg/ha
for cowpea.
The farm family population of the zone is about 123,000 people.
3.        The Southern Sandy Zone (SSZ) lies between the Nigerian border and
isohyet 600 m, and is the most important of the four zones. Soils are sandy
formations with average fertility. The ecotype is savanna wîth a herbaceous
cover of mainly Andropogor gayanus and Aristida longiflora. Cash crops,
especially groundnuts, are more important than in the northern zone. Main
crops are, as in the north, millet, groundnuts, and cowpeas.  A typical farm
is as follows:
-    number of people:  6.3 including 3 adults;
-    total cropped area:  5.5 ha/farm with 3.3 ha under
millet of which 1.0 ha in asso-
ciation with cowpeas and 2.2 ha
under groundnuts;



ANNEX 4
Page 2
-    average yields:  5J0 kg/ha for groundnuts (unshelled)
aad millet and 150 kg/ha for cowpea
The farm farnily population of the zone is estimated at 339,000 people.
4.        The Goulbi Zone (GZ) lies along the 'Goulbi de Maradi' and its
tributary the 'Goulbi de Gabi'.  It comprises the flood plain of the Goulbis
and its surrounding terraces and forms a re-entry into the SSZ. Rainfall is
similar to that of SSZ. On the terraces soils are somewhat heavier than
those of SSZ; clay content decreases with the location of the terrace, i.e.,
is highest in the soils of the lowest terraces. Fertility is low to average.
In the flood plain soils are silty clays with good fertility. On the terrace
vegetation is similar to that of SSZ but on the plain shrub and tree cover is
more varied and denser (Faidherbia albida, Tamarindus indica, Prosopis africana,
and Combretum spp). A typical farm is as follows:
-    number of people:  6.3 including 3 adults;
-    total cropped area:  3.70 ha of which 2.75 on
terraces with:
2.15 ha under millet of which
1.0 ha of cowpea in association
with cowpeas
0.60 ha under groundnut
0.95 on the flood plain with:
0.75 ha under sorghum;
0.10 ha under cotton; and
0.10 ha under vegetables and
miscellaneous
-    average yields:  500 kg/ha for groundnuts, millet and
sorghum; 420 kg/ha for cotton.
The farm family population of the zone is about 34,000 people.
5.        The Dan Issa Zone (DIZ,) is the fourth distinct agricultural zone ot
the Departement. It would not be subject to actions of this first stage pro-
ject.  It lies south east of Maradi and forms a block on the border with
Nigeria. Rainfall is slightly above 600 mm, the base in the Departement.
Soils are relatively heavy clays with average fertility, but very difficult
to work by traditional methods because during the dry season they bake hard.
Rainfall is suitable for cotton cultivation which has been introduced recently
The four zones comprise about the southern 45% of the Departement; to the
north the land is used largely for pastoral purposes.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
B. Production Improvement Methods
6.        The low yields obtained in the project area reflect basically the
arid conditions and the variability of the rainfall, but are also a product
of the lack of modern inputs including improved varieties. Although it is
impossible to change the natural environment, research has shown that yields
can be increased significantly through the use of improved varieties and
techniques. Recommended improved practices for the principal crops of the
Departement have been developed and proven and are described below.
7.        Millet.  Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales et des
Cultures Vivrieres (IRAT) has developed a package of techniques that result
in economic yield increases. The package includes (a) timely land prepara-
tion and planting in order that the crop benefits from the dry season build
up of nitrogen in the soil before this is washed out by heavier and more
persistent rainfall; (b) fungicidal seed treatment (25 grams/ha); (c) proper
spacing; 5-6 kg of seed spaced 1 m x 1 m; (d) thinning to three plants per
stand about two weeks after planting, preferably after a good rain; and
(e) early weeding. Fertilizer use is uneconomic and not recommended, but
millet grown after fertilized groundnuts benefits from the residual effect of
the fertilizer applied to the groundnuts. IRAT recommends the use of the
improved varieties P3 Kolo and Hanai Kirei Precoce (HKP), which have been
selected from local varieties. These varieties give better yields under
improved husbandry methods than traditional varieties.
8.        Sorghum. Basically IRAT recommends use of the same techniques as
for millet.  Spacing recommendations are different, however, 0.8 m x 0.6 m
for long-stemmed varieties (Jan Jare) and 0.8 m x 0.3 m for short-stemmed
varieties. Improved varieties, Jan Jare X137-62 and NK300 are available
and yield well following good land preparation such as can be achieved
through ox-drawn cultivation.
9.        Use of the recommended packages on millet and sorghum is estimated
to have the following progressive impact on yields:



ANNEX 4
Page 4
NSZ            Other Zones
--------kg grain/ha-------
Basic yield with traditional methods    400                   500
Cumulative yield improvements through
use of improved techniques
Fungicidal seed dressing            425                  525
Improved varieties                  500                  650
Ox-drawn land preparation            700                  850
After effect of fertilizer on
preceeding groundnut crop
Groundnut crop in previous year    900                 1,100
Groundnut crop grown two years
earlier                           800                1,000
10.       Groundnuts, IRAT in collaboration with Institut de Recherches pour
les Huiles et Oleagineaux (IRHO) reconmmends the following improved practices
for groundnuts (a) use of improved varieties: 28-204 and 55-437, which are
early maturing (90 day) for NSZ, and 47-16, a 110 day variety, for the other
zones; (b) seed dressing with a fungicide (150 grans/ha); (c) sowing in June
following a rain of 20-30 mm; (d) plant density of 166,000 plants/ha for
early and 110,000 for late maturing varieties (about 100 kg of unshelled
seeds/ha are required and spacing is 0.4 m x 0.15 m for earlier maturing
varieties and 0.6 m x 0.15 m for later types; (e) first weeding 10 days after
sowing and the second 15 days after the first; (f) fertilizer application of
75 kg/ha of superphosphate at the beginning of May, followed by very light
land preparation; (g) harvesting as soon as crop reaches maturity, following
which the crop should be dried by inverting plants on the row, pods uppermost,
for about six days. Care in lifting, and above all in drying, is essential
to prevent the creation of conditions favoring the development of Aspergillus
flavius, which is the causative agent of Aflatoxin, a dangerous toxic element
that is present in mouldy groundnuts.
11.       Use of the improved techniques is estimated as having the following
progressive impact on the yield of groundnuts:



ANNEX 4
Page 5
NSZ             Other Zones
kg unshelled nuts/ha
Basic yield with traditional methods    400                     500
Cumulative yield improvements through
use of improved techniques
Fungicidal seed dressing             450                   550
Improved varieties                   550                   700
Correct plant density                800                   950
Fertilizer                           950                 1,150
12.       Cowpeas.  For a pure stand of cowpeas IRAT recomnmends (a) sowing in
June, just after a 20-30 mm rain; (b) spacing at 0.6 m x 0.3 m, with three
seeds per stand (approximately 25 to 30 kg of seeds are required per ha);
(c) 75 kg/ha of triple super-phosphate applied either before sowing or before
the first weeding; (d) first weeding 10 days after sowing and a second 15
days later; (e) insecticidal pest control in time with pest identification
in the field (the average treatment is assumed 10 liters/ha/year applied
through three or four applications of Endosulfan/Thynul 35); (f) post
harvest storage in plastic bags of 40 kg fumigated with carbon tetrachlorate.
13.       IRAI recommends an early maturing variety-TN88-63, which has a
growth cycle of 70 days and is much better suited to NSZ where it will replace
traditional varieties with growth cycles of 100 to 115 days and which con-
sequently are very sensitive to drought.
14.       Traditionally cowpeas are intercropped among cereals at a very
low plant density/ha and not as a sole crop. Sole cropping is impossible
without pest control since cowpeas are susceptible to a wide range of in-
sect attack. Grown under cereals the intensity of such attack is lessened
to some extent. The principal insect pests are:
a.   between germination and flowering, the
Amsalta caterpillar;
b.   during flowering and fruit formation,
Thrips and Maruca caterpillar; and
c.   during pod maturation, pea beetles.
15.       As it would be difficult, and expensive to implement and super-
vise these techniques on scattered plots, farmers interested in growing
cowpeas would be grouped together to grow the crop in monoculture blocks.
Such activity would be concentrated in NSZ where cowpeas have a greater
potential than groundnuts as a cash crop. It is assumed that through block
cultivation and the use of the improved techniques average yield of 600
kg/ha would be obtained. Such an assumption is borne out by experience in
Niger.



ANNEX 4
Page 6
C.  Project Phasing and Rate of Acceptance of Improved Farming Methods
16.       The project's crop production improvement activities would be
extended in the three years of IDL> credit disbursement )eriod to the fol-
lowing fifteen Associations Loca'es de Cooperatives (ËLC).  These ALC's have
been selected on the basis of the..r members' demonstrated acceptance of
cooperative activities and receptiveness to change.
Associations Locales de Cooperatives
197_6             1977              1978
Northern Sandy Zone             Chadlakori         Dan Mero          Rafinwada
Sabon Mache       Kanan Bakatche
Mayahi
Southern Sandy Zone
Agule             Gabi              Souloulou
Koonia            Maraka            Madarounfa
Gabaouri          Atchidakofoto
Dodori
An average ALC comprises 10 cooperatives, a cooperative 5 villages, and a
village 50 farming units. Using these parameters, an estimated 37,500 farm
families would be the subject of project actions as shown below:
1976          1977          1978          TOTAL
ALC                    5             5              5            15
Cooperatives          50            50            50            150
Villages             250           250           250            750
Farming Units    12,500         12,500        12,500        37,500



ANNEX 4
Page 7
17.       It is assumed that the improved cultivation methods recommended
by extension staff (the ratio of farm level extension workers to farmers
would be 1:150) would be adopted progressively, at different rates for
groundnuts and cereals, and that it would take 5 years of extension work to
achieve the maximum potential level of farmer acceptance. As shown below,
it is expected that even by the end of five years only about 25% of farmers
would have accepted the full package of improved techniques.
Years of exposure to improved
cultivation methods       Year 1  Year 2   Year 3  Year 4   Year 5
Cumulative Percentage of Farmers Adopting Improved Methods
Groundnuts
Seed dressing               50        65        75       85       90
Improved varieties          10        20       30        45       60
Seeding density              5        10       20        35       50
Fertilizer
North Sandy Zone        5        10       15        20       25
South Sandy Zone        5        15       20        25       30
Millet and Sorghum
Seed dressing               15        25       40        55        75
Improved varieties           -         5       10        20       35
Aftereffect of fertilizer   -          5       10        15       20
North Sandy Zone           -         5        15       20       25
South Sandy Zone           -         5       15        20       25
Ox-drawn cultivation         -         1        2         3         5



ANNEX 4
Page 8
18.       Cowpeas would be cultivated in village blocks of an average size
of 10 ha per village, as follows:
1976    1977    1978    Total
Number of villages involved in
the cowpea program                     -      40       60       100
Total area under cowpea mono-
culture (ha)                          -      400      600    1,000
19.       A summary of yield and production increases estimated to be
generated by the project is at Table 1. At Tables 2 and 3 farm budgets
representing "with" and "without" project situations are shown.  It is
assumed that farmers' incomes would remain unchanged were the project not
implemented. For the "with" situation two types of budgets are shown.
The Stage 1 budget is for those farmers using (a) for groundnuts: seed
dressing, improved varieties, and proper seeding density; and (b) for millet:
seed dressing and improved varieties. Such farmers are estimated to com-
prise about 50% of all farmers in the 15 project ALC's by 1982 at the con-
clusion of five years of project activities. The Stage 2 budget is for the
more progressive farmers who, in addition to using the methods employed by
Stage 1 farmers, would use fertilizers on their groundnuts. Stage 2 farmers
are estimated to total 25% of all farmers in NSZ by 1982, and 30% in SSZ.
20.       Table 4 shows farm labor requirements for average farms in the
project area. There should be no labor constraints to the acceptance of
project proposed methods, since family labor should be adequate throughout
the year, except perhaps in November at harvest time. Fortunately the
weather at that time is such that the harvest can always be extended without
damage to or loss of crop.



NIGER
MAMDI RfUAL DEVLOPMENT FROJECT
Agricultural Practlces *nd Yields
General ARricultural Prodaction
1976         1977         197e-         9 9-      _ 19!' 1919î 19 '-4
1,  N,.ber of N- Farwers
NSZ                                                              2,500         5,000        7,500
SSz                                                             10.000 _       7 500        S.000
Tot.!                                                                     12, 500        1.';500
Il,  Gr,,,dnt,ot  /1
Area C'nder D.,ittvatioe (ha)
NSZ                                                            2,500         7,500       15,000       15.000        15,000       15,000       15,000
Tr5 a' Area                                                 22 000       5P,;500       49.500O      4943500 449.500           49.5o0        49.500
T'rrai AreS                                                 24,500       40,000        b4, 5000     m450         6450            ,4,.500
11 ,j,ct, . nwStâcut PrcJect
SSZ   b?? kg hs                                                 1,000        3,000        6,ooo0       6,000        6,000         5,ooO        6,000
SSZ ? O? kg ha                                                11.000        19.300       24.C00       24O800       24 '00        240,01       24I. OO
Toto~  Prc.dotion WithoatProject                     12,000        22,500       50,E00       3080         3.:0          5,00         5,0
Yje1d,   WS th Ftz4ect
NSZ         'kg ha                                                440          470          460         5S0            570          f30          46o
S'Z         kg h.                                                 ",60         600          630           '00          760          _00           n9
4eloh, ,'d Averogo    k8 'h.                                                   570          600          660           720          760          7(0
NS? 7          Ç11 eO 100                                                      500        1,200        1,900         2,700        3,500        4.000
S S?        t ,n                                                1 400  _      ,600   _ f400            9.O 90       15.000       15 .0O0     15,?o
Tr c7l :rç  erent,l ?rodoct1crn                    5,I500o ,_   4.100          7,t00       11;.0        157-0         1 ,00        19, OO
ote.l Pec.octt.sn V'th ProJect                              _3l500 _    2,0            x.00 0       b?J50        4.,500 490300              50,-00
111.  MI111et*Strghu
Area tener OltfrSÂon (hl
NSZ                                                           12,000        56,000       72,000       72,000       72,OOO        72,000       72,000
SSZ                                                             3s.00        780         7.00 Il4.300 4            74.50         74.0         74.300
Tota' Ares                                                  45,000        9134,00     I4,300       146,300      146,00           '          7b,300
Prode,tfion Without Project
Nsz        kg0 k' ,ha                                          4,800        14,400       2c,Poo       28,800       2M,500        28,800       28,POo
SSZ  .>S9 kg ha                                               16,500        28,900       5-.200       5T,200         37t,20      57.200 o7.200
Total Prodjction WUthout Yroject                            21,300       43,300        6t,000       64,000       64,000        66,000       sSJ00
yelds With Project
NSZ         k5'hb                                                 400          410          420           450          480          510          530
SSZ         kg'ha                                                 500          520          530           560          600          610          620
Weighted Aserage  kg,'ha                                          470          480          480           510          540          560           570
Incre.ental Product£on With Froject
NSZ        tons                                                   -            400        1,500        3,500        5,600         7,600        9,000
sSz         tors                                                  *            900        2.500        4.600        7.100                          O'400  9.100
Total Inccemental Prudaction                                    _          1 5          4 000        e.100       12.700        16.000
lotal Productiont With Project                              21,500       44)60         7O 000       74.100       78i,700       82000        84.100
IV.  Cov>eas
Nuisber of 4ev Villages                                              40           60
Ares rnder Cultivation (ha)                                         400        1.000         1.00         1.000        1.000        1,000         1.0OO
1ncree.ntâl Production  2600 kg/ha (tons)                           200          600           600          600          600          600           600
'1  Unshelled.



NIGER
MARADI RURAL DEVELCPMEUT PROJECOI
AGRICULTURAL PRACTICES AUD lIELDS
General Agriculture - Fann Budgets (Gross Income)
Without Project                         Stagc l                                $tage 2
Prices     Areqi   Yield        Production     Ares    Yield       Prmclucti.on     Area    Yield       Pr.o'eion
CFAF/KR     (ha)   (kg/ha)     K        CFAF    (ha)   (kha)  Ktg           CFAF     (ha)   (kg/ha)    K.         CFAF
Southern Sandy Zone (SSZ)
Millet                              35        3.3      500     1,650    57,750   3.3        650     2,150  .75,250    3.3       850      2,810     98,350
Groundnuts                          40        2.2      500     1.100    44.000   2.2       950      2,090   83,600    2.2    1,150       2,530    101,200
Total Value of Production                  5.5                        101,750                            158,850                                199,550
Ineremental Value of Production                                          -                                57,100                                 97,800
North Sandy Zone (NSZ)
Millet                              35       L.8       4oO     1,920    67,200   4.9,      500      2,2!00  84,ooo    4.8       650      3,120    109,200
Groundnute                          40        1.0      400       400    16,000   1.0        300       BQo   32,000    1.0       950        950      3%C,10
Total Value of Production                  5.8                         83,200                            116,000                                147,200
Incremental Value of Production                                           -                               32,800                                 64,000
J,v



NIGER
MARAII RURAL DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL PRACTICES AND YIELM
General Agriculture - Farm EBudzets - Net Income
CFAF   000                                          South Sandy Zone (SSZ)               North Sandy Zone (NSZ)
Without                                Without
Project     Stage l      Stage 2       Project      Stage i     Stage 2
Grosz Incame                                      101,750      158,850     199,550         83,200      116,000     147,200
Production Costa
Fungicide Seed Dressing @ CFAF 800/kg 1/          -             720          720          -             470         470
Seeds Cereals 5.5 kg/ha @ CFAF 35/kg              -             630         630           -             920         920
Seeds Groundnuts 67 kg/ha @ CFAF 70/kg            -          10,300      10,300           -           4,700       4,700
Fertilizers-Groundnuts 75 kg/ha @ CFAF 50/kg     -             -          8,250           -             -         3,750
Hand Tools                                          800         800          800           840          8ho          840
Total Production Conts                             800      12,450       20,700           840        6,930      10,680
Debt Service
Interest on Seasonal Credit                       -             600          700          -             300          370
Net Value of Production before
Consumption and taxes                           100,950      145,800     178,150         82,360      108,770     136,150
Family Consuaption and Taxes
Cereals         200 kg/capita                   31,500       31,500      31,500         31,000       31,000      31,000
GroundnutC      10  kg/capitd                     3,500       3,500        3,500         3,400        3,400        3,400
Taxeso   CFAF  1400/adult                        4.200        4.200        4.200         3.900        3.900        3.900
Total                                       39.200       39.200      39.200         38.300       38.300      38,300
Total Net Incoae                                   61,750      106,600    ]38,950          44,060       70,470       97,850
Labor required (mandays)                               328         328          328            260         260          260
Net Inecae per Manday                                  188         325          424            169         271          376
1/  Subsidized 50c
-   Subsidized 80%                                                                                                          g 1



ANM 4
Table 4
Niaam  EuL HTEspm     PTROJCT
AGEICUL1RL P2DAZTIO3 AND YIILoe
GeOeral Aaueultmre Labor Ibuireata
M¶andays                             Jan-u y    Febn_    Nar1h   4rtl   my   Jne   J.              Agt  teptember   October   November   Deceber    TOTAL
South Sand& Zone
Mtllet     3.3 ha
Lend preparation                                                                33                                                                        33
Sowing                                                                                  13                                                               13
Ftrst weeding                                                                           13                                                                13
Second weeding                                                                                   6         7                                              1)
Harvesting                                                                                                            hi                                  41
Threshing                                                                                                                         38                      38
TOTAL                                                                        33     26        6         7          h1          38                    151
Groundnuts   2.2 ha
Land preparation                                                                18                                                                        13
Sowtng                                                                           6       6                                                                12
First weeding                                                                            9                                                                 9
Second, third weeding                                                                           28                                                        23
Harvesting, stacking                                                                                                              55          55         110
Threshirg
TOTAL                                                                        24     15       28                                55          55        177
Total Labor Required                                                                 57      41      34         7           4h          93         55         328
Total Labor Available                                                               240    240      240       240          240        150         150       1.500
Labor Balance                                                                       183    199      206       233          199         57          95       1,172
North SanAY Zone
ifillet    4.8 ha
Laud preparation                                                                48                                                                        48
S3wing                                                                                  19                                                                19
,irst weeding                                                                           19                                                                19
Second weedirg                                                                                  10         9                                              19
Harvesting                                                                                                             32                                 32
T,hrwm%t"gL3
TOTAL                                                                       48     38       10        9           32          43                    130
Groundnuts   1.0 ha
Land preparation                                                                 8                                                                         8
Sowing                                                                           3       3                                                                 6
Ftirst weeding                                                                          4 h
Secord, Third weeding                                                                           12                                                        12
H1arvesting, Stacking                                                                                                             25                      25
Threshing                                                                                                                                     25          25
TOTAL                                                                       ll      7      12                                 25          25         80
T-otol Labor Requîred                                                                59      45      22         9           32         6E          25         260
Total Labor Available                                                               220    220      220       220          220        1hO         14h       1.380
,ob 1r Balance                                                                      161    175      t98      211          188          72        115       1.120



ANNEX 5
Page 1
NIGER
MARADI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Road Project Component
A.  Communications
1.        Lying at the intersection of the main east-west route (RNI) and
a north south axis (RN9 and RN30), Maradi is the collection center for all
produce in the central part of Niger. It is also the principal trading
center between Niger and Nigeria. The possibility of extending the
Nigerian railway from Kauru Namoda, the present terminal, to Maradi (136 km)
is being considered. Kano, the largest city of Northern Nigeria, is 225 km
from Maradi.
2.        The road network is thinly developed in the Departement.  There are
only 580 km of national roads for a total district area of 38,600 km2. About
190 km of these national roads are surfaced with bitumen, 224 km with laterite,
and 170 km are sandy tracks only passable by four-wheel drive vehicles.
Bitumen and laterite surfaced national roada are relatively well maintained.
In addition to the national roads there are several hundred kilometers of
trails suitable only for pack animals. Sandy tracks are not maintained.
Many quite heavily populated areas are 50 km or more from a laterite or
bitumen surfaced road.
3.        While motor transport can be operated over the sandy tracks, costs
are high. Operating costs of 2.5 ton trucks on hard surfaced national roads
are calculated at CFAF 11/ton-km compared with more than CFAF 30/ton-km on
sandy tracks because the vehicle cannot be fully loaded when operating on
the sandy tracks. Camel transport costs about CFAF 45/ton-km.
B. Highway Administration
4.        Maradi is headquarters of one of the Sous-direction des Travaux
Publics. This subdivision is well organized, staffed and equipped to carry
out its function, but due to a shortage of operating funds the equipment is
underutilized.



AIN4EX 5
Page 2
C.  Analysis of Proposals Made by Government for the
Transportation Component of the Project
5.        Government proposed that the Maradi Rural De.-_lopment project should
include: (a) construction of 119 km of feeder roads of a relatively high stand-
ard; (b) improvement of 562 km of sandy tracks; and (c) construction of flood
control works to protect the town of Maradi, {d) construction of a bridge
across the Goulbi de Maradi, and (e) construction or improvement of about
80 km of sandy tracks in an area that would be opened up by the bridge.
Construction of 119 km of Feeder Roads
6.        The feeder roads proposed comprised:
(i) 55 km on the axis Maradi-Mayahi;
(ii)  50 km between Mayahi and Dan Mero; and
(iii) 14 km between Guidan Roumji and Maradi including
construction of a series of submersible box
culverts (a fiord) across the Goulbi de Maradi.
7.        The French consulting firm Bureau Central d'Equipement d'Outremer
(BCEOM) studied these proposals and concluded that construction of the proposed
roads would be economic. Ilowever appraisal has indicated that the BCEOM
traffic forecasts are highly optimistic at possibly twice that which will
emerge and that construction of feeder roads to the proposed standards (7 m
wide, on a 15 cm embankment of laterite materials) would be uneconomic.
Analysis of an alternative of linking Dan Mero directly with the Maradi-
Mayahi road, which would substantially reduce the degree of construction
under proposal (ii) above and increase traffic on the axis in proposal
(i) showed this also to be uneconomic. Analysis also shows that construction
to lower design standards on these routes would not significantly improve
their economic viability. For the foregoing reasons the proposed feeder
road program has been excluded from the project.
Improvement of 562 km of Sandy Tracks
8.        The proposal to improve 562 km of rural tracks in the Departement
fits within the frame of Government's stated policy to develop some 150-200 km
annually of improved tracks in each of its Departements. Government is
elaborating a 10-year master plan for road development in the country including
tracks of this type. The preparation of the plan is being financed by FAC
and will take about two years to complete and will involve traffic counts,
and economic and technical studies. In advance of preparation of this plan
it would be premature to include in the proposed Rural Development Project
the program of 562 km proposed by Government.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Flood Control Works
9.        Government proposed to include in the project works to protect
the town of Maradi against flooding from the Maradi River. Flood damage starts
when the river overflows into its flood plain.  This happens when the flood
discharge reaches 100 m3/sec, which occurs one year in two. The height of
water in the valley reaches 0.6 m and 1.2 m one year out of four, and one year
out of ten, respectively. This overbank flow and flooding usually lasts
no more than one week. The last flooding occurred in September 1974 and was
reported as if a national catastrophe. The works proposed had been studied by
German consultants GKW and included construction of "gabions" (wicker works
filled with stones) on both sides of the river and over a distance of 5 km
(altogether 120 gabions, and a total of 12,000 m3). The usefulness of these
works would be considered in the overall study of alternative ways to develop
the irrigation potential in the valley (Annex 7). This is the reason why
these works were not included in the proposed project.
Feeder Roads Included in the Project
10.       The project includes some 80 km of roads to be built southwest of
the town of Maradi, on the other side of the Maradi River. Access to that
area during the dry season does not create any problem, as the Maradi River
is then dry. During the flood season, access to the area would be possible
only through fording the river about 30 km north of Maradi. Direct all-
weather linkage between Maradi and the area will be possible only when the
river's flood is regulated (Annex 7). In the meantime, 80 km of priority roads
would be built to facilitate project actions.
11.       Roads improved or constructed under the project will consist of a
barrel shaped graded roadbed 7.0 m wide, following the terrain as closely as
possible with a minimum of cut and fill. The laterite surfacing will be
0.15 m thick and 3.5 m wide on tracks.to Serkin Yama and Gidan Sori; and 6.0 m
otherwise. Passing places 6.0 m wide will be provided at 500 m intervals on
the 3.5 m wide sections. It is expected that the Madarounfa track will carry
about 20 vehicles per day (VPD), and the Serkin Yama and Gidan Sori tracks,
10 VPD each. A width of 3.5 m laterite with passing places is considered
adequate for this level of traffic.
12.       The roads would be constructed by the Public Works Department on
force account and under the supervision of the PMU rural engineering unit:
The tracks selected for construction are:
Pl Maradi-Serkin Yama                        20 km
P2 Branch from Pl to Gidan Sori              20 km
P3 Branch from Pl to Madarounfa              25 km
P4 Branch from P3 to Gabi                    15 km
Total                                   80 km



ANNEX 5
Page 4
Pl - The Serkin Yama Track (20 km). The alignment of this track will
depend on the most likely bridge site.  After this has been fixed the
alignment will follow a direct lire to Serkin Yama with adjustments to
follow the best topography and bring it as near as possible to a laterite
deposit discovered en route.
P2 - Gidan Seri Track (20 km). This track will turn off at about 10 km,
passing near to Mayaoukou village. The criteria for alignment will be the same
as for Pl.
P3 - Madarounfa Track (25 km). The Madarounfa track will be aligned
about 5 km to the main channel of the Goulbi de Maradi, not only to avoid
secondary channels and areas liable to flooding, but also the acquisition
of potentially high yielding agricultural and horticultural land near the
river. The most suitable crossing place over the Goulbi de Gabi will fix
the alignment at the southern end of the track.
P4 - Madarounfa - Gabi Track (15 km). This track will commence near
the Gabi, crossing and passing through an area of extensive laterite deposits.



ANNEX 6
Page 1
NIGER
MARADI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Health Project Component
A. General
1.        The medical infrastructure of  Xaradi District is poor.  There are
only four doctors (1/175,000 people), six maternity hospitals, and 23 dis-
pensaries (1/30,000 people).
2.        The most common diseases are:  malaria, intestinal parasites, eye
diseases, wound infections, guinea worm and venereal disease. Pregnant women
are particularly vulnerable, and mortality at birth is high. Each year many
man-days are lost, especially during the rainy season because of malaria and
guinea worm.
3.        First Aid Volunteers.  To offset health service deficiencies, the
'animation' services encouraged farmers to become first aid volunteers.
Villages designate two farmers for 10 days training at the closest dispensary;
they learn how to treat symptoms of major diseases, teach personal and village
hygiene (especially-the problems of water hygiene) and to use basic drugs to
dress wounds, cure eye diseases, malaria and diarrhea. The volunteers are
not remunerated, but the other villagers repay them by helping to cultivate
their land during the rainy season. First aid volunteers operate a rudimentary
village dispensary drug store with an inventory of about 10 different drugs .
which cost about CFAF 8,000 total (US$36). The initial investment is financed
on the 'arrondissement' budget and replaced by the village. Farmers pay be-
tween US4 2 and US4 4 for each treatment. The volunteers keep accounts, and
supply records are made during the monthly control visit by the male nurse
from the closest dispensary. In addition to the volunteers a two to three
member village committee is responsible for establishing visiting hours, con-
trolling dispensary cash, and can help guide in the event of an evacuation
or during an epidemic. Committee members join the volunteers during the
last three days of their training session. To date, 158 volunteers have been
trained in Maradi District and rudimentary drugstores established in 79
villages.
4.        Midwives.  Practically all births occur in villages under unsanitary
conditions. As it is impractical to envisage the establishment of enough
maternity hospitals to take care of all births, the "animation" service
started a training program for "traditional" midwives. Selected midwives
receive 10 days training at the nearest maternity center, learning pregnancy
hygiene, normal and abnormal births, and child care. To date 166 midwives



fNNEX 6
Page 2
have been trained in 83 villages. This program lias not been as successf il
as anticipated because midwives are older women. 'Animation" is now selecting
younger women to assist the older midwives and eventually to replace them.
5.        Female Village Leaders.  Selected women are being trained by "anima-
tion" to become village leaders who will organize a number of activities
(recruitment of midwives, preparation of food for small children, distribution
of selected roosters, and treatment of goats with parasites). Women are
becoming increasiagly involved in agriculture as many cultivate their own
fields (1/4 to 1/3 of total cultivated areas) and feminine village leaders
now exist in 52 villages of four arrondissements.
B. The Health Project Component
6.        This project component comprises the training of additional first
aid volunteers, midwives and female village leaders. The training will be
carried out by the Health Ministry for first aid volunteers and midwives,
and by the Project Unit for female village leaders. The Health Ministry will
sign an undertaking to the P.M.U. to this effect.
7.        90 new first aid volunteers will be trained for 45 new villages
and the existing 158 volunteers will take refresher courses. New villages
will be equipped with a standard village drugstore. 114 new midwives will
be trained and the existing 166 midwives will follow refresher courses.
Nurses will all be equipped with a maternity kit, replacements being purchased
by midwives from a fee collected for each birth. 172 new female leaders will
be trained by the P.M.U.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
NIGER
MARADI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irrigation Component
1.        The Goulbi de Maradi constitutes the most significant natural
feature of the Departement and from an agricultural point of view is one of
its richest resources. This is because the Goulbi possesses relatively
fertile soils and as yet untapped irrigation potential. The Goulbi is the
flood plain of the Maradi River. The River rises in the North. Central State
of Nigeria, flows north into Niger, turning northwest down stream of Maradi
and then west to re-enter Nigeria where it connects with the Niger River
through the Sokoto river system. In Niger the river flows for only part of
the year, June through October, and flows are large only in the period July
through September. The river is in the process of fossilization, i.e., it is
drying up, albeit at a very slow rate. The possible arrestation of the pro-
ceess will depend upon whether conservation measures are practiced in its
catchment area which lies principally in the Katsina Province of Nigeria.
As described in the main report during negotiations of the proposed credit,
confirmation would be obtained from the Government of Niger that it would
open discussions wïth Nigeria with a view to reaching agreement on the use
of the water of the Maradi River and on a material program of catchment con-
servation. Such agreements and their implementation would be a prerequisite
for investment for any major irrigation works on the Maradi. For the irri-
gation component on this project it is not essential since the proposed 500
ha would utilize only 10% of the present replenishable supply and investments
would be long amortised before water supplies became inadequate.
2.        The village of Madarounfa lies about 30 km south of Maradi and
just north of Madarounfa Lake. The Maradî River is joined by the Gabi River,
see map.  In the high flood season, July-September, the rivers flood and
their waters fill a large depression--the so-called Lake Madarounfa. The
Goulbi begins north of the Lake and comprises the flood plain of the Maradi
River, an alluvial plain some 20 km long and 1.5 km wide.
3.        The soils of the Goulbi are reasonably fertile and in physical
terms constitute approximately 75% sandy-clay, 15% clay and 10% sand. The
Goulbi is cultivated in the traditional crops, sorghum and millet, and some
maize and cotton are grown. The crops are planted in the wet season and
treated as rainfed. Yields are very low because of the periodic flooding of
the plain in the July-September period. There is some dry season irrigation
from small wells sunk in the Goulbi to tape the groundwater. The water is
raised by shadoof and in some cases by ox power. These wells, dug by hand,
are usually in low spots to minimize both the depth of the well and the
energy required in raising water. The trade-off for this is that these areas



ANNEX 7
Page 2
are mlost s-sceptible to produce flooding when the wells and other structures--
suc- as dikes--are damaged. Becaise of these preblems the amount of irriga-
tion practiced by farmers is insignificant.
4.        The potential for irri'g,ation provided by t}- Maradi River and the
fertile Goulbi soils is large. The problem is, however, that regulation of
the River through construction of a storage dam appears very expensive. Such
a possibility was examined in 1967 by the French consultants SOGREAH. The
SOGREAH plan, described in the Apiendix, provided for controlled irrigation
on 4,400 ha and improved flood recession cropp.ng on 2,500 ha. Technically
the plan has some points that require further and better definition, but
prima facie its great drawback is the high capital cost for civil works
per ha irrigated, over US$7,000 in 1975 terms has been roughly calculated.
5.        An alternative to surface water development would be to pump frcm
the groundwater reservoir that lies below the 'oulbi. This reservoir is
replenished annually and its development would eliminate the expensive reser-
voir required for surface irrigation. At the same time Maradi River would
need regulation to prevent the periodic flooding that now occurs. Whether
this would be best through some fDrm of diking or through a hydraulic struc-
ture is yet to be determined.
6.        Apart from its irrigation potential the Maradi River has other,
and negative, economic consequences for the Departement. First, the bed of
the river is rising due to silting and the annual flooding is worsening.
Second, the river is tending to shift its bed, particularly in the area of
the town of Maradi itself, and substantial damage has been caused in the
town due to this. Third, because of its flooding characteristic the cost of
bridging the River, in the vicinity of Maradi, is prohibitive and as a conse-
quence a substantial and fertile area of the Departement is cut off from the
town for long periods of the year. The problems caused by the unregulated
river have reinforced the pressure to initiate a scheme of the SOGREAR type
which additionally would bring irrigation to an otherwise arid area. The
African Development Bank has been asked to finance it but has, it is under-
stood, declined to do so. A possibly, indeed probably, much cheaper alterna-
tive would be to regulate the river through cheaper structures, and utilize
groundwater tlirough pumps and tubewells for irrigation. At this time,
however, there is insufficient data available to analyze the groundwater
alternative.
7.        Under the project the following irrigation comDonent would be
carried out:
(a) studies to determine the comparative merits of the surface
and groundwater alternatives for developing irrigation in
the Goulbi, including flood protection for Maradi, and
construction of a bridge (or other) link with heretofore
isolated areas of the Departement;



ANNEX 7
Page 3
(b) provision of funds for implementing about 500 ha of irrigation
mainly through groundwater development.
Terms of reference for the studies and work needed under (a) are at Appendix 2.
Below background and other details relating to (b) are provided and discussed.
8.        Climate.  Main characteristics of the climate in the Goulbi area
are as follows:
-    high temperatures:  average minimum and maximum range
respectively from 300C (August) to 40.50C (April) and
13 Co (December and January) to 250C (May);
-    low rainfall:  average rainfall at Maradi is 625 mm, most of
which occurs during the rainy season (92% from June through
September);
-    high evaporation:  about 3,200 mm equivalent to an evapo-
transpiration rate of around 2,400 mm annually.
The above data indicate the harsh climatic conditions prevailing and indicate
the importance of irrigation development wherever it is feasible.
Irrigation Fund
9.        The irrigation fund for which US$0.9 million is allocated in
project costs would be available for the development of any small irrigation
works in the project area but it is expected that most of its expenditures
would be in connection with groundwater development in the Goulbi. Each
proposal for use of the fund would be subject to approval of CND and IDA.
The PMU would prepare a dossier for each sub-project estimated to cost more
than US$20,000. In the case of smaller sub-projects a number of similar
projects would be covered by a single dossier.
10.       In the initial selection of sub-projects the PMU would apply the
criteria contained in the law 68/28 of 1960, which regulates the allocation
of land on all governnent financed irrigation schemes in Niger.
-    Farmers already cultivating where a scheme would be established
would receive priority for land allocation.
-    Farmers would be guaranteed security of tenure as long as they cul-
tivate their plots separately.
-    Farmers would be allotted 0.25 ha per active member of the family.
In addition to these general criteria,
-    Participating families would be required to provide the unskilled
labor needed for sinking the well, land leveling and for con-



ANNEX 7
Page 4
struction of the irrigation channels and flood protection
dikes;
-   -the potential beneficiaries would be, or prepared to be,
members of a cooperative that would handle matters such as
the recovery of capital costs and credit repayments and the
provision of extension, seasonal credit, input supply and
other support services;
-    the cooperative, or other farmer entity, would sign a contract
with Government stipulating matters such as the recovery of
investment costs, and that the scheme would be operated under
project staff supervision during the project disbursement period.
A sub-project meeting the above tests would thereafter be subject to detail
planning and feasibility study. Sub-projects submitted to CND and IDA for
approval would have to be shown to be technically, economically and finan-
cially feasible and to contain satisfactory arrangements for the recovery of
investment costs from participants.
11.       The size of the fund has been calculated on the basis that it
should be possible to develop 500 ha of the Goulbi through some 50 schemes
of about 10 ha each utilizing water pumped from wells. In practice actual
achievements probably will comprise a wide variety of irrigated developments.
Below the details of a typical 10-ha pumping unit are described.
Characteristics of a 10-ha Irrigated Perimeter
12.       The performance of existing wells at the Tarna Research Station
indicates that wells of3a total depth of between 10 and 15 m typically have
outputs of at least 30m /hr. For project purposes it is assumed that the
average irrigated perimeter in the Goulbi would be equipped with such a well.
Given the cropping pattern described below, 30m3/hr would be sufficient for
a perimeter of 10 ha.
13.       The model described below constitutes one way of utilizing the soil
and water resources of the Goulbi. However, while it may be advocated in
the early years of Goulbi development it seems inevitable that it will be
changed in the light of experience. Consequently the model is employed
solely to demonstrate the economic and financial viability of groundwater
development.
Cropping Pattern
(Total and per Farmer)
Wet Season           Dry Season
--------ha -------
Cotton                         5.0 (0.25)
Sorghum                        5.0 (0.25)             -
Tomatoes                         -                   2.0 (0.10)
Onions                                               2.0 (0.10)
Groundnuts/Tobacco/Others       -                    1.0 (0.05)
10.0 (0.50)           5.0 (0.25)



ANNEX 7
Page 5
Under this system only 50% of the land would be cropped in the dry season,
and the land occupied by cotton would be followed by fallow each year. Water
requirements for such a cropping system are shown at Table 1, as is detail
on pumping requirements. At maximum water requirements, i.e., in January
and February up to 18 hours of pumping daily are required; this compares
with only 1 hour daily in June and 3 hours in July.
14.       Using a full package of inputs for the above crops including im-
proved varieties and fertilizers (except for sorghum), the following yields
and yield build-ups are expected to be obtained.
Kg/ha (after 4 years)
Seed cotton               1,700  (2,000)
Sorghum                   2,500  (3,500)
Tomatoes                 25,000 (35,000)
Onions                   30,000 (35,000)
The above yield ranges are considered conservative and have been achieved
elsewhere in West Africa by farmers newly introduced to irrigation.
Financial and Economic Returne
15.       A model budget for a farmer cultivating 0.5 ha annually on a 10-ha
perimeter is at Table 2. This shows that after four years gross income should
amount to some CFAF 114,500 annually.  Erpenses before 0&M costs and any rent
or cost recovery are estimated at CFAF 6,600. O&M costs including pumping
and replacements are estimated at another CFAF 18,600 clearing about
CFAF 89,300 to cover the farmers' rent to recover Government's investment
costs at 10% interest over 30 years. Such a rent would be about CFAF 22,000,
leaving CFAF 67,200 (US$305) as a return to the farm family's labor.  At an
estimated input of 235 man-days, this return would be equivalent to CFAF 286/
man-day.  Although not a large amount on a man-day employed basis, in sum it
would represent 39% of the average farm family's current income and since,
see Annex 4, management of an irrigated holding would not require any cut-
back in the family's rainfed operations, it would mean a significant advance
in the family's standard of living.
16.       The economie rate of return from investment in a 10-ha irrigated
perimeter is estimated at 32%.



ANNEX 7
Appendix 1
Page 1
GOULBI DE MARADI
Irrigation Development Project
SOGREAH Study
General
The SOGREAH Project
1.        The purpose of the project proposed by SOGRLAH is to use waters
of the Maradi and Gabi rivers for irrigation of the Goulbi. An agriculturai
survey was conducted aimed at intensification of traditional crops and
diversification by production of cotton, fodder and miscellaneous crops.
Several rotation systems were contemplated.
2.        The project works (see attached sketch) would irrigate 3,400 ha
of the Goulbi from flood waters stored in Lake Madarounfa. Water would be
delivered to the irrigated area through a main canal which would cross the
Maradi river in a siphon and continue along the foothills on the right bank
of the river. Flood protection would be accomplished by a regulating re-
servoir on the Maradi River created by an earth fill dam across the river
at Madarounfa. Flood waters would be stored and released at rates not to
exceed the capacity of the river channel, thus avoiding natural flooding of
the Goulbi. The SOGREAH plan envisaged that (i) flood recession cultiva-
tion would develop around the regulating reservoir (some 2,500 ha) and (ii)
flood control systems would be developed along the Maradi river (1,000 ha
between Maradi and Tibiri). The total net area involved amounts to some
6,900 ha.
3.        Some 2,650 meters of dikes would be constructed to increase the
volume of the Madarounfa Lake. The net volume available would amount to
some 20 million m3, but the village of Madarounfa would have to be relocated
on a higher dune. To fill the lake from the Maradi river would require
additional works upstream, a rockfill weir across the river and intake
structure and a main canal 3,850 meters long connecting the river and the
lake.
4.        An earth fill dam would be constructed on the Maradi River to
prevent downstream flooding of the Goulbi (length: 6,195 m; top width:
3.50 m). The total volume of water to be retained, even in the exception-i.
case of an overflowing of the Madarounfa lake, would amount to some 100 -..JJvo
m3, 50% of the average yearly flow. In addition to the siphon spillway,
8 groups of 3 siphons, the dam would have a sluice for desilting purpOsP..
and a bottom outlet for dewatering the reservoir.



ANNEX 7
Appendix 1
Page 2
5.        An irrigation intake would be constructed in the Madarounfa dike
and the main canal, capacity 7 m3/s, would cross the Maradi River in a siphon
and continue along the foothills on the right side of the Maradi River, a
total length of some 18,000 meters.  The irrigation system would include
secondary and tertiary canals and a surface drainage system. The main
collector drain (length: 6,750 m), would convey drainage water back to
the Maradi River.
Costs
6.        Costs for civil works were updated by the Genie Rural department
in Niamey in April, 1974.  Taking into account an overall increase of 25%,
the costs at mid-1975 prices would be:
Estimated Civil Works Costs (CFAF million & US$ million)
All works by      Irrigation System by  Same as B but
Contract       Force Account other    excluding
(taxes included)  works by contract          taxes
(taxes included)
A                  B                    C
CFAF       US$    CFAF             US$    CFAF      US1$
Basic works at Madarounfa
(dam, dikes, weir, canal,
etc.)                       2,818      12.80   2,818           12.80   2,226   10.12
Irrigation System           3,108      14.12   2,473           11.24   2,143    9.74
Related Works (tracks,
etc.)                       1,200       5.45   1,200            5.45     947    4.30
TOTAL                  7,126      32.37   6,491          29.49   5,316   24.16
Note: Conversion rate US$1 = CFAF 220
From the above figures the per hectare cost for the 3,400 ha irrigation
system would be US$7,100 excluding taxes and with the irrigation system
constructed by force account.
Comments
7.        The preceeding briefly described project is as proposed by the
consultants SOGREAH, and has not been reviewed in detail. Their assumptions
are presented without changes. As the SOGREAH survey was carried out in
1965, a substantial review would be required to verify several aspects of



ANNEX 7
Appendix 1
Page 3
the project particularly the agricultural aspects (crops, rotations, yields,
etc). On the other hand, the engineering work vas carried out to more detail
and may be more reliable, but would require considerable checking and updating
of costs, etc. The SOGREAR econoimic analysis made 10 years ago indicated
a poor rate of return for the project and economic calculations have not
been updated, but the high costs presented in para 8 indicate a marginal
project at best.
8.        A detailed review of the project would be required to more closely
identify aspects requiring additional data or further study but there are
several technical areas of concern, for example (i) the costly diking for
flood protection and the siphon crossing the Maradi River and (ii) the
rate at which capacity of the reservoir on the Maradi River would be reduced
by sediment accumulation. Both of these points should receive careful
attention if the SOGREAR proposal is considered further, the former to
effect a lesa costly design for the irrigation system and the latter to
determine the usable life of the reservoir on a river that from all appear-
ances carries a heavy sediment load which vould be very difficult to sluice
through the dam.



ANNEX 7
Appendix 2
Page 1
NIGER
IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT OF THE GOULBI DE MARADI
Studies Required
1.   Background
A project based on the use of Maradi River surface flow was
studied by SOGREAH in the 1960s. Main structures are: a low dam across
the river at Madarounfa which would regulate the river flow, and a lake at
Madarounfa which would accumulate water from the river and later release it
into the Goulbi through an irrigation network, spreading along the right
bank of the river. The net irrigated area would cover 3,400 ha. On the
other hand, tapping underground water from the Goulbi aquifer would be very
attractive due to very favorable conditions such as: shallow depth of the
aquifer, regular replenishment, high "capacite d'emmagasinement", good
quality of the water, etc. However, protection against floods should be
carefully examined. Before beginning full irrigation development of the
Goulbi, it is most important to find out which alternative is the Most
economical and should be carried out. The purpose of the studies outlined
below is: (i) to provide the required information and (ii) to launch a
500 ha irrigation development scheme through underground water pumping, if
this alternative is approved.
2.  Agriculture
The agricultural aspect of SOGREAH's project needs updating:
crops, yields and rotation should be redefined in accordance with the
conditions now prevailing in the Maradi area (construction of new agro-
processing industries, etc.). Alternative methods of cultivation should
be envisaged and compared from all aspects -- economical, technical, social,
and employment.
3.   Hydrological Study
The hydrological study should foeus on two major items: (i) river
flooding and (ii) sedimentation in the river bed. More information about
floods is necessary to determine which structures would more adequately
protect the irrigated area of the Goulbi. In that respect, the study should
aim at providing information connected with flood spreading on the Goulbi
(areas, frequencies, damage to crops, etc.). Moreover, since one solution
for flood protection could be a regulating dam across the river, sedimentation
in the reservoir is a problem whieh must be pointed out, and a study should
be undertaken in that direction (flood water samples, analysis of the
catching area natural cover, comparisons with other, similar conditions, etc.).



ANNFX 7
Appendix 2
Page 2
4.   Hydro-geological Study
The Goulbi de Maradi aquifer is unknow,n, insofar as no relevant
hydrological study has yet beer carried out; nevertheless, the present use
of the aquifer (wells) suggests trcit the potential is worthwhile and tapping
conditions are favorable. Howexver, these are a priori assumptions, based on
a limited knowledge, and 4t is certain that a better knowledge of the aquifer
is required, if full irrji,ation through underground water tapping is to be
implemented. The purDose of this study is to give to the engineering de-
signer all characterist4cs of boreholes (or weils), such as: depth, outflow,
distance between wells, etc.  Two survevs could be carried out to provide
these elements: (i) a (,eophysical survey (saismic, electric or mixed method)
(30 km), and (ii) a borehole test campaign (15).
5.   Pedological Advice
A traditional pedological study would not be necessary. A single
map covering the entire Goulbi area would be provided, showing the main cate-
gories of soils and their ability to grow the proposed crops. This map would
be drawn from the existing aerial photos and would require a minimum of field
work (sample analyses, trenches, etc.).
6.   Irrigation Works; Civil Engineering
(a)  A first step would consist of an appraisal of SOGREAH's proposai,
including spot checks on key points of the main structures
(relevant topographic data, usable capacity, and simulation of
operating conditions of the reservoir, etc.). The consultant
will propose the main points to be checked, and if necessary,
additional surveys could be undertaken. It may be assumed that
the irrigation and drainage network designs are still suitable.
Possible alternatives using surface waters should be envisaged
(use of Madarounfa Lake for irrigation of nearby lands on the
left bank of the Maradi River, if possible).
(b)  The second step would focus on full irrigation development of
the Goulbi through underground waters. Alternatives would be
studied separately (wells, boreholes), including flood protec-
tion, and would be compared with surface water systems.
Economic analyses should be carried out for each solution.
In both cases (surface or underground water systems), alter-
native solutions related to flood protection should be studied
carefully. Two extremes would consist of (i) a regulating dam
across the river, as proposed by SOGREAH or (ii) a dike stretch-
ing all along the river, combined with additional strengthening
of erodible points. To minimize costs, an intermediate solution
might also be considered.



ANNEX 7
Appendix 2
Page 3
(c) If tapping the aquifer appears to be the most economical way
to develop the Goulbi, the study would proceed, and the
detailed engineering design for a first development stage of
some 500 ha would materialize. On the other hand, if the use
of surface waters were to be preferred, its lack of flexibility
would require further investigations, which are not stipulated
in these general terms of reference. A third alternative could
be the development of irrigation from the groundwater table
conjunctive to the development of surface water in those areas
where both approaches would not be mutually exclusive.
7.   OrSanization and Management
Organizational and managerial arrangements constitute a part of
the present required studies. If a first-stage irrigated area were developed
through boreholes or wells, relationships between the authorities, the exist-
ing agencies (U.N.C.C., etc.) and farmers would have to be clearly defined
before implementation of any works. It is also evident that all land tenure
problems would have to be solved beforehand.



NIGER
XU.RDI RURAL DEVELoWKEUT F1U0ECT
I 2IGATI0N SC31u1B
fttr Resuirbete  for 10 ha
-----------------------------Rainfalla---------------------------------------
F      M      A      M        J     J      A       s _           N       D      Total
- (mm)                            0      O     0       5     30      64   161    240    110       14      O      0       624
- no. of days                     °      °     O    0.7    3.7      6.3  11.1   14.7    9.8    1.4        0      0       47.7
_______ --_____________-----Wat,r Requirmmenta (u_)------------------
j      F      N      A       M      J      J      A       S      O       N      D      Total
CroDs
Cotton (planting 6/15)                                             66    132    155    150    130                       633
Sorghum (planting 7/15)                                                   58    132    144    150                        484
Tomatos (replanting 11/10)  223    190       34                                                          84    179      710
Unions (replanting ll1)5)    180    234      86                                                         ll3    132      745
Peanut (planting 10/1)        220    160     80                                                175      140    165      940
Tobacco (replanting 11/15)   135                                                                 70     180    240       625
------------------------Pumping Requirements (10 ha - m3)--------------------
J       F      M     J       J      A      S       O       N      D       Total
Cotton 5 ha                                                       500   1,500  2,000  2,000  1,000                     7,000
Sorghum 5 ha                                                                   2,000  2,000  1,500                     5,500
Touatoes  2 ha                             4,460  3,800    680                                         1,680  3,580   14,200
Onions  2 ha                               3,600  4,680 1,720                                          2,260  2,640   14,900
Misc. l ha                                 1,775    800    400                                1,200   1,600  2,000    7,775
Theoretical Requirements                  9.835  9.280  2.800   500   1.500  4.000  4.000  3.700   5.540  8.220   49.375
Effective                                 16,390          4,670         2,500          6,670           9,230
Requirements   /                                15,470           830          6,670          6,170          13,700   82,300
Daily hours of pumping 3 m3/hour              18     18       5     1       3       7      7       7      10     15
2/ Efficiency of 0.6



ANNEX 7
NIGER                                                                      Table 2
MARADI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irrigation Schemes
Farm Budget (0.50 ha)
1975                  --       Year 1 -----------     --------Year 2--------------    --------Year 3----------   --------Year 4-----------
Prices       Area        Yield         Production        yield           Production        Yield       Production       Yield          Production
CFAF/kg       (ha)        kg/ha         Kg      CFAF        ga                   CFA         g/ha     K        CFAF      lg/ha         R      CFAF
Rainy Seasoti   Cotton                              47           0.25        1,700       425      19,980     1,800         450     21,150      2,000    500      23,500     2,000        500    23,500
Sorghum                             28          0.25         2.500       625     17,500      2,800        700      19,600     3,000    750      21,000      3,500       875    24,500
Total                                                       0.50         4,200                37,480                           40,750                       44,500                          48,000
Dry Season:     Tomatoes                             8           0.10       25,000     2,500      20,000    25,000       2,500     20,000    30,000  3,000      24,000    35,.000      3,500    28,000
Onions                              il          0.10        30,000     3,000      33,000    30,000      3,000      33,000    32,000  3.200      35,200    35,000      3,500    38,500
Total                                                       0.20                              53,000                           53,000                        59,200                         66,500
Total Gross Income                                                                                90,480                           93,750                       103,700                        114,500
Agricultural Production Costs
Plowing at 6 days/ha                                                                            2,250                            2,250                        2,250                           2,250
Insecticides treatment - Cotton 5 sprayings @ CFAF 1000/ha                                        250                              250                           250                            250
- Tomatoes 3 sprayings @CFAF 100/ha  Â/                                  275                               275                          275                            275
Fertilizer Cotton 50 kg urea/ha @ CFAF 50/kg  2/                                                  625                              625                           625                            625
Tomatoes  200 kg compound/ha @ CFAF 52/kg  2/                                        1,040                            1,040                        1,040                           1,040
Onions 180 kg sulphate N H4 @ CFAF 60/kg  2/                                         1,080                            1,080                        1,080                           1.080
75 kg superphosphate/ha @ CFAF 47.5/kg  ,/                                    360                               360                          360                             360
Hand tools                                                                                         50                                50                           50                             50
Seeds - Sorghum 25 kg/ha @ CFAF 28/kg                                                             180                              180                           180                            180
- Tomatoes 2500 aeedlings/ha @ CFAF 0.5                                                     130                              130                           130                            130
- Onions 4000 seedlings/ha @ CFAF 1                                                         400                              400                           400                            400
Total Agricultural Production Costa                                                                6,640                             6,640                        6,640                          6,640
Puiping @ CFAF 2/m3                                                                                8,230                            8,230                         8,230                          8,230
Maintenance @ 5% of investment                                                                    10,400                           10,400                        10,400                         10,400
Total Pumping and Maintenance                                                                     18,630                           18,630                        18,630                         18,630
Income before Cost Recovery                                                                       65,210                           68,480                        78,430                         89,230
Cost Recovery                                                                                     22,000                           22,000                        22,000                         22,000
Net Income                                                                                        43,210                           46,480                        56,430                         67,230
Net Income per man-day                                                                               196                               207                          248                            286
Man-days                                                                                             220                              225                           228                            235
1/ Subsidized 66%
2/ Subsidized 507%



NIGER
MARADI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IRRIGATION SCHEMES
Labor Requirements (0.50 ha)
Month             1       2       3     4       5       6       7       8       9      10       il       12        Total
Clearing                 -       -      -      5       -       -      -       -      12       -        -        -         17
Soil Cultivation         -       -       -    10      15       -      -       -      -       15       10        -         50
MaLltenanoe              '       '       5     l       1       l                                 l   1  l 
Nursery                  -       -       -     5       -       -      -       -      -        5        -        -         10
Transplanting            -       -       -     -       8       8      -       -      -        -        8        8         32
Weeding                  8       -       -     2       8       8       8      -      -        2        8        8         52
Fertilizing              -       -      -      -       1       1      -       -      -        -        1        1          4
Harvesting               -      15      10     -       -       -       -     15      10       -        -        -         50
9     16      15    23      33      18       9      16     27      23       28       18        235
(D X



ANNEX 7
Table-à
NIGER
MARADI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IRRIGATION SCHEMES
Project Production
6          1977      1978     1979      1980      1981
Cotton (tons)                                170      440     470        500       500
Sorghum                                      250      655      720       800       875
Tomatoes                                   1,000    1 ,500   29700     3,200     3,500
Onions                                     1,200    3,000   3,080      3,320     3,500



ANNEX 8
Page 1
N: GER
MARADI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Training
1.        The project will expand existing and introduce new training services
in the area.
A. Expansion of Existing Training Services
2.        Training of Farmer Leaders. Farmer leaders will receive annually
one week's training in improved cultivation methods at the 15 ALC's. The
leaders are the best farmers in the village and are elected by their peers.
They would be the first farmers to try new agricultural techniques and the
results would be discussed by the village assembly. It is estimated that
one out of ten farmers would be a leader and entitled to attend these training
courses.
3.        Training of Groupement Mutualiste Villageois (aIV) Officials.  Prin-
cipal officials include the president, secretary and treasurer. They must
keep the books of the GMV, and know how to read and write. Initial training
would follow functional literacy courses and in addition they will attend
three-day training sessions in rudimentary bookkeeping twice a year; these
will take place in April, before loans are made and in October at the time
of collection. The training of G!4V officials will be administered by the
Cooperative Affairs staff.
4.        Functional Literacy Training.  Functional literacy centers will be
created in extension workers villages (one out of three). The extension
workers will be the teachers and each center will instruct 30 students for
three hours a day during three months in the dry season in two successive years.
Subject matter will be based on project activities, and pedagogic materials
prepared by the project training services.
5.        Orientation Sessions.  Drientation sessions, which will take place
at the cooperative headquarters, will first present and explain the project
to village representatives (five per village and 50 in total), and in following
years repeat sessions will be held to consider results and redefine develop-
ment programs. The sessions, which will last one week the first year, and
three .days the following years, will be conducted by the project Cooperative
Affairs staff.
6.        Training of Cooperative Officials.  There are six principal officials
for each cooperative: the president, weigher, secretary and three advisors.
They should be able to progressively manage the cooperative without outside



ANNEX 8
Page 2
assistance.  Training will vary with cooperative maturity:  at first, instruc-
tion will be given in simple procedures such as weighing and entering quanti-
ties; it will then turn to more complex procedures such as inventory keeping,
accounting of cash balances, establishing yearly accounts and determining
bonuses. Courses will last one week per year, include 20 students, and be
conducted by the project cooperative staff at the headquarters of the Asso-
ciation Locale de Cooperative (ALC) during the rainy season.
B. New Training Services
7.        Young Farmers' Training.  Youths between the ages of 18 and 25 will
be taught improved cultivation methods at demonstration farms at ALC head-
quarters. Forty students will be trained annually at each ALC during the
planting season in alternating groups of 20. The groups will alternate one
week at the center and one week with the family. This will allow the youths
to maintain contact with their families, to immediately apply what they have
learned, and would not deprive the family of labor when most needed. Students,
who must be literate, will work mornings in the field and take general courses
in the afternoons. Courses will be given by extension monitors (see para 11)
and training services staff.
8.        Extension Workers' Training.  Extension workers will be selected
by cooperatives and project technical services amongst farmer leaders who are
already functionally literate. They will be trained in improved cultivation
practices at the expanded Centre de Formation de Jeunes Agriculteurs (CFJA)
in Maradi. Training will be essentially practical; students, who will be paid
during training, will jointly cultivate a small area on which they will apply
all the techniques which they will later promote. Courses will last one
planting season (April 1 to October 31), and will include functional literacy
teaching.  The present center will be expanded to accommodate 100 students.
9.        Project Supervisory Staff.  The supervisory staff to receive
training under the project includes:
Technical                  Training          Cooperative
Department                 Department        Department
Arrondissement  Chief                       Chief             Chief Accountant
ALC              Chief                      Chief             Deputy Chief
6 months Deputy Chief      6 months Deputy
Chief
6 months Deputy Chief                        6 months Deputy Chief
Extension Monitors



ANNEX 8
Page 3
The ALC Technical Operations deputy chiefs will divide their time between
extension work in the rainy season and functional literacy and accounting in
the dry season.
10.       ALC Technical Operations.  Deputy chiefs are trained at the UNCC
training center (financed since 1970 under IDA Credit 207-NIR). Courses
include three months in class, where agricultural techniques, cooperative
management and business administration are taught, and three months of super-
vised work in the field. Although the content of the courses is good, it is
mainly oriented towards cotton cultivation; and students would profit from
another three month period in class immediatelv after the three months field
experience. For these reasons the project includes complementary training
as follows:
General Agriculture. Study of improved techniques proposed by the
project, and the pedagogy of transmitting them.
Practical Agriculture. ALC technical department deputy chiefs, who
will supervise extension workers in their areas, will be trained
simultaneously at Maradi CFJA. They will not be housed at the
center but will commute from Maradi.
Cooperative Management. Study of the cooperative movement, organ-
ization and operations.
Hausa Proficiency. Learning to read, write, and teach in Hausa.
General agriculture, cooperative management, and Hausa training will be taught
by training department staff, for three months the first year, and one month
the following years.
11.       ALC Extension Monitors were trained at Kolo Agricultural School  -
prior to 1968 (two years). This education was somewhat rudimentary but some
graduates have since acquired much prâctical experience. They will be respon-
sible for demonstration farms and young farmers' training.  The project includes
complementary training as follows:
General Agriculture.  Study of the demonstration farms, explanation
of the various production factors, and links between applied
research and promotion of improved techniques.
Practical Agriculture. In setting up the demonstration farm.
Cooperative Management, Hausa Teaching.  As for ALC deputy chiefs.
Pedagogical Training. How to teach young farmers, and to integrate
them in the family during the period out of school.
Training will last three months the first year, and be repeated one month
annually in following years.



ANNEX 8
Page 4
12.       ALC Technical Operations Chiefs, and ALC Cooperative Affairs
Deptty Chizfs are trained at Kolo Agricultural School. Their education is
mulLipurpose, practical, and adapted to their fu-nctions within the project.
Complementary training is, howe-'er, necessary as follows:
General Agriculture. Irnformation on proje.t objectives, refresher
course in agriculturai techniques.
Planning and Management. Work planning of staff supervised, minutes
of meetings, filing etc.
Training will last two months the first year, and be repeated one month
annuallv in following years.
13.       ALC Community Development Chiefs are trained at Kolo (majoring in
"animation") or trained at Ecole Nationale d'Administration. Their educat_on is
adapted to their functions within the project. Complementary training is,
however, necessary as follows:
General Agriculture, Planning and Management. As for ALC Chiefs
and Deputy Chiefs.
Specialized Training. Functional literacy techniques, promotion
of radio-clubs, socioeconomic activities.
Training will last two months the first year, and be repeated one month
annually in following years.
14.       Arrondissement Technical Operations Chiefs are trained at Katibougou,
Mali. They receive a good technical training and some rudiments of management,
but as they are trained abroad they need complementary training in "animation",
cooperative and general management. Training will last two months the first
year, and be repeated one month annually in following years.
15.       Arrondissement Cooperative Affairs Chiefs and Accountants are
trained at UNCC training center. They receive good accounting but no agri-
cultural training and need complementary training in this field. Training
will last two months the first year and be repeated one month in following
years. Government should also send more candidates to Institut Panafricain
de Developpement (IPD) at Douala, Cameroon which dispenses the best training
in cooperative management and accounting in the region.
16.       Arrondissement Community Development Chiefs are either school-teachers
or trained at UNCC training center in "animation" to satisfactory standards.
As cooperative services chiefs they need some agricultural training. Train-
ing will last two months the first year and he repeated one month annually
in following years.



ANNEX 8
Page 5
17.       Blacksmith Training.  Although this program was started in 1968,
no new center has been established since 1971. A center is the shop of a
qualified blacksmith who agrees t:o instruct other blacksmiths in modern tech-
niques. About 25 centers will be established under the project, and 60
blacksmiths trained to bring the total number of blacksmiths in the area to
85 (one per cooperative). Training will extend over a three year period:
the first year there would be three two-week sessions; the second year two
two-week sessions and the third year two one-week sessions. Blacksmiths
learn to use modern tools and techniques and some can make animal drawn hoes
at one third the cost of imported equipment. The project will finance credit
to blacksmiths to acquire basic equipment.
C. Organization of Training Component
18.       The Project Unit Community Development Section will be responsible
for conducting all training activities with the exception of young farmers,
extension workers and blacksmiths training, which are very technical in nature
and will be conducted by the Techmical Operations Section.
19.       The cost of training services is itemized at Annex 11.



ANNEX 9
Page 1
NIGER
MARADI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LIVESTOCK PROJECT COMPONENT
A. General
1.        Before the recent series of rainfall-deficit years, the cattle
herd of the Departement was owned about equally by migratory pastoralists
and by sedentary farmers. During the rainy season about one third of the
herds would be in the agricultural zone, south of isohyet 500 m/m, and the
remainder to the north of that limit, some of these being owned by farmers
living in the south and herded by pastoralists. In the dry season the north-
ern herds would be brought south to feed on natural pastures and on crop
residues.
2.        The drought years disrupted the traditional pattern, and had differ-
ing impacts on the northern and southern herds. In the North, an estimated
50 percent of the herd was destroyed, compared to only about 15 percent in
the South. Consequently the Arrondissements which suffered most from the
drought in the Departement were in northern Arrondissements of Dakoro and
Mayahi. The net result is that the herd in the agricultural zone has been
almost completely re-established to the pre-drought level, while the herd
north of isohyet 500 m/m is still greatly understocked.
3.        Some 14,000 pastoral families are estimated by Government to live
in the Departement, compared with 150,000 families countrywide. The number
of pastoralist families who lost everything is estimated at 76,000 for
Niger as a whole of which 8,000 in the Departement de Maradi, 7,400 Peuhl
and 600 Touaregs. Since February 1974, Government has înitiated a credit
program to help those pastoralists who lost everything begin to establish
another herd. Under this program the Services de l'Elevage of the
Ministere de l'Economie Rurale et du Climat distribute to each type of
family the following:  Peuhl, five head of cattle and 10 goats and sheep;
Touareg, five camels and 10 goats and sheep. Selection of the pastoralist
families is made by a "comite" chaired by the Sous-Prefet of the Arrondissement
and which includes both officials and traditional chiefs. The pastoralist
chooses his own animals from those offered for sale and concludes a contract
with the "comite" to repay the purchase as follows:
(a) cattle and camels, an interest-free loan repaid over
seven years including three years of grace;
(b) goats and sheep, an interest-free loan repaid over
three years including a one year grace period.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
Some 900 head of cattle, 90 camels and 2,700 goats and sheep had been dis-
tributed by April 15, 1975 in the Departement de Maradi at a cost for animals
of about CFAF 67 million.
B. The Livestock Project Component
4.        The livestock component included in the proposed project would
comprise:
(a)  equipping and financing the operation of the livestock
services in the Departemient to enable them to conduct
more efficient disease prevention vaccination campaigns
and programs for the treatment of internal parasites;
(b) providing credit needed for the distribution of animals
to pastoralists who lost: their herds during the drought;
(c) studying the livestock industry of the south of the
Departement and preparing a development program.
5.        Equipping and Financing the Operation of the Livestock Services
Equipment needed by the livestock services would include 5 four-
wheel-drive vehicles and refrigeration equipment needed for handling vaccines
(ice boxes, freezers, and refrigerators), and some small tools and instruments.
The project would finance operatirng costs of this equipment during the three
years including IDA credit disbursement period.
6.        Vaccination Campaigns.  A systematic campaign against rinderpest
and pleuropneumonia would be condtLcted during the three years, with all cattle
in the Departement being vaccinated each of the three years. The European
Development Fund is financing similar campaigns in the departements of Niamey,
Tahoua, Dosso and Diffa; and the program in Maradi would complement this.
Assurances would need to be obtairned from Government that a similar campaign
be undertaken in the neighboring-clepartement of Zinder. After three years of
blanket vaccination, it would be necessary to vaccinate calves only.
7.        Treatment Against Internal Parasites.  All animals are affected
by parasites which increase susceptibility to infection in the young.
Control treatments are cheap, and would be administered during the rainy
season, when small stock, sheep and goats, and young animals, calves, are
most seriously affected. The proiect includes the cost of treating 40 per-
cent of all calves and 50,000 goats and sheep, annually.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
8.         Distribution of Mineral Licks.  The project also includes funds
for the purchase of mineral licks for distribution to livestock owners.
Mineral licks are unknown in the Departenent, and through the provision of
these elements, could have beneficial and substantial impacts on productivity.
9.        Distribution of lerds to Pastoralists Who Have Lost Everything
Funds are provided under the project to finance the purchase of
nucleus herds to about 750 pastoral families in the Arrondissements of Dakoro
and Mayahi. This action will provide a means of livelihood to about 4,500
people who are presently a public charge.
10.       Preparation of a Livestock Dev        Pentoram for the Soutlh
of the Departement
The French consulting firm SEDES has made a generai study of the
nomadic pastoral industry of Niger including the north of the Departement and
this is the basis of the current policy for livestock development. The SEDES
study is being up-dated to take into account the impact of the drought, and
will be used to formulate projects for the nomadic zone. The up-dating is
estimated to be finished by March 1976. Development of the livestock industry
of the southern part of the Departement, despite its importance and the oppor-
tunities for its better integration with crop farming has not been studied.
The proposed project would finance a study of the livestock industry of the
southern zone and the preparation of policy and project proposals that would
take account of the findings of the up-dated SEDES study that pertain to the
north. The study would have three key objectives: (a) an increase in meat
production, especially for export to Nigeria; (b) the better integration of
livestock and crop farming; and (c) conservation of the grazing reserve.
At this point it is possible to foresee that inter alia the study will make
recommendations concerning productivity measures relating to such issues as
calving and weaning rates and fattening of beef cattle by smnallholders.



_____                                                             yu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tblt 
MARADI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Lisestosk Production
1976              1977                 1978                1979                1980                1981                1982              1983 aud
A.   With rhe Proiect
Herd Cocposition (.'000 uoisali  ut
end cf Year)
BuIll  and .teers oser 4 yeuse                       51                 56                  56                  56                   56                  56                 56                   56
Cows                                                165                175                 183                 193                  200                 200                200                  U00
Clve-                                               72                 78                  85                  88                   93                  96                 96                   9,,
Heifers  I - 3 yeurs                                 44                 45                  45                  45                   45                  55                 66                   66
Steers 1 - 3 yeurs                                   47                 47                  51                  49                   49                  49                 49
Total Herd                                              379               401                 420                  431                 443                 456                467                  4+,7
Ca]ving Rate (667. constant)                        101                109                 116                 121                  127                 132                132                  ]32
M-otality -dults                            1         3        1         3        1          3       1            3       1           3       1           3       1           3     1             3
- coine                         29        33       28        35       27         35      27          38      27           41     27           41      27         41    27            4]
-beifets.ateers                  7         8        6         6        5          4       5           5       5            5       5           6       5          6      5            1,
Suie ('000 animalr)
CUlI COW6                                            16                 18                  25                  26                   31                  30                 30                   30
Bulls and eteer-  over 4 yeusc                       22                 25                  30                  36                   40                  40                 41                   41
Heifere 2 - 3 years                                                                                                                                                                              il
Total Saler ('000 Asi-l)                                 38                43                   55                  62                  71                   70                 71                  m2
VluIe cf SUaes ('000 CFAF)
C11 uc-s  li                                   280,000            315,000             437,500             455,000             542,500              525,000            525,000             525,00s
ulls and eteecu over 4 year   2/                598,400            680,000             816,000             979,200           1,088,000           1,088,000           1,115200           1,115,200
Heifers 2 -3 ytst-                                   -                  -                   -                    -                   -                   -                  -              198,000
Vu.Ic,  of Sales                            878,400            995,000           1.253,500           1.434,200            1,630,500           1,613,000          1,640,200           1,838,20(
4ilk Production  4/                                            96,000             102.000              106,000             112,000             116,000             116,000             116,000
Total Vluie of Sulea                               967,400          1,091,000           1,355,500           1.540,200            1.742.500           1.729,000          1,756.200           1,954,200
B.   Without thie P-oi.t
Herd Cooaition ('000 aoi,uias at
ed cf ye-s)
Bulls und uteers  oves 4 yeom-                       49                 49                  49                  49                   49                  49                 49                   49
°ow                                                164                170                 170                 170                  170                 170                170                  170
Cnlve-                                               69                 70                  72                   72                  73                  73                  73                  73
Reifere I - 3 yeuse                                  42                 42                  42                   42                  42                  42                  42                  42
Steors I - 3 yeuse                                   47                 47                  47                  47                   46                  46                  46                  46
roto  Ber-d                                            371                378                 380                  380                 380                 380                 380                 380
Calving Rote (66% co..tont)                         101                108                 112                  112                 112                 112                 112                 112
Mortalitv -adul;                            2         4        2         4        2          4       2            4       2           4       2            4       2          4      2            4
- cuises                        32        38       35        45       35         46      35          46      35           46      35          46      35         46    35            46
-heifes and  teers               9        10       10         9       10          9      10           9      10            9      10           9      10          9    10              9
Suie ('000 uninuis)
Cll nows                                             16                 18                  25                   26                  26                  26                  26                  26
Buils and steers oves 4 yeuse                        22                 25                  26                   27                  27                  27                  27                  27
Tutul Saies ('000 aninu]s)                               38                43                   51                  53                   53                  53                 53                  53
Value of Sules (U000 CFAPI
Cull cows  lt                                   280,000            315,000             437,500             455,000             455,000              455,000            455,000             455,000
Bulls aed nteers uses 4 years  2/               598.400            680.000             707.200             734,400              734.400             734,400            734,400             734,400
Vluse cf Sies                               878,400            995,000           1,144,700           1,189,400           ]1,189,400           1,189.400           1,189,400           1,189,400
Milk Production  4/                          89.000              95,000              99,000              99,000              99,000               99,000             99,000              99,001'
Total Valus of Sales                               967,400          1.090.000           1,243.700           1.288.400            1,288,400           1,288,400          1,288,400            1,288,400
R      ncro-cota1 V Iue cf Sales ('000 CFAF)             -              I          000    111,800             251,800              454,100             440.600            467.800              665.800
1/ 250 kg/uni1na 9 CEAF 70/kg (CFAF 17,500).
2/  340 kg/usiui1 @ CFAF 80/kg (CFAF 27,200).
3/  At CFAF 08,000/aclai.
4/  807, of ncew Rn slIf, 110 litess/tc-/y..t ut CFAF 10/liter.



ANNEX 10
Page 1
NIGER
MARADI RURAL DEVELOPYOENT PROJECT
Evaluation and Planning Unit
1.        The Evaluation and Planning Unit will be responsible for all
socioeconomic work carried out by the project, including:
-    preliminary studies prior to the establishment of
irrigation works; and
-    a systematie evaluation of the project's impact on
farming units and systems, and on the economic and
social evolution in Maradi District.
2.        Studies Prior to Irrigation Works.  Sites will be first chosen for
their suitability (see Annex 5). Then, project staff will enlist the parti-
cipation of the population concerned by explaining how schemes will work and
what is expected of participants. During these orientation sessions a socio-
logical inquiry will be conducted:
-    to prepare a complete list of all landowners affected;
-    to prepare a complete cadastral survey; and
-    to make a full inventory of production prior to the
irrigation schemes, as a base of reference to later
compare the added worth brought by the schemes.
Farmers will be invited to regroup their holdings in 10 ha blocks and to
organize themselves in cooperatives.
3.        The methodology of the inquiry will be designed by the Evaluation
Unit recently established within MERC to coordinate the evaluation of ongoing
agricultural projects at the national level.
4.        Evaluation of Project Impact.  The unit will conduct a permanent
assessment of the project impact on farming units and on the economic and
sociological evolution in the Departement of Maradi. This assessment will be
based on an interpretation of the following data: production increases, prices
farmgate and at the traditional market centers, changes in farming patterns,
changes in village cadastral structures, evolution of hired farm labor and
accession to private ownership.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
5.        This assessment will be conducted on two levels:  in-depth with
four villages representative of the four Arroclissemrents covered by the
project, and extensively throughoot the project area.  The in-depth study
will include:
Project Year 1 - The establishment of a cadastral survey from
aerial photographs taken at the beginning of the rainy season
to show cultivated and fallow land.
- A detailed inquiry with all farmers in the
villages to determine the demographic conmposition of the farming
unit, land distribution amongst farmers, means of cultivation,
sources of income (agriculture and other) and the extent of
hired labor.
Project Years 2 - Selection of a number of representative
farms from the detailed inquiry made in Year 1 and monitoring of
these farms during that year (expenses, receipts, home
consumption, time allocation, and agricultural production).
Project Year 3 - A new cadastral survey from aerial photographs
at the beginning of the rainy season, and a new detailed inquiry
with all' farmers in the villages as in Year 1; and the final
appraisal of the representative farms.
6.        The extensive study will include monitoring of a number of villages,
and study of marketing channels (quantities marketed and prices).
7.        The in-depth study will require five research assistants working
fulltime during the first and the third year, and three months in the second
year. Data will be interpreted by the Evaluation Unit within MERC and analyzed
by computer. The extensive study will be done with the cooperation of the project
extension staff, and about 300 functionally literate farmers who would be paid
a small fee.



ANNEX 11
Table 1
Page I
5i5GER
MARADI RURAL DEV1LCPMENT PROJECT
Suataary of Project Cost and Financing
F0IIUNCED BY
1976        1977         1978           T       76 - 1913                  IDA                       Goverrrent
"1iF00Y0   US 00           CFA?F  000    fS$ '000      CFAF 'o00    us$ '000
A.  PMU ilesdouarters
I,c4l Staff Salaries            9,900       10,900       10,900          30,700       140           6,600          30           24,100         110
Expatriate Staff Salaries    19,100         19,100       19,100         57,300        250          50,100        220             6,4Qo          30
-aildir6s                     45,900          -            -             75,900       200         40,800         180             5,100          20
Rquipmert                      3,200                                     3,200         1o           2,900         10               300          -
V"hicler                       3,600                 -                    3,600        10           2,500          10            1,100          -
O'perating expenses            6,S00         8,900       11,00c         26,700        120          23,800        110             2,900          10
C0rn,lting serrices            35,OO         5,9600       2.300         16,800         go 9               iO  1m sa                            l0
T-lt,71 PM"'4 aedquarters       95,900       1j5,500       43,800        1R,200        820         142,400         640           41,800         180
A1   F,  oati' ard Plaornirng Unit
I cal Staff Salaries           -,700        7,700         7,700         23,100        100          14,900          70            8,200          30
ERaipnent                        500         -             -               500         -              400          -                100         -
7thicles                       1,800         -             -              1,300        10           1, 600         10              200          -
Cperating  Erpenses            6,600        3,700        3,700          14,000        60          12,400          50             1,600          10
C^nsulting Sarvises            8,400        2,800         4,200         15,400         80          13,700         70             1.700          10
T,tal Evaluati-n ani
Fior-,ing 'J-.it               295,oo       1L,200        15,600         54,800        250          43,000         200           11,800          50
r.  Technica]  cperations SectinDr
I     qcol Stqff Salarîes       2,900         2,900        2,900           9,700        40           2,500          10            6,200          30
7ehicles         -,700                         -            -              2,700        10           2,400          10               300         -
OporRting Expenses              1,700         1,700        1,700          5,100         20          4.500          20               600          -
Total T,chnical Opereti,ns
sctiom                           7,300         4,600        4,600         16,500         70           9,400         40             7,100          30
BI 'Rural ]Lgineering
Local Staff Salaries            3,500         4 700        5,900          154100        60           6, 00          30            7,300          30
ErPatriate Staff Salaries      24,900        24,900       14,800          64,600°      290          57,400        260             7,200          30
-   ptrigation WPrks Construction  6,000         74,200      97,700         177,900,      790         158,Oo         700            19,900         90
IrrllNatin worka Eqa,ipment      -           12,000       1F9,10m        15, 1 0j      130         26,800         120             3,300          10
Vohicles                        3,600          -           -               3,600l       20           3,230          10              400          10
Operating Expenses              3,600         3,600        3,600          10,800k       50           9.600         40             1,200          10
COnaultîng Services             4.000         4.°°°         -              8,000        30           7.100          30              900          -
Total Rural Engineering          45,600       123,400      140,100        309,100      1,770         268,900       1,190           40,200         180
a2  General Agriculture
Local Staff Salaries           374,00        70,900      104,400        212,700        950         108,500        480           104,200         470
Civil W-rks                    i6,00           -            -            16,100         70          14,300         60             1,800          10
Eq,iç,aeot                      2,I00          -            _             2,400         10           2,I00         10               loo
Vehicles                       16,900         3,400        3,400          23,700       110          21,100        mo              2,600          10
Uperati-1g Expenses            11.100        1?,500      13.800          37,400        160         33 200         140             4,200          20
Stel  -,anerl1 Agriculture       83,900        86,800      121,600         292,300     1,300         179,200         790          1I3,I00         510
-3 Seed-Multiplication
LOcL I Staff Salaries           5,100         5,100        9,10oc         15,300        70           7,700         40             7,60û          30
SI,putriate Staff Salaries     10,100        10,100       10,100         30,300        130         26,900         120             3,400          10
Vehicles                        1,800          -            -             1,800         10           1,600         10               200          -
Operating Expenses              1,900         1,900        1,900          5,700         30          5. 000         20               70        .  10
Total Seed Multiplication
Schene                         13,900        17,100       17,100         53,100        240         41,200         190            11,900          50
B)L Applîed Research                                                                                                                .2
Local Staff Salaries            1,500         1,500        1,500           ,5C00        20           1,100         -              3,4Qo          20
3xpatriate Staff Salaries      10,100        10,100       10,100          30,300       130         26,900         120             3,400          10
Equ.ipment                        300         1,000        1,900           3,200        10          2,900          10               3»Oe
Vehicles                        2,700          -            -              2,700        10           2,40e          10              300
Operating Expenses              1,700         1,700        1,700          5,1oo         3l          4.500          20               60e         10
Total Applied Resarch            16,300        14,300       15,200          45,800       200          37,s,0O        160            8.000          40
95  Extension Staff Training
Center
Local Staff Salaries            5,700         5,700        5,700          17,100        80          10,30          sa             6,6,0          »
Civil Works                    19,700          -            -            19,700         90          17,500         8f             2,2e            là
Equipment                      19,18,618,600                                            80          16.500         79             2,1*           10
Vehicles                        4,800          -            -              4,800        tu          4,300          28       ,        0           -
Operating Expenses             12,900        13,600      13.600          40.1100       10          3560           16.                            20
Total Extension Staff
Training Center                 61,700        19,300       19,300        100,300        450         84,400         300             15, 0          70
P6  Blacksmith Training Unit
Loca1 Staff Salaries            1,200         1,200        1,200           3,600        20           1,                           2,             20
Equipenit                       1,300          -            -             1,300         le 1,0                     10                            -
Vehicles                        1,800          -                           1,800        10           1,600                           d           -
Operating Expenses                                                        9                         83
Total Blacklmith Training
Unit                             7,000       45300         e.8 00         16.100        70          12.200          50            3             2t
SUB-TOTAL                     36i,60       328,500      362,100       1,072,200      4.770        818.500       3.640           253,11e       1,130



ANNEX1 Il
Table 1
Page 2
NIG11ER
MAUD&R   [IIURAL DSVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sumary DfProleet Coat and financing
FINAiCED BY
Total 1976-197S   _     IDA                Govern,ett
1°76       1977        1978     C17J.F '0                 ZAF '000 3t  OC 000   CFAF '000   us$ '000
OC -pra-:.e `Affzirs Section
local St,ft Salaries                23,300      26,300      29,300      78,900       350          23,800       110       55,100         240
;ff2o- E2V:irent                        400        400         400       1,200        1t           1,10t\      10           100          -
Ve,, ~"h i2~ 1 e s                  33,9S0        -                     33,800       li           38,100       130        3,700          20
Cperating Expenses                   12.900     13.500      13.700      40.100       li n           600       150         4.500          20
T tal Croperative Affairs             72,400      h,200       43,1400    154,000       68'0         90,600      400        63,400         280
D.    C         D-miîy Develcpnent Section
Local Staff Salaries                 14,400     -8,900      23,400      56,700       250           8,000        40       48,7D0         210
Expatriate 2-uf' Salaries            14,800     1ù4800      14,800       44,400      200          38,500       180        4,900          20
_-  Builiings                             S,600       8,600       9,600      25,800       110         22,900       100         2,900          10
Functional Literacy Equipient         1,500      1,500       1,500        4,500       20           4,000        20          500          -
Vohi2les                             15,400      1,000       1,000      17,4o0        80          15,400        70        2,000          10
Operating Ecpees                    30,600      49.700      6S.600     148.900       660         132.300       SB0       16.600          SO
Tntal Com'unity Development            85,300     94,500    117,900       297,700    1,320         222,100       990       75,600         330
B.    Road  Sub-project                        ,0        150
Loca   t     aes                      1,500      1,500       1,500   e  4,5s00        20                       -           4,500          20
Roads Constr-ction                  173,000                            l7UQ 0        770         153.700       6ao        19.300         90
Total Road Sob-Project                174,500       1,s00      1,500      177,500      790         153,700       680        23,800         110
F.    Fürestry Sub-Proi380                                                                                              150        4,200          20
1TEillage Plantations                11,100     11,100      14,800       37,000       170  \       32,800
'.    Health Sub-ProJect
Medical Kits                          2,800         900        900        4,600        20           4,100        20          500
7ehicles                              4,500                               4,500        20           4,000       20           500
Operating Expenses                  3_900 4. 400 4_30_____
Tota, Health Sub-Project               11,200      5,300       5,200       21,700      100           19,300       90         2,400          10
'.    Livest,ck Sub-Froject
1.   An;inal Hes.th Prograr
E,ruipment                            9,900        200         200       10,300       50           9,100        40         1,200          10
Vehiclea                             11,400                   -          11,400       30           10,200       40         1,200          10
Cperating Expenses                   9,700       9,700       9,700      29,100       130          25.900       120         3,200          10
Ir_renenta' Medicine Requirements   6.600        1.000        -           7.600       50           6,700        30           900          -
T-tal Animal Health Program            37,600     10,900       9,900       58,400      ti0           51,900      230         6,500          30
1j;>   lational Herd Rehabilitation
Purchase of Animals                  37,000     55,500      47,200     139,700       620         124,100       550,       15,600          70
Agricultural Credit
Tncremental input requirements       40,100     57,900      58,400     156,400       700         138,900       630        17,500          80
Incremental improved seed
requirements                      20,500      12,900      19,600      53,000       240          47,100       210         5,900          30
Farm equipuent                          600      1,300      21,600       23,500      100          20,900        90         2,600          10
Blacksmiths Kits                      1,4400     1400        1,400        4,200       10           3,700        10           500         -
Ttal Agricultural Credit              62,600     73,500    101,000      237,100    1.050          210,600       930        26,500         120
Other
Studies                            170,8100     16,800                 187,600       S30         187,600       830          -
Audit cf Project Accounts             2"700      1,300       1,300        5,300       20           5,300        20          -
Schtlsrshipe                          5.000      5.000      5.000       15.000        70          15.000        70         -
Total Others                          178,500     23 100       6.300      207,900      920          207.900      920          -
Tota1 Project Cost priot to
contingencies,                    1,029,800    644,100    729,300   2,403,200   10,680         1,931,500    8,580        471,700       2,100
Phyeic01 Coeti .ncy /y il              f5,700     44,800      5000                     720         140,900       620       20,200          100
Price CoctigoncY  29.q                                       19l.tWO      405.700    1.M           40.900    1.500         64.820         300
Total Project Coet                  1,190,000    809,000    971,000   2,970,000   13,300         2,413,3".  10,700    i 556,700         2,500
US$1 - CFAF 225.
1  5% of ba.e coat. on a11 ite  except irrig&tion  ork. an-   d roado (15%).
/2 1976 - 884%.
1977 - 8.-0
1978 - 7.4%



ARREX il
NIGM 
MrAPAD5 hlEtAL DEVIBLOPflE T 2ROJECe
Staff SeivrI,,
(CFAF 'hOCO
1975            1976              1977                1973           1976-197S
Uait Coet  fl               JF                   v0TOTAl
A.  PD h0t0 rtr
-eneral M-nager         AI L(-el         3,OOQ       1     3,Q3Q    1       3000         1      3,000             9,0CO
tgricultur31 Advi-,r   Ebrsptri.te      19,100       1    19,100    1      19>100       1      19,100            57,3(0
Drivers                                     9o00     2       8B0    2         500        2         0oo            2, 40
Sret-r                                     500      2     1,Q00     2      1,000        7      1,000             3,000
Watvime,Ç                                   300      2       600    2         600        2        600             1.800
Ttel 0"  renlquarters                                    2),500           34,500              7>500             73,500
;dr.inistretlve snd Pinunetul SeutiDn
Dir-tor                 A2 Level         1,500       1     1,500    1       1,500        1      2,300             5,5"S
00e-unlents              C  Le-el           200      1        500    2      1,600        2      0,600 U54   C
Clerile-  P-ol           D  Level          600       2     1.200    4       2.400        1      2.400             600(0
T-nnl Ad -lvisîrativ, anù "iaeal                          3,5C3            5,500               5,500            14,5(0
Dsalusti-n '-od tLounrIz llnit
Dire-t-r                 A2 Level        1,500       1     1,50    A1       1,500        1      0,500             4,5(0
Analyste                 C  L-el           800      1        BO2    1        a00        1         ,((c           2 _CC
Fn r',r't-ra                                300 C          1,500    5       1,500               1,500o            4,50CO
llsuorv-',rs-fnreers            ~~~ ~~~~~10    300  3,000  300   3,000     300       3,000      ~       ,000
Drivers                                     400      I       40     1        400        1        4ac             i,2(0
Onertetr'                                   5co      1       500 0           SOC         1                          50Q
TOtoI Evoluanior tri Fîuenisg Unit                         3,700           0,700                1,700           73,1C0
t. Ovc'vi.aul Overunlove Se-ti-n
Direet.r                A1 Le-el          2,000      1     2,OOD    1       2,000        3      2,100             6,OCO
Driver                                     400       I        ,09    1                           a00  i  iOc     1,2QO
Oeareovry                                   5°°      lQ00  1        1         50        1         500             1,S00
Total Otreetur' ,Office                                   2,900            2,900               2, 90             8,700
ChDie?                   h,petriaue     14,800       1    1198 00    1     14,500        1     1,9cO            44,4OQ
AeeO,tîet Chief          3 Level          1,100      1      1,100    1      1,100        1      1,10C             3,300
Rural - sginevr          hepatriete     10,100       1    10,0       R     10,1 '00               -              20,200
Assistent Rural
ihgineer                d  Lrvel        1,100       1     1,100    1       1,100        1      1,100             3,300
Drivers                                    400       2       200    2         100        2        800             2,100
Seereturo                                   Sco      l       5OO    i         500        l        5CO             1,5So
hEteDsejon Wcrkrer                          400      -               3      1,200       6       2.4C0             3.60C
T-ov1 Rural Engi-sering                                  25,500           29,60Q               m70c             70,70?
B2 Gsaner: 1ÂerieulAre
Chies?                   A2 Level        1,500       1     1,500    1       1,500        1      1,500            45,50
Drivr400                                             1       4oe    i         900        1        400             1,903
îeeretur3'                                  500      1       5l 0    i        500        1         000            1,500
Arreedle,e,e,e
Chisf                    B Level         l,100       1     1,lO     1      0,100        1      1,lOO             3,300
Driver                                     500       1       400    1         00         1        400             1,20?
ALC
bhiefs                  C  Level           80Q       5     a,000   10       B,000      15      12,000            2,o00c
05p9(y Chiers            R 1Desel           100      $     3,500   10       7,000       15     1C,507            21,000
L .paty 0,7>0  5   /   oD Level             700      5     3,500   10       7,000       15     10,500            21,000
eaeiea Menit-ra 5/5  D  Lev7            700       5     3,500   °0       7,000       15     10                21000
EDt,sei,v W-krer-   /                       200     95    19.000 190       3S.C00    265       57.010          114.00
Total Geverul Agriculture                                37,400           7D,200             101,"00           212,700
33   See ,tu,tivli-atïîn S.eee
Csier                     E  atutL-ve    1,0100      1    10,100    1       1,100        1      10,10           3l,300
Driver                                     40n       1       1hoo    1        41O        1        400             1 ,10
ESuteseiro sorrke-        D  Lerel          600      2     1,200    2       1,2G0        2      1,200?            1iOO
Specta1iset lebor                           300            2     400     8       2       e        004            1.200
Toîtsl.eset  ulîtplt auoti- Saher,e                      15,200           15,200              15,000 ?1 ,"0O
i4   Aseied Resear..
Oir                     he.ptriate    1 0.100      1    10,100    I      10,100        1     10,100            3,0
Assietaut 0h00c           B  Ieael        1,100      1     110°C    1       1,100        1      1,100             3,300
Driver                                      900      1       40Q   i         400        1 0° 1u200
loCal Applied ORseerso                                  111,600           1,600               01,600            34,3C2
15   Runevaja, SiO?  rsitin;f f Cnter
Clef                      B  Level       1,100       1     1,100    1       1,100        1      1,100             3,30C
Asvietuo. 000Chrf         O L-rvi           SOc      1       900    1         000        1        80a    ,        2,40C
Driver                                      400      1       40C    1         400        1        40?             1,200
Cleri ol Pojol                              300      2       600    2         60n        2        60C             1,91C
Co09,                                      300       2       600    2         600        2        5o0             1,000
Ourssan:                                    300      t     1,500    6        ,llo0       6      1,R0              5 ,c0
00eoal Isbor                               200       2       !,00   2         4x oo        2     îo 2             1 2C
-t" 1 (o Olrg Carter                                      ooooo5i700o                5,700      5                   1C
56 BlualesmitO Irsisias 1eh1 v
Culer                     C  Lev-l          S0      1       dO0    1         BoO        I        7(0             2,o00
Br-oev                                     400       1        ,oO   1        400                  kCi 11 2CC
Tatal Bl.akdth Trsisng u0i1                               1.200            1.200               1.200            3,rOC
3/  Oulurles. lualode Travel elloanwe,c  - 255 *oar vieil ecrvant,, snù 201 fer sociel nOMJEs
5/ Oins months eatvelos  deputy chiers, 6 enontis eneeti oral lilereale inatruviove. a r
,/ Lia rosths eut erulonr Aspu'oy niera, 6 roîe un' coperulire cc uvnntrîs,t
j/ Ycang f3rv.ers truinivî.
Sp  0ix~ vorsos rut-neion auner,, 6 s,ntis (an,iiosal 1.i.erai y   veornavre.
ieludes elleege allavanse er CFAF 100,000 p-r pair 9ed p.s indiSide.l,



ANN5X il
Table 2
Page 2
RISIER
MAR&DI RURAL DEVELOPIMIT PROJECT
Staff Sa'aries 1/
(CFAF '000)
1975              1976            1977            1973      1976-]973
Urit Cost      #             _                 L                  TCTAL
C.   C-operative Affairs Secti^n
MARADI
Direnter                A2  Level          1,500        i    1,500      1      1,500    1      1,500        14,500
Acc,untant              C   Level             800       1       800     l        500    1        800        2,400
Driver                                        1400      1       hL00    1        1400    1       4OO        1,200
Clerical P,ol           B   Level             000       2    1,200      2     1,200    2       1,200        3,600
Storekeeper             D   Level            600        1       600     1        600    1        600        1,900
Watchman                                      300       C       600     2        600    2        600        1.800
Toti 1                                                  5,100            5,100           5,100        15,300
Arrondisserment
Chief                   B   Level          1,100        h      1,,400   4     h4,400    4      4,h4O       13,200
Accountant              C   Level             800       l    3,200      4      3,200    4      3,200         9,00
Clerical Pool  y                             !00        8    3,200      8      3,200    8      3,200        9,600
Storekeeper                                   1400      4    1,600      4      1,600    h      1,600         4,800
Watchman                                      300       4    1,200    il    1,200    4         1,200         3,600
Driver                                        )OO      4    1,600      4      1.600    4      1.600         !1.800
T ,tal                                                15,200           15,200          15,200        45,600
ALC
De.pty Chief            D   Level            600        5    3.000    10      6,000   15      9.0°0        18.000
Total Cooperative Affairs                                  23,300           26,300          29,300        78,900
D.   Community Develoment Section
MARA])I
Oirector                A2  Level          1,500        1    1,500      t     1,500    1       1,500        4,500
Trainirg Advisor        Expatriate        14,800        1   14,800      1    14,800    1    14,800          44,400
Assistait iirector      3   Level  3/      1,100        1    1,100      1      1,100    l      1,100         3,300
Driver                                        400       2       800     2        800    2        800        2,400
SecretaZT                                     500       1       500     1        500    1        500        1,500
Total                                                18,700           18,700          18,700        56,100
Arrondissement
Chief                   B   Level          1,100        4    4,400      4     4,400    h      4,400        13,200
Driver                             h4        400        4    1.600      4     1.600    4      1.600         4.800
Total                                                6,000            6,000           6,000        18,000
ALC
Chief                   C   Level   /        900        5    14,500    10     9,000   15    13.500         27.000
Tctal Comnunity Development                                29,200           33,700          38,200       101,100
E.   Road Sub-Project
Chief Rt DPW            A2  Leva           li500.,      l    1.500      1     1.500    1      1.500         4.500
/ Includes travel allowances, 25% base salary; social charges = 30%.
/ Used by Arrondissement services.
4/For ftnctional literacy.
Shared with cooperative services.
/  Includes iileage ailcwance cf CFAF 100,000 per year per individual.



ANlOOX 1l
Table 3
NIGER
MARADI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Buildings and Civil Works
(CFAF  000)                                               19Co Unit            1976                  191'                 197                     Total 19'76-
A. Projeet Unit Headquarters
Maradi Administrative Building 500 m2 @CCFAF 70,000/m2                                   35,000          1   35,000                                                               35,000
Classroom                                                                                 4,900               4,900                                                                4,900
Utilities 9153                                                                                                6,ooo 6o000
Total Project Unit b'adq-arters                                                                      45.900                                                               45,900
B. Technical Operatioas
Agricultural Development
B1    BUral EnIineertoo - Irrigation Wprks
Land Clearing                                                                              3D0        20    6,000       30        9.000                                         15,090
B. 11                                                                                    1,101                          20       22,000       30      35,00                    55.000
Tankl                                                                                      648                          20       13,000       30      19,400                    32,400
canal.                                                             ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~63          20        1,300       30       1,900                     3,200
Canal-                                                                                     132                          20        2,600       50       4,0O00                    6,600
Irrigntion St-tur-                                                                        13)                           20        2,300       30       3,400                     5,700
Penc                                                                                      155                           20        3,000       50       4,500                     7,500
Flood Protectio                                                                         1,050                           20       21,000       30      41 500                     ? 
Total Irrigation Schenss                                                                              5,000                74,200               97,700                   177,900
h2    General Agriculture
Arrondissement - Administrative building 70 m2 @CFAF 50,000/m2                           3,500         4   14,000                                                               14,000
Utilities  @159                                                                                             2,100                                                                2.100
Total Rain-fed Cultivation                                                                          16,100                                                               16,100
B,    Training Center
Store 100 m2 @CFAF 15,000/m2                                                            1,500          1    1,500                                                                1,500
Dormitory 8 r-oms @4 persons                                                            2,000          2    4,000                                                                4,000
effieas                                                                                  2,500         1    2,500                                                                2,500
Stable 40 oxen                                                                          2,500          1    2,500                                                                2,000
Fence                                                                                                  1    3,000                                                                3,000
Classroom                                                                               2,000          2    4,000                                                                4,000
Utilities  @150                                                                                             2,200                                                                2,200
Total Training Center                                                                               19,700                                                                19,700
D.  Cossusnity Develpa,aent
ALC Young Fermers Training
- Dormitories 60 m2 @CFAF 15,000/m2                                                       900         5    4,500         5        4,500        5      4,500                     13,500
- Clasaroos,  40 m2 @CFAF 15,000/m2                                                       600         5    3,000         5        3,000        5       3,000                     9,000
- Utilities@  150                                                                                                                1.1                  1.100                      3.500
Total Training Departuent                                                                            8,600                 8.600                8,600                    25,00
E.  Raad Sub-P-roect  /I
Equipment Rental                                                                                            120,000                                                              120,000
Equipment Operating Co-ts                                                                                    55,000                                                               l3 000
Total Road Sub-Pr.ject                                                                             173,000                                                              173,000
F. Forestry Sub-Proieot
Seedlings for I ha                                                                            20       150    3,000      150        3,000      200       4,000                    10,000
Casual Labar per 1 ha                                                                         30      150    4,500       150        4,500      200       6,ooo                    15,000
Fence @  CFAF 100/  X 200m                                                                    20       150    3,000      150        3,000      200       4,000                    10,000
Insecticides                                                                                   4       150      600      100          600      200         800                     2.000
Total Forestry Sub-Project                                                                          11,100                11,100               14,800                    37,000
/1 Construction by Force Acc-unt by PWD.



ANESX 11
Table 4
MIGER
MARADU RURAL DEVELOPMEUT PRUJECT
- Uqaipmrni -
(CFAF 'UO.)                                                             1975 Unit            1976                  1911                  1978            nTai  1916-
A. PMH Ueeandartett
Offi_e  Parniture                                                                             1,300          1    1,30                                                            1,309
Office Machines                                                                               1,500          1    1,300                                                          l, 5O
5afe                                                                                            300         1       30U A00
Clanstan, Furniettre                                                                            }UA00       1       300                                              _0
Total PMU Headq-arners                                                                                      3,200                                                          3.200
A1 Enalusnion anA Planning Unît
Ca -era tçnîpa-nt                                                                               500         1       500                                                              0
i. Trehtteat Opteretiont Section
B,  Iarai Engineering -  Irrigatinn Wo-ks
Pa.mps                                                                 ~~~~                          ~~ ~ ~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ ~                       ~~470  'O  9,400  39 14,10Q    ,.00
TenU Eqnlpn2nt6000
Oeil Eqonipnene                                                                                  65                           29         lEU00        30      2,00UA         -      U6
local Ir.00                                                                                                                                         15k   100          30,100
E.    2enerail Atricaltnre
Arrnndîsnsecent - Office Farnitnre                                                            500         4    1,2D0                                                            1,':0
- Offlie Machines                                                            300         4    1U20                                                             1,00
innal Genrral Agri-elta-e                                                                                   2,400                                                          2
A,    Appliel Renearch
Com2Lnte Far Eqaipmeat Unit                                                                   120          1      100         3          400        6         700               1 .20
mi..aeoa n                                                                                    200          1      2U                     60o        6       1.200               2,09    _
rntel Applied Renesrrh                                                                                        300                 1,000                           i.0900
d_    intena.tn  hotUf Ucainni  Centîer                                                                                                                                                  19
Furnrtare                                                                                  l1,500          R    1,SUU
aetTr                                                                                         70e                 i 00 900
lenctrin  Eeteratar                                                                         1,000         1    1,900                                                            1.009
Telephone                                                                                   2.9090        1    7,999                                                            '900
Eqçipnent R-iairs                                                                             700                 700                                                              9
Un-dta-n Culivatien Unitn                                                                      47.6      20    1,00U                                                               Do.
Sere-d-                                                                                        26 6      40    1,100                                                            1,lO
Ox-dra_n Carl ien)                                                                             67.5      20    1,499O                                                             40
a-Atnn  Ct (I et)                                                                              5.7        10       9O                                                              O°
untknv-dravn C-st n                                                                            567       19       69E                                                             SqQ
C-nttn1 keil                                                                                1,600          1    1,600                                                             60
mali Di--am r Wgrls                                                                           499               4,000                                                           4.099
Ltnesiech - Onen                                                                               20        SU    1,900                                                            I.909
o-                                                                                 20keys  5  19     SO                                                              AOO
Intal Training Center                                                                                      lù 600                                                          5.,
> llckasalth Tralinan
Traijing Eqaiprent                                                                          1,300          1    1,500                                                            1.90ü
E:. Enepîranîne Affairs
ALC OfAie Fanitare                                                                                60         5       400        S          400         5         400               1.200
f. Cannatity Develp2 mnt
F nctitn9l literaty Eqaipnrnt                                                                    i6        95    1,59         95        1,500       95       1,50                 4,500
Melt OrEuab-prn(ecn
Kits - First UAi  Vlnteners                                                                       10.6    159    1,700         45          590       45          500               -.,oc
- Uldeine_                                                                                   6.7    166    1.199         57          400       57          400               1.990
Entaitl H-Ieth S-Prnjent                                                                                    2. 00                    900                  90U               4,619
IlI. <nesteik Sub-Pro1ect
9  Atinal Hra1th Prngram
H         ci lanhtnes                                                                                2,300               4.600                                                            49O0
200               1,699                                                            I>00
9Efriglraeta                                                                                  210         9    1,900                                                             1,909
Ice boxet                                                                                      30         5     .200         E           109        5         20û                  69
0Yring  1.5  69   RUA                                                              100
Nrrdl-n and Accessories                                                                         2.5    IDU        3D0 090
Carrylng tqnlpmntn                                                                          1.909         i    1,000  l'OO
Pintchte5s5                                                                                              69       200                                                              200
Tel Anisl Realnh P-rngra                                                                                   9,900                   299                   200               10. '99
e     N.ai-tal Hard RehabilitaUian
P-rchsn  nf Aniaals                                                                           i65       200    7,000       300       55.00        255      47,200              1'9, ,0



ANNEX 11
Table 5
NIGER
MARADI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Vehicles
(CFAF '000)                                            1975 Unit           1976                 1977                1978                         Total 1976-
_Cost        #              
A. PM'U Headquarters
PMU Manager                                                           Pick-up            1,800        1    1,800                                                                      1.800
Agricultural Advisor                                                   Pick-up           1,800         1    1,800                                                                     1.800
Evaluation and Planning Director                                      Pick-up            1,800        1    1.800                                                                      1.800
Total PMU Headquarters                                                                               5,400                                                                     5,400
B. Technical Operations Section
Director                                                              4-Wheel Drive    2,700          1    2,700                                                                     2,700
B   Rural Engineering
Chief                                                                 Pick-up            1,800        1    1,800                                                                      1,800
Rural Engineer                                                        Pick-up            1,800        1    1,800                                                                      1,800
Total Rural Engineering                                                                              3,600                                                                     5,S00
B, General Agricultute
Chief                                                                 4-Wheel Drive    2,700          1    2,700                                                                      2,700
Arrondissement Chief                                                   4-Wheel Drive    2,700         4   10,800                                                                     10,800
ALC - Chief                                                           Trail Bikes          200        5    1,000         5       1,000        5       1,000                           3,000
- Deputy Chief                                                    Trail Bikes         200        10    2,000       10        2,000      10       2,000                           6,ooo
Extension Monitors                                                     Trail Bikes         200        2       400        2         400        2         400                           1.200
Total General Agriculture                                                                           16,900                 3,400               3,400                          23,700
B   Seed-Multiolication Scheme
3    Chief                                                                  Pick-up           1,800         1    1,800                                                                     1,800
B4 Applied Reoearch
Chief                                                                  4-Wheel Drive    2,700          1    2,700                                                                     2,700
B5 Extension Staff Training Center
Chief                                                                  Pick-up           1,800        1    1,800                                                                      1,800
Truck                                                                  Trsck 2.5 ton    3,000          1    3,000                                                                     3,000
Total Training Center                                                                               4,800                                                                     4,800
B6 Blacksmith Training
Chief                                                                  Pick-up           1,800         1    1,800                                                                     1,800
C. Cooperative Affairs
Director                                                               Pick-up           1,800         1    1,800                                                                     1,800
Arrondissement Trucks                                                  5 ton             8,000         4   B2,000                                                                    52,000
Total Cooperative Affairs                                                                         33,800                                                                   33,800
D.  Cossonit' Development
Director                                                               Pick-up           1,800         1    1,800                                                                     1,800
Training Advisor                                                       Pick-up           1,800         1    1,800                                                                     1,800
Arrondissement Chief                                                   4-Wheel Drive    2,700          4   10,800                                                                    10,800
ALC Chief                                                              Trail Bikes         200         i    1,000        5       1.000        5       1,000               _,000
Total Coomunity Development                                                                       15,400                 1,000               1,000                          17,400
G. Health Sub-Proiect
Health Services                                                        4-Wheel Drive    2,700          1    2,700                                                                     2,700
Woman Comsunity Development                                            Pick-up           1,800         1    1.800                                                                     1,800
Total Health Sub-Project                                                                            4,500                                                                    4,500
H. Livestock Sub-Project
Animal Health Programs                                                 Pick-up           1,800         3    S,400                                                                     5,400
Trock 2.5 ton    3,000          2    6,ooo                                                                     6.000
Total Livestock Sub-Project                                                                        11,400                                                                    11,400



N B~~~ -                                     -                                t         nWWr w t eb                              f  
-                     - t  -K  t--       t    -       -         t-     -  wa          3wO-  t  ~- na   --   n   tz   >  
a ~~                                          t- 
r            _~~~~~~~~~~r
-                                       a --  t            -        t
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
t  t-    1,  t  t-    t  a  t-    t-  -J    la  t        t          -~~~~~~ t-    t-  Itt~
-~ ~        t   t       t      t   t       t                 't     ct     -   -h  9- -t          t    t     t
tttt o        t-    -t        t-a a8--               atttt8          a a 8tt       at-      t-at-t8  t-8 t    ta    -t-at-
tttt _        --tt to    att            tata _attt                   t--t         t-g  v   n <U __                  »r         o
ta`   a        at-Ita-          t--      t-a-t         attt-t          t-t-         at-       t-t      t-t      t- at-a  t   w w w __ 3w9
(t-oc t    S        t'- go8t-- t-.`  St tgg t-    toXo >t>t          8°°°~*ttt °           tt,  t- t a° o    t-  aratî          -t
S _ 8 0 1<_ w _t                            v    -'    _                     w                                    t
-t1 t-    t-----tt                     v, ;.        -artt            t--     t    t-  t--,t             t-         att   t   I
t-t-t-at-t-         °o88         28 t----tta  t-t-a    t---tt  t-t--t-tt-t  att-t-t-o    t-ta°    9 t-t-att-t-t-t    t-t-t-t-t   1- 
at-tt        t-tt- ;at-t    at-a        t-at-    |t- --              t-at _    at-          t---ttt-t          t----ttt              |
.N  .   ,   @   9  _  H  >   |   .   _   .VI  W   _  k /   W 2   \>   .  _   ,   ,   _   _   01   W   _~~~~~~f  -



NIGER
MARADI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Operating Expenses
(CFAF '000)                                                1975 Unit           1976                 1977                 197P                     Total 1976-
Cost             _            #                     #                                    1978
C.  CooPerative Af fairs
Vehicles - runnin% costs                                                                  1,600         1    1,600        1       1,600        1       1,600                        4,800
spares   5% of cost                                                                                100                   100                 100                           A0O
Trucks - running costs                                                                    2,100        4    8,400         4       8,400        4       2,400                       25,200
- spares l 5% of cost                                                                                1,600                 1,600               1,600                        4,800
ALC Store Maintenance N3.5% of cost                                                          70         6      400       13          900       15      1,100                         2,400
Office Supplies (employee)                                                                   10       54       500       59         600       64         600                        1.700
Miscellaneous Expenses                                                                                         300                  300                  300                          900
Total Cooperative Affairs                                                                            12,900                13,500              13,700                        40,100
D.  Community Development
Vehicles - running costs                                                                  1,600        6    9,600         6       9,600        6       9,600                       28,800
- spares@ 5% of cost                                                                                 700                   700                 700                        2,100
Total                                                                                                 10,300               10,300               10,300                       30,900
Community Training
Orientation Sessions (participants) 6 days/year @CFAF 300/day                               1.8  2,500    4,500   5,000         9,000   7,500       13,500                       27,000
Functional Literacy (participants)                                                          2.0  2,850    5,700   5,700        11,400   8,550       17,100                       34.200
Technical Training (participants)
Farser Leaders 6 days/year @CFAF 300/day                                                  1.8  1,425    2,600   2,850         5,100   4,275        7,700                       15,400
Village Mutual Principals 6 days/year @CFAF 300/day                                       1.8    855    1,500   1,710         3,100   2,565        4,600                        9,200
Cooperative Principals 6 days/year @CFAF 300/day                                          1.8    300       500     600        1,100      900       1.600                        3.200
Total Community Training                                                                             14,800                29,700              44,500                        89,000
Project Staff Training /1                                                                                    1,000                 1,000               1,000                        3,000
Young Farmers' Training (participants) 6 months/year @ CFAF 6000/month                       36      100    3,600       200       7,200      300      10,800                       21,600
Office Supplies                                                                              10       23       200       28          300      33         300                          800
Miscellaneous Expenses                                                                                          00                 1 200               1 700                         3,600
Total Community Development                                                                          30, 00                49,700              68;600                       148,900
G. Health Sub-Proiect
Vehicles - running costs                                                                  1,600         2    3,200        2        3,200        2      3,200                        9,600
- spares @ 5% of cost                                                                                200                   200                  200                          600
Training of "secouristes"                                                                     3.3                        45          100      45         100                           200
Midwives                                                                         2.8                        57          200       57        200                           400
Women  Animators                                                                 2.8                        86          200       86         200                          400
Recycling 'secouristes'                                                                       2.8     79       200       79          200      45         100                           500
Midwives                                                                          2.3      83      200       83          200       57         100                          500
Women  Animators                                                                  2.3      44       100      44          100       P6         200                          400
Total Health Sub-Project                                                                               3,900                4,400                4,300                       12,600
R. Livestock Sub-Project
R   Animal Health Programs
I    Vehicles - running costs                                                                  1,600         5    8,000        5        8,000        5      8,000                       24,000
- spares @ 5% of cost                                                                                600                   600                  600                        l,fO0
Ice Machines - 5 months @ CFAF 12,000/month                                                  60        5       300        5          300       5         300                           900
Refrigerators - 12 months  @CFAF 3,000/month                                                 36         9      300        9          300        9         300                          900
Freezers - 12 months @ CFAF 3,000/month                                                      36         8      300        8          300        8        300                           900
Miscellaneous Expenses                                                                                         200                   200                  200                          600
Total Livestock Sub-Project                                                                            9,700                9,700                9,700                       29,100
s a    a
/l Staff above extension workers.



ANNEX il
Table 7
NIGER
MARADI RURAL D2VELOPMENT PROJECT
Farq laputa, Seeda. Equ.ipmot
Revolvtoo Funds
(CFAF '000)                                   1975 Unit                      1976                       1977                1978                        ToLal 197G-
Coat            Y            _                 6                                                           s1978
1. Tapota
Ya-ls Inputs R.oirîtelnts
Irrigation Sche..a
Fortiliîeru (tons)
Soperphoaphate                                                     95                                             3.0       300        k. t     6oo                             900
Sulfote .N4                                                       120                                            7.2        900       16.2    1,900                           2,800
urea                                                              100                                            5.0        500       11.3    1,100                           1,600
Co p...d                                                          105                                            8.0        800       18.0    1.900                           2,700
Total Fortiliera                                                                                                    2,500               5,500                           8,000
I..ecticid.. (000 liters)                                         1,325                                            1:6      2,100        5.5    4,400                           6,500
Total Irrtgatiîo  Schemes                                                                                            4,600               9,900                          14,500
Goneral Agriculture
Seed Dren-îngo (tons)                                             1,750            12.6          22,100            14.P    25,900       16.9   29,600                          77,600
Fertilizers
Soperphosph to                                                     95           118            11,200          429       40,800     876      83,200                         136,200
Su1phato NH4                                                     1120                                                                  i        100                             1oo
lOrea                                                             100                                                                  1        100                             100
Total Ferttiliera                                                                        11,200                     40,800              H3,400                         135,400
Insecticides (000 litera)                                         1,325             4.2           5,600            16.6    22,000       20.8   27,600                          55,200
Bogo (000)                                                          200             5.9           1.200           25.|      4,700       29.6    s00                            11.800
Total General Agricultore                                                                40,100                     93,400             146,500                         280,000
Iacremeatoî Input Requirements
Seed Dres.ings                                                                                   22,100                     3,800               3,700                          29,600
Fertilîoers                                                                                      11,200                    32,100              45,600                          88,900
Inaecticides                                                                                      s,600                    18,500               7,900                          32,000
Total tpcreo,ootoî Input Requireoanta                                                    40;10     -                57500               58,400                         156,400
Il. Seeds
Yearly Seeds Requirements
Groundnuts
Seed p-rch-sod ftEo research  attiqn (topo)                         100             3.5             400             3.5       400        3.5      400                           1,200
Se-d purth.s-d tro, O  and M  aultipli,oto.a (tona)                  55            64             3,500          104        5,700      156      8,600                          17,800
Coat of Ml aod M2 muleplI ca iop (tons)                              17            64             1,100           104       1'800      156      2,700                           5,600
Oeed P.rchaaed Orpo 93 o,ltîpîliototn  (to-)                         55           250            13,600          410       22,600      666     36,600                          73,000
Copt qf M3 m-Ltiplioatioo (tont)                                      5           250             L,30"          410        2.100      666       300                            700
Total Ground-uts Seeds Requirements                                                      20,100                     32,600              51,600                         104,300
Coooaoa
Seed purchaaed tro, research station (tons)                          60             0.3             .               o.6       -          0.8       _
Soed puroh.a-d fron M1l .oltiplicatora  (topo)                       40             8               300            14         G00       26      1,000                           1,900
Cost of MI ,ultiplicattot  (topo)                                    15             8               100            14         200       26        400                             700
Total Co-pe-s Seeds Reqi-rementu                                                             400                       a00               1,400                           2,6o00
InctOaentOl Seeds ReQOLiromeoto
Gro.ndnuto                                                                                         20,100                    12,500               19,000                         51,600
-opea                                                                                                 400                       400                 600                           1,400
Total Ic.enoot dl .e dR Requirmnts                                                       20,500                     12.900              19.600                         5  4000
111. Ratp Equipment
Oo-drowp Equipment UPita                                                 74                                                                255      18,900                          I8,900
Sprayers -   Irrigation Sehemen                                          12.t                                          10          100      T>         400                             500
Co-peas                                                       12.z          44              600            92        1 200      L7     2,300                           4,100
Totel F000 Equipment                                                                        600                      1,330              21,630                          23,500
IV.  Blacksmith tito                                                            70            '6             1,400            20        1.400      20       1,400                           4,200
V. Liveatock Sub-Ptoiect - Animal Health Progr-m
Medticine  and MineraLs                                                                               1900 L-m200                                   2,500                           5,900
Total Y-arty Requirementa                                                                    Il600                   ',S00               7:,60                          21,800
Total I.c1 ooootaL Requireen-ts                                                           o.oOO                      1,000                 -                             7.600



Table 8
NIaM
MURIII RURAL DBVBLoeNMUT PROJECT
Conaulting Services. Studios, Audit, Scholaruips
(CFAF 'o0)
1975                                                  Total
Unit Cot         1976      #    1977      #   1978   1976-1978
I. Tochnical Assistance
kecaouning                                    1,400     6      8,400      4    5,600     2  2,800    16,800
Evaluatiom and planning                       1,400    6       8a400      2   2.800      3  4.200    15.40
Total                                           là, Dm            U,0
ibxniair*    alle t                        2,000    2      4.0o       2-  4.000                     8.000
Total TShncUel Assistance                        20,800         12,400         7,000     40,200
II. ht#Poct
~  e n   Pr   ct                              2,010    3.5   7,200                                     7,200
Raieea of Stgrahi. project           1,450   10,5  15,200                                    15,200
Itdrologilal                         1,440    8.5  12,200                                    12,200
Goopbuical                           1,420     6.5   9,200                                    9,200
Undergroud wat r que                 1,340   22.0  29,410                                    29,400
PeO&logiCal aubie                    1,800     1.0   1.8oe                                    1.800
Total                                           75,000                                   75,000
SurYsys - Topographr                                          11,500                                  11,500
q»pàhiac                                              2,000                                   2,000
Test boréholea                                      45,000                                   45,000
8ug1* Analyses                                       i.50                                     1 500
Total                                            60,O;0 60,000
Editina rEorts and travel                                      3,5o0                                    3,500
Total Irrigation Proj.ct                        138,500                                 138,500
laricultural Project                            1,400   12    16,800       12  16,500                   33,600
Livet@ck ProJet                                 1,400   10    14.000             -                       11,000
Total New Projecta                              169,300         16,800                  186,100
III. Audit cf ProJet Aecomnte                                            2,700           1,300        1,300      5,300
Ti. Scholarahipa                                                        5,000           5,000         5,000    15,000



'?V IlI
ST J
TT,lA T1- S'?- reUier'i, .- hedule
w    î. w'sca1 Year and Quarter     ?Plml1ative Psburserient at end of Quart3
lst Quarter                                          900
end Quarter                                        1,700
3rd Q"Inarter                                      2,500
4th Quarter                                        3,300
1?77/1°78
lst Quarter                                        4,400
2nd Quarter                                        5,400
3rd Quarter                                       -6,400
hth QuartUer                                       7,500
1P78/1979
lst Quarter                                        8,200
2.nd Quarter                                       9,100
r,i Qularter                                      10,000
t` h' Quaruer                                     10,700



ANNEX 12
Page 1
NIGER
MARADI RURAL DEVELOPIENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Project Management Unit
General Manager
1.        The Man.  The General Manager of the Project Management Unit is
a Nigerien, and fluent in Hausa.
2.        Qualifications.  His education should include graduate work in any
of the following disciplines: agriculture, business or government administra-
tion.  His experience should include at least 5 years in a senior position
within the Niger Government administration, including if possible a stay in
Maradi District. His interests should cover the whole spectrum of rural devel-
opment and he should have a certain aptitude for leadership and cormunication.
3.        Responsibility.  He will be responsible for carrying out implement-
ation of the project both directly with staff posted to PRU and reporting to
him, and indirectly through contracts established with independent Government
Services: Travaux Publics, Eaux et Forets, Elevage et Sante, and to coordi-
nate project activities with those of Governnent and local agencies. His
duties will include:
(a) preparation of yearly operating plans for approval
by the Conseil National du Developpement and the
Prefet;
(b) preparation of monthly progress reports;
(c) coordination of all project activities-
(d) monitoring payment of contractors and suppliers;
(e) establishing contracts with Government services
carrying out part of project activities:
(f)  recruiting all key project staff; and
(g) coordinating project activities with those carried
out by other Departmental services.
4.        He will report to the Conseil National du Developpement through
the Prefet du Departement de Maradi.



ANINEX 12
Page 2
5.        He will be at the A1 level in the Governnent Civil Service salary
scale - he resides in Maradi and his tenure is for three years.
Director of Technical Operations
1.        The Man.  The Director o:- Technical Operations is a Nigerien,
fluent in Hausa.
2.        Qualifications.  His experience in the exercise of his functions
is more important than a formal academic background. His experience should
include at least 5 years in the management of an agricultural project, prefer-
ably in rainfed development. He should be a graduate in Agriculture.
3.        Responsibility.  He will be responsible for all technical operations
including the development of rainfed agriculture in 15 ALC's of the Departement
and the construction of a number of irrigation schemes totalling 500 ha.
His duties will specifically include:
(a) preparation in association with the Agricultural Research
institutes of agricultural extension programs, and super-
vision of the execution of these extension programs;
(b) supervision of the project seed multiplication
and applied research programs;
(c) supervision of the village level extension workers
training at Maradi CFJA; and
(d) administration of the irrigation fund and execution
of a number of small scale irrigation schemes.
4.        He will report to the PHU General Manager and be at Grade A  in
the Government Civil Service Salary Scale.
Director of Administration
1.        The Man.  The Director of Administration is a Nigerien, fluent in
Hausa.
2.        Qualifications.  The Administrative Director is a qualified accoun-
tant with additional training in personnel and business management. He should
have at least 5 years experience In a senior position in a large public cor-
poration. If possible he should have a knowledge of credit procedures and
should have worked with farmers and cooperatives.



ANNEX 12
Page 3
3.        His  Main Responsibilîty would be the control of all project finances
on behalf of the General Manager.  His duties would include:
(a)  establishing a chart of accounts and keeping a.counting
records for the Project Management Unit;
(b)  preparing budgets, cash flows, estimates of expenditures;
(c) preparing disbursement applications to IDA, and Government;
(d) internal auditing;
(e) establishing an efficient system of recording agricultural
credit transactions; and
(f)  dealing with personnel problems.
4.        He will report to the PMU General Manager and be at Grade A2 in
the Government Civil Service Salary Scale.
Director of Cooperative Affairs
1.        The Man.  The Director of Cooperative Affairs is a Nigerien,
fluent in Hausa.
2.        Qualifications.  The Cooperative Affairs Director is a graduate
in Cooperative Management from IPDR Douala, or equivalent. He should have
at least 5 years experience in a senior post with UNCC.
3.        Responsibilities.  His main responsibility would be the assistance
to the 15 ALC's and 75 Cooperatives in the project area where rainfed cultiva-
tion would be developed. His duties would include:
(a) supervision of all cooperative staff posted to ALC's and
Cooperatives;
(b) arrangement for inputs and credit delivery, and
(c) auditing of ALC's and Cooperatives' accounts.
4.        He will report to the PMU General Manager and be at Grade A1 in
the Government Civil Service Salary Scale.



ANiNEX 12
Page 4
Director of Community Development
1.        The Man.  The Director of Community Development is a Nigerien,
fluent in Hausa.
2.        Qualifications.  He has done graduate work in social sciences and
agriculture, and has taught for at least five years at the graduate, or college
level in Niger. He should have an interest in rural education and particularly
in functional literacy programs.
3.        Responsibility.  He will be responsible for all general training
carried out by the project.
(a)  He will not be responsible for the technical training
of young farmers and for the extension workers' train-
ing center, which are technical in nature and will be
carried out by the Technical Operations Section, but he
will assist the Director of the Technical Operations
Section in the elaboration of the programs and in evaluating
the results obtained.
(b)  He will be responsible for all training programs taken over
by the project: training of farmer leaders, of Groupements
Mutuels Villageois (GMV) officials, functional literacy
training, training and orientation sessions of cooperative
officials.
(c) He will be responsible fcr the training of project staff.
He will be responsible fcr the courses dispensed to newly
participating staff, lasting two to three months and for
the refresher courses given to them for one month every
year thereafter.
(d)  He will be responsible for monitoring the training of
selected staff abroad.
(e)  He will assist the General Manager and section directors
in staff recruitment and in staff selection for further
training.
4.        He will report to the GerLeral Manager and be at Grade A1 in the
Government Civil Service Salary Scale.



ANNEX 12
Page 5
Agricultural Advisor
1.        The Man.  The Agricultural Advisor to the ODR General Manager is
an expatriate, fluent in French.
2.        Qualifica,:ions.  He should have done graduate work in general
agriculture, agriculture economics, or agriculture research. His experience
should include at least ten years in a senior management position in an agri-
cultural project, if possible in the Sahelian countries. He should be familiar
with dry-land and irrigation cultivations and with most of the following crops:
cereals, groundnuts, cowpeas, cotton and sorghum. His interests should cover
the whole spectrum of rural development and he should communicate effectively.
3.        Responsibility.  His responsibility will be to advise the General
Manager on all aspects of the project, particularly on the agricultural and
irrigation project components. Ile will assist in the preparation of the
project's yearly operating plans, in the preparation of the contracts to be
passed between eMU and the other Governnent agencies carrying out some sub-
projects under contract to the PMU.
4.        He will report to the General Manager.
5.        He is recruited by the Western Africa Agricultural. Project
Management Unit and employed under a contract with IDA.
Training Adviser
1.        The Man.  The Training Adviser to the Director of the Community
Development Section is an expatriate, fluent in French.
2.        Qualifications.  He should have done graduate work in teaching
or agricultural education. His experience should include at least ten years
in a senior position in an agriculturally related organization, if possible
in the Sahelian countries.  He should be familiar with farmers' training,
functional literacy and general agricultural training.
3.        Responsibility.  His responsibility will be to advise the Director
of the Community Development Section on all aspects of the training programs
conducted by the Community Development Section of PMU, and also the Director
of Technical Operations for training of extension workers and young farmers.
He will particularly assist in conducting seminars for complement training
of project senior staff.
4.        He will report to the Director of the Community Development Section.
5.        He is recruited by the Western Africa Agricultural Project Management
Unit and employed under contract with IDA.



ANNIEX 12
Page 6
Rural Engineer
1.        The Man.  The Rural Engineering Chief is an expatriate, fluent
in French.
2.        Qualifications.  He should have a civil engineering degree and
should have about ten years of experience in planning and supervising construc-
tion of wells and small-scale irrigation works in developing countries. He
should also know how to work with farmers cooperatives who would provide the
casual labor for construction of the schemes and who would finally operate
them.
3.        Responsibility.  He will be responsible for selection of well
sites and for supervision of the construction of the irrigation schèmes.
He will also be responsible for the supervision and execution of the Flood
Control and Roads Sub-project.
4.        He will report to the Chief of the Project Rural Engineering
sub-section.
5.        He is recruited by the Western Africa Agricultural Projects
Management Unit and employed under contract with Government by the project.
Seed Multiplication Expert
1.        The Man.  The Seed Multiplication expert is an expatriate, fluent
in French.
2.        Qualifications.  He should have a college degree in agriculture
and agriculture botany. His experience should include at least five years
in commercial large scale seed production preferably with groundnuts and
millet.
3.        Responsibility.  He will be responsible for the project seed
multiplication program which includes multiplication and distribution of
improved cowpeas, groundnuts, and millet seeds. He will control the purchase
of registered seeds from the research stations and supervise personally
multiplications Ml and M2 of groundnut seeds by farmer leaders under contract
to the project. He will supervise indirectly multiplication M3 of groundnut
seeds by selected cooperatives in the project area. These cooperatives will
be under the direct supervision of the extension staff of the Technical
Operations Section.
Ile will be responsible for coordination of the project seed
multiplication programs, and national multiplication schemes.



ANNEX 12
Page 7
4.        He will report to the Director of the Technical Operations Section.
5.        He is recruited by the Western Africa Agricultural Projects Manage-
ment Unit and employed under contract with Government.
Applied Research Expert
1.        The Man.  The Applied Research expert is an expatriate, fluent
in French.
2.        Qualifications.  He should have a college degree in agriculture.
His experience should include at least 5 years in an agricultural research
station specializing in research on groundnuts and cereals, and also five
years as an extension officer in a rainfed agricultural project in a country
of similar ecological conditions.
3.        Responsibility.  He will be responsible for the large scale
dissemination of the agricultural work done by the research stations, and
for conducting farm trials with the assistance of the extension officers.
He will be responsible for coordination of the applied research
component of the project with the various research programs carried out
nationally.
He will also cooperate with the evaluation unit in determining
farmers response to the introduction of improved agricultural techniques.
4.        He will report to the Director of the Technical Operations Section.
5.        He is recruited by the Western Africa Agricultural Projects
Management Unit and employed under contract with Government.






NIGER
MARADI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization Chart
Conseil National du Développement
Préfet
Département de Maradi
Directeur du Projet
AdministrationOpérations                         Affaires                  eloppement
Administration             Techniques               Coopératives           Communautaire
Chef du Bureau
d'Arrondissement
Chef du Bureau
d'ALC
Villages             I
World Bank-15209






NIGER
MARADI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proiect Impact on Goveroment Cash Flow
(CFAF '000)
Average
1976        1977         1978        1979         1980         1981          1982        1983         1984         1985       1986-1995
I.    BENEFITS
Project Induced general taxes  1/         95,100      114,800       87,000       30,200      30,200       30,200       30,200       30,200       30,200       30,200        30,200
Livestock taxes  2/                          -            800        2,300       4,000        5,100        6,300        7,600        8,700        8,700        8,700         8,700
Irrigation schemes Capital recovery  3/    -            8,800       13,200      13,200       13,200       13,200      13,200        13,200       13,200       13,200        13,200
Total Benefits                        95,100      124,400      102,500      47,400       48,500      49,700       51,000        52,100       52,100       52,100       52,100
Il.   COSTS
Government Project Contribution          180,200      219,6D0      163,300         -           -            -            -            -            -            -             -
Maintenance After Project                    -           -            -         335,400     335,400      335,400     335,400       335,400          -           _             _
Inputs subsidy                            20,100       49,000       78,200      78,200       78,200       78,200      78,200        78,200       78,200       78,200        78,200
IDA Credit - Service charge                 6,500      lh,300       20,300      20,300       20,300       20,300      20,300        20,300       20,300      19,300        19,300
- Amortization                   -            -           -            -            -           -            -             -            -           -           25,300
Total Costs                         206,800      282,900      261,800     433.900      433,900     433,900      433,900       433.500       98,300       97,500       124,600
III.  NET CASH FLOW                              (111,700)   (158,500)   (159,300)   (386,500)   (385,400)   (384,200)   (382,900)    (381,800)    (06,400)    (45,400)            (72,500)
Total unshelled groundnuts production
with Project (tons)                       13,500      26,400       38,400       42,300      46,500       49,300       50,600        50,600      50,600       50,600        50,600
Quasi-tax per ton of unshelled ground-       13,200       8,900        5,700        9,100       8,300        7,800        7,500         7,500       7,500        7,500         8,000
nuts for Government to break-even (CFAF)
1/ 97. of Project Costs and recurring expenses.
2/ CFAF 100 per head of cattle.
3/  CFAF 44,000/ha.



NIGER
MARADI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Prices (Per Ton)
1975 Terms
Groundnuts (Shelled)                               Cotton Lint
Exported         Exported                                             Exported        Sale to
As Nut           As Oil                                                               Nitex
CIF Europe   1                            CFAF  92,200                            Standard CIF Europe              292,700            -                Millet P'rice         CFAF   35,000
Sale to Nitex ~/                                  165,100             Cowpeas                      60,000
Sale to Oil Processor  2/                                  CFAF   60,000          Discount from Standard             7,000                             Sorghum                       28,000
Tomatoes                      8,000
COSTS                                                                                                                                                   Onions                       11,000
Insurance and losses                            1,000               100         COSTS
Port Charges Europe                             1.000                           Cotonou to CIF Europe             23,200                              Meat - Cull Cows             17,500/head
Freight Cotonou - Europe                                                        Transport Niger - Cotonou         35,500                                                      (250 kg @ CFAF 70/kg)
Transport Niger - FOB Côtonou                  13,500                           Ginnery expenses                  30,900           30,900                    Steers                27,200/head
SONARA overhead expenses                      11,250              7,650        Local collection cost              10,500           10,500                                     (340 kg @ CFAF 80/kg)
Local collection cost                           1,000             1,500                                                                              Woodfuel                         700/St'r_
Packing                                         1,500             1.500
Commi&1T.u  Licensed Buyers                     3,000             3,000
Total Costs                                38,250             13,750       Total Costs and Discount           107,100           41,400
Net Economic Price Farm-gate                     53,950            46,250                                          185,600          123,700
33% of Total      67% of Total                                    50° .of Total    50% of Total
Ratio Shelled to Unshelled - 68%                                   Ratio Lint to Seed = 38%
1/ US$ i = CFAF 225.
2/ 65% of World price.
3/ At price to cover CFDT expenses.
>



NIGER
MARADI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Price Calculations
Shelled Groundnuts
2/
Bauk'ua CIID                                       Exports as Nuts       Exported as 0Oil            Average Exports as Nuts
Projections       ------Projections----- Projections at 1.975  Projections at 1975                       and as Oil
$ / M.T.          $ I X.T.-  CFAF/M.T. .1!   Pricees Farm Gate         Prîces Farm Gate              1975 Prices Farmn Gate
1973, Prices               1975 Prices                CFAF/MT                 CFAF/MT                        CFAF/MT
1976                         340                 459         103,300              65,100               57,400                         60,000
1977                         309                 417          93,800              55,600               47,900                         50,400
1978                         277                 374          84,200              46,000               38,300                         40,900
1979                         256                 345          77,600              39,400               31,700                         34,200
1980                         242                 326          73,400              35,200               27,500                         30,000
1981                         256                 345          77,600              39,400               31,700                         34,200
1982                         271                 366          82,400              44,200               36,500                         39,100
1983                         287                 387          87,100              48,900               41,200                         43,700
1984                         304                 410          92,300              54,100               46,400                         49,000
1985                         319                 430          96,800              58,600               50,900                         53,400
1/  US$ 1= CFAF 225.
2/33% as nuts, 675% as oil.



NIGER
MARADI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Price Calculations
Cotton Lint
Lint                                                                   Seed Cotton
Bank's CEPD                                                     Exported as Lint                     Sold to Nitex                    Average Exported as Lint
Projections                Projections1/                    Prolections at 1975 Prices            Projections at 1975 Prices              and Sold to Nitex
us e/lb               US ¢/lb    CFAF- /MT                          Farm Gate                             Farm Gate
1973 Prices            -----1975 Prices----
1976                              44                  59          292,700                           70,500                                 47,000                              58,800
1977                              44                  59          292,700                           70,500                                 47,000                              58,800
1978 - 1985                       43                  58          287,700                           68,600                                 47,000                              57,800
1/  US$ 1 = CFAF 225.
o-



NIGER
MARADI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Calculations
Rainfed Development
1/
ALC's Without Roads Component
1976       1977        1978        1979       1980        1981        1982        1983        1984          1985
I.   BENEFITS
Incremental Production (tons)
Shelled groundnuts                                 1,000      2,100       3,800       5,600       7,800      9,200        9,900      9,900       9,900          9,900
Millet                                               -        1,200       3,200       6,600      10,300     13,200       15,100    15,100       15,100         15,100
Cowpeas                                              200        600         600         600         600        600          600        600         600            600
Price (CFAF/Ton)
Groundnuts                                        60,000     50,400      40,900      34,200      30,000     34,200       39,100    43,700       49,000         53,400
Millet                                            35,000     35,000      35,000      35,000      35,000     35.000       35,000    35,000       35,000         35.000
Cowpeas                                           60,000     60,000      60,000      60,000     60,000      60,000       60,000    60,000       60,000         60,000
Incremental Value of Production (CFAF '000)
Groundnuts                                        60,000    105,800    155,400    191,500    234,000    314,600         387,100   432,600    485,100          528,700
Millet                                               -       42,000    112,000    231,000    360,500    462,000         528,500   528,500    528,500          528,500
Cowpeas                                           12,000     36,000      36,000      36,000      36,000     36,000       36,000    36,000       36,000         36,000
Total Incremental Value                              72,000    183,800    303,400    458.500    630,500    812.600         951,600   997.100  1,049,600        1,093,200
2/
II. COSTS ( CFAF '000) -
PMU Headquarters                                  80,400     37,200      36,800      36,800      36,800     36,800       36,800    36,800       36,800         36,800
Evaluation and Planning                          21,200      12,000      13,200      13,200      13,200     13,200       13,200    13,200       13,200         13,200
Technical Operations Director                      6,000      4,000       4,000       4,000       4,000      4,000        4,000      4,000       4,000          4,000
General Agriculture                               70,400     72,800    102,000    102,000    102,000    102,000         102,000   102,000    102,000          102,000
Seed Multiplication                               16,000     14,400      14,400      14,400      14,400     14,400       14,400    14,400       14,400         14,400
Applied Research                                  13,600     12,000      12,800      12,800      12,800      12,800       12,800    12,800      12,800         12,800
Extension Staff Training                         52,000      16,400      16,400      16,400      16,400     16,400       16,400    16,400       16,400         16,400
Blacksmith Training                                6,000      4,000       4,000       4,000       4,000      4,000        4,000      4,000       4,000          4,000
Cooperative Affairs                               59,200     33,600      36,400      36,400     36,400      36,400       36,400    36,400       36,400         36,400
Community Development                             71,600     79,200      99,200      99,200      99,200     99,200       99,200    99,200       99,200         99,200
Agricultural Credit
Input and Seeds                               50,800    110,400    176,000    176,000    176,000    176,000          176,000   176,000    176,000          176,000
Farm equipment                                  1,600      2,400      19,200      19,200      19,200     19,200       19,200    19,200       19,200         19,200
Total Costs                                         448,800    398,400    534,400    534,400    534.400    534,400         534,400   534,400    534,400          534,400
Less Taxes (9% of Costs)                             40,400     39.500      48,100      48,100      48,100     48,100       48,100    48,100       48,100         48,100
Total Costs Net of Taxes                            408,400    358,900    486,300    486,300    486,300    486,300         486,300   486,300    486,300          486,300
1/ Chadakori, Aguie, Koona, Gabaouri, Dodori, Dan Mero, Sabon Mache, Atchidakofoto, Rafinwada, Kanan Bakatche, Mayahi, Madarounfa.
2/ 807. of all rainfed development project costs.



A333EX l5
NOCER                                                                Soble 2
MlARADI R1LIA]. ET:VILOPMInT PPROJleT
Ecgn,omic Rate of Return Colculoc±ans
Rainfed Develupment
d        _            ~~~~~~~~/
1976         1977        1978         1979         1980         1981          1982         1983          1984         1985
BENEFITS
Incremental production ( tons)
She1lad Croundnutz - project ALC's  /1             -            700       1,400        2,200         2,900        3,400        3,600         3,600        3,600        3,600
Total Shelled Groundnuts Production                   -             700       1,400       2,200         2,900        35,,Go 5,600              -5,000                       600
Millet - Project ALC's                             -             100         800       1,500         2,400        2,800        3,000         3,000        3,000        3,000
Total Millet Production                               -             100         800       1,500         2,400        2.o            00ü         3,0()0 m ioo              enno
Price (CFAF/Ton)
Groundnut.                                         -         50n,O0      4,0,903      3',2Cû        3,uüou       34,200       39,100       43,700        49.000       53,400
Millet                                             -         35,000      35,000      35,000         35.000       35,000       35,000        35,000       35,000       35,000
Incremental Vlalue of Production (CFAF '000)
Groundnuts                                         -         35,300      57,300       75,200        87,000      116,300      140,800      157,300       176,400       192,200
Millet                                             -          3,500      28,000      52 500        84,000        jR op       105.000      105,000o    105000         05.û005
Total Incremental Value of Production                 -         38,800      85,300    127,700         171,000      214,300      245,BO       262,300      281,400       297,200
I     C O,STS
Roads  /2                                          199,000
PMU Eeadquarters                                   20,100        9,300        9,200       9,200         9,200        9,200        9,200         9,200        9,200        9,200
Evaluation and Planning                             5,300        3,000        3,300       3,300         3,300        3,300        3,300         3,300        3,300        3,300
Technical Operations Direetor J1                    1,500         1,000       1,000       1,000         1,000        1,000         1,000        1,000        1,000         1,000
General Agriculture                                17,600       18,200       25,500      25,500        25,500       25,500       25,500        25,500       25,500       25,500
Seed Multiplication   2                             4,000        3,600        3,600       3,600         3,600        3,600        3,600         3,600        3,600        3,600
Applied Research  /                                  3,400        3,000       3,200       3,200         3,200         3,200        1,200        3,200        3,200        3,200
Extension Staff Training                           13,000        4,100       4,100        4,100         4,100        4,100        4,100         4,100        4,100        4,100
Blacksmiths Training  /0                             1,500        1,000       1,000       1,000         1,000        1,000         1,000        1,000        1,000         1,000
Cooperutive Affairs  '3                            14,800        8,400       9,100        9,100         9,100        9,100        9,100         9,100        9,100        9,100
Comounity Oevelopment !'                           17,900       19,800       24,800      24,800        24,800       24,800       24,800        24,800       24,800       24,800
Agricultural Credit '
Input and seed refinements  '7                  12,700       27,600      44,000      44,000        44,000        44,000       44,000       44,000        44.000       44,000
Parm  equipment                                    400          600       4,800       4,800          4,800        4,800        4,800        4,800         4,800        4,800
Road Maintenance  '4                                   -            --_0 10,û,0                        3û.0û0        10,000      10,0ûû        (0  00       (1. Oo0  -   -  0o00_
TOTAL COSTS                                    511, 00       99,600    14 :,,600    143,600        145,600      145. 69      14 , 00       ]4,<5 oo      4. 0        o-.O 5,, i)
Less Taxes                                        (50,000)      ( 9,000)   (12,900)    (22,900)        15900)      (15,900)    (15.900)       (15.900)      (l o         ( 905
Total Costs Net of Taxes                         283,230       90,600    130,700  130,700  13 0,7 00 t        3     0.74 °     150 7        1             120            0
'1 araka. Gabi, SDloulou.
'   With physical contingeneies of 15'.
3 0% of a11 p-ojact c3scs
`4  5'% of costs.



NIGER
MNRALI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Econamie Rate o! Return Caloulations
Irrigation Schemes
1976        1977         1978         1979          1980         1981
I.   Benefits
Incremental production (tons)
Seed Cotton                                      170         440           470           500         500
Sorghun                                          250         655           720           800         875
Tomatoma                                       1,000       1,500         2,700        3,200        3,500
Onions                                         1,200       3,000         3,080         3,320       3,500
Price (CFAF/ton)
Seed Cotton                                   58,800      57,800        57,800        57,800      57,800
Sorghum                                       28,000      28,000        28,000        28,000      28,000
Tomatose                                       8,000       8,000         8,000         8,000       8,000
Onions                                       11,000       11,000        11,000       11,000       11,000
Increnental value of Production (CFAF '000)
Seed Cotton                                   10,000      25,400        27,200        28,900      28,900
Sorghua                                        7,000      18,300        20,200        22,400      24,500
Tomatoes                                       8,000      12,000        21,600        25,600      28,000
Onions                                       13.200       33.000        33.900       36.500       38.500
Total Incremental Value of Production            3E-200      88.700       102.900       113,400     119,900
II.   Costa
parm Labor                                       14,100      14,100        35,300        35,300      35.300
_ Pxjralc C.t for Irritation          46,500   136,300      157,500           -             -            _
Sehumes  V/6606,0                                                                                      ,0
Agrieultural production cost            -         2,700       6,600         6,600         o,600       6,600
Pumping                                 -3,400                8,200         8,200         8,200       8,200
Maintenance                             -         4300       10.400        10.400        10.400      10.0oo
Total Costs                         46.500   160,800      196,800        60,500        60,500       60,500
Laso Taxes                            i4.200    13.200       16.4I00        2.300         2.300       2.300
Total Cests Net of Taxes                                      80.40        58.200        58 200       58,200
2/ Includes 15% Contingency for Civil Works and equipment.



NIGER
MARADI RURAL DEVELOPIIENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Calculations
Forestry and Livestock
1976        1977          1978         1979         1980         1981         1982          1983         1984         1985         1986
-  -  -     -                         -                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Onwards
A.    Forestry Sub-Project
I. Benefits (GFAF '000)
Production (stères)                                                                                                                        600         1,300       1,900        3,200
Price (CFAF/st6re)                                                                                                                      1,000          1,100       1,200        1,200
Total Benefits                                                                                                                               600         1,400       2,300        3,800
II. Costs (CFAF '000)
Project Investment                          11,100      11,100        14,800
Maintenance 4 5% of investment                 -            600         1,200       1,900        1,900        1,900       1,900          1,900         1,900       1 900        1,900
Total Costs                                    11,100     11.700         16,000       1,900        1,w00        1,,wu       1,900          1,900         1,900       1,900         1,900
B.    Livestock Sub-Project
I. Benefits (CFAF '000)
Incremental Value of Livestock sales          -          1,000       111,800    251,800       454,100       440,600    467,800        665,800        665,800    665,800       665,800
IT. Costs (CFAF '000)
Animal health
-'-Project Investment                        37,600      10,900          9,900
Yearly vaccine requirements                 -          6,600         7,600        7.600        7,600        7,600       7,600         7,600          7,600       7,600        7.600
Total Costs                                   37,600      17.500         17,500       7,600        7,600        7.600       7,600          7,600         7,600       7,600        7,600
aI.,



NIGER
MARADI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Calculations
Sensitivity Analysis %
A                B              C               D               E                F
Rainfed Development                   Irrigation      Livestock        Aggregate
Sub-Project    Sub-Project       Project
ALC's Without    ALC's With          All
Project Roads    Project Roads       ALC's
Base Case (25 years)              31.050            19.550           27.250         20.050         > 100            39.350
Benefits Constant
Costs      -50%                91.550            45.350            71.650         68.050           NA             88.750
-25%                49.450            29.150           41.550         34.850           NA             55.950
-10%                37.150            22.950           31.550         24.950           NA             44.950
+10%                26.050            16.550           22.050         16.050           NA             34.750
+25%                19.950            12.650           16.550         11.050           NA             29.050
+50%                11.850             7.050            8.850          4.150           NA             21.650
Costs Constant
Benefits   -50%                 2.650             4.350             9.050         13.350           NA             11.050
-25%                17.050            10.750           13.850          8.650           NA             26.250
-10%                25.550            16.250           21.650         15.550           NA             34.250
+10%                36.450            22.550           31.050         24.450           NA             44.350
+25%                44.750            26.850           37.850         31.050           NA             51.850
+50%                59.050            33.450           49.050         42.650           NA             64.050
Di
Ln






Z3  `9Î 
P,>./tX.    i                              or~~~~~~~~C
B ,/ ,i j >~~~~~~
t "   oo A____-/ t                       i                s~~~~M
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n m     
X ~~~~~~~~~~-           <- - - - - - - -
.>t~~C               -,fb\Sg ~ c 
°o 9 s< C ^ X. \ `-ts 
_Z.u,._._.~~~~~ W  \ \   ç       \               \ <~30
s  ~    -~  >*-~ -. \ .ro                 \ :
ts6l A8VnNtr         Se                    `.,/ ;~C
CE0  uL






)__0__                                           80-                                                                         J.. LIBYA  L G  E R I A.
N I G E R                                .
MARADI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                  .x"                               2
ISOHYETS AND CULTIVATION                                                i                                   i
-1-      I- MAL   I j   N   I  G   E  R
AM?EA SH'OWN
I                                                         g-J      .         ON MAP lNCHAD
I                                          -. .ço      / )                               (/    VOLTA  p;;          N I G E R IVA E
J  ~~~~~~~~                                                          0Niomey           Marodi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-d.t   -p. b h
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P~- =~H0                                                                                       CAM\  1  .'.:
QKornako ,,Ourofhn                                            j   0      \_ _ NORTHERN SANDY ZONE
..........                               ,r \ _       :                                             1- - - !SOUTHERN SANDY ZONE
...... ,/ :_ ;/ .                               -                                              ;  yohK ) d W///// DAN ISSA ZONE
GOULBI ZONE
a~~~~~~~~~~ .               .   . ,    .   ........   ......
............ ...... \ ...... ..~~~Zinde                                       40---Æ............  ISOHYETS IN MILLIMETERS L
600 . .. .. \ ..... ... ....................................  \                                        PRIMARY  ROADS
SECONDARY ROADS
RIVERS
..  Y  ----DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
A                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
O1   110         30O               60
Katsmn                        Magaria                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES  o C
G                                                                                                                            o~~~~~~K  oi 
70~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W






-i FI G E R
MARADI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Chodakori    ,                                                                   SMALL IRRIGATION SCHEMES AND ROAD PROGRAM
Os_z t Ilrigation schemes
Gi                                  d           ; RN-iRN-30                                                                                                                                    National roads, prved
ilrdo«:                                          RN \--             `                                        \                                                                   ____  National roads, grovel
______NationaJ roods. eart h
 _   \  _____  Motorable tracihs
\ \ %>Tibiri ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Intermittent streams
\>idrzn Sori            ``"   a\                                                           ._._. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Internritional b ounn die
13' 30'
o  ,aa 200 300 400 500               I                                                                                                                   /V
MMayakroukou                                                                         .
<                  A                   XRN-18          \       /~~~~~~~-1
\                                   .J                                       Gabi Mayaks  g                  *rioX               Xr                      1 -/a( î
NIGERIA                                                                                                                                                                 o n [sa
Voloo 200 300 400  500         E  I A         CAMER\O
Nl A  I   i        N  I G  E R                      J                                                       t/\                                                      NIGERIA 
i-9#'   Areo   / C HAD   \                                               t3                    //                             I  ~ ~~0             5             10           15             20 p 
UPPERz                                                              -13 ,                                                                                                                                                                                    W3\    o1  
vUOPLETA    EA  y           N  I G  E R I A       CAMER               1                             @                                       



