cC\AL
cOcuMENTS
CREDIT NUMBER 1942 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Industrial Energy Efficiency Project)
between
PEOPLE'  REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated         T                     , 1988


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1942 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated             AZ  , 1988, between PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC   OF   BANGLADESH   the   Borrower)  and   INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower intends to obtain from the Overseas
Development Administration of the United Kingdom (ODA) a grant
(the ODA Grant) in an amount of Pounds Sterling 330,000 to assist
in financing part of the Project on terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (the ODA Grant Agreement) to be entered
into between the Borrower and ODA; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section   1.01.  The   "General  Conditions  Applicable   to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated Janu-
ary 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth in Schedule 3 to
this Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral
part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Agency Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and Agrani Bank for the carrying
out of Part B of the Project, as the same may be amended from


﻿- 2 -
time to time, and such term includes all schedules supplemental
to the Agency Agreement;
(b) "Agrani Bank" means the Agrani Bank, a state-owned
commercial bank established and operating under the Borrower's'
Bank's Nationalization Order 1972;
,c) "Co-generation"   means   simultaneous   production   of
electricity and thermal energy by the recovery of energy lost
in condensers and stacks and its use as process heat;
(d) "EMU"   means   the  Energy   Monitoring  Unit  in   the
Borrower's Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources;
(e) "Enterprise" means an enterprise to which the Borrower
proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;
(f) "Special Account" means the accou-t referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(g) "Sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to
be made by the Borrower to a-i Enterprise for a Sub-project;
(h)  "Free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan, as so defined,
which qualifies as a free-limit Sub-loan pursuant to the pro-
visions of paragraph 7 (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(i) "Sub-project" means a specific energy conservation
project to be carried out by an Enterprise utilizing the proceeds
of a Sub-loan; and
(j) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and Agrani Bank pursuant to
Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules supple-
mental to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to


﻿-3-
eight million three hundred thousand Special -Drawing Rights
(SDR 8,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) amounts paid (or, if the
Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by the Borrower
on account of withdrawals made by an Enterprise under a Sub-loan
to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Sub-project in respect of which the withdrawal from the
Credit Account is requested; and (ii) expenditures made (or, if
the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of services required for Part A.5 of the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in Bangladesh Bank
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b) The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from a date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or
at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied as of the next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
(c) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without


﻿-4-
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each May 1 and November 1
commencing November 1, 1998 and ending May 1, 2028. Each install-
ment to and including the installment payable on May 1, 2008
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such prin-
cipal amount.
(b) Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded
$790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and
(ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association
and after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of install-
ments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until
the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so
requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modi-
fication to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in
the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount
of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, pro-
vided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-
mentioned repayment modification.


﻿-5-
(c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part A.1 through A.4
of the Project through EMU and Part B of the Project through
Agrani Bank, and shall cause Agrani Bank to carry out Part A.5 of
the Project, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with  appropriate   administrative, engineering, environmental,
financial and investment practices; shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project; and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with Agrani
Bank's performance of its obligations.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out Part A.1
through A.4 and Part B of the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, Sub-loans will be made in
accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions
set forth or referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall use the proceeds accrued to it from
the repayment of the principal of Sub-loans for further relend-
ing under the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation
to each Sub-project in such a manner as to: (i) protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association; and (ii) achieve
the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall onlend part of the
proceeds of the Credit to Agrani Bank for the purposes of
Part A.5 of the Project under a subsidiary loan agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and Agrani Bank, under terms
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association,
which shall include the same terrm3 as the Credit except that the
repayment period shall be 10 years including a grace period of
3 years.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such a manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating, to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respec-
tively) in respect of Part A.5 of the Project shall be carried
out by Agrani Bank.
Section 3.05. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consoltants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
(b) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
Part A.1 through A.4 of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
consultants  whose   qualifications,  experience  and   terms  of
reference shall be satisfactory to the Association.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause
to be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of Parts A.1 through A,4
and B of the Project of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out such Parts of the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have   the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
the Special Account, for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to*the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until one year after the Association has
received the audit report for the fiscal year
in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,


﻿-8-
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the pro-
cedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause Agrani Bank to
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations and financial
condition of Agrani Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall cause Agrani Bank to:
(i)  have its records, accounts and financial state-
ments   (balance  sheets,  statements   of  income
and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appro-
priate auditing principles consistently applied,
by   independent   auditors  acceptable   to   the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year: (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other informa-
tion concerning such records, accounts, finan-
cial statements and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.


﻿(c) For all expenditures under Part A.5 of the Project with
respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on
the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause
Agrani Bank to:
(i) maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, records and accounts reflecting such
.expenditures;
(ii) retain, until one year after the Association has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was   made,   all  records   (contracts,   orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;.
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the proce-
dures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause Agrani Bank:
(a) to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
to make other provision satisfactory to the Association for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice; and
(b) to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative and financial practices
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.


﻿-10-
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)  Agrani Bank shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(b) the Borrower or Agrani Bank shall have failed to
perform any of their obligations under the Agency Agreement;
(c) the Agency Agreement shall have been amended, suspended
or terminated without the agreement of the Association;
(d) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of Agrani Bank or for the suspension of its operations; and
(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph the
right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of
any grant made to the Borrower for the financing
of the Project shall have been suspended, can-
celled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the agreement providing therefor.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that: (A) such suspension, cancel-
lation or termination is not caused by the failure
of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for
the Project are available to the Borrower from
other sources on terms and conditions consistent
with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the events specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Association to the Borrower; and


﻿(b) the events specified     in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and Agrani Bank;
(b) the Borrower and Agrani Bank have employed the consul-
tants required to assist them in the carrying out of Part A.1 to
A.4, and Part A.5, respectively, of the Project during the first
year of the carrying out of the Project;
(c) the financing of EMU has been transferred from the
Borrower's development budget to the Borrower's revenue budget;
and
(d) the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
ODA Grant Agreement have been fulfilled, subject only to the
effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 7.02,. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower
and Agrani Bank, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and
Agrani Bank in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date
of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraphs (a)
and (b) of Section 6.02 of this Agreement shall cease and deter-
mine on the date on which this Agreement shall terminate or on


﻿- 12 -
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Secretary or any Additional Secretary,
Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the
External Resources Division of the Ministry of Planning of the
Borrower, is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11,03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresse"    are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower;
External Resources Division
Ministry of Planning
Government of the People's Republic
of Bangladesh
Dhaka
Bangladesh
Cable address:                      Telex:
BAHIRSAMPAD                       642226 SETU BJ
Dhaka
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Ve.Zt/ '   Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿-14-
SCREDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Goods and                 8,220,000         80%
services
for Part B
of the Project
(2)  Consultants'                80,000          100%
services for
Part A.5 of
the Project
TOTAL               8,300,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
(a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement; and
(b) in respect of a Sub-loan, unless the Sub-loan has been
made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and con-
ditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to reduce energy
consumption per unit of output in economically and financially
viable enterprises ih the industrial and power sectors thereby
increasing their efficiency and competitiveness; and (ii) to
promote the development of appropriate policies, technologies and
an institutional framework to strengthen the Borrower's energy
conservation program.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Institution Strengthening
1.   Carrying out of. promotional activities for energy conser-
vation.
2.   Training of EMU staff, energy managers and operational and
maintenance personnel of enterprises, and staff of technical
institutions and organizations in energy conservation measures.
3.   Provision of technical assistance to enterprises in the
carrying out of energy conservation measures.
4.   Compilation and analysis of a data base in support of the
Borrower's energy conservation program.
5.   Strengthening of Agrani Bank's project appraisal capability,
especially in the economic analysis of energy conservation
investments.
Part B:   Energy Conservation Investments
1.   Financing of specific energy conservation projects through
loans to industrial enterprises and power plants for the carrying
out of energy conservation measures including housekeeping,
quick-fix, combustion control and retrofit measures.


﻿- 16 -
2.   Financing of energy conservation projects through loans
to industrial complexes for the carrying out of co-generation
measures.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1994.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Modifications of the General Conditions
For purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
(2) the words "the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such notice,
such amount of the Credit shall be cancelled" set forth at the
end of Section 6.03 are deleted and the following is substituted
therefor:
"or (e) by the date specified in sub-paragraph 8 (c) of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Association shall, in
respect of any portion of the Credit: (i) have received no
applications or requests permitted under sub-paragraphs (a)
or (b) of said paragraph; or (ii) have denied any such
applications or requests, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower, terminate the right to submit such applica-
tions or approvals or to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount.or
portion of the Credit. Upon the giving of such notice, such
amount or portion of the Credit shall be cancelled."


﻿- 18
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the pro-
cedures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in
Bangladesh may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Goods and services estimated to cost less than the equi-
valent of $300,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $3,800,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded through limited international bidding proce-
dures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited
from a list of at least three qualified suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines and in accordance with the procedures set forth in
Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8,
2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.   Proprietary items may be procured through direct contracting
with the suppliers or manufacturers thereof under procedures
acceptable to the Association, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000.
3.   Goods and services procured by the Borrower and by public
sector enterprises and estimated to cost less than the equivalent
of $10,000 each, may be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the Borrower's procurement procedures, acceptable
to the Association.


﻿- 19 -
4.   Goods and services procured by private sector enterprises
and estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $10,000 may be
purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken also of
other relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency
and reliability of the goods and availability of maintenance
facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of
services, of their quality and the competence of the parties
rendering them.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for goods and services
estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $300,000, and each
contract for proprietary items, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such-procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 7 to
this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.


﻿- 20 -
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist Agrani Bank in carrying out Part A.5 of
the Project, the Borrower shall cause Agrani Bank to employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Such consultants shall be selected in ac-ordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Association      on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 5
Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
1.   Interest on Sub-loans shall be payable at a variable    rate
which shall initially be 14.5% per annum including an annual
service fee and compensation to the Borrower for assuming the
risk of foreign exchange fluctuations. Commencing on or before
July 31, 1989, the Borrower shall annually review, in consul-
tation with the Association, the adequacy of the interest rate
applicable to Sub-loans and shall, thereafter, if necessary,
adjust such interest rate.
2.   The Enterprise shall pay to the Government a commitment
charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Sub-loan not withdrawn from
time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from the date of
the Sub-loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
shall be withdrawn by the Enterprise from the Sub-loan account or
shall be cancelled.
3.   Sub-loans shall be repaid over a maximum period of twice the
pay back period of the Sub-project but not exceeding ten years,
including a maximum grace period of three years. For the purposes
of this paragraph "pay back period of the Sub-project" means
the number of years over which the accumulated net benefits (or
savings) attributable to the Sub-project are estimated to recover
the initial value of the investment made for purposes of such
Sub-project.
4.   The exchange risk shall be borne by the Borrower.
5.   The Borrower shall not make any Sub-loans: (a) in an amount
below the equivalent of $10,000; and (b) exceeding the equivalent
of $3,500,000, or in an amount which would exceed such limit when
added to the amount of all other Sub-loans made for the same
Sub-project out of the proceeds of the Credit.
6.   To qualify for Sub-loans, an Enterprise shall:
(a) demonstrate its financial and economic viability;
(b) be in good credit standing with the baking sector;
(c) be in the industrial or power sector;


﻿- 22 -
(d) demonstrate that the Sub-project is for direct energy
saving or fuel substitution measures;
(e) show projected economic and financial rates of return
of the Sub-project of at least 18%; and
(f) finance out of its own funds at least 20% of the total
cost of the Sub-project.
7.   No expenditures for goods or services required for a Sub-
project shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit unless:
(a) the Sub-loan for' such Sub-project shall have been
approved by the Association and such expenditures shall have been
made not earlier than ninety days prior to the date on which the
Association shall have received the application and information
required under paragraph 8 (a) of this Schedule in respect of
such Sub-loan; or
(b) the Sub-loan for such Sub-project shall have been a
free-limit Sub-loan for which the Association has authorized
withdrawals from the Credit Account and such expenditures shall
have been made not earlier than ninety days prior to the date
on which the Association shall have received the request and
information required under paragraph 8 (b) of this Schedule in
respect of such free-limit Sub-loan. For the purposes of this
Agreement, a free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan (other than
the first six Sub-loans to be made under the Project, to which
paragraph (a) shall apply) for a Sub-project in an amount to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit which shall not exceed
the sum of $100,000 equivalent, when added to any other outstand-
ing amounts financed or proposed to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit, the foregoing amount being subject to change
from time to time as determined by the Association.
8.   (a) When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit
Sub-loan) to the Association for approval, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association an application, in form satisfactory
to the Association, together with: (i) a description of the
Enterprise and an appraisal of the Sub-project, including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit; (ii) the proposed terms and condi-
tions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization of


﻿- 23 -
the Sub-loan; (iii) a description of the method of procurement of
the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit; and (iv) such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit
Sub-loan shall contain: (i) a summary description of the Enter-
prise and the Sub-project, including a description of the expen-
ditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit; (ii) the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including
the schedule of amortization therefor; and (iii) a description
of the method of procurement of the goods and services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(c)  Applications and requests made pursuant to the provi-
sions of sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be
presented to the Association on or before December 31, 1991.
9.   Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall
obtain, by written -contract with the Enterprise or by other
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association, including, the right to:
(a)   require the Enterprise to carry out and operate the
Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance
with sound technical, financial, managerial and environmental
standards and to maintain adequate records;
(b) require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(ii) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the
carrying out of the Sub-Project;
(c)  inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Association if the Association shall so request, such goods,
works, plants and construction included in the Sub-project, the
operation.thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(d)   require that: (i) the Enterprise shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such
risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the
foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to the place of use or installation,
any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely
usable by the Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;


﻿- 24 -
(e) obtain all such information as the Borrower or the
Association shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing
and to the administration, operations and financial condition of
the Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the Sub-
project; and
(f) suspend or terminate the right of the Enterprise to the
use of the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by suc'L Enterprise
to perform its obligations under its contract with the Borrower.


﻿25 -
SCHEDULE 6
Implementation Program
1.   The Borrower shall cause EMU to be at all times staffed with
qualified personnel in adequate numbers including:
(a) a director; and
(b) a senior economist, to be employed not later than
March 31, 1989.
2.   The Borrower shall maintain the Energy Conservation Coor-
dination Group and ensure that its meetings are attended by its
members personally on a regular basis.
3.   For the purposes of cost recovery for services provided by
EMU, including training and energy audits, the Borrower shall
charge to the beneficiaries of such services part of the cost
incurred therefor, in.accordance with a schedule satisfactory to
the Association, including the following:
(a) prior to July 1, 1989, twenty percent of the cost
incurred by the Borrower; and
(b) commencing   July  1,  1989, increase   the   percentage
annually by twenty percent so as to charge all of the cost
incurred, not later than July 1, 1993,
4.   In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall,
not later than October 1, 1991, review with the Association:
(i)    Agrani   Bank's  financial   and   loan  recovery
performance, and perform-2ance under the Agency
Agreement, in order to determine if Agrani Bank
should  function,   thereafter,  as  a   financial
intermediary for Part B of the Project; and
(ii)   the status of the Borrower's financial sector
reforms.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 7
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
provided, however, that notwithstanding the provisions of para-
graph 6 (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, payments for
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of free-limit
Sub-loans may be made out of the Special Account before the
Association shall have authorized withdrawals from the Credit
Account in respect thereof. Such expenditures, however, shall
qualify as eligible expenditures only if the Association shall
subsequently authorize such withdrawals; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to SDR 730,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has rece!7ed evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.


﻿- 27 -
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that,such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by
the Borrower from the Credit Account in accor-
dance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii)  the  total  unwithdrawn   amount  of   the  Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories for the
Project, minus the amount of any outstanding
special   commitment    entered   into    by   the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to
the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the


﻿- 28 -
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice have been or will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
 X/64
FOR SECRETARY


