Docnwmtof
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9869
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
PROVINCIAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 1863-TH)
AUGUST 28, 1991
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currencv Unit     Baht (B)
US$1.00 - B 20.25 (1980 average)
- B 21.82 (1981 average)
- B 23.00 (1982 average)
- B 23.00 (1983 average)
- B 23.64 (1984 average)
- B 27.16 (1985 average)
- B 26.30 (1986 average)
- B 25.74 (1987 average)
- B 25.29 (1988 average)
- B 25.70 (1989 average)
- B 25.78 (1990 average)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)               -   39.37 (in)
I cubic meter (cu m)      -   35.3 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 kilometer (km)          -   0.62 (mi)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CF    -  Counterpart Funds
IIP   -  Immediate Improvement Program
MOI   -  Ministry of Interior
MOPH  -  Ministry of Public Health
MWA   -  Metropolitan Waterworks Authority
PCR      Project Completion Report
PWA   -  Provincial Waterworks Authority
PWD      Public Works Department
PWSI) -  Provincial Water Supply Division
PWSP     Provincial Water Supply Project
RTG   -  Royal Thai Government
RWSD  -  Rural Water Supply Division
SAR   -  Staff Appraisal Report
WJB    -  World Bank
WSS   -  Water Supply Systems
GOVERNMENT OF THAILAND AND AGENCIES FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



THE WORLD BANK                 FO0  OFCIL USE ONLY
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
O4Ic. d Oxrcsw-uwaI
* Opf4twm ItKihn
August 28, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Thailand
Proviacial Water Supplv Project (Loan 1863-TH)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Thailand - Provincial Water Supply Project Project (Loan
1863-TH)" prepared by the Asia Regional Office. No audit of this project has
been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officil duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World lank authoriation.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROVINCIA  V1   UPPLY PROJECT (LOam 1863-TN)
PRCOJECT CO     ION REPORT
Table of Contents
PAg2 o.
Preface                                                                           L
Evaluation Su  ary                                                              iL
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    1
Project Identity   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    1
Background   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    1
Objectives and Description  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    2
Design and Organization  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    3
Implementation  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    3
Immediate Improvement Program .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    3
Institutional Development  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    5
Preparation of Future Projects   .  .  .  .  .  .  .    5
Procurement .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    5
Project Costs  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    5
Disbursements  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    6
Project Results    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    6
Objectives Met .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    6
Institutional Results   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    7
Physical Results  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    7
Financial Results .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    7
Sustainability       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    8
Bank Performance   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    8
Borrower/Guarantor Performance .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    9
Performance of Contractors and Consultants .  .  .  .  .  .  .    9
Project Relationships .              . . . . . . . . . . 10
Project Documentation and Data .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   10
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE   .  .  .  .  .  .   11
Introduction    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   11
Implementation       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   12
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   20
1. Related Bank Loans .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   20
2. Project Timetable and Issues Raised
a) Project Timetable  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   21
b) Issues Raised   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   22
3. Loan Disbursements
a) Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements .  .  .  .   23
b) Original and Final Allocation of Proceeds  .  .  .  .  .   24
4) Project Implementation   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   25
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont.)
Pag2 No.
5) Project Costs and Financing
a) Appraisal Estimates .27
b) Actual Project Costs and financing .28
6) Project Results
a) Direct Benefits .29
b) Economic Impact .30
c) Financial Impact   ..31
7) Status of Hajor Covenants          ..32
8) Use of Bank Resources
a) Bank Staff/Consultants Inputs .36
b) Bank Hissions  ..37



POINCIAL WATE  SUPPLY PROJECT (LA  1863-TN)
PROECT COMLEION REPORT
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Thailand
Provincial Water Supply Project, for which Loan 1863-TH in the amount of
US$40.0 million was approved on June 3, 1980. The original closing date of
April 30, 1986 was extended one year at a time for three times to April 30,
1989 and the loan account was kept open for disbursements to continue until
January 31, 1990.  The last disbursement was made on February 7, 1990 when the
undisbursed balance of US$1,937,378.18 was cancelled.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Infrastructure
Operations Division of the Asia Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary,
Parts I and III), and the Provincial Waterworks Authority of Thailand, the
Borrower and implementing agency (Part II).
Preparation of thic PCR was started during the Bank's
project supervision mission in the fall of 1989, and is based, inter alia, on
the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan and Guarantee Agreements, supervision
mission reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and
internal Bank memoranda.



- ii -
PROVINCIAL fanE SUPPLY PROJECT (LOAN 1063-TW)
Evaluation Rumaaarv
The Project and Its Objectives
i.    The Provincial Water Supply Project had three objectives: to help
develop a strong institution to operate, maintain, expand and efficiently
utilize the capacity of a large widespread network of water supply systems in
the provinces; to carry out an immediate program of improvements to water
supply systems which were poorly operated and maintained and could no longer
provide the intended service; and to plan a number of future projects (Part I,
paras. 7-10; Part II, paras. 1-2).
ii.   The Provine-ial Waterworks Authority (PWA) was created in 1979 by
consolidating tv- major water supply agencies which together had been
responsible for aDout 760 provincial water supply systems. PWA was a weak,
fragmented organization, however, and required major technical assistance to
become an effective agency capable of carrying out its mandate. NWA also
required assistance with immediate improvement of many water supply systems
needing rehabilitation and minor improvements which could be implemented
comparatively quickly, and engineering assistance with the design of more
complicated future projects for larger towns (Part I, para. 5).
iii. The project supported by Bank Loan 1863-TH was essentially a sector
project. It comprised: rehabilitation and improvements for about 140 water
supply systems, called the immediate improvement program (IIP); planning of
future projects, including detail design of about five, with the assistance of
engineering consultants; and institutional development of PWA with the
assistance of management, financial and engineering consultants and advisors
and the provision of training. The estimated cost was about US$59.3 million
equivalent, including about US$6.6 million for interest and other charges on
the loan during construction (IDC). Completion was expected by July 1985.
The Bank loan for US$40.0 million was approved on June 3, 1980. The balance
of the financing was to be provided to PWA by the Government as an equity
contribution (Part I, paras. 10-14, 25; Part II, paras. 4-6; Annex 1).
iv. The project had a large measure of risk. PWA was a new organization,
fraught with problems, which had inherited a large network of poorly managed
water supply systems and largely unknown financial situations, and it was
uncertain that the Bank-financed project would produce acceptable results.
Implementation Experience
v.    The project started poorly, reinforcing doubts about the probability of
success. Loan effectiveness was delayed to January 4, 1982 by a lengthy



- LLi -
process of engaging a consulting engineerlng Joint venture IConsulcant A) to
assLs- PWA wlth the IIP, a conditLon of effectLveness (Part ;, para.15). For
the LnstLtutLonal development component, about three years of effort by
advisors and management sonsultants, and a major reorganization late in 1983,
were requlred before FWA began to show sLgns of liprovemnt. After that,
there has been steady progress on development of the lnstitution whLeh
benefited from large inputs of technical assistance by UNDP and bilateral
agencies (Part I, para. 22; Part II, pare. 21, 24-26).
vi. Before the end of 1983, very little progress was made on the IIP, and
practically none on the preparation of future projects. By then it was clear
that the contractual arrangements made wlth Consultant A were not
satisfactory, and the contract was terminated by mutual consent (Part I,
paras. 17, 22; Part II, par". 21, 24-26). From that point, progress on the
physlcal and future planning components began to improve. By the end of 1985,
PWA staff, worklng with in-house englneering advisors provided under a UNDP
technical assistance project, had proceeded relatively quickly with
procurement of equipment required for Liproved operatlons and maintenance of
nearly 200 systems. Implementation of more than a hundred rehabilitation
projects and the deslgn of about 40 more complicated Improvement projects had
been started (Part I, para. 19; Part II, paras. 9-10, 12-14).
viL. By late in 1985, however, as the original loan closing date approached,
the project was still far behind schedule. PWA then produced a new
implementation plan with specific targets, and the Bank agreed to extend the
closing date year-by-year, for a maximum of three years, conditional on
acceptable progress. PWA satisfied thls condition. The loan was finally
closed on April 30, 1989 and disbursements were allowed to continue until
February 1990 (Part I, paras. 20-21, 28; Part II, paras. 15-20).
viii. The bulk of the project was completed by early 1990. Construction on
the last of the improvement/expansion projects should be finished late in
1991. The total cost of the Bank-financed portions of PWA's development
program was US$54.1 million equivalent, of which the Bank financed 70%, the
Government, 28% and PWA, 2%. These figures are not truly comparable with the
appraisal estimates, however, because the Bank-financed components changed
oaterially during implementation (Part I, paras. 21, 23, 25-27).
ix.   The performance of the suppliers and contractors was generally good.
Work by Consultant A was unsatisfactor~ the responsibility for which has to
be shared by PWA, and, perhaps to some extent, by the Bank. The consultants'
management was weak and their work was not properly focused and organized.
Administration of the contract by the still inexperienced PWA was poor. With
this combination, it proved impossible to compensate for deficiencies in the
contract and produce work meeting the client's needs (Part I, parar. 46-48).
x.    The work of nearly all other consultants and advisors was excellent.
Project Results
xi. Overall the project can be rated a success. PWA has developed into a
fairly sound and respected public enteLprise. Its structure is good.



- iv -
Although there is still room for improvemnt In Internal coordinatlon, the
decision making processes and delegation of responsibility, managoeent is
good. The staff has reached good levelx of competency. Operational
efficiency and maintenance practices have greatly improved, and PWA now has
the capability of planning and implementing development programs. Accounting
and financial management are good. One notable indicator of PWA progress is
that it has moved from a position of relying on government subsidies to meet
operating expenses in 1980 to a position of being able to contribute to its
capital improvement program in 1990. One major uncorrected problem is the
inability to improve collection of water charges from government agencies
(Part I, paras. 30-32, 34-36; Part II, paras. 22, 25-27).
xii.  Physical objectives of the general magnitude expected have been
accomplishec, albeit with a time overrun of about 100%. About 140 provincial
water systems have been improved to make better use of infrastructure and to
provide improved service to a greater percentage of potential consumers. And,
with technical assistance from other aid agencies, several master plans and
feasibility studies for improvement and expansion of water systems in larger
provincial communities were prepared and detailed designs were completed for
about five (Part I, paras. 30, 33; Part II, para. 33; Part III-4).
SutainahL1L=
xiii. The project's achievements are expected to be fully sustainable. The
development which has occurred in NWA capacity for improving the efficiency of
water supply systems and their operation, and for good maintenance, will help
to insure that the water systems are used most effectively.  Also, PWA's
improved planning and implementation abilities should help to expand its
market. A critical factor for sustainability is continuation of the tariff
setting procedures which have been followed during this project; if sound
public utility tariff practices are not maintained, PWA and its operations can
be expected to decline quickly (Part I, paras. 37-38).
Findinfa and Lessons Learned
xiv. The concept of the project, a mix of institutional development, planning
and relatively straight forward physical improvements, was sound. The Bank's
risk in supporting a sector type project and lending directly to such a newly
formed agency about which so little was known, proved worthwhile; the Bank's
early participation can he credited with helping to attract otner sources of
assistance at a time when they would be the most useful. And, Bank agreement
t3 continue wyith the project after years of poor progress was correct,
all,wing PWA to bring the project to a s,.ccessful, if belated, completion.
xv.    The principal lessons emerging from the experience appear to be:
(a) in setting or accepting timetaeles for actions to be taken during a
project, Bank staff should be careful to take full account of the steps
that save to be taken and how long they may take in the environment in
which the project is to be carried our (Part I, paras. 39-41); and



- V .
(b) in selecting consultants, the terms OL reforence on which proposals are
based, the proposals themselves, and the bases for award decislons, all
should be perfectly consistent with the needs of the client.  A proposal
offering too much, as well as one which offers too llttle, should not be
considered responsive to the request for proposals (Part I, para. 47).



PROVINCIL WRT=  SUPPLY PRJC  ZLA  1863-Tin
PROJECT COUPLETIONi REPORT
PART I. PROECT REVIEW   R M '  ESPECTXV
Project I42etity
Project Name:  Provincial Water Supply Project
Loan Number:   1863-TH
RVP Unit:      Asia Regional Office
Country:       Thailand
Borrower:      Provincal Waterworks Authority
Sector:        Water Supply
Background
1.    In the late 1970s, about 20% of Thailand's population of 47 million
lived in urban areas of which about 5 million were concentrated in
Metropolitan Bangkok and about 4.7 million resided in 330 municipalities and
towns. Although the annual population growth rate was about 2.5%, urban
population was rising by almost 5% per year.
2.    At that time only one-fourth of the population was served by public
water supply systems. About 70Q of Bangkok's population had access to safe
water. About two-thirds of the municipalities and towns outside Bangkok had
piped water supply systems which served about 60% of the potential consumers.
The quality of service was mixed depending upon each system's age and quality
of operation. The number of connections in the urban systems totaled about
270,000, all of which were metered. An estimated 30% of the meters were
defective, however, and could not be used to determine the volunue of water
used and charges to customers.
3.    In the rural scene, about 570 piped water supply systems served 1,200
communities, with populations in the range of 2,000 to 5,000 each.  Because
the systems were not fully reliable and of inadequate capacity, and because
alternative sources of water were available, only 30% of the inhabitants were
being served by the systems. The operations of the systems varied from good
to poor depending upon the local interest, the competence of the operators and
the resources made available by the community.
4.    Bangkok's water supply was the responsibility of the Metropolitan
Waterworks Authority (MWA), a state enterprise under the Ministry of Interior
(OI). The areas outside Bangkok, both urban and rural, were administered by
several agencies. The key agencies were the Provincial Water Supply Division
(PWSD) of the Public Works Department in the MOI, responsible for 190 water



-2-
supply systems in provincial urban areas, and the Rural Water Supply Division
(RWSD) of the Ministry of Public Health (OPH), responsible for 570 piped
rural wator supply systems.
5.    Responsibilities among the agencies were ill-defined and fragpented,
operation and maintenrnce performance was generally poor and none of the
agencies had the capacity to undertake broad development programs. Thus, in
early 1979, the Provincial Waterworks Authority (PWA) was created as a state
enterprise to improve service to consuaors by consolidating PWSD and RWSD.
PWA became responsible for (a) planning, developing and operation oc
provincial urban water supplies and also, at the request of local authorities,
(b) development of piped rural water supply systems for larger rural
communities. The rural water suprlies developed by PWA are handed over to the
local authorities for operation, maintenance and revenue collection.
6.    Although some other agencies still deal with some aspects of water
supply outside of Bangkok, the setting up of PWA achieved a substantial
consolidation of the water supply sector. Its establishment, with advice and
support by UNDP and the World Health Organization and encouragement by the
Bank, was an indication of increasing attention by the Royal Thai Government
(RTG) to the need for improving water supply and sanitation conditions in the
Provinces and for channelling a larger share of resources to the Provinces.
7.    The RTG had, in princifal, adopted in 1980 the UN Water Decade's target
to provide all c -munities with potable water by 1990. Pending development of
a long-term national strategy, PWA had as its first priority the improvement
of operations and maintenance and improvement of the efficiency of utilization
of existing systems, i.e., rehabilitation of those systems functioning at less
than full capacity. Soon after PWA's formation, its staff conducted a survey
of the urban systems and identified 140 systems with obvious deficiencies.
Objectives and Descriition
8.    The primary objectives of this project were to help PWA development by
strengthening its organization, management, operation and maintenance and
planning capabilities, and to give support to PWA's eff?orts to: (a) rapidly
improve the 140 existing urban water supply systems identified as in urgent
need of rehabilitation; and (b) prepare future projects.
9.    Bank support for this project under Loan 1863-TH was fully in agreement
with the Bank's sector objectives in Thailand: helping to strengthen key
sector institutions and their coordination; developing thi sector's financial
basis; and promoting programs which reach the poorer members of the
communities by delivery of reliable and affordable water.
10.   The project description as given in the Loan Agreement is in Annex 1.
It had three basic components to help achieve the above objectives: (a) an
immediate improvement program; (b) technical assistance and training; and
(c) preparation of future projects. Expected completion was in July 1985.



-3-
*  Des ign and OrgAnization
11.   The Immediate Improvement Program (IIP) was designed to be implemented
in two phases and consisted of rehabilitation of facilities; provision of
replacement and supplemental equipment such as pumps, chemical feeders and
water meters; expansion of distribution networks and service connections;
provision of mobile equipment for construction, maintenance and operations;
improvement of operations and maintenance procedures; and training. The
intended first phase consisted of improvement work on about 100 systems where
the work required no extensive investigation and engineering. The second
phase, for the balance of about 40 systems, required some watcr source
exploration and more extensive planning and design work.
12.   In order to proceed quickly with the rehabilitation component of the IIP
- PWA and the Bank shared a sense of urgency on this - the project was
appraised on the basis of preliminary technical assessments with the
expectation that during implementation each completed design would be followed
immediately by procurement and construction.
13.   Preparation of future water supply systems for urban areas in the
provinces was to be done in three stages. About 15 areas would be studied at
the reconnaissance level. Feasibility studies would be carried out on about
10 of these, and about 5 would be designed in detail.
14.   PWA was responsible for overall project: coordination and implementation
which was to take four and one-half years. Engineering consultants would
design and supervise construction of IIP works and prepare future projects.
Management consultants, financed from the loan and by bilateral funds, were to
be appointed for the institutional development components and training. PWA
staff were to work closely with the engineering consultants as counterparts.
The Government anticipated that grant financing might become available for
preparation of future projects, in which case Bank loan funds intended for
this purpose might be utilized for additional rehabilitation work.
Imnlementatio'
15.   Immediate Imorovement Program (IPIE.  Implementation of both phases was
to take from late-1980 through mid-1985. In spite of the sense of urgency
(Part I, para. 12), the project was delayed right from the time the loan was
approved on June 3, 1980. Loan signing was delayed to November 25, 1980, and
effectiveness, to January 4, 1982, altogether a delay of about 16 months
beyond the usual period from approval to effectiveness. The principal problem
was hiring engineering consultants, which was a condition of effectiveness and
which was held up by the lengthy procedures of a Government inter-agency
selection committee and by difficult price negotiations with the selected
consulting firm.
16.   The intention to initially focus preparation on about 100 simple
improvements to be followed by immediate construction was abandoned in early
stages of implementation and the approach was mozLfied to respond to changed
circumstances. Also, implementation of the physical component proceeded in



three stages rather than two as planned: (a) until late-1983; (b) from late-
1983 to mld-1985; ana (c) from mid-1985 to the end of the project.
17.   During the first stage (until late 1983), progress on planning, design
and procurement for rehabllitation works under the consulting engineering
contract, entered into (with Consultant A) as a coniAtion of effectiveness
(Part I, para. 15), was poor. Eventually it became clear that the consulting
arrangements were unlikely to serve the best interests of the project and the
contract was terminated by mutual consent in October 1983. By then, the
consultants had completed about 50% of the studies and design works f^r 100
IIP systems. Some studies were formalized in individual reports, not yet
approved by PWA, and some were only file documents. All of these, including
unfinished reports, were handed over to the PWA. Due to the lack of
procurement documentation, construction could not proceed during this first
stage.
18.   In the second stage (late 1983 - mid 1985), the IIP work for about 140
water supply systems was reclassified by levels of required engineering input
as follows:
(a) Level I: works requiring little or no engineering and procurement of
equipment and materials for improved operations and maintenance;
(b) Level II: modifications to systems requiring design inputs and
systems requiring water source development work; and
(c) Level III: systems requiring feasibility studies, detailed
engineering designs and relatively complex bidding documents.
Some systems required both Level I and Level II or Level III work.
19.   The focus in this period was to Lmplement the Level I works using the
in-house staff under management and supervision by the project office.  This
strategy and action plan, with maximu use of the former consultants'
investigations, was well implemented, and by July 1985 almost all Level I
works were completed.  Level II ar" Level III works were barely started during
this period, however.
20.   The beginning of the third stage (mid 1985 - project completion)
coincided with the appointment of a new Governor of PWA. Also at that time,
the original loan closing date was approaching and the Bank was considerlng
closing the loan and cancelling the remaining loan amount. After discussions
with the new management, however, PWA worked out a new implementation plan and
the Bank agreed to extend the closing date year-by-year, for a maximum of
three years, conditioral upon satisfactory PWA performance on the
implementation plan. The implementation plan includod: (a) modification of 27
water supply systems (Level II works); (b) improvement of 19 ground and
surface water sources (Level II works); and (c) major expansion of five or six
water supply systems (Level III works).
21.   FWA recognized the need for engineering support to help with design of
Level II and III works and requested UNDP assistance. This was provided in



1986 under project THA/86/005 (Technology Transfer and Development). The
designs and preparation of bidding documents, prepared by an integrated PWA
and consultant team, were successfully completed in December 1987, with
construction of some of the works proceeding simultaneously. By the time the
loan account was closed in February 1990, about 90% of the Level II works were
completed. The construction of the Level III, major expansions, progressed
much more slowly due to sudden shortages of critical materials in Thailand,
increased construction costs, and the resulting delays in procurement
procedures and contract implementation. When the loan account was closed,
about 70% of the Level III work was completed; completion of the remaining
Part III work is expected by September 1991 with Government and PWA financing.
22. Institutional develoMDent of PWA, carried out during the project
implementation period, and identified as a project objective and component,
was a comprehensive sector-wide activity and was carried out mainly with
substantial technical assistance from various aid agencies, particularly UNDP,
GTZ, and USAID. UNDP, in addition to the assistance given on the design and
implementation of Level II and Level III works (para. 21), provided a special
management advisor for the first five years, and additional technical
assistance on project planning and implementation and development of training
programs over a further period of two years (Project THA/80/012). GTZ
provided technical assistance on specialized aspects of institutional
development and training, and USAID, during the PWA's early years, on
restructuring of the organization.
23.   Preparation of Future Programs.  As anticipated at the time the loan was
made, the Government was able to obtain financial assistance from other aid
agencies for the preparation of future projects (para. 14). In fact, such aid
from about 8 agencies, mainly in the form of grants, was substantial. The
water supply situation in a large number of urban areas in the provinces was
reconnoitered and several master plans were prepared. About 25 feasibility
studies were carried out, and preliminary designs and about 10 final designs
were prepared. As of the end of 1990, at least one project had gotten to the
construction stage.
24.   Procurement.  Procurement under this project was slow.  The delays were
due to inexperienced staff, a cumbersome bureaucracy and also, toward the end
of the implementation period, a shortage of interested bidders. Deviations
between Government procurement regulations and the Bank's guidelines caused
confusion in PWA and delayed procedures. Thai regulations require that, to be
acceptable, a bid amount must not exceed the budgoted amount for the contract.
Thus, when prices rose, budgets were frequently inadequate, bids had to be
rejected and new bids invited after designs and specifications were revised or
new budgets were approved. This happened mostly on civil works contracts for
which no fureign firms applied. Except for a few items, most of the equipment
was procured through international competitive bidding acceptable to the Bank,
and on which there were few problems.
25. Prolect Costs. Summaries of the total project costs as estimated at
appraisal and of the actual expenditures on the project are given in Sections
5 (a) and 5 (b) of Part III. The appraisal estimate totaled B 1,067.1 million
(US$52.7 million equivalent), before interest and other charges on the loan



during construction (IDC) which were estimated at US$6.6 million. Actual
expenditures financed by Government equity grants, PWA contributions and Bank
loan disbursements for the project totaled B 1,231.1 million (US$48.1 million
equivalent), net of IDC. This is an apparent increase of about 15% when costs
are expressed in ba. , and a decrease of about 9% when exprassed in dollars, a
discrepancy caused b, devaluations of the baht relative to the dollar during
the implementation period.
26.   The appraisal estimates and actual cost figures are not truly
comparable. This project was essentially a sector project. The works and
institutional improvements to be accomplished by the project over a five year
period, and their expected costs, were based on a general assessment of the
needs of the provincial water supply sector. As could be expected, local
circumstances and the course of sector development changed as the work
progressed over an extended period of about 11 years, and the project was
flexible enough to accommodate these changes. Consequently, the content of
the Bank-financed component of the sector development program differs from
what was costed at appraisal. This is especially so for the project
components involving institutional development and preparation of future
projects, where much grant aid was provided by other financing agencies, and
the value of those grants is not reflected in the actual cost figures. For
example, the UNDP contribution under Project THA/80/012 (para. 22) was about
US$0.73 million but is not included in the actual cost figures, while the
Government's counterpart cost-sharing is included.
27.   The sources of financing to cover the "actual" cost of the project as
shown in Section 5 (b) of Part III were the Bank loan (70.4%), government
equity contributions (27.4%) and PWA (2.2%).  PWA's contributions were made
after the Bank loan account was closed.
28.   DLsburseme=.  The loan was disbursed over seven and a half years (1982
to February 1990), or three and half years longer than expected at appraisal.
By the original closing date of April 30, 1986, less than one-half the loan
was disbursed. The closing date was extended three times to April 30, 1989.
Disbursements against commitments made prior to this date continued until
February 7, 1990 when the loan account was closed and the undisbursed amount
of US$1.9 million was cancelled. The estimated and actual rates of
disbursements are shown in Section 3 (a) of Part III of this report, and the
original and final allocations of the loan are in Section 3 (b).
29.   In order to assist PWA overcome budgetary problems which would have
further delayed the project, the Bank agreed at various times to disburse for
limited periods greater percentages of civil works costs than the 25%
specified in the Loan Agreement. During the final year of disbursements, the
disbursement rate was 90% of costs, net of taxes.
Project Results
30.    bjectivga Met.  Overall, the project was successful in making a
significant contribution to the main objective of strengthening PWA. The
equivalent of the physical objectives also were met, although with a delay of
about 100l, and the results have had a positive impact in the intended areas.



- 7 -
31.   Institutional Results.  The project mad. significant contributions to
the development of PWA, during the 1980s, from a newly established and
fragmented agency to a well organized, reasonably wvll managed and respected
state enterprise.  When the loan was made, PWA management was restricted in
its abillty to create a productive and harmonious environment because the
staff had been transferred from various government agencies and from different
parts of the country. PWA lacked capacity to mnange a large network of water
supply systems. Operation of the water systems was inefficient and
maintenance was poor. Most systems were able to operate at only a fraction of
their potential capacity. Financial performance was poor for these reasons
and because water charges were far below acceptable levels.
32.   In agreeing to the conditions of the Bank loan, PWA was committed not
only to a program of physical improvements but also to substantial
improvements in its management, operational efficiency and financial
performance. Although there is still room for improvement, PWA now has the
ability to manage and implement rehabilitation and expansion projects.
Operational efficiency and maintenance are much improved. Internal
communication, a major problem in 1980, has been improved. Accounting and
management information systems developed under the project have been adopted
successfully. And, over-staffing has been cut: staff per 1,000 water
connections has been reduced from more than 17 in 1980 to about 10 in 1989.
33.   Physical Results.  A summary of the physical improvements resulting from
the project is in Section 4 of Pa.t III. The project succeeded in improving
water supply services provided by PWA. It had a positive impact on more than
140 urban water delivery systems by supplying more and safer water. The
physical targets achieved were 100% for both Level I and Level II works and
about 70% for Level III works. Unfortunately, no data are available on the
incremental water produced as a direct result of this project, but the overall
PWA increase in water production capacity between 1980 and 1988 was about 60%,
primarily as a result of rehabilitation and improvement of existing systems.
34.   Financial Results.   The financial performance of PWA improved much more
than was forecast in the appraisal report. The operating revenues increased
regularly, both because of tariff increases and increases in water sold. A
commitment in the Loan Agreement requiring NWA operating revenues to meet
increasing percentages of operating expenses, starting with 70% in FY82 and
reaching 100% in FY85, was exceeded every year (102% in FY83, 113% in FY84,
160% in FY85, 147% in FY86 and 150% in FY85). In FY85 PWA made a profit after
depreciation for the first time, and in mo, PWA began contributing to the
capital costs of the project.
35.   The annual return on assets has been positive for the past five years.
In 1988, the return on total assets was 5.8% and on operating assets, it
stayed at a two digit figure, 10.4%. The current and gearing ratios were
satisfactory as well, at 5.1 and 2.3, respectively. Since 1988, however, the
trend has changed, and operating expenses have been growing somewhat faster
than the operating income.
36.   PA inherited a serious problem on accounts receivable which remains
unresolved. The average accounts receivables were expected te be reduced and



maintained at 60 days of billings, but by the end of 1988 this figure
represented about seven months of billing. In particular, PWA has not been
successful in reducing receivables from government agencies. Government bills
account for about 95% of accounts receivable, and PWA fears that because of a
shortage of fund-. water bills will continue to go unpaid.  The government
account by Ltsel. shows an average age of 213 days for accounts receLvable in
1986 and is expected to increase to 252 days in fiscal 1987. The main
delinquents are the Ministries of Defense and Interior; the Cabinet has asked
the Budget Bureau to expedite settlement. PWA has been pursuing this matter
with little success. Various actions, including direct settlement of water
bills by the Budget Bureau, to resolve the problem have been discussed but no
effective action has been taken.
Sustainability
37.   The project's achievements are expected to be fully sustainable.  The
project generated benefits which shou_.d be sufficient to sustain operations.
The training and technical assistance insured transfer of know-how to properly
maintain facilities and to enable FWA staff to plan, design and implement more
complex projects. The management consulting component should help to insure
the continued improvement of operations and, perhaps, to more timely and
efficient decision making. The experience gained on rehabilitation and
maintenance should help PNA to increase the utilized capacity of existing
water works and maintain them at levels ranging between 75% and 95% of nominal
capaclty.
38.   A potential major problem which would threaten sustainability, is
failure to continue tariff setting at levels which would allow PWA to operate
as a self-sufficient public enterprise. Such a failure would undoubtedly
result in a reversal of progress made to date. There would be a rapid
decrease in the motivation of staff, the quality of operations, and the
efficiency of utilization of assets, and the gains made by PNA in the value of
the services which it provides to the provinces could not be sustained.
Implementation of a new tariff structure at the end of 1987 is evidence that
PNA and the Government intend to avoid such a situation.
Bank Performance
39.   The decision by the Bank to finance a provincial water supply project so
early in the existence of the PWA proved to be extremely valuable. Although
not the only agency to support, and perhaps not the major contributor to,
early PWA development activities, the Bank's involvement with this project
almost certainly acted as a catalyst helping to encourage other important
sources of assistance, such as UNDP and a number of bilateral agencies.
40.   As appropriate for a sector project, the Bank's appraisal and forecasts
were based on general assessments of the needs of the sector and the capacity
to implement. Assessment of the needs was accurate, but expectations as to
the time required for implementation of a number of aspects of the project was
extremely over-optimistic. This evaluation is not merely hindsight. Bank
experience in Thailand should have shown that important decisions are often
made in a very deliberate manner by committees and can be very time consuming.



41.   It was unreasonable to expect, therefore, that engagement of an
international consulting firm by a new agency would be done in a few months as
a condition of loan effectiveness (Part I, para. 15). Similarly, it was
inappropriate to expect that PWA would be able to complete installation of a
commercial public utility accounting system and furnish to the Bank its
opening balance sheets and audited financial statoments by the dates specified
in the Loan Agreement (Part III, Section 7), particularly when Bank staff
acknowledged during loan processing that it would take several years to
develop an accurate picture of NWA's financial position.
42.   Supervision missions - there were 23 - were cartied out regularly and
staff continuity was reasonably good, especially considering the 10 year
implementation period. Bank records indicate promrp headquarters response to
project developments and the needs of PWA, and considerable assistance was
provided also by the Bank's resident mission in Bangkok. The Bank also served
as executing agency for the UNDP technical assistance projects.
Borrower/Guarantor Performance
43.   Performance on the major covenants in the Loan Agreement is shown in
Part III, Section 7. During the first three project years, the PWA
organizational structure was inefficient, PNA management and the government
agencies overseeing PWA were ineffective, staff were disorganized, internal
coordination was poor and project administration usually was unsatisfactory.
After a major reorganization late in 1983, performance improved steadily,
although there was a temporary setback in 1985 following appointment of a new
governor and extensive management and staff changes.
44.   Many of the interruptions of progress on the physical components of the
project which occurred through the first four or five years of the project
could be classified as unavoidable byproducts of development of a new
institution. During the remaining project period nearly all aspects of PWA
performance were good. As noted under 'Financial Performance,"
accomplishments on tariffs and improved operational efficiency were
exceptionally good (Part I, paras. 34 and 35).
45.   Compliance with the covenants in the Guarantee Agreement has been
satisfactory except under Section 2.5 where the Government agreed to pay, or
cause the public agencies to pay, their water bills. Nothing was accomplished
on this (Part I, para. 36). In addition, during some periods, government
appropriations of funds for the project were delayed, contrary to Section 2.02
of the Guarantee Agreement.
Performance of Contr¶cturs and Consultants
46.   Contracts for the supply of equipment and materials were won by both
local and foreign firms, all of which performed satisfactori,.y. All civil
works contracts went to local firms. Initially, these contractors had
difficulties meeting the specifications, and standards of workmanship varied
greatly. As the project progressed, however, quality control improved, and by
the last stages of the project, standards were good.



-10*
47.   The consulting contract awarded as a condition of loan effectiveness was
a misfortune (Part I, paras. 15 and 17). The responsibility for its failure
has to be shared by PWA, and, perhaps to some extent. by the Bank. The root
of the problem appears to have been the terms of reference (TOR), approved by
the Bank, on which tho consultant's proposal was based. While nuts-and-bolts
type of engineering was required, the TOR could be interpreted to requira a
much higher level of work. Apparently, this was the corsultant's view, and
when the price proposal was opened the cost was too high. Negotiations cut
the price nearly in half, but the TOR were not aended accordingly. The
inexperienced PWA staff then mismanagod the consultants; they not only
appeared to have insisted on following the TOR to the letter but also delayed
decisions and frequently redirected the consultant to other tasks. The
consultants, own weak management failed to provide essential feedback on the
consequences of PWAs actions. After nearly two years, little was
accomplished, the consultants were suffering heavy losses and the contract was
terminated by mutual consent.
48.   The work of all other consultants and technical advisors financed from
the loan or provided by other agencies to assist PWA during the project period
was completely satisfactory and successful.
Proiect Relationships
49.  The relationships between the Bank and PWA and between the Bank and the
Government during the project cycle were generally good.
PrQiect Documentation and Data
50.   Project documentation was generally adequate.   The availability of data
for project monitoring was satisfactory. The loan conditions specified in the
Loan Agreement were reasonable except that the target dates for compliance of
some of the financial covenants were inappropriate (Part I, para. 41). The
Staff Appraisal Report provided a useful reference framework during the
implementation period. The records of the implementing agency and the
information provided by the Bank helped PWA to prepare the completion report
included as Part II of this report.



- 11 -
n UfLZ5Zf
PROUCT  EYIU  Ion REPORTPSICIV
1.    kccordIng to the Intmrnational Decade Plau (1981-1990) * which specifies
that by the aud of the decade safe water for consumption shall be furnished to
all persons all over the world, the ThaL Government set up a target that by
the year 1990 not less than 95 percent of the Thai population, or more than 50
million persons would be served with clean water. The Provincial Vatervorks
Authority (PWA) is responsible for supplying treated water to the rural and
urban coummuities throughout Thailand except Bangkok. PWA water supply
systems had been operated for a long period and it was necessary to
rehabilitate and improve these systems immediately. PWA, therefore, set up
the Immediate Improvement Program (ZIP) to carry out the projects. The
purpose of the projects were as follows:
a. rehabilitate and improve 140 waterworks all over the country;
b. rehabilitate and improve rural water supply systems;
c * construct 6 new vaterworks in the urban communities and 20
vatervorka in the rural cormmuities per year; and
d. expand water supply systems in big towns.
Qb_Jective
2.    The Provincial Water Supply Project (PVSP) would test the strength of
PVA as all 140 waterworks faced the problem of not enough equipment and some
existing equipment were worn out. It was then necessary to facilitate new
equipment to the vaterworks and prepare the future program including technical
assistance and training. The IIP included the following parts:
PatL- rehabilitate 100 water supply systems including the provision
of equipment, operation and maintenance and staff training; and
Part 2 - investigate water resources, engineering design for the
modification of 40 water supply systems.
J/    This is an abridged version of a Completion Report prepared by PWA In
1989. In shortening the original, no expressions of opinion have beein
changed or eliminated and the general sense and unitty of WVA's report
have been retained.



- 12 -
3.    Preparation of future programc Included the carrying out of
reconnaissance for 15 big water supply systea, selection of 10 systems for
feasibility studies and the engineering design of S systems through the
provision of consultants' services therefor.
C8ufie
4.    The PUSP cost the amount of the World Bank loan of $ 40 a (63%) and the
counterpart fund of $ 19.3 a (37%). The aount of $ 40 a was diLvided between
the project activities ($ 33.4 a) and the Interest and comitment charges of
(S 6.6 a).
ftoiect Descriotio
5.    The description of the project as shown in the Loan Agreement, and
Including an amendment arproved by the Bank in June 1985, is in Annex 1 to
this section.
6.    Project implementation consisted of the following components:
Coymonent A.      The I_mediate Improvement Program (IIP) - rehabilitate
and provide equipment and vehicles for watervorks;
oooneain B.       Operation, maintenance and training program (OT);
QomDonet C.       Future Preparation Program; and
component  .      Xanagement and financial program (N&P).
Pmoiect Offico and Orsnmizatiom
7.    PWA set up an IIP Project Office under the Technical Section
Administration by having an IIP Project Manager and his staff starting from 7
persons. The consultants provided under the project for this vork- were to be
assisted by PWA staff for every aspect of the work.
Component A: 1=le2entation Phases
8.    The implementation of IIP divided into three phases as follows:
Phase.I:   Project implementation with the consultant (1982-1983);
hase II:  Implementation after termination of the consulting contract
(1984-1986); and
Phase III: Implementation during three year extension of Bank loan
closing date (1986-1989).
laDlewentation Durinn PhaseM So CoIpm'.rnt A
9.    PWA signed a consulting engineering contract vith a joint venture
(Consultant A) &/. According to the contract, the consultant should
2/    Note: Consultant's name deleted by Bank staff.



- 13 -
investigate 125 waterworks and introduce (rocommend) U means of developing
these systems for better efficiency. WA was to assist the consultant by
providing counterpart services. The consultant proposed (recommended) j/ the
rehabilitation plans for the first 10 water supply systeo. The proposal did
not meet PVA's aims. Therefore, PWA requested the consultant to review the
proposal. Besides the proposal for improvements of the 10 water supply
systems, the consultant also proposed procurement of many essential
inventories, equipment and vehicles.
10.   The consultant presented a revision of the first proposal, but lt was
still not satisfactory to PWA. Finally it was agreed that the contract
between PWA and the consultant be terminated. The contact was termlnated in
October 1983.
11.   Problems and Obstacles faced In Phase I:  PA was a new enterprise.  It
had many vaterworks and regional offices throughout the country. PWA staff
still has no experience of working with consultants. Also, the lack of data
information in each vatervorks, the lack of an engineer to be the consultant's
counterpart, and the lack of PWA experience to cope with the foreign loan made
it hard for the consultants to implement the project successfully.
luDlementation Duri=m xhase It of Comonent A
12.   From the past two years of experiences of FWA staffs while working with
the consultant had enabled them to Implement their own works by themselves
without the assistance of the consultant. PWA, therefore, initiated four
Engineering Teams at HQ and 15 teams at the regional offices. Each team had
its own Senior Engineer for a Team Leader. The rehabilitation of the water
supply systems all over the country was not only 125 (much more than) 2/ as
originated (originally estimated) 2/ A/.
13.   As there were some obstacles, PWA, therefore, requested the World Bank
to use 100% of the loan (allocated) 2/ for civil works contracts, of which the
main work was to rehabilitate all of the existing water supply systems (WSS).
The 100% of the Bank loan and the revolving fund enabled PWA to complete the
rehabilitation of all the WSS throughout the country within 1986. The
rehabilitation also included the supply of equipment, tools and vehicles.
L4.   Problems and Obstacles Faced in Phase II:  According to the
recommendation of the consultant (Consultant A) 2/, before terminating the
contract, ?WA was to procure some equipment, tools and vehicles by ICB and
LCB. These contracts must disburse (re',uired) / the money both from the
World Bank loan and counterpart funds.  Tile problam occurred while (because)
V/ in practice PWA received not enough counterpart funds from the Government
and furthermore PWA and World Bank procurement regulations do not agree with
each other, which made it quite hard for the Bid Opening Committee to decide
vhich regulation should be followed.
2/   Words in brackets added by Bank staff to help clarify intent of
statement made.
4/ Table ln PWA report lists 179 communities.



- 14 -
Xar                      as UT1 of.       n   A
15.   In 1985, after the revisLon of usLng the Bank loan to rehabilitate all
the VSS throughout the country, there was still a lot of soney left to (use
untll) the tim of loan closing (Aprll 30, 1986). PVA then had the polLcy of
taking the remaning sioney for the modifcation and expansion of  SS. PWA
requested a three year eztenaLon of the loan closLng date, (to) 2/ which the
Bank had no objectLon f. PVA appointed a Stecring Committee to supervise and
direct the (eztended) W IIP, whLch the Bank agreed wLth.
16. The Steering Comnlttee has authority as follows:
a.    supervis and direct IXP project, mange polLcy, allocate
necessary resources and manage manpower development and training;
b.    improve means of coordination, communic tion and effective
relatLonship among people involved both directly and LudLectly in
the projects;
c.    set standard crlteria, means or procedures of project
Implementation that agree and reach the aim and agreement of the
World Bank. Any implementation that does not follow the Bank
guidelines or YWA regulations must be approved by the Governor;
and
d.   make decLsions on project implementation.
The Chairman of the Steering Comaittee has full authority to direct and
supervise the project and has direct responsibility to the Governor.
17.  The Steering Committee proposed to divlde the water supply system
improvements into three levels:
Level I   - rehabllitation of all WSS (1984-1986);
Level II - modification of about 30 VSS and water resources development
(1986-1989);
Level III - expansLon of about 6 VSS (1986-1989).
18.   For Level II and III improvements, PWA was asisted from UNDP by sending
ezperts to be advisors and vork with FWA engineers in implementing detailed
design for modifying and expanding VSS including water resources development.
L'    Words in btackets added by Bank staff to help clarify the lntent of
statement.
if    Bank staff note: Actually, the Bank agreed to extend the closing date in
one year increments, up to a maximum of three years, provlded PWA made
satisfactory progress on its development program which was to be updated
periodically end approved by the Bank.



- 15 -
19.   After work had been implemented for some time, it was summArized that
within the remaining budget PWA could modify 26 USS, expand 6 WSS and develop
17 water sources.
20.   Problems and Obstacles Faced in Phase III:  These included the
following:
a)    delay in approval of counterpart funds from the Government and the
amounts (not) 2/ approved were not covered by the Bank loan to
make the contract;
b)    the Bank and PHA regulations for procurement are different in
practice;
c)    bids for many civil works contracts have been tendered more than
once. Some bids had to be re-evaluated for the new price
estimation. These reasons made some delay in construction and
disbursement;
d)    terms of payment in the contract were not appropriate and made no
fluidity of disbursement by the contractor. This made the
contractor have not enough revolving budget for continuation of
the construction;
e)    there was no decision making from the work construction supervisor
when some problems during construction were found. They always
push the decision making to the highest administrative officers.
This caused no progress of the construction work and also caused
the contractor the reason for requesting a contract extension; and
f)    during 1988-89 the scarcity of skilled labor for construction work
was rather serious because there was a lot of construction in
government and private sectors which caused no interest from any
contractor to bid for contracts. PWA then had to re-tender.
Imolementation of Component B (Operations. Maintenance and Training Program)
21.   The Operations, Maintenance and Training Program (OMT) was to develop
the operations and maintenance efficiency of PWA water supply systems. PWA
hired a joint venture firm (Consultant B) A/ for the consulting service
(required) 7/ for OMT on 14 February 1983. The working period (for the
consultants was) 7/ from 22 March 1983 - 21 June 1984, a total of 15 months.
22.   The consultants prepared and submitted several reports, handbooks and
guides and conducted training programs, including O&M training programs for
Training of Trainers from which 53 persons graduated.
7]    Words in brackets added by Bank staff to help clarify statement made.
tJ    Name of consultants deleted by Bank staff.



- 16 -
IaMlement!tion of CoYmoent C (Future   oect: Pegration)
23.   As there were many aids and grants from many sources for the future
projects preparation, PWA, therefore, decided not to use the World Bank loan
(for this purpose) V 1O/.
Implementatiou of Comnonent D (Manageuent and Financial Program)
24.   According to the World Bank loan, PWA had to hire consultants in the
field of accounting and management to assist in initiation of M4vagement and
accounting systems, preparing an administration manual, reviewing the data
communication and processing needs of PWA and training PNA staff. (These
consultants (Consultant C) 11 were engaged for PNA by GTZ as part of a
technical assistance program provided by the Federal Republic of Cermany).2/
25.   (The work of Consultant C resulted in) 9' some development of PWA as
f.ollows:
a.    the organization structure has been revised; the reorganization
has been implemented on September 30, 1983;
b.    development of accounting and financial systems, both at HQ and
regional levels in October 1984;
c.    management information systems introduced in November 1984; and
d.    (introduction of) V/ the program of management and finance related
seminars for PWA staff concerned with accounting and information
systems.
26.   The results of the implementation (of the above) V2 were satisfactory.
GTZ continued assisting PWA since 1985 until 1989 in the following aspects:
a.    provision of an advisor to assist in PWA management and financial
performance;
b.    initiation of appropriate action to maintain the integrity of the
internal auditor and other control procedures;
9/    Words in brackets added by Bank staff to help clarify statements made.
lg/   The PWA report lists 17 technical assistance activities provided by 10
bilateral agencies and the UNDP. In addition to services provided to PWA by
specialists on ground water and surface water resource development, rural
water supplies, leak detertion and control, water quality control, and fixed
assets management, the technical assistance included preparation of master
plans, feasibility studies and, in some cases, detailed design of water supply
facilities for about 23 communities.
Il/   Name of consultant deleted by Bank staff.



- 17 -
c.    provision of a management seminar for PIA high administrative
levels in the fields of organization, administration and human
resources;
d.    a study of tariff structure carried out to revise the existing
rates by the following recognitions (taking into account) iL/; PWA
financial stability; social aspects (the consumers); and
administration resources (bill collection and work procedure); and
e.    a study of computerization and hardware and software appropriate
at PWA.
Financial Performance
27.   It is noted that before the fiscal year 1984, PWA had no financial
stability. PNA had nothing to measure financial stability (performance) 1iJ
until the fiscal year 1984 (when) 12, PA started recovery, as the following
details: L3J
current ratio: up from 2.869 in FY84 to 5.984 in FY88, and is rather
high because it includes much left over inventory, customer's debt and
bank deposits.
acid test ratio: up from 2.128 in FY84 to 4.287 in FY88. This excludes
left over inventory because of low liquidity, and customers, debt
because 95% are by government agencies.
net orofit ratio (per income): up from (6.97)% in FY84 to 17.42% in FY88
debt ratio: ranged from about 0.24 to 0.33 during period FY84-FY88.
times interest earned: up from (1.532) in FY84 to 3.192 in FY88.
debt/equity ratio: up from 0.320:1 in FY84 to 0.414:1 in FY88, with a
high of about 0.500:1 in FY86.
number of waterworks: up from 168 in FY80 to 188 in FY88.
number of staff: down from 5,270 in FY80 to 5,186 in FY88.
number of connections (000): up from 298.5 in FY80 to 515.2 in FY88.
ratio staff to 000 connections: down from 17.65 in FY80 to 10.07 it.
FY88.
1t/   Words in brackets added by Bank staff to help clarify statements made.
L3J   The financial and operating data which follows is a summary by Bank
staff of more detailed information provided in the PWA report for PWA
FY84-FY88 for financial data and FY80-FY88 for operations data.



- 18 -
water production capacitv (cu m millions): up from 240.6 in FY80 to
371.0 in FY88.
water production (cu m millions): up from 165.44 in FY80 to 287.26 in
FY88.
water sales (cu m millions): up from 118.9 in FY80 to 195.8 in FY88.
ratio sales to production: down from 71.9% in FY80 to 68.1% in FY88.



- 19 -
Deacition of the Prol4eet 
The project consists of the following parts:
Pa   I: _mdiate ImnrovemonLIr2rM
Diprovenent and rehabilitation of the existing water supply
systems in about 140 counities, Including the provision of technical
assistance, equipment, vehicles and civil works therefor.
PaXtfl:  Technical Assistance And Trainin 2/
The strengthening of the Borrower's capabilLty in the fields of
engineering, operatlon and maintee, finances, accounting end managez-nt
through the provision of technical assistance and staff training, and re.4ced
offices, laboratories and training facilLties.
Part I     Prenaration of Future Pronrams
The carrying out of reconnaissance and feasibility studLes for
expandlng and rehabllitating water supply systems, and the engineering deslgn
of selected systems, through the provLsion of consultants' services therefor.
*                   *                   *
The Project is expected to be completed by July 31. 1985.
1/    From Schedule 2 of Loan Agreement dated November 25, 1980.
2/   As amended 06/10/85 to add, wand related offices, laboratories and
training facilities".



- 20 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related ZAUk_1aE
Title_           Purpose  _ A22r=d    Status                 Comments
Bangkok Water      Improve and        05/73      Completed   First Bank loan to
Supply Project    expand water                     03/80     Thailand for
(Ln. 1021-TH)     supply system                              comunity water
for Bangkok.                              systems. (PPAR
No. 3735 issued
January 1982.)



21 -
2. Iect T2table and  ma
a) Project T
Activity/                Date             Revised            Actual
Event                 Planned            Dates             Date
Identification/
Preparation                    12/77            06/78
02/79
05/79             06/79
Appraisal                         06/79                            12/05-17/79
Loan NegotLations                 03/80                            04/21-25/80
Board Approval                    07/80           06/17/80           06/03/80
Loan Signature                    07/80            06/80             11/25/80
Loan Effectiveness                09/80           11/01/80
02/25/81
06/30/81
10/29/81
12/30/81
02/25/82          01/04/82
Project Completion               07/31/85         07/31/88           09/30/91 1J/
Loan Closing Date                04/30/86         04/30/87
04/30/88          04/30/89 2/
Final Disbursement &
Loan Account Closed           10/30/86                            02/07/90 /
J/ Construction of some facilities being completed with PWA funds.
2/ Project closed on April 30, 1989 but disbursements were allowed to continue
until January 31, 1990. The last disbursement was made on February 7, 1990
when the loan account was closed.



- 22 v
2. Prolect Timetable and lasugs Raised (continued)
b) Issues Raised (Preaopraisal thruah Board  egentation
PreA22rAisal Stage   ---- whether project should be included as part of the
proposed Bangkok Flood Protection and Drainage
Project; and
--.- whether the Provincial Water Supply P'roject should
be expanded to include a rehabilitatLon program for
rural water suppy system.
Appraisal Stame       ....  whether tariff levels should be set to cover
depreciation;
Management Review    --.-  whether Bank's knowledge of the entity's
capabilities was sufficient to justify what
essentially was to be a sector operation;
----  reliability of financial projections, particularly
the proposed tariff increases;
----  realism of implementation schedule;
----  whether Bank should lend directly to an agency not
yet credit worthy;
---  having the engagement of consultants as a condition
of loan effectiveness; and
-...  whether interest during construction should be
financed.
Negotiations          ----  whether tariff increases should be made during
construction or after improvements are realized.
Board Presentation   ----  none



- 23 -
3. Loan Disburselents
a) CumXlativ  Estimated and A a   it
(US$ millions)
IBRD FY              Appraisal                         Actua
and Semester             Estimate                              % of Appraisal
Ending                   Amount              _ ont                 EstimAte
1211.   12/31/80              0.10
06/30/81              0.60
19212    12/31/81             1.50
06/30/82              3.70                 0.68                 18.4%
121.3   12/31/82              8.50                  1.51                17.8%
06/30/83             15.20                  2.33                15.3%
1214    12/31/83             22.50                  3.39                15.1%
06/30/84             30.20                  5.92                19.6%
1985    12/31/84             34.40                  8.17                23.8%
06/30/85             37.60                10.22                27.2%
1211    12/31/85             39.60                 13.64                34.4%
06/30/86            40.00                 21.87                54.7%
1217    12/31/86                                   23.87                59.7%
06/30/87                                  28.21                70.5%
1211    12/31/87                                   30.72                76.8%
06/30/88                                  33.49                83.7%
1212    12/31/88                                   35.44                88.6%
06/30/89                                  35.93                89.8%
1990    12/31/89                                   36.79                92.0%
06/30/90                                   38.06                95.2%
The last disbursement was made February 7, 1990 when the undisbursed balance
of US$ 1,937,378.18 was cancelled.



- 24 -
3. !mn Disburseients (Continued)
b) Oriuinal And Final Allocation of Proceeds
(US$ thousands)
Amount
of Loan          Final
Categgr.                         Allogated      Disbursemen
(1)   Civil Works                                    3,000.0         14,695.0
(2)   Equipment, Materials and Vehicles             15,000.0         13,276.1
(3)   Consultants' Services and Training             7,000.0          4,049.0
(4)   Interest and Other Charges on the
Loan Accrued on or Before
July 14, 1985              V                   6,600.0          6,000.0
(5)   Unallocated                                    8,400.0              0.0
Special Account  0/  l                                    0.0            42.5
TOTALS                  40,000.0         38,062.6
NOTES:
1/    Amended to July 14, 1988.
2/1   Established after loan was approved.
i/   The amount. results from AchAnPe rat' fluctuations.



- 25 -
4. Protect ImDlementatign
Indicator             Annraisal EstimaLte         Atual gr PMR Estimate
Part I: Immediate       First Phase:                   The grouping of projects
Improvement    Rehabilitation and other       in the IIP WaS revised
Program         improvements to about 100    during implementation into
(IIP)          provincial water supply        three levels, based on
systems needing repairs,      difficulty: Level I com-
equipment replacement,        prising simple works
distribution network          requiring little engi-
extensions and new or         nearing and included
replaced/repaired             procurement of goods re-
service connections and       quired for improved
meters.                       operations; Level II in-
volving major modifica-
Second Phase:                 tions requiring design
As above for about 40         inputs; and Level III
systems which were            involving expansion of
suffering serious water       systems and requiring
shortages and required        major engineering.
in addition the devel-
opment of new water           Level I rehabilitations
sources.                      and procurement of goods
for maintenance was com-
pleted in 1986, benefiting
at least 140 systems.
Of 27 planned Level II
projects, 21 were
completed before 1990 and
6 more were substantially
completed during 1990. Of
19 additional water source
development projects, 17
were completed.
A total of 6 Level III
projects were planned and
5 were substantially
completed.
Part II: Technical      Training of PWA staff in       About 330 training
Assistance ard       the fields of engineering,   programs were carried out,
Training.            operation and maintenance,   including several with
finances, accounting and      assistance from other aid
management.  Also the         agencies, with about 4,700
provision of related          participants.  A central
offices, laboratories and    laboratory/training
training facilities.          complex was completed in
March 1987.



- 26 -
4. Projiet I  suentagion (Continued)
1/                            4 /2
Indicator        _          n   ILLatia _te      Actual or PCR Estimate
Part III:              Reconnaissance studies for   With financing from other
Preparation of      about 15 cou.unities,         agencies, reconnaissance
Future Projects.    preparation of feasibility   and feasibility studies
studies for expansion and    were carried out for about
rehabilitation of water      25 water syst'ms, detailed
supply systems for about     desi5n, for 7 to 10
about 10 of these            systeam, and construction
courunities, and prepa-      was started for at least
ration of final designs      one system.
and procurement documents
for five communities.
4/ Indicators shown were defined during appraisal and generally were monitored
throughout the implementation period and shown in the supervision reports.
h/ Approximately as of the end of 1990.



- 27 -
S. Zrgiect Costa and Pinancin
a) Prolect Co1ts_ad_naea   AnaiaL KatiMa
A/        hi                A/         h/
Conmonents      L-ca1  faroig   Total I2aLQ                 Eureig  ITtal
---- Baht millions ----     ---- US $ millions ----
Imaediate Improvement Program
Part A - Equipment             39.7   158.9    198.6        2.00     7.80     9.80
Civil Works          48.3      32.2     80.5      2.40      1.60     4.00
Engineering           2.9      11.7     14.6      0.10      0.60     0.70
Subtotal A                 90.9    202.8    293.7       4.50         10.00    14.50
Part B - Equipment             23.5     94.0    117.5       1.20     4.60     5.80
Civil Works          83.2      55.4    138.6      4.10      2.70     6.80
Engineering           7.4      23.6     31.0      0.40      1.10     1.50
Subtotal B                114.1   173.0   287.1         5.70      8.40  ..14.10
Total Improvement Program    205.0    375.8    580.8       10.20    18.40    28.60
Future Project Preparation        16.2     64.8     81.0       0.80     3.20     4.00
Advisory Services & Training       3.8     15.2     19.0       0.20     0.80      1.00
Subtotal                  225.0   455.8    680.8       11.20    22.4.    33.60
Contingencies - Physical          27.0    54.7      81.7       1.30     2.70     4.00
Price           138.1   166.5   304.6         6.80     8.30    15.10
Subtotal: Contingencies       165.1   221.2    386.3        8.10    11.Q0    19.10
TOTAL PROJECT                    390.1    677.0  1,067.1      19.30    33.40    52.70
(36.6%)  (63.4%)   (100%)
Interest During Construction       0.0    133.7    133.7       0.00     6.60     6.60
TOTAL COST                       390.1    810.7  1,200.8      19.30    40.00    59.30
(32.5%)  (67.5%)   (100%)
NOTES:
A/ Financed by Government Equity Contributions.
h/ Financed from IBRD Loan 1863-TH.



- 28 -
S. Project Coats and Financing (Continued)
b)   tml Pro ect Costs
Financed By                 Financed By
Govt.                       Govt.
Comnonents            fi PW      Bank     Total     & PWA    Bank      Total
--- Baht millions ----      ---- US $ millions ----
PART A:
Iamne-date Improve=ent Program
(i)   Repair/Rehabilitation
(Level I)             140.34   226.87   367.21       5.50      8.90    14.40
(ii)  Major Modifications
(Level II)             87.21    98.70   185.91       3.36      3.80     7.16
(iii) System Expansions
(Level III)           142.39    88.12   230.51       5.43      3.69     9.12
(iv)  Materials/Equipment    34.04   303.00   337.04       1.28    11.80    13.08
Subtotal AA40.91   Z16.69  1120.67    15.57      28.19    43.76
PART B: Technical Assistance
(i)   PWA Cost Sharing for
UNDP Project              0.00    10.64    10.64      0.00      0.42     0.42
(ii)  Individual Consultants   0.95    24.16    25.11       0.03      0.94     0.97
(iii) Engineering              10.08    64.60    74.68      0.40      2.51     2.91
Subtotal B         . 11.03    99.4Q   110.43      Q.43      3.87    -4.30
Subtotal A & B     415.01   816.09  1231.10      16.00    32.06    48.06
(33.3%)  (66.7%)   (100%)
Interest During Construction      0.00   153.00   153.00       0.00     6.00     6.00
TOTAL PROJECT      415.01   969.09  1384.10      16.00    38.06    54.06
(29.6%)  (70.4%)   (100%)
Prolect Finanginf
Bhat     US S        I
--- millions ---
IBRD Lo&^ 1863-TH                     969.09    38.06      70.4%
Government Equity Contribution        385.35    14.80      27.4%
PWA                                  .29.66      1.2Q    _2.2&
TOTALS                               1384.10    54.06       100%



- 29 -
6. Proiect Results
a) Diret Benefits
1./    Estimated at
Appraisal    Closing        Full
Benefits       _UL. E.Ats5Le Data                     s1a.mYn
2/v
Rehabilitation/Improvement of Provincial
Water Supply Systems:
Number of Systems
Requiring limited planning/design          100        n.a.            120
Requiring more extensive planning
and engineering                             40          -0-            49
Total systems                              140        n.&.            169
Total PWA Water Supply Systems:
Water production/Sales: (000 cu m/day)
Increase in Capacity                      n.a.                        943
Increased Production                       455                 (FY88) 334
Increased Sales                            359                        276
Service Connections
Increased Connections (thousands)          190                        337
Population Served
Increase (thousands)                      n.a.                      1,067
Notes:
1/ As given in the Staff Appraisal Report projections for completion by
06/30/85 and in full operation during FY86.
2/ As reported in PWA progress or operating reports for FY86.
J/ As reported in PWA progress or operating reports for FY89 unless
otherwise noted.
n.a. - accurate data not located in Bank records.



- 30 -
6. Protect Results
b) Economic IJmpat
Actual
Aonraisal Estimate            (At Final Development)
Economi.c Rate
of Return                    8% to 11%                           2/
UnderIvin.; AsugMtions:
For the appraisal estimate:
1. The internal financial rate of return used in the project appraisal
was calculated using the estimated capital costs of the project, the
incremental revenues derived from the project and the incremental
operating expenses resulting from the project.
2. The 8S return calculated for project appraisal was based on the
assumption that water tariffs would be raised in steps so that by
FY85 revenues would be sufficient to cover operating expenses and
debt service. The 11% return was calculated assuming that water
tariffs would continue to be raised until, by FY89, revenues would be
sufficient also to cover depreciation.
Co mnts:
I/ The incremental financial rate of return has been used as a proxy for
the estimated economic rate of return. This return is believed to
understate the economic benefits since intangible benefits, such as
improvements in health and the quality of life, are not believed to be
reflected in the increased prices people are willing to pay for water
service.
21 The estimated internal financial rate of return has not been
recalculated because the available financial data do not distinguish
between actual incremental revenues and operating expenses resulting
from the project. It appears reasonable to assume, however, that the
actual return at least equaled, and possibly exceeded, the appraisal
estimates, because: new tariffs adopted since the project started
resulted in revenues which exceeded operating expenses and debt service
beginning in FY83 and coverage has been in the range of 130% to 150%
beginning in FY85; and overall financial results from PWA operations
have been better than the appraisal forecasts (see Part III, Sections 6c
and 7 of this report).



- 31 -
6. Prosect Results
c) Financial  =Ma
Appraisal g/              /      Actual for k/
Einanc,Ia  Indicators          Estimate           Actual         Latest Year
Operational Data:
Population in urban areas
served by PWA     (000)             ....            4,705      (FY87) 4,777
Population served    (000)             ----             2.624     (FY87) 2,850
Water connections    (000)              445               406              515
Number of PWA employees               7,400             5,155            5,186
Employees/1000 connections             16.6              12.7             10.1
Water production capacity
(cu m millions)             ----              337               371
Water produced
(cu m millions)             325               256               287
Water sold (cu m millions)              241               175              196
Non-revenue water       (8)             26%               31%              32%
Financial Dpta:
Avg. water tariff (B/cu m)              5.3               7.2     (FY87)   7.2
Operating revenue (B millions)        1,322             1,350            1,507
Operating expense (B millions)        1,203               989            1,111
Operating profit  (B millions)          119               361              396
Financial Perorm&Uce
Annual Return
Net profit on total assets (%)       ---              6.7               5.8
Oper.profit on oper.assets (%)       --               11.1             10.4
Current ratio                           ---               4.4              5.1
NOTES: Al  For last year of appraisal forcast - FY86
k/ For latest year for which data is available - FY88 unless otherwise
noted.



- 32 -
7. Status of        ovenants
Covenant                    Sub1eet                           Comoliance
Section of
Loane Areeen
3.01 (b)            Borrower to establish and staff   Unsatisfactory during period
a Project Unit satisfactory to    1982/83 when unit lacked
the Bank.                          adequate competent staff and
vws ovorloaded, contributing
in part to problems with the
engineering consultants.
Project activities later
absorbed by PWA's functional
units.
3.02                Borrower to employ engineering    Borrower was extremely slow in
consultants satisfactory to the   engaging consulting firm,
Bank to assist in: design and      delaying Part I of the project
construction supervision of the   about 13 months.  Then work
project; operation and mainte-    by consultants leoved un-
nance thereof; and                 satisfactory and contract
preparation of future projects.   terminated 10/83.  PWA then
took over engineering with
technical assistance provided
through two UNDP projects.
3.04 (b)            Borrower to furnish to the         Compliance generally
Bank periodic progress reports.   satisfactory except during
periods when PWA was
experiencing reorganizations.
3.07                Borrower to implement least        Compliance satisfactory.
cost analysis of subprojects,      Reports for Level II and III
and furnish to the Bank any        subprojects prepared with
analyses of such subprojects       consultants' assistance.
estimated to cost in excess of
$100,000.
3.08                Borrower to take measures to       Compliance generally
ensure its rural and urban         satisfactory.  UNDP pro-
water supply systems are           vided on-site training of
adequately maintained and          operators for 30 modified
repaired.                          plants.  Parameters for
adequate maintenance funding
prepared.



- 33 -
7. Status of Maior Covenants (Continued)
Covenant                    Sub1ect                            Comnliance
Section of
Loan Aareen
4.04                 By December 1, 1980, Borrower       Delayed compliance.
to employ accounting and           Consultants, financed by
mAnagement consultants to          CTZ, employed in 1982 and
assist PWA with various            contract extended to end
improvements.                      of 1988. Performance was
good.
5.02                 By June 1, 1981, Borrower to:       Delayed compliance.
(i) complete gathering             Inventories completed late
information for its rural and      in 1982, but valuation of
urban water supply systems;         assets taken over not
completed until 1986.
(ii) establish public utility      Delayed compliance; systems
commercial accounting and          fairly well installed by
financial and management info-    end of 1984 and are now
mation systems; and                operating well in all
regions.
(iii) furnish to the Bank          Delayed compliance.
opening balance sheets and         Opening balance sheets and
other financial statements          statements for FY80 not
for the initial fiscal period      furnished until 1984.
May-September 1979 and FY80.
5.03 (i)             By September 30, 1981, Borrower   Very late compliance, first
to furnish to Bank audited         because of late appointment
financial statements for its       of consultants and then the
initial fiscal period and FY80.   problem of valuation of
assets.
5.03 (ii)            Not later than 9 months after       Generally unsatisfactory
end of each fiscal year,           compliance.  Audit reports
beginning with FY81, Borrower       for FY81 and FY82 received
to furnish to Bank certified       in 1985 and reports for
copies of financial statements    later years, up to FY86, as
and audit reports on such          many as 3 years late.  For
statements.                         later years they have been
several months late.



- 34 -
7. Status of Nalor Covenants (Continued)
Covenant                    Subiect                           Comlianee
Section of
Lgan Aereement
5.04                 Borrower to net and maintain       Good compliance.
tariffs for urban water            The coverage was 102% in
systems to ensure operating        m3, 113% in mF4, 160%
revenues at least sufficient to   in FY85, 147% in m86 and
met specified percentages of       150* in FY87.
operating expenses and debt
service requirements ranging
from 70% in FY82 up to 100%
for FY85 and thereafter.
5.05                 By June 30, 1981, Borrower to      Compliance somewhat late
review urban water tariff          but, as indicated above,
structure and establish tariffs   the results were good.
for FY82-FY85.                     Another new tariff structure
wa implemented in 12/87.
5.07                 By September 30, 1983, Borrower   Late compliance.  New
to study tariff structures for    tariff structures were
its rural water supply systems,   implemented in 12/87.
furnish results to the Bank for
comsents, and advise local
authorities on implementation.
5.08 (i)             For urban water supply systems,   PWA/Government Savings Bank
Borrower to:                       arrangements for 18 month
(i) allow consumers to pay for    loans at 16% interest, begun
new service connections in         in 04/86, have had limited
monthly installments; and          impact.
(ii) water supplied through        Partial compliance.  Coin
public standpipes will be          operated stane 'pes tested,
metered and billed to customers   approved by PNA and about
or local jurisdictions at the      30 installed in FY87.
lowest residential tariff.         Charges are higher than
lowest residential tariff,
however, but are about 25%
of vendor prices.



- 35 -
7,  Sa of   Crr  oenants (Continued)
Covenant                   Subje ct                            gliane
Section of
Guarantee
2.02                Gover ment to make available to   Compliance generally
the Borrower funds required to:   satisfactory, although In
met local costs of the project;  some periods appropriations
any cost over-runs on the         of furd  for the project
foreign expenditures for the      were delayed. Government
project; and operating costs      fundig for PWA has been
not met by generated funds.       gradually reduced and
substituted by funds
generated by PWA.
2.04                Government to pay, or cause        Unsatisfactory compliance.
public agencies to pay, to        At some times, government
PWA bills due as of               agencies have been res-
September 30, 1980, and           ponsible for 95% of arrears,
public agencies to pay            and various agencies
further water bill within         continue to have large
60 days.                          overdue accounts.
3.02                Government to review               Late compliance.
institutional and                 NESDB/AIT sponsored study
funding arrangements              was completed, and
and development strategies        Government received
for rural water supply and        concessional funding for
by January 1, 1982, prepare       piped rural water supplies
a report thereon.                 from the Federal Republic
of Gormany.



- 36 -
a) Bank Staff/Consultant Inuuts
(Staff Weeks)
Stage of
Project  ycMle                         Bank/IDA Fiscal Year
Pro- I/     I/       I/
f=   ELQ   M   ES.  EU  F   rs                             E
Preappraisal                        0.2
Appraisal/
Negs/Admin.                       2.9
Supervision                         1.2    26.7    21.5    10.1    20.4       9.8
PCR Prep.
Other                                       2.5     0.1      0.3     0.4      0.5
Totals                        4.3    29.2    21.6    10.4    20.8    10.3
kMh     ELZ                      I=                      TTAL
Preappraisal                                                                  0.2
Appraisal/
Negs/Admin.                                                                 2.9
Supervision       18.2    12.8      7.5     8.7     0.2      0.6            137.8
PCR Prep.                                           1.3      1.8              3.1
Other              0.3     0.2                                                4.4
Totals      18.5    13.0      7.5      8.7     1.5      2.4            148.2
1J/ Staff/consultant inputs for the preparation and appraisal of this
project during and prior to FY80 were charged to the proposed
Bangkok Flood Control and Drainage project, which has not yet
resulted in a Bank lending operation, but of which this Provincial
Water Supply Project was originally intended to be a component.



- 37 -
b) hnLN sdcrs
Type of                                           Perform.        Problem
Missisn           Dates              Staff          1a=1-. rio..
identify/     06/08-07/01/78    Fin. Analyst          --              .
Prepare                         Engineer
Identify/     02/08-20/79       Engineer              --              --
Prepare                         Fin. Analyst
Prepare       04/19-05/15/79    Engineer
Preappraise   06/79             Engineer              --              --
Fin. Analysts (2)
Appraisal     12/05-17/79       Engineer             n.e.            n.a.
Fin. Analyst
SPN # 1       07/30-08/16/80    Engineer              2       Signing delay
Fin. Analyst                  Management
SPN # 2       11/30-12/07/80    Engineer              2       Effectiveness
Fin. Analyst                     Delay
Egat. Advisor (WHO)           mnAgement
Delay appointing
Consultants
Fin. Performance
SPN # 3       06/11-19/81       Engineer              2       Effectiveness
Fin. Analyst                     Delay
Managesent
Delay appointing
Consultants
SPN # 4       11/23-28/81       Zngineer              2       Disbursements
Fin. Analyst                  Kanagement
Procurement
Reporting
Institution Dev.
SPN # 5       03/25-30/82       Engineer              2       Disbur&ements
Completion date
Reporting
SPI # 6       12/13-21/82       Engineer              2       Disbursements
Fin. Analyst                  Management
Completion date
Perform. of Egr.
Consultants.



38 -
8 (b) Bank .laaiuaL   (Continued)
Type of                                            Perform.         Problem
Mission           Dates               Staff        RtfLsg            TyOes
SPN # 7       08/01-08/08/83    Engineer                3       Diabursements.
and          Fin. Analyst                   Completion date.
09/03-06/83                                      Perform of Egr.
Consultants.
Procurement.
Reporting.
Rate of Return.
SPN # 8       12/12-22/83         Engineer              3       Disbursements.
Fin. Analysts (2)             Completion date.
Compliance with
covenants.
Procurement.
Proj. finances.
Management.
Reporting.
SPN # 9       04/23-30/84         Fin. Analyst          3       Disbursements.
Engineer                      Completion date.
Compliance with
covenants.
Procurement.
Proj. finances.
Management.
Reporting.
SPN # 10      09/07-12/84         Fin. Analyst          3       Disbursements.
Completion date.
Compliance with
covenants.
Procurement.
Proj. finances.
Management.
Reporting.
SPN # 11      01/29-02/07/85      Engineer              2       Disbursements.
Completion date.
Compliance with
covenants.
Procurement.
Proj. finances.
Management.
Reporting.



- 39 -
8 (b) Bank Msslions (Continued)
A/
Type of                                              Perform.         Problem
Mission            Dates               Staff         RaTones
SPN # 12      09/02-10/85          Fin. Analyst          3       Project Mgmt.
Disbursements.
Completion date.
Procurement.
Audits.
SPN # 13      10/15-17/85          Engineer              3       Project Mgmt.
DLibursements.
Completion date.
Audits.
SPN # 14      02/13-03/06/86       Englneer              2       Project Mgmt.
Avall. Funds.
Disbursements.
Completion date.
Audits.
SPN # 15      05/11-06/06/86       Engineer              2       Disbursements.
Completion date.
Audits.
SPN # 16      07/21-27/86          Fin. Analyst          2       Disbursements.
Completion date.
Audits.
SPN # 17      10/10-29/86          Engineer              2       Dlsbursements.
Completion date.
SPN # 18      03/13-27/87          Engineer              2       Dev. Impact.
Fin. Analyst
SPN # 19      08/24-29/87          Engineer              2       Audits.
Fin. Analyst                  Dev. Impact.
SPN # 20      02/25-03/05/88       Engineer              1
Fin. Analyst
SPN # 21       10/17-11/03/88      Engineer              1
Fin. Analyst
SPN # 22      02/27-03/07/89       Engineer              1
Fin. Analyst
Computer Spec.
SPN # 23       11/28-12/09/89      Engineers (2)         1



