Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                 FILE COPY
Report No. P-2697-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE PROVINCIAL WATER WORKS AUTHORITY
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR A
PROVINCIAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
May 14, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           : Baht (B)
$1                      =  B 20.25
B                       -  $0.05
B I million             =  $49,400
IEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)             =  39.37 inches (in)
1 liter (1)             =  0.26 US gallon or 0.22 Imperial gallons
1 cubic meter (cu m)   =  35.3 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 kilometer (km)        =  0.62 mile (mi)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
PWWA - Provincial Water Works Authority
MWWA - Metropolitan Water Works Authority (of Bangkok)
PWSD - Provincial Water Supply Division (of the Ministry of Interior)
RWSD - Rural Water Supply Division (of the Ministry of Public Hlealth)
GOVERNMENT OF THAILAND AND AGENCIES
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
PROVINCIAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Provincial Water Works Authority (PWWA)
Guarantor:         Kingdom of Thailand
Amount:            $40 million equivalent
Terms:             20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at
8.25% per annum.
Project
Description:    The project includes improvement of about 140
water supply systems in provincial urban areas which were
acquired by PWWA when it was created in early 1979. About
one million people would receive improved water service
and one half million people would receive service for the
first time. The project will also provide advisory
services to PWWA in the fields of water system operation
and maintenance and in financial management, and will
finance studies and designs for the preparation of
additional water supply projects in provincial areas.
While PWWA, as a fledgling institution, has never
undertaken a project of this magnitude, risks have been
minimized by organizing project management to take full
advantage of experienced regional staff and by providing
related technical assistance.
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Cost Estimate:                                           Local   Foreign   Total
------ $ million ------
Equipment                             3.2      12.4      15.6
Civil works                           6.5       4.3      10.8
Engineering                           0.5       1.7       2.2
Subtotal                          10.2      18.4      28.6
Preparation of future projects        0.8       3.2       4.0
Advisory services and training        0.2       0.8       1.0
Contingencies
Physical                            1.3       2.7       4.0
Price                               6.8       8.3      15.1
Subtotal                          8.1      11.0      19.1
Total Project Costs              19.3      33.4      52.7
Interest during construction           -        6.6       6.6
Total                            19.3      40.0      59.3
Financing Plan:
Government                           19.3        -       19.3
IBRD                                   -       40.0      40.0
Total                            19.3      40.0      59.3
Estimated          Bank FY         1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
Disbursements:                   -------------($ million) -------------
Annual         0.6    3.1    11.5   15.0    7.4    2.4
Cumulative    0.6    3.7    15.2   30.2   37.6   40.0
Rate of Return:         8%
Staff Appraisal
Report:          No. 2831-TH, dated May 9, 1980.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE PROVINCIAL WATER WORKS
AUTHORITY WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR A PROVINCIAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Provincial Water Works Authority with the guarantee of the
Kingdom of Thailand for the equivalent of $40 million to help finance a
Provincial Water Supply Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including five years of grace, with interest at 8.25% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        A Basic Economic Report entitled "Thailand - Toward a Strategy of
Full Participation" (2059-TH) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
September 18, 1978. The Report concludes that Thailand's rapid economic
growth over the past 15 years has led to a significant reduction in absolute
poverty, but that certain income groups have lagged behind this progress. It
identifies the essential characteristics of these groups and points to the
need for continued overall development as well as the initiation of specific
measures to deal wiih the poverty problem, particularly in rural areas. It
further discusses the constraints on the successful implementation of these
policies. Country data are given in Annex I.
Recent Political Developments
3.        The frequent changes at the top levels of government, which have
characterized recent political developments in Thailand, have mainly reflected
differences in view about Thailand's external relations and about the politi-
cal decision-making process within the country. The government formed in
November 1977, under the prime ministership of General Kriangsak Chomanan,
moved to strengthen relations with Thailand's ASEAN partners and tried to
stabilize and improve relations with its Indochinese neighbors. Progress in
the latter was, however, affected by Vietnam's involvement in Kampuchea and
the flood of Khmer refugees into Thailand. These developments and the
necessary actions related to caring for the refugees have diverted a consi-
derable amount of high-level Government attention and led to significant
increases in military and other expenditures. General Kriangsak formed his
second administration in April 1979 but came under mounting criticism in the
National Assembly for his economic policies, particularly the petroleum price
increases and his handling of the refugee problem. Faced with waning
/1   Parts I and II are substantially the same as those presented in the
President's Report for the Mae Moh Lignite Project (P-2800-TH) dated
May 1, 1980, submitted to the Executive Directors under cover of
Secretary's Memorandum, R80-107.



- 2 -
political support and public demonstrations, General Kriangsak undertook an
extensive cabinet reorganization in February 1980. However, this failed to
engender the necessary political stability, and facing a no confidence vote
precipitated by petroleum price and electricity tariff increases, his
O.vcrtxent resigned on February 29.
4.        General Prem Tinsulanonda was elected to succeed Kriangsak as Prime
Minister by the National Assembly after receiving the support of nearly all
major political parties. General Prem's new government, formed on March 14,
included leaders from the political parties which supported him. On March 28,
1980, General Prem announced his government's policies on a number of issues
including economic and social development. The statement places high and
immediate priority on accelerating rural development, raising rural incomes
and on measures to improve health and education. Particular emphasis is given
to generating more jobs and it is expected that a rural public works program
similar to the 1975/76 Tambon Program will be a major element in this
strategy. The Government also intends to exert efforts to contain inflation
and a more gradual adjustment of energy prices is foreseen besides developing
domestic energy resources. Reforms in monetary and fiscal policy and efforts
to improve the trade balance through improved export performance are also
called for. As discussed below these reforms are critical to increasing
resource mobilization (especially in the public sector) and reducing the
current account deficit.
Past Trends and Recent Changes
5.        Thailand's economic performance since 1960 has been good.  The
average annual growth of real GDP from 1960 to 1979 was 7.9%, or about 4.8%
per capita. Real agricultural growth of nearly 5% was a leading factor
sustaining this expansion. The cultivated area increased by about 4% a year,
water control was improved, irrigation was expanded and the cultivation of
relatively new crops, including maize, cassava, kenaf, sugar and rubber, grew
rapidly. Agriculture has also been a major contributor to export growth.
As a share of GDP, domestic savings fluctuated between 19% and 24%, and total
investment between 20% and 27%. The high level of private investment
contributed to a real industrial growth of 10% per year since 1970. All this
was achieved with a limited inflow of external resources and, until recently,
the resource gap remained at about 5% of GDP.
6.        The rate of GDP growth declined in the 1970s to 7.6% p.a from 8.1%
in the 1960s. In addition to external factors (the oil price increase of 1973
and its aftermath), the major domestic factor responsible for this decline has
been the increasing scarcity of land. Production has been pushed into less
fertile soils causing a decline in the rate of agricultural growth to about
4.6% p.a. since 1970 compared to 5.7% in the 1960s. During 1973 and part of
1974, this deceleration was partly obscured by a domestic investment boom.
This was accompanied by rapid domestic inflation, however, which led the
Government to curtail sharply the public investment program in 1974 and 1975.
This slowed inflation in 1975/76, but in subsequent years, it has accelerated
to 7% in 1977, 8% in 1978 and 10% in 1979. The inflation in the last half of
1979 was more than 14% and the expected rates are 14% in 1980, 13% in 1981 and
12% in 1982. Substantial growth of the agricultural sector contributed to
rapid expansion of 11.7% of the economy in 1978, but a combination of poor



-3-
agricultural output and adverse effects of external factors, primarily the oil
price increase, reduced 1979 growth to an estimated 6.7%, with little
improvement expected for 1980. The btfdget deficit is expected to exceed $1.0
billion in FY80 as a result of increased military expenditures, an increase in
civil service pay, and increased subsidies to public enterprises as a result
of the failure to raise electricity tariffs sufficiently to offset fully oil
price increases.
7.        Thailand's terms of trade and prospects for agricultural export are
now less favorable than in the early 1970s. Thailand is facing restrictions
on two of its major exports to the European Economic Community, cassava and
canned pineapple, and its sugar exports are limited by the International Sugar
Agreement. The balance of payments, which recorded surpluses in 1973-74, has
since been running large deficits. The current account deficit reached $1.1
billion, or 5% of GDP in 1978 and is estimated to be $2.2 billion in 1979, or
about 8.0% of GDP. The overall balance-ofpayments deficit for 1979 is
estimated at nearly $600 million. The Government has significantly increased
its foreign borrowing from traditional sources, from the Eurodollar market and
from IMF to finance these deficits. Foreign exchange reserves have also been
used extensively. To contain the balance-of-payments deficit, the Government,
in March 1978, raised tariffs on 141 "nonessential" imports and increased
excise taxes on a number of items, most notably gasoline. The prices of
petroleum products were raised in January 1979, July 1979, and February 1980,
for a cumulative increase of about 100% for gasoline. The current price of
gasoline is the equivalent of about $1.80 per gallon (US). After a proposed
power tariff increase of about 55% was rejected in November 1979, a lesser
tariff increase of about 38% was finally implemented in February 1980. This
is insufficient to cover the increased cost of fuel, and subsidies from the
oil fund (partly funded by revenues from other petroleum products) continue.
Apart from raising prices, the Government has also taken some energy
conservation measures to contain the oil import bill which is expected to jump
by $1.0 billion in 1980 despite almost no increase in the volume of imports.
In recent years, government usury laws limiting borrowing and lending rates
have become binding as inflation has exerted upward pressure on interest
rates. The combination of high inflation rates and the interest ceilings
has reduced real interest rates to near zero or negative levels in the past
few years which has led to a sharp drop in marginal savings rates and high
investment demand for funds. Until January 1980 term deposit rates were
limited to 7% for maturities less than one year and 8% for more than one year.
Lending rate limits were fixed at 12.5% and 15%. Liquidity constraints
prevented all the demand from being satisfied and led to de facto credit
allocation by the financial sector. With a view to encouraging domestic
savings and curtailing the flight of capital abroad, the Government raised
interest rate limits by 3 percentage points for both borrowing and lending at
the beginning of 1980. The response to this change has been favorable on
saving, the domestic demand for funds, and external capital flows. It is
too soon to tell whether the adjustment is sufficient, but currently market
lending rates are slightly below the limits.
8.        The growth in incomes has not been equitably distributed throughout
the country, and at present there are very significant regional differentials
in incomes and access to economic and social infrastructure. The regions are
very different in terms of topography, climate, soils, urbanization, etc., and



- 4-
present quite distinct problems for future development. The Central Region,
including Bangkok, has the highest per capita income and is better served by
roads, telecommunications, schools, public health and other services than the
other three regions, the North, Northeast and South   Within the regio-uns also
there is considerable variation: farmers who have diversified into cash crops
have generally enjoyed substantial growth in real incomes while the incomes of
those who have been unable or unwilling to shift out of subsistence rice
culture have stagnated. Recent research has shown that inappropriate cropping
patterns and agricultural techniques are major factors in much of the rural
poverty. This is most conspicuously the case of the rainfed rice farmers in
the Northeast and North. Since there is a well functioning labor market, the
low incomes of this large group have tended to depress unskilled wages
throughout the economy.
9.        Real concern over the plight of the poor is growing, and observable
improvements in rural living standards is being seen as a major factor in
promoting political stability. In the past several years the Government has
initiated efforts to increase the flow of public resources to the poor rural
areas, including the Tambon program of direct transfers to villages in 1976,
the drought relief program in 1977, the flood relief program in 1978, and the
new village development program in 1979. These programs have been designed to
produce quick and tangible political as well as economic results, but consid-
erably more attention and resources need to be devoted to rural development if
these programs are to have lasting impact. The Government is strongly
committed to rural development and raising rural incomes and is expected to
launch a major public works program in the near future. While the absorptive
capacity in rural areas has increased since the Tambon program of 1975-76,
there is some concern about the efficacy of crash programs in view of the
resource constraints facing the budget and the limitations of implementation
capacity at various levels of government.
Development Prospects and Constraints
10.       In the coming decade, many of the positive features which helped
sustain rapid economic growth over the past two decades will continue to
contribute to future growth. These factors include a relatively equitable
distribution of rural land, responsiveness of Thai farmers to improved
technology, provision of infrastructure by the Government, and the dynamism of
the private sector in both industry and agriculture. Also major gains have
been made in family planning in recent years, slowing the annual rate of
population growth from about 3% during the 1960s to an estimated 2.2% in 1979.
The target for 1981 is 2.1%.
11.       Some less favorable domestic factors are emerging, however.  As a
result of very rapid population growth in the 1960s, projected labor force
growth of 3% p.a. necessitates a high rate of job creation. Past growth has
benefited households unevenly and created further income disparities that
could threaten the social cohesion of the country. At the same time,
additional fertile land, which has supported the growth of agricultural
production and exports in the past, is becoming increasingly scarce. In view
of these factors, continued reliance on the past pattern of development may



lead to a deceleration of agricultural and overall growth in the next
decade; persistently large balance-of-payments deficits; higher rates of
unemployment or underemployment; and stagnating or declining real incomes of
the poorer segments of the population, especially in rural areas and among
unskilled workers. These internal factors are complicated by the external
factors of rapid oil price increases and recession in developed countries.
The oil price increase alone will add about $1 billion to the 1980 import
bill, even with no increase in volume, and the current account deficit is
estimated to be at least 9% of GDP. In 1980 major structural adjustments and
a shift in the development pattern is necessary for social as well as economic
reasons. The unfavorable external situation will require major domestic
adjustments and it is unlikely that the overall growth rate will exceed about
6% in the coming years.
12.       Thailand must shift its economy from a pattern of growth based on
the extension of land under cultivation and on import-substituting industries
to one based on increasingly intensive use of land and on industries producing
for domestic and export markets under competitive conditions. At the same
time it must reduce its current account deficit and increase public savings.
Effective policies and programs will be necessary to ensure that economic
growth is maintained and income disparities reduced, or at least not widened
during this period of transition. In the past, the Government's role has
focused primarily on short-term economic management and the provision of basic
economic and social services. In order to achieve a relatively smooth
transition, the Gc ernment will now have to undertake more coordinated
long-term policieE and actions in areas of resource management and balanced
regional development.
13.       Agriculture will continue to be the dominant sector since it
directly generates 30% of GDP, provides about 60% of total exports, and
employs 75% of the labor force. However, future growth of the sector will
require more intensive utilization of cultivated areas, continued diversifica-
tion of crops, improved cropping patterns and farming practices, and easier
access to agricultural inputs including credit. All of these imply an
increased government role in the rural sector. But while growth in the
agricultural sector may be expected to remain fairly rapid for some time to
come, the burden of sustaining future growth will have to shift progressively
to the industrial sector. Industry, construction and services will have to
provide an increasing share of employment for the growing labor force.  In
1979, industrial production accounted for about one-fourth of GDP and about
one-third of total exports. Manufactured output, which accounted for 90% of
industrial production, achieved an export growth of 24% in 1979, almost double
the growth rate of total exports. While continued growth of manufactured
exports is essential, the large domestic market also offers opportunities for
a balanced industrial growth based on production of consumer goods, agri-
cultural inputs and processing of agricultural outputs for urban consumption.
Our policy dialogue will concentrate on efforts to reduce price distortions,
increase availability of credit, and eliminate impediments to efficient



production for domestic and foreign markets so that the dynamic private sector
can realize its potential for spurring growth and creating jobs.
14.       The principal objectives of the Government's Fourth Plan (1977-81)
are to achieve 7% real growth, equitable distribution of income, reduction in
the rate of population growth, faster generation of employment opportunities
and balanced regional development. Projected public sector development
expenditures amount to $12.5 billion for the Plan period, a 90% increase in
real terms over the Third Plan. However, the Plan addresses sectoral issues
and strategies only in broad terms, and concrete policies and programs to meet
the Plan's economic and social objectives are defined only in general terms.
The Government has now embarked on the preparation of the Fifth Plan (1982-86)
and the agencies of the Government are undertaking a number of studies to help
ensure that the Fifth Plan would provide an unambiguous basis for the
allocation of resources and the formulation of development policy and program.
These studies may help identify possible areas of Bank lending for structural
adjustment.
Financing Requirements
15.       The implementation of policies needed for a satisfactory rate of
economic and social progress will necessitate a steady increase in public
expenditures over the next few years. This will require much greater efforts
to mobilize both domestic and external resources than in the past. Government
domestic revenue as a percentage of GDP (13.5% for 1975-79) is low compared to
other developing countries at similar levels of developnent due to low tax
rates, high exemptions and a somewhat below-average rate of compliance. With
expenditures rising, the overall budgetary deficit in fiscal year 1979/80 is
estimated at above $1.0 billion, or over 4% of GDP. The Government has
achieved a modest improvement in resource mobilization through revision of the
tax structure and improved collections but much greater efforts will be needed
in the future.
16.       During the coming years, the demand for external resources will
increase. Despite an average real growth of exports of over 10% and increased
domestic production of primary energy, the projected rise in the price of
imports - led by the price of petroleum - implies that large trade and current
account deficits are expected to persist through the mid-1980s. It is esti-
mated that a 6% overall growth rate can be maintained and the current account
deficit reduced to 4-5% of GDP by 1985 if appropriate policy is followed,
including greater efforts in implementating energy saving measures, promoting
agricultural growth and exports, reducing distortions and excessive protection
in industry, promoting more labor-intensive exports, and postponing major
capital intensive investments until the economy can afford them. This implies
an average current deficit of $3 billion per year in 1980-85, which will
require very large amounts of external borrowing totalling about $18 billion
net over the period.



17.       Official donors, particularly Japan and the development banks, have
been expanding their programs to meet a part of the growing resource require-
ments. The rest has been financed in the Eurodollar market and bond markets,
and by the utilization of IMF resources for 1978/79 totalling about $200 mil-
lion, and Thailand is considering even larger drawings under standby arrange-
ments. The Government has established a Foreign Loan Policy Committee to
coordinate and approve all foreign borrowing by the public sector. The Bank
of Thailand is establishing procedures for recording private borrowing abroad
in order to keep track of total foreign debt. Current estimates of Thailand's
external borrowing requirements exceed those discussed at the last Consulta-
tive Group, and the need for continued concessional aid is perhaps now more
acute. In addition, external agencies, including the Bank Group, have in
recent years increasingly concentrated project lending to Thailand in the
agricultural and social sectors that have high social benefits, but low
foreign exchange savings or earnings. To achieve the level of external
resource transfer that is now required, it is necessary, in selected projects
where the foreign exchange component is low, to finance some local currency
expenditures. Program and structural-adjustment lending should also be con-
sidered.
18.       By 1985, net disbursements will more than double in current terms
for both public and publicly guaranteed borrowing and private borrowing. The
debt service ratio on public debt (4.6% in 1979) will exceed 10% by 1985, but
should decline thereafter. Assuming a significant level of concessional
assistance, the debt service ratio on total public and private civilian
borrowing (currently about 15%) will rise to about 25% before declining.
Given the diversification of Thai commodity exports and the rapid expansion of
manufactured exports, these debt service requirements should be sustainable if
rapid export growth continues and economic stability is maintained.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
19.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank Group in 1950 for a railway
project and, as of March 31, 1980 had received 53 loans amounting to about
$1,600 million, net of cancellations. The sectoral distribution of these
loans has been as follows: $311.5 million for transportation; $316.4 million
for irrigation; $498.7 million for power/energy and rural electrification
(including $65.8 million for a dual purpose power and irrigation project);
$153.0 million for telecommunications; $144.2 million for agricultural and
rural development; $79.6 million for urban development; $52.3 million for
education; and $42.5 million for industry. Thailand has also received six IDA
credits: two credits totalling $54.5 million for education; one credit of
$25.0 million for rural development; two credits totalling $12.5 million for
irrigation improvement; and one credit of $33.1 million for a population
project. In general, Bank Group-financed projects have been carried out
satisfactorily and in accordance with expectations. Annex II contains a



- 8 -
summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as well as
notes on the execution of ongoing projects as of March 31, 1980.
20.       Over the past five years, the Bank has shifted its lending to
Thailand from a program dominated by investments in traditional infrastruc-
ture projects (accounting for over 80% of the lending through FY74) to a
program which places increasing emphasis on assisting the Government's efforts
to reach the poorer segments of its population more directly. Since FY75,
investments in transportation, power, water supply, telecommunications and
industry have accounted for only about 50% of Bank Group lending and more
than half of these, in dollar terms, were for projects specifically designed
to benefit the rural population. The proportion of Bank lending to the
agricultural/rural development sector has trebled, accounting for about 35%
of lending operations since FY75. The design of projects in this sector has
also changed, from exclusively large irrigation projects to a more balanced
program covering irrigation (including land development and support services
to the farmer) and a variety of innovative projects to assist farmers outside
the central flood plain (rubber replanting, livestock, agricultural exten-
sion, and rural development). Projects in the social sectors which prior to
FY75 were limited to three in education accounting for 6% of the program,
have both diversified and grown. In recent years education, population and
low-income housing projects have accounted for about 15% of the program.
21.       The findings of the recent Basic Economic Report verify the
appropriateness of the shift mentioned above, and underscore the need to
move even further in designing programs which help the rural population,
particularly those farmers in rainfed areas who have been largely bypassed by
recent economic growth. In the agricultural sector, therefore, the Bank is
redoubling its efforts to develop an approach which will help to lift the
rainfed farmers out of a subsistence existence. A combination of education,
agricultural research and extension, credit and improved infrastructure is
foreseen. However, the major problem is the absence so far of a viable
package for the poorest and most remote farmers. Expansion and improvement
of irrigation systems will continue, with increased emphasis on reaching
those farmers with irrigation potential in the northern, northeastern and
southern regions. The program of transportation, electrification, water
supply and telecommunications projects will also continue to have a rural
focus. A key element of the strategy outlined in the Basic Economic Report
is the creation of jobs and stimulation of increased economic activity
outside of Bangkok. The bulk of the Bank Group's urban and industrial
lending will, therefore, be directed to projects which enhance the
attractiveness of regional cities as service centers for the agricultural
economy of those regions. Selected projects in Bangkok will be aimed at
strengthening agencies providing essential services to the urban population
and the development of low cost, replicable programs to meet the demands of
the urban sector, particularly the urban poor, without diverting scarce
resources from other high-priority development needs.



-9-
22.       The Bank's strategy of placing an increasing share of its program
into projects alleviating poverty and promoting rural development will be
difficult to execute without considerable technical assistance toward project
preparation. The Bank's regional mission in Bangkok will continue to play
a vital role in helping to identify and prepare such project.3.  Promoting
overall growth also has a high priority in Thailand and is a necessary element
in the poverty alleviation strategy.  The resource requirements for infra-
structure development, particularly for developing energy and its domestic
primary sources, are large, and the Bank is concentrating its remaining
funds in projects where it can have a catalytic role in effecting policy
changes, mobilizing other resources, and directly facilitating growth in
rural areas. The Bank is also expanding its support of the industrial sector
through its economic and sector work as well as selected projects in order
to help promote industrial policy which favors more labor-intensive and
dispersed activities to complement Thailand's efforts in poverty alleviation.
23.       Bank loans and IDA credits, disbursed and outstanding, amounted to
$459.3 million, as of December 31, 1978, representing about 26% of public
external debt (disbursed and outstanding). This is not excessive in view of
Thailand's modest overall public external debt (8.3% of GDP in 1978). In
addition, although the level of Bank commitments is expected to increase over
the next five years, the Bank Group's share is below 30% of total public
external debt as Thailand has diversified its borrowing program. The Bank
Group's shaLre in tot-al debt outstanding is expected to fall below 20%, and
its share of total (ebt service would not exceed 10%.
24.       As of March 31, 1980, IFC had made commitments totalling about
$83 million in nine projects in Thailand. IFC's investments have been
primarily in industry and in the development of financial institutions aimed
at mobilizing domestic resources and providing financing to smaller
enterprises. Prospects for increased IFC operations in Thailand have been
enhanced by expanding private sector investment activity; consultations with
the Government have identified several areas where IFC's assistance may be
needed. These areas include very large and complex projects such as a
proposed sponge iron project and a soda ash project to serve the ASEAN
community; projects in the petroleum and downstream petrochemical sector;
and projects in the agricultural sector. In addition, IFC expects to
continue to help traditional manufacturing projects and to assist in
financial institutions and money market developments.
PART III - WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR
Levels of Service
25.       Although Thailand's overall health situation is relatively good,
water- and sanitation-related diseases remain high on the list of common
diseases. The diarrheal group is the third most common cause of death for all
ages and the second most common cause of death for children under six. There
are many types of diarrheal diseases which can be transmitted through impure



- 10 -
water, lack of water, poor personal hygiene, or improper waste disposal.
Access to safe and adequate water supplies for household consumption in
Tr>'I. and .azies greatly both between urban and rural areas and within
individual communities.
26.       Water Supply.  Only about one-fourth of Thailand's total population
of 47 million has access to some type of public water supply system; and two-
thirds of those with such access live in urban areas (defined by Government as
communities with populations of more than 5,000 people). The remainder depend
on water drawn from sources of doubtful safety. Metropolitan Bangkok, with a
population of about 5 million, is the best supplied, and over 70% of its
residents have access to publicly supplied water. The level of service in the
330 municipalities and towns which make up the remaining urban communities
is lower. Only about two-thirds of these areas have piped water supply
systems and, where such systems exist, only 60% of the potential customers are
served.
27.       The water supply situation among Thailand's 51,000 villages is much
worse both in terms of quantity and quality. According to the National
Economic and Social Development Board, about 44% of the rural population has,
at one time or another, been provided with water from piped systems or non-
piped sources such as shallow and deep wells, metal and concrete storage tanks
and ponds. From the nonpiped sources, the water obtained has often been of
doubtful quality and many of the facilities have been underutilized, in part
because of poor maintenance.
28.       At present there are about 570 piped water supp4y systems which
serve 1,200 of the larger villages and village groups; i.e., those with
populations greater than 2,000 persons each. Because the systems are not
fully reliable and of inadequate capacity, and because alternate water sources
are available, only 30% of the village inhabitants are connected to the
systems. During the rainy season many people prefer to use rain water and
some water plants are shut down in the rainy months. The operations of the
systems vary from good to poor dependent upon local interest, the competence
of the operators and the resources made available by the community. In many
instances, skilled manpower, chemicals and spare parts are in short supply.
29.       Sanitation.  Sewage collection and disposal is, in general, the
responsibility of municipal authorities. There are only one or two
waterborne sewerage systems in Thailand and these serve very small areas.
Most houses which have piped water supply use septic tanks or cesspools but
these do not always function properly because of the impervious soils
frequently found in Thailand. Most cities and towns have some kind of storm
drainage system, usually open ditches or covered rectangular concrete drains
on both sides of the paved roads. In many places these drains collect
wastewater as well as storm water but they are frequently obstructed by silt
and garbage which compound the sanitation problem.



- 11 -
30.       Under a village health and sanitation project started in 1960 with
United States assistance, some 1.5 million water seal latrines were installed
up to 1975 serving about 9 million people or about 24% of the rural popula-
tion. An ongoing UNDP-financed project in the field of environmental health
will, among other things, prepare a national water supply and sanitation plan
including sanitary excreta disposal particularly in smaller towns and rural
areas.
Water Supply Management
31.       Bangkok.  Bangkok's water supply is the responsibility of the
Metropolitan Water Works Authority (MWWA), a state enterprise under the
Ministry of Interior. MWWA plans, builds and operates a water system which
supplies about 3-1/2 million persons or 70% of Bangkok's population. The
remainder, mostly in outlying areas, rely upon private ground water sources.
In early 1980 MWWA completed a $220 million expansion project which added
800,000 cu m per day of supply, increasing its production by 65%. Over the
period 1980-84 MWWA plans to invest $360 million to expand its system by an
additional 400,000 cu m per day.
32.       Provincial Areas.  Prior to the formation of the Provincial Water
Works Authority (PWWA) in early 1979, water supply for areas other than
Bangkok was administered by several agencies. Responsibilities were ill
defined and fragmented, operation and maintenance performance was poor and
none of the agencies had the capacity to undertake broad development programs.
PWWA was created to help remedy this situation. It was formed by consolida-
ting responsibility for all piped water systems previously handled by two
agencies: one, the Provincial Water Supply Division (PWSD) of the Public
Works Department in the Ministry of Interior, which was responsible for water
supplies in urban communities other than Bangkok; and the other, the Rural
Water Supply Division (RWSD) of the Ministry of Public Health which was
responsible for rural water supply systems for larger rural communities, i.e.,
those with populations in the range of 2,000 to 5,000 persons. Of the some
760 systems now owned by PWWA, only the 190 systems inherited from the PWSD
are actually operated and maintained by it. It is only on these systems that
PWWA has responsibility for setting tariffs and collecting revenues. The
remaining 570 systems, which were previously under the RWSD, were built in
part with equity contributions from the local communities and are operated by
them.  For these systems PWWA provides only advice on operations and support
for major maintenance; local authorities have responsibility for setting
tariffs and collecting revenues.
33.       There remain seven separate agencies whose operations include, among
other responsibilities, the development of water supplies for rural
communities through construction of nonpiped sources such as wells, ponds or
tanks. These include the RWSD, the Groundwater Division of the Ministry of
Industry and the Public Works, Accelerated Rural Development, Local
Administration and Community Development Departments of the Ministry of
Interior. These units have, over the years, provided water to over 40% of the



- 12 -
rural population but due to problems such as poor maintenance, many of these
sources have fallen into disuse. According to a 1978 World Health
Organization assessment of the water supply sector, only 10% of the rural
population has access to safe water from either piped or nonpiped sources.
Staffing, funding and institutional arrangements have been inadequate to meet
the maintenance and operational needs. Moreover, the lack of clearly defined
responsibilities among agencies for providing, operating and maintaining
nonpiped rural water supplies throughout the country has hampered creation of
a comprehensive plan for reaching more of the rural population. Consideration
has been given to the creation of a rural water supply authority to handle
nonpiped systems but no action has been taken. Agreement was reached with the
Government during negotiations that it would undertake a review of the
institutional and funding arrangements and of development strategies for the
rural water supply subsector by January 1, 1982 (Section 3.02 of the draft
Guarantee Agreement).
Sector Strategy
34.       Thailand has, in general terms, embraced the UN Drinking Water
Decade's target to provide all communities with potable water by 1990 but it
has still to develop a strategy and to determine investment levels necessary
for achieving this. The World Health Organization, with financing from the
Federal Republic of Germany, has proposed to assist the Government in the
preparation of a plan of action for meeting Drinking Water Decade targets.
PWWA, whose jurisdiction potentially covers all of Thailand's municipal and
town populations, would play a key role in meeting the target. Pending
development of a long-term national strategy, PWWA has a program which calls
for the operation and maintenance of existing systems and the improvement and
expansion of its service area through: (a) improvement and rehabilitation of
140 existing urban areas where capacity is now underutilized because of
service deficiencies; (b) rehabilitation of those existing rural systems found
to be functioning inadequately; (c) construction of about six new urban
systems and about 20 new rural systems annually with the objective of
providing all communities of 2,000 or more with piped water; and (d) expansion
of capacity in selected larger towns. In the Bangkok metropolitan area, MWWA
is carrying out a major expansion of its water supply system over the period
1980-84 with assistance from Japan and the Asian Development Bank. NWWA is
planning a continuing series of expansion projects through the late 1980s and
beyond with the objective of extending its service area and served population.
The Role of the Bank
35.       Bank involvement to date in the water supply and sanitation sectors
of Thailand has included (i) a 1974 loan (1021-TH) of $55 million to MWWA for
its expansion program in Bangkok, (ii) about $5 million in assistance to the
Accelerated Rural Development Department for providing village wells as part
of the 1976 Northeast Rural Development Project (Ln. 1198T-TH), and (iii)
provision of water supply and improved sanitation and solid waste disposal to
low income residents under the Bangkok Sites and Services and Slum Improvement
Project for which a loan (1556-TH) of $8.6 million was made in 1978.



- 13 -
Implementation of the Bangkok Water Supply Project has been successfully
completed but the related objective to strengthen MfWWA's financial position
has not been fully realized, largely because of the Government's failure to
allow tariffs to increase with costs. Implementation of the village
well-drilling program is proceeding satisfactorily after initial procurement
delays. Implementation of the water supply and sanitation components of the
slum improvement project is roughly on schedule.
36.       One of the major conclusions of the Bank's 1978 Basic Economic
Report was that a much larger share of resources must be channelled to the
provinces to stimulate and support the rural sector if Thailand is to continue
growing while distributing her wealth more equitably. Consistent with this
strategy, Bank support for water supply and sanitation in Thailand will
increasingly focus on provincial areas through assistance to the smaller
municipalities and to institutions such as PWWA which provide vital infra-
structure. A major objective of this assistance and of selected projects
benefiting Bangkok will be the development of programs which reach the poorer
members of the communities and of appropriate pricing policies so that these
programs can be self financing and thus replicable on an appropriate scale.
In the water supply sector, studies to be carried out under the present
project will help strengthen PWWA's financial position and are likely to
result in a project to expand capacity in the larger urban centers which would
be suitable for Bank support. Also, the Bank intends to pursue its dialogue
with the Government on the appropriate strategies for development of the rural
water supply subsector with a view towards identifying programs suitable for
international financial assistance. A recently negotiated National Sites and
Services Project will improve water supply and sanitation services to the
urban poor both in Bangkok and provincial cities. In the sanitation sector, a
regional cities project currently being prepared for possible Bank financing
would, among other things, address the waste water and drainage deficiencies
in five of the larger urban centers outside Bangkok. That project is expected
to demonstrate solutions applicable to other towns throughout the country.
For Bangkok, the Bank has had discussions with the Bangkok Metropolitan
Administration regarding the problems of drainage and sanitation and a program
of drainage works construction and improved solid waste collection has been
developed.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
History
37.       As a newly established institution, PWWA inherited both the existing
systems and the operational problems of its predecessors. The urban systems
were found to be operating on average at only 45% of design capacity and
serving only 60% of the potential customers. Thus PWWA has had to embark on a
program to improve existing systems while constructing new ones to keep up
with growing demand. Recognizing the need for financial assistance and
further strengthening of its organization and management to carry out its
program, PWWA requested assistance from the Bank for a rehabilitation project
prepared by its staff with the assistance of staff of the WHO/IBRD Cooperative



- 14 -
program. A Bank mission appraised the project in June and November 1979.
Negotiations were held in Washington from April 21 to April 25, 1980; Mr.
Nikorn Praisaengpetch, Charge d'Affaires, a.i., of the Royal Thai Embassy,
led the Government delegation, assisted by Dr. Vithya Pienvichitr, Governor of
PWWA and Mr. Pravit Klongwathanakith of the Ministry of Finance.
Objectives and Description
38.       The primary objective of this project is to help PWWA develop into a
strong institution by supporting its efforts to rapidly improve 140 existing
urban water systems (selected after a survey revealed them to be in urgent
need of rehabilitation) and to prepare major expansion projects for about ten
cities. Concurrent with this, the proposed loan would support PWWA's efforts
to strengthen its organization and management, through the financing of
specialists services, training and equipment. Details are provided in a Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 2831-TH dated May 9, 1980) which is being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors. Supplementary project data are given
in Annex III.
39.      The water supply improvement component, termed the Immediate Improve-
ment Program, would consist of rehabilitating and expanding facilities,
providing equipment such as pumps, motors, production and customer meters, and
chemical feeders; expanding distribution pipe networks and service connec-
tions; providing mobile equipment for construction, maintenance and
operations; and improving operations and maintenance procedures and training
personnel. The program would be carried out over a four and one-half year
period beginning in late 1980. For about 100 systems thE rehabilitation work
is straightforward; it would involve the repair and replacement of faulty
facilities and equipment and a modest expansion of distribution capacity. For
the remaining 40 systems some water source exploration would be required; on
these systems modest overall capacity expansions would accompany the rehabili-
tation work. PWWA has done the planning for 68 systems. Engineering
consultants, assisted by PWWA staff, would review the planning already done by
PWWA, plan the additional systems, and prepare final designs and contract
documents for all systems covered by the project. PWWA would, with the help
of consultants, evaluate the planning of each system to ensure that the
proposed solution is least-cost and effective, and PWWA would send to the
Bank for its comments the proposals and evaluations for systems which are
estimated to cost more than $100,000 (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
40.       The advisory services and training component would aid in the
planning, design and supervision of works, the establishment of management and
accounting systems, the improvement of operations and maintenance procedures
and the training of staff in these fields. The component to prepare future
projects is for studies and designs for the rehabilitation and expansion of
water supply systems where facilities are deficient and/or the population has
outstripped existing capacity. In an effort to capture economies of scale,
the studies would employ uniform investigation and planning procedures and, to
the extent feasible, standardized designs. Design and supervision of the
Immediate Improvement Program would require about 250 man-months of local and



- 15 -
foreign consulting services. An additional 17 man-months of consulting
support would be needed for operation, maintenance and training advisory
services, while engineering services for the preparation of future projects
would require about 550 man-months of services. Consulting services in
accounting and management fields would involve a total of about 45 man-months
of local and foreign expertise. During negotiations PWWA agreed that it would
employ engineering, accounting and management consultants whose qualifications
and terms of employment are acceptable to the Bank (Sections 3.02 and 4.04 of
the draft Loan Agreement). The employment of engineering consultants is a
condition of loan effectiveness.
The Borrower
41.       PWWA would be the borrower and the Government agency responsible for
project execution. It was created by the Provincial Water Works Authority Act
of 1979, reports to the Ministry of Interior, and is responsible for planning,
building and maintaining, all piped water supplies outside the greater Bangkok
metropolitan area. The Authority operates 190 piped urban systems and advises
local authorities in the operation of 570 piped rural water systems under its
jurisdiction; it is in the process of reviewing the status of the rural
systems and eventually plans to bring the operations of the larger ones
directly under its control. PWWA also provides advice, when requested, to 44
locally-owned water systems operated by concessions.
42.       Organization and Management.  PWWA is governed by a Board consisting
of a chairman and 10 other members, most of whom are officials from other
Government agencies and ministries and all of whom are appointed by the
Cabinet for a three-year term. The chief executive of PWWA, designated as
Governor, has the responsibility for day-to-day operations in accordance with
the policies and regulations prescribed by the Board. He is assisted by three
Deputy Governors for Technical Affairs, for Operations and Services and for
Administration. The management of PWWA is striving for decentralized
operational control. Fifteen regional offices have been established, each
under a Regional Manager who is responsible for all operational aspects
including maintenance, accounting, billing and collection of revenue, and for
reporting to the headquarters at Bankgok.
43.       Staff.  The first permanent Governor of PWWA was appointed in
October 1979. A sanitary engineer and formerly Rector of Khon Kaen Univer-
sity, the Governor comes to PWWA with excellent credentials and has quickly
begun addressing the problems of the new organization. The three Deputy
Governors are also qualified and experienced in their respective fields and
are supported by a team of capable staff, several of whom have academic
qualifications from foreign universities. PWWA is in the process of
integrating its staff - 4,800 of whom came from PWSD and 500 from RWSD - and
placing them into appropriate positions and grades. It has improved staff
benefits and compensation, having given an initial salary increase of 20% to
all employees.



- 16 -
44.       Training.  The development of PWWA staff capabilities is a key
feature of the project. Technical staff would receive on-the-job training
from the engineering consultants working on plananig, aesign and construction.
The consultants for operations and maintenance, in addition to directly
training key staff, would review and recommend improvements to existing PWWA
operations and maintenance training programs. Finally the consultants
employed to help PWWA set up management and accounting systems would train
PWWA staff in the use of those systems.
45.       Project Management.  PWWA has created and staffed a Project Office
which is responsible for administering the project and coordinating the
project activities of the various PWWA departments and regional offices, other
Government agencies and consultants.  PWWA Project office and Regional office
staff would assist the consultants in planning and in the preparation of
designs and contract documents.  The work would be largely done by the
consultants using standardized design criteria and documents.
46.       Financial Position.  The inadequacies in the accounts of the water
systems of PWWA's predecessors make it necessary to establish and implement
sound accounting systems as a part of the project in order to develop an
accurate picture of PWWA's financial position. On the basis of available
information, however, it is estimated that the water supply systems taken over
by PWWA have required Government subsidies of approximately $2 million
annually for operations over the past three years. The total Government
contribution to the program of PWWA predecessor agencies, including capital
works, has averaged about $12 million annually and is expected to reach about
$20 million in the current fiscal year. The need for Government contributions
of this magnitude arises primarily from the historical inadequacies of water
rates as well as the inefficient use and underutilization of installed
capacity.
47.       Under the project, a data collection system would be set up to
inform management on a local and regional basis of such important factors as
population, population served, water produced and sold, numbers of connec-
tions, water consumed by classes of customers and per capita and household
income. This information, together with timely financial statements would
provide management with a sound basis for improving and extending the water
supply systems and resolving such issues as feasible water rate levels and
structures and cost recovery. A program of water rate increases would be put
into effect to eliminate cash operating deficits of the urban systems by FY85
and, on the basis of data to be developed and operating experience during this
period, consideration would be given to additional increases for subsequent
years to eliminate entirely Government subsidy to PWWA for both urban and
rural systems (paras. 55-58).
48.       Accounts and Audit.  Records of the local water supply systems of
PWWA have been maintained on a cash basis and are incomplete. PWWA staff is
in the process of establishing an accounting system (for which accounting and
management consultants would provide assistance and training) and is gathering
information to prepare the opening balance sheet and other initial financial



- 17 -
statements. Agreement was reached at negotiations that PWWA would furnish to
the Bank its audited opening balance sheet and other financial statements for
its initial fiscal periods through September 30, 1980, and the auditor's
reports thereon, by September 30, 1981, and would furnish the audited
financial statements and auditor's report for each subsequent fiscal year
within nine months after the end of each fiscal year (Section 5.03 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
Cost Estimates
49.       The total cost of the project is estimated at $52.7 million; the
foreign exchange cost is $33.4 million, or 63% of the total cost. Costs for
the Immediate Improvement Program were estimated by PWWA staff on the basis of
recent contracts and force account work. They are based upon plans prepared
for the improvement of 68 systems, extrapolated to all 140 systems. Costs for
the preparation of future projects and for advisory services and training have
been estimated by PWWA with the assistance of Bank staff and a consultant.
Consulting costs reflect current local and international price levels for
similar services. Ilan-month costs are estimated to average $3,500 for local
and $9,800 for foreign professional services inclusive of salaries, overheads,
fees, travel, and subsistence. An allowance of 12% has been applied to all
costs for physical contingencies. Price contingencies applied to the March
1980 base prices including physical contingencies are: for local expendi-
tures, 1980, 14%; 1981, 13%; 1982-3, 12%; 1984, 10%; and 1985, 9%; for foreign
expenditures, 1980, 10.5%; 1981, 9%; 1982, 8%; 1983-5, 7%. The estimates
include duties and taxes on imported goods amounting to about $2.5 million
equivalent.
Financing
50.       The proposed Bank loan of $40 million would cover; (i) the estimated
foreign exchange costs of the project ($33.4 million) or about 67% of total
project costs net of taxes and duties, and (ii) $6.6 million for interest
and other charges on the loan payable during the construction period. Finan-
cing of interest during construction is proposed because PWWA, as a new
institution, will face severe financial deficits requiring substantial
government subsidies until such time as operating revenues can be increased
through the introduction of a sound tariff structure and through the expansion
of operations in its service area. The local costs of the project, estimated
at $19.3 million equivalent, will be met by the Government as equity
contributions to PWWA.
Procurement
51.       The nature and size of the civil works contracts - well drilling,
pipe laying, equipment installation and treatment plant improvements in widely
scattered locations and of relatively low monetary value (i.e., averaging less
than $500,000 equivalent with none exceeding $1.0 million equivalent) - are
such that, in view of Thailand's well developed construction industry, foreign



- 18 -
firms would not be interested. Therefore, civil works contracts (estimated to
have a total value of $14 million equivalent) would be awarded following
competitive bidding in accordance with local procedures satisfactory to the
Bank. Contracts would be advertised in Thai and English in the local press,
specimen documents would be in English and final documents would be in Thai
and English. Foreign firms would be eligible to bid, and bid evaluation
procedures would follow the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement. PWWA forces
would install some equipment, but this is a relatively minor activity expected
to cost less than 5% of the estimated civil works expenditures.
52.       Where feasible, equipment and vehicles would be grouped in contracts
of at least $100,000 (with a total value of about $18 million equivalent) and
would be awarded after international competitive bidding in accordance with
the Bank's guidelines. A 15% preference margin, or the prevailing customs
duty if lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of
bids. Equipment and vehicle contracts below $100,000 would be awarded under
competitive bidding procedures of the Government which are acceptable to the
Bank. For reasons of urgency or compatibility, selected items costing less
that $20,000 each and in aggregate up to $300,000 may be purchased directly
from suppliers after prudent shopping. Contracts for civil works estimated to
cost $500,000 or more, and for equipment estimated to cost $100,000 or more,
would be submitted to the Bank for review before bidding and before award;
other contracts would be submitted after award.
Disbursement
53.       For equipment contracts, disbursements would be made against 100% of
the foreign exchange cost of imported equipment, 100% of the ex-factory cost
of locally manufactured equipment and 65% of expenditures for equipment pro-
cured locally. Disbursements for civil works would be at 25% of total expen-
ditures. For consultant services and training, disbursements would equal 100%
of expenditures. Disbursement for all items would be made against standard
Bank documentation except expenditures for civil works by force account would
be disbursed against statements of expenditure with the supporting documenta-
tion retained by PWWA and held available for inspection by Bank supervision
missions. The project will be completed by July 31, 1985. Disbursements from
the loan are expected to be completed by April 30, 1986.
Monitoring of Performance
54.       Performance indicators would serve as a basis for evaluating
progress towards the objectives of the project, and these would be reported to
the Bank on a periodic basis during project execution. Bank missions at about
six-month intervals would review the progress of the project. Upon completion
of the project, PWWA would prepare a completion report within six months of
the closing date of the loan.



- 19 -
Water Rates and Cost Recovery
55.       The water rate charged for urban water supplies operated by PWWA is
a uniform B 2 per cu m except for government consumers, which is about B 1.4
per cu m. The principle of graduated water rates based on quantity use and
ability to pay has not been adopted in fixing rates, and rate levels have not
been raised to keep pace with increased expenses. Sizable water rate
increases will be required to enable PWWA to meet operating expenses and debt
service on the proposed Bank loan.
56.       The present water rates for urban systems would be continued in
FY81, the first year of the project, while PWWA is completing its assessment
of the operations of the water supply systems, initiating accounting and
information systems and devising a structure for the prospective increases in
water rates. Commencing not later than October 1981, the water rates of the
urban systems would be increased gradually so that by FY85 and thereafter
their revenues each fiscal year would be at least sufficient to cover cash
operating expenses (i.e., excluding depreciation) of the urban systems and of
PWWA's headquarters and regional offices, and debt service. This would entail
annual increases in the average urban water rates so that the following
percentage of its operating expenses and debt service requirements are met:
FY82, 70%; FY83, 80%; FY84, 90%; and FY85, 100%. Thereafter, urban water
rates would be further increased to maintain the recovery of PWWA's cash
operating expenses and its debt service. The structure of urban water rates
(including the rate for government consumers) for the initial rate increase
would be studied by PWWA and a policy for rate structure would be formulated
by mid-1981. During negotiations Government and PWWA agreed to this program
of setting tariffs and PWWA agreed that it would complete a rate study,
formulate policies on rate structure and present them to the Bank not later
than June 30, 1981 (Sections 5.04 and 5.05 of the draft Loan Agreement and
Section 2.03 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
57.       An analysis of ability to pay under a model tariff structure indi-
cates that the projected water rate increases are just within the ability of
the consumers to pay and that a higher level of water rates is not justified
at this time. However, when a sounder basis has been established for deter-
mining the expense levels of the water systems, including the impact of
depreciation charges, and when the effects of the rate increases in the early
years have been observed, this situation should be reviewed. Accordingly,
agreement was reached at negotiations, that by September 30, 1985, PWWA would
complete a reassessment of the factors affecting urban water rate levels,
recommend the extent to which any additional cost recovery should be provided
in the rates, and implement such recommendations as PWWA, the Government and
the Bank shall agree (Section 5.06 of the draft Loan Agreement and Section
2.03 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).



- 20 -
58.       Less information is available on PWWA's rural water supply systems
than on its urban systems. The rural systems, although owned by PWWA, are
operated and maintained on behalf of PWWA by the 1_1 authorities urider
PWWA's supervision and guidance. They retain the revenues from these systems
and provide funds for their operation and maintenance, which, in some
instances, are supplemented by PWWA and the Government. Because of inadequa-
cies in accounting methods, water supply costs cannot be distinguished from
those of other municipal functions. Until a reliable record of operating
results is obtained, an appropriate basis for cost recovery on these water
supply systems cannot be determined. With the objective of eliminating, if
feasible, operating deficits of the rural systems and reducing or eliminating
the subsidies provided by PWWA and the Government, agreement was reached at
negotiations that, not later than September 30, 1983, PWWA would (a) complete
a study of rural water rate levels and structures and recommend a policy and
action plan and (b) advise the local authorities operating such systems on the
implementation of a policy (Section 5.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Meanwhile, it will be necessary for PWWA, mainly by means of Government
contributions, to continue to provide funds to support the rural systems. The
Government has agreed that it will provide PWWA with the necessary funds to
operate and maintain the systems to the extent these cannot be covered by
self-generated funds (Section 2.02 of the draft Guarantee Agreement). PWWA
agreed not to incur any debt, except with Bank concurrence, until its net
revenues rise to a level at least 1.5 times its debt service obligations
(Section 5.09 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Benefits
59.       The Immediate Improvement Program of the project covers about 140
existing water supply systems which currently operate below capacity. The
project will improve service to about one million persons and provide new
service to an additional half million people. The average per capita cost for
new customers served by the program is about $40 which is only 40% of the
usual per capita cost of new water systems in Thailand. The high productivity
of this investment derives from the improvement, at modest cost, in the
utilization of existing plants. But perhaps the most important element of the
project is its contribution to building PWWA's institutional capacity and
improving its financial posture. By strengthening PWWA's operations and
maintenance programs, the project will increase PWWA's capacity to provide
potable water to the populace.
Internal Rate of Return
60.      In calculating the internal rate of return of the Immediate Improve-
ment Program, benefits have been taken as the incremental revenues earned as
a consequence of the Program taking into account the gradual increase in
tariffs as agreed with PWWA and the Government; costs include the capital
costs relating to the Program and the incremental operating expenses
necessary to bring systems improved under the Program to full utilization.
On this basis, the internal rate of return for the Program, representing
about 80% of total project costs, is 8%. In line with the Government's



21 -
policy of putting all revenue-generating state enterprises on a sound
financial footing, it will be necessary for PWWA to increase tariffs further
to cover not only operating costs but depreciation as well. If tariffs are
increased gradually to reach this level by 1989, the rate of return increases
to 11%. These internal financial rates of return should be considered only
as inadequate proxies of expected economic benefits, however, since intan-
gible benefits, such as improvements in health and the quality of life, are
not fully reflected in the prices charged for water service.
Adverse Effects
61.       The additional supply of water under the project will create
additional wastewater. To the extent that drainage systems in the project
cities are themselves in need of rehabilitation, the project could exacerbate
flooding and related problems. Although PWWA has no responsibility for this
subsector its engineers have and would continue to advise local officials on
technical matters related to it until such time as drainage and sanitation
problems can be addressed directly with concerned agencies (para. 36).
Income Distribution
62.      In Thailand about 14% of the households living in towns have incomes
below the poverty line. In general the existing public water supply systems
benefit proportionally more middle income households than lower income
households but the improvements proposed under the project are designed to
broaden the numbers and increase the proportion of poor persons served. The
project would provide new service for about 300,000 poor people. It is
expected that, under a model tariff level and structure to be adopted, a
minimum wage earning family could afford to take a water connection and a
basic quantity of 80 liters per person per day. In order to encourage the use
of safe public water supply PWWA has agreed that (a) it would prepare, in
consultation with the appropriate public agencies and the Bank, a public
education program on the advantages of using safe water supplies, and (b)
residential consumers would be given the option of paying for their water
service connections in monthly installments (Sections 3.06 and 5.08 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
Risk
63.       The project inherently entails some risk, being the first of its
kind to be undertaken by PWWA, a new institution which will undoubtedly
encounter organizational difficulties during the initial years of its
operations. The management's ability to create a productive and harmonious
working environment for its staff will be complicated by their having
transferred from separate government ministries and by their geographical
dispersion. The technical assistance in engineering and management to be
provided has been designed to minimize this risk by assisting PWWA in the
establishment of sound operating procedures and maintenance standards and
appropriate training programs. Putting PWWA on a sound financial footing will
also be difficult; in the face of inflation, operating costs are expected to



- 22 -
climb steadily while public pressures will seek to keep tariffs down.
Nonetheless, the agreements reached on a plan for implementing water rate
increases are a major step toward achieving financial viability. In all, the
risks associated with the project are considered reasonable in view of the
priority attached to supplying provincial areas with potable water and the
need to establish PWWA as an institution capable of performing this important
task.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Provincial Water
Works Authority, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Kingdom of Thailand
and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately.
In addition to the features of the Loan and Guarantee Agreements which are
referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III, an additional
condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan is that PWWA employ consul-
tants to carry out the design and construction supervision of works for the
Immediate Improvement Program (Section 7.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 14, 1980
Washington, D.C.



- 23 -                                         ANNEX I
T17Al  - SOCw. MCA TOt5 DATA SUET                      Page  1  of  5
rtA wn          UICeGt CIO5S (A=JUTD A.!Ars
LAND AUV (ST4CSII  7Q. .                                                _-  - ISOST UCtllT tS35)
TOMI             51,.                                                   S^Z         SME       M     IISTIGICU
2ICOLTIURA       179.6                                IOST NICT       GOIAPRIC    DNGOOR         INCOME
1960  lb   1970 h *SSTXILTE A         2010O L    GROUP /d   G3DU1 a
g? PEr  CAPITA up08                  100.0       210.0    490.0             528.9      461.5      1097.7
Ot6Ct CONSUTIOU PER CAPIlT
(ULOGUIS Of COAL SQOIYALUT)         64.0       247.0     308.0           371.1      262.1        730.7
rOPULATON AN  VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION. KID-TM  (MILLIONS)      26.4        35.7      43.3
CUM  POPULATION (TEUCW  0P TOTAL) 12.0          13.0      14.0 -           27.4       24.6        49.0
POPULATION P50JET3OM
POPMLATIO  7J tEAH. 2000 (lILLOS)                       69.0
STATIONIT POPULATION (IMLIONS)                         105.0
TUR STATIOEUA  7lOIUATIC  1S KACUD                    2095
POPLATION D1351T
PU SQ. la.                        51.0        69.0      64.0           154.8       45.3         44.6
PU SQ. 1(. AGRICULtURAL LAND    204.0        251.0     244.0           566.7       149.0       140.7
POPUATIoN AGE 5s1E=1  (PUCST )
0-14 n15.                         44.7        46.2      45.0            41.3       45.2        41.3
15-64 YU.                          52.6        50.8      52.0            54.9       51.9        55.3
65 YR. AIND  B1OVE                  2.7         3.0       3.0             3.3        2.8         3.5
POPULATION GOWSI  IATE (PERCET)
TOTAL                              2.8         3.0       2.8             2.4        2.7          2.4
URNA                               5.1         3.6       3.5             4.3        4.3          4.5
CRIU5 8ILTE RATE (PU2 TQUSAiD)      46.0        42.0      32.0            30.2       39-4         31.1
CRUDE DEATH RATA  (PER T3OUS4l)     17.0        12.0       8.0             8.3        11.7         9.2
(MSS REPRODUCTION LAT                 .-         3.2       2.2             2.1        2.7          2.2
PAMILY PLASNRIG
ACCEPTORS. AUIIUAL (TTOUSANDS)      ..       203. O    527.0
OSERS (P!ECENT 0 MIARRIED   U)    ..         27.4      32.3            34.1       13.2         34.7
OOD AND NUSltT10N
MUDX Of FOOD PROD5CrI0 O
PUR CAPITA (1969-71-100)          68.0       100.0     110.0           106.2       99.6       104.4
PM CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PUCENI O0
4ZQUI3ZNKITS)                   96.0       103.0     107.0           104. 1      94.7        105.0
PROTEINS (GRANS PER DT)           43.5        52.2      50.0            57.4       54.3        64.4
OtP WICE ANIMAL AND PULSE        8.4          ..      14.6            16.9       17.4        23.5
CEILW (AGUS t-4) NOLTALITI tA       15.0         9.0       6.0             4.8        11.4         8.6
liALTII
LIFIE EECTANCYT AT 311S  (AlS)    51.0          57.0      61.0            61.1       54.7        60.2
INYANT MORTALITY IRATE (PE
IIOUSAND)                             ..        86.01L   68.0             46.6       68.1        46.7
ACCESS TO SAIP WATEt (PURCIRT OIP
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               .-        17.0      22.0            21.9       34.4        60.8
URBAN                               ..          ..      49.0            46.2       57.9        75.7
RURAL                               ..          ..      12.0            12.8       21.2        40.0
ACCESS TO  ZETA DISPOSAL (Pl!tCEI
OP POPULATION)
TOtAL                               .-        17.0      40.0            28.4       40.8        46.0
UOAN                                ..        65.0      58.0            65.0       71.3        46.0
RURAL                               ..         8.0      36.0            14.7       27.7        22.5
POPULATION PER PEYSICLUA          7800.0      8420.0   8370.0           3790.5    6799.4       2262.4
POPULATION PEE NURSING PERSON     4900.0      3340.0    1510.0          1107.4    1522.1       1195.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                           1340.01f     890.0      00m.0          613.3      726.5       453.4
1L28A                               *-       280.0    240.0            203.6      272.7       253.1
RURAL                               ..      1380.0   1290.0           1110.3     1404.4      2732.4
ADMISSIONS PER NOSPITAL 3eD           ..        31.0      33.0            23.9       27.5        22.1
SOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OP SOUSEMOLD
TOTAL                              5.5/f       5.8       5.5             5.2        5.4         5.3
UR3AN                              5.3Zf       5.9       5.5              ..        5.1         5.2
RURAL                              5.6Lf       5.8       5.5              ..        5.5         5.4
AVERAGE hMIER OF PESONS PU POOK
TOTAL                               ..          ..       2.4              ..         ..         1.0
UlRBAN                              ..          2. 2.2                    ..         ..         1.6
RURAL                               ..          ..       2.4              ..         ..         2. 5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OP DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..      24.6              ..        8.1        50.0
URBAN                               ..        63.0L        *                       45.1         1.7
RURAL                               ..        13.0        *-              *-        9.9        17.3



-24 -                                         ANNEX I
THAILAND - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET              Page  2  of  5
THAflAJED                 REPERZNCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED ARAGES
- MOST RZCENT ESTIMATE  -
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     CZOCRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOtE
1960 /b     1970 lb ESTIMATE /b      REGION /c  GROUP /d   GROUP /I
EDUCATION
DUSTWD ENROLLMFNT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOMAL                83.0        81.0      83.0            91.Y       82.7       102.5
MALZ                 88.0        85.0      86.0            98.7       87.3       106.6
FEILZ                79.0        77.0      79.0            97.4       75.8        97.1
SECONDARY:  IUTAL                 12.0        18.0      26.0            42.2       21.4        33.5
MALZ                 15.0        21.0      29.0            46.7       33.0        38.4
FEMALE                9.0        15.0      22.0            40.9       15.5        30.7
VOCATIONAL EROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)    19.0         24.0      13.0            12.5        9.8        11.5
PUPIL-TEACGER RATIO
PRXIMARY                          36.0        35.0      30.0            32.5       34.1        35.8
SECONDARY                         20.0        16.0      21.0            25.8       23.4        22.9
ADULT LITERACI RATE (PERCENT)       68.0        79.0      82.0            84.1       54.0        64.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         2.0         5.0       6.4             6.1        9.3        13.5
RADIO RECEIVERS PER TOOUSAID
POPULATION                         6.0        78.0     131.0            84.4       76.9       122.7
TV RECEIVERS PER THOSAJD
POPULATION                         2.3         7.0      17.0            22.4       13.5        38.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY CZNERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION Pn
TIOUSAND POPULATION                 11.0        24.0       ..             24.2       18.3        40.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCZ PER CAPITA   ..          ..       1.7             3.6        2.5         3.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    12757.0     16163.0  18514.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  48.3        47.3      46.9            36.7       29.2        25.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             83.7        79.9      77.0            54.6       62.7        43.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                4.4          6.0        8.0           16.3       11.9        21.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENTr)
TOTAL                               51.3        46.6      45.6            40.7       37.1        33.5
IIALE                               52.7        49.3      4.6             49.9       48.8        48.0
FEMALE                              49.8        43.9      42.6            31.0       20.4        16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.0         1.1       1.1             1.1        1.4         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HICHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   21.8/h      23.8/i   14.O/L           14.9       15.2        20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  50.97h      49.J77    42. 27          46.8       48.2        52.1
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.2/b       6.1/i     7.6/            6.2        6.3         3.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14.97/      15.971    19.1/1          16.8       16.3        12.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
IEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..         ..    126.0             193.1      241.3       270.0
RURAL                              ..           ..      94.0           128.7      136.6       183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     115.0           136.8      179.7       282.5
RURAL                              ..           ..     108.0            96.8      103.7       248.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      15.0            32.0       24.8        20.5
RURAL                               ..          ..      34.0            52.5       37.5        35.3
.Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries amoong the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimte, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    East Asia & Pacific;   /d  Lover Middle Income (5281-550 per capita 1976);  /e  Intermediate Middle
Income (S551-1135 per capita, 1976);  /f  1962;  tg  Percent of population in Bangkok metropolitan
area;   /h  1962-63;   /i  1968;  /L  Preliminary data for 1975/76, due to lack of data on national
basis, the methodology for aggregating the available regional data overstates incomes of lo. income
groups and understates inco-e of higher income groups. Thus, this data is not suitable for any
analytical coaparisons;  /k  Government:  /I  1964-1965.
,ost Racent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
Augut, 1979



- 25 -                                                                         ANNEX I
DEIIIISOF SOCIAL nIIICATORS                                                             Pa2e   3   of   5
N.otes:  hlthoogh the data ar  draw  fro  souce  genrally judged the scat authoritative snd reliable, it should alo be noted that they may -t  ,ie interns
tionh ily comarblebcueftetato   tandadiced definitions and onave-pta usd by differen.t  -otrie-  in collectIng  the data. The dan   r,t                             oehees
usflto  ecie  reso  m            ti,Ind icate trends, and ch       -oeiecrtain aJc, duifereo-c  hetoee  coutries
The udoctri  roop scesgetfor  ech -od-ctor ar  popu.atin-....ghted geometric men, ectiu,cth,ob  rorn    ausi  tl.   oia,                       the tot ypohntel
coutryin  nd   roo.lirto lach of data, group hoer,es of all Ind,icators for Capital lurpiot Oil EsPores7             ,   iodo." IC ucos   so.t,, ad boorto,
hispo..sI,  cuoto,' Ioonr litrihut-o  aod Poverty for other coutry groups ho  yppulatiu.-oeghtted ge... tr I            oac -  .o-o-t oolcii   ftoo coto-  oto-   -nd
the mst ppolatd contry.Sinc tIe voraeh        fcutie   m    the indictors deedd0 oimllt   i  asad ist.  co  Sicuinndi  cucosr
In relatisg aeg,of  -m  adicatne to  nte.Teeae.e   r    _ati usfla  aprsmtona oPf 'enpetcd  to                                         '.        a      h   aua        a
indicator an a iea           h   onr  and reference groups.
tAut AREn (thousadfsq_1.ha. jAccess noEsret  hIspD al  perea!t5yoj:l                                                                                - s a    rana  r'
Thn-tcasufe flac           1puin   ad fle  nd inland waters.                           Stue   fPeoI tt,              ra, aocrl   eudh  enrta dips..s
ASI,ic,lt-rl -  Mbta  recent satite of agiutrlae -ad htisor-ily                             per-ntge o6,f thes   eeeticroslati-ha  dcoeta dtapoal may isld
or Per -etlY fur crps, P* ptora, maket and kitIhee garuen..o  to                         the colletio  and dis.nsa,  ith or citbout t-etmht, of h-ssmmn                t
lie falI_c                                                                               and  -ate-ate- by  atee-bh..ae  yste.n or the us  of pit prince  an  non1a
SIP FiR CAPITA (US$) - GNP pee capita estimates at curet maket pi ,                         Ppltn   e   hsca       auaicdoddh   ubro   rciigpyiin
calculated hy nae   nerion method as Wlurd BanA Atlas (i976-78 basis);                      qulfe   rmamdclsho   t uni-e-ity 1e-e.
1017,an1978 data.                                                               Posniatios per Dri   Perann - Ppulatice di,,ided by number of practicing mu,,
ENERGY CCihSMTIONs PER0 CAPITA - Ann-I consuption of ourna-srrad female graduate nuse,pr.tvt..re,                                                .r asitac ure
"coa  an   nlnte, petroicum, natura  hs and hydr-, unclea  adg-Poutinpr HnpitalI ed - totm1, urbanadrua,                                                 Popultion   oonSl,uri,
therma  eotuIty) In hilogrmo  f coa  equivalet per vpaytta  I;*,                            and neat) divided by the ir re.potive somber of hospital teds  vial  it
1970  and 197  data,                                                                       publIcI and private geerltand apeciliced hosipital -ao echbili.tai ono-t-r.
Rosponale _r   Mmbglishme_t  permaetly staffed by at least on  pdhsicia.
POPOI,kTION AND VfTTAL STATISTIC S                                                            Etatbli.hmeata providing prior ipaly custndial car  ar  tot inluded  Pura1
Tonal1 Ppol tinn.              . d-ec7lio(- iof July 1; iu60, 197(1, ad                     hoapitalIs,h-nve, Sanlude health and   edi-1ni. ceters not permnetly ntaffed
1977 data.                                                                               by aphysIcIan  (hot by a med-1i ... asistant, nus, midi fe, etc.) whiob offer
Urban Porultio   seRsa  of tota-I   atic of urban no tonal pupulatish;                      in-patient  -cidation  and provide a limited range of mdclf                istie..
ditfferntdefinitionsof urhan a-rc   may affect  -oparbitity cf data                    Admiamisas Per Hmanitl ld - Thin number of admhaiona tor dinchanges from
aeIng conris   1*,970, ad i975 data.                                                    hospitalo dirided by the number of beds.
ppulaltion in year 2(00 - Curret popolantc erojections ann basd on                    OU03SIN
195ttlppition byag  an   eead their meetala.         n   etlity            Aceag  hiE of househod (peson  pe inuaciold) - total, uran   ndrna 
rae .Prjevs-  paramter  for motl.ity rae   opieof three                            A ho-behod -ssiet  of a groP oi diviual  bh hv   iin    uresad
be_l  annumi5  life  -pyrt-ny at hirth II cresig sith coutry's                         theIir main meal.  Abhoader orlndger may or may sot he  -inlded  -c the
P"r capita  ce  ice,an   ea    iecpestany  tabolinig at                                house hold for stntitiial PurPoses.
77.  years.  The  aantr  fo   etlity rate also hare three Ieveis                     Averag  homier of nermos  car roo   - toaa, urban, and rura  - Avegrag  combs
a_-nun  decline is fertility no-oding toI i-cm   ieve  and pant                        of perons Per room In al rban, and rura  occpied --retio,nnl delihings,
fami ly uning Peeforan-  inch coutry is then assigned cse of these                     reper,tiely.  D-1e1i-gnlude non-permanet structure  sad                  -pir- tarts
nineI cob inations of sartiltoy and fertility treds for proje-tio                    Acoama te al-etricite  servat of dee.1iome   -  otmi,l urban, ass rual-Co
purpose.                                                                 .              etonluelig    ith eleosrlity inliig quarters ma per-etag   0
itntinsry  opulaion     IA a  tatiotn-y populatio  ther  Is no gr-thb             total, -rbar, adura  delnsrpctively.
alto  the birth rats Iequal to tbc death rate, ad also the age
s ,trcuercit  cosat  ThIs ischevd only after fertility rates                       DLEICTlION
deliteeto  the repinnmn  lec   fuit       net rpoutnraeeks                         Adjusted Eaolet ia
each g-cration of n-n  rria-  itself e_otty.  The stationar  pup.-                     Primary%shool! - total, male and female-ross tonal, male and lunat  -ur11-
lnnoc,Ioeaan..oti*mutd .. the banio of the, pro,e-ted sharateriati-                      meat of all ages at the primary her-l1    p_retagem  of repecive primary
of the populatio_ it the year 2000, an doh  rate of declin  of fertil ity                 schol-gepopLatio-s; normaly incldes ohildeen  aged i-ti pear  tot
rate to replasemeot leosi.                                        a~~~~~~~~djustn.dfor differet 1iengthn of primar  edu-tio-   or, o-uetrio   I'll
Pear sttinrypolato  isehobr  - The yea   h.. stationary population                         unvra   dvtu    noletmyece   2   eos ic   orPupil
stor has here reachd.                                                                    ar-    ono   bove the official school age.
Poziultoshnat                                                                              ir-od-u -obs   - total, male and female - C.mistrd ao a.. n   eoii
Per 00. km. - Mid-y-a  population yes sqarhlomt- (10 h-tare) of                            ed-ction requires aseat fou  year  of approved primay o...uti o-
octal neca                                                prooldee general vocational, or tea~~~~~~~~her training i-atruttt. forpp.1
Per sq. ha giutrlland - Computed    abo-  foe agricultural land                            usualily of 12 to 17 pear  of age;  orep.ndenre core          -ae   -.oraly
only.                                                                                     -1clded.
5P-Ply70oa, Str-otu.jpnrip. t( - Cholo.   (0-14 year), corhng-ged- voaional enrollmet (scroent of secondary  - Oooatioa  ins -titto'  i`ltude
~15rw'tteed  (br pears and  ore) an percetages of mid-year                                 tebi-al, induatial, oother prngem   shieb oprte undtpend-tlyOrh
population; 19*0, 1910  ad 1977 data,                                                      departments o  sodaI itttos..
Populat ion ur-th Rate (p--otn) - total   -uua  eroth ease  of total mid-                  Ppil-tearher catlo - pri-ayc  an :sodvs-Ttl  idnserlsdi
year.P poulti.n. for1950-hO, 1*1-7, an - 971-77.                                            primary and secodary level  div,ided by nubers of teaher  -v Otin -ro-
Popultiontot   ae  cret    rban - inn1s  g b  eaten of urhan                                  spending   -icola
pupolationo fur 190Ad *-7,ad 1970-75.                                                    Adul literaY rate (percet) - Loterte adults (atle to read and oroto] 
Crude   rti cane (Per tousand) -   .nnual live births prr thousand of mid-                    apercetge ofI total adult popultioo  aged it pear  and over
year po_pplts   iph, 1970, ad1977 dta.
Crude teath Rate (per thousand)1  Annua  dr-tho per th--uadooaiu-y-a                   C05550PgFPo2g
popelatis; 1*, 1975  sod 1977 data                                                Pasheger Cur  (per thouad ppsslatior) - Passe nger vaso            -iemtrncs
dros  Reprodution Rate - Aorra  nobe- of daoghtrrnem     oill bea                          seating less than eight per-n; ncludesamuaca  hease  ad military
Is her normal reprodu-ti- p-id If she coei _rn               _raht ag-                    "eIles
speriiv  frtitto  rtes;usnaly fie-per nueng- ending ic 1960,              Radi   eriven(ertosndcplainI    All types of reciver, oe radio
q70, and 1975.                                                                           broadr-ta to genral public per oboomad of ptuit.io..  e-cbdno .i-honue
faiy Planing _ Arptor.~ A-mnal(tho,xdaud) - Anni-1 sunh- of                              -eerr noutries and iyershin  regitra  tis   of radl, st  mn0
acetr   f birth-control derives under -,aPce ...   na..tiona Ifsmly                vffert; data for recet years s -pru  be  -upar..blr sic         -..   vtries
plantuog pengr-                                                                          bhlished ticr nss
Family Planning   U..e  P""oe"  of marrid  oel-Percen.tage of maried                     Tt Rece1ivers1 (see thosaa  poplation) - TV reciver  foe b-od-a  to  ener1
50mm   f chid-beaing ae (15it psrt) h.buo  birth-rotu d-        hc                uli   e  th-me-ppsltiun; estae  unlicense1d TV reciver  o...t~
to all maried .oan- in sam  age grop.                                                    and In year  ekes registration  of TV  eta wa  in effect.
ilesynerCivsltin (eethousand psjahath ) - bsh-n ohs ur-ege  iolt.
Funt ANDi IPRITICE
Ind- of F.7-11Fd-ti~~~~~~~~~:1pe,                                   o   dpiy gnera1t9tr7stninPape,   dfndm   period-Ica  potli-atio-
One   fPo   rduction per Capta(l_ j71_0(   Inden of per -pita                        devted peim-rily to recor.ding genra  news   hisonIdr-d to Os "daily"
annualprodutiuc o  all  oud c dtti-n  Produ-tin e-Ildes aced ad                  if is aep-rar  at leat fou  timmaserk.
feed a   ono   alna  yea  mom .. uCodit- IIacoe  primac  goods                         Cin-. Annua  Attead-v  Per Capita per Ia--Eed on the sumn- o,f tickets
(r_g.  ugrasinstead of suigar) thinh ar  edible and contain nuti_ot                      aci  dring the year, solding admin.i.-  to droo-in si-m  and -Li i
e..off,  and tea ar- cldd.Aggregate production of eah coutry                        units.
in  asd on nattost aveag  producr price neights.
Pee caitinsplofvo s (neroet of reurmno(-Cnm,tnd from                                 lAm   FORCE
rhep   equivalent o,f net foo  sPpliesaaiai  in coutryP perempita                    Total abr Porc  (th.umads)   EI- h ui-lly atio  pe-ng, inclosing arced
p5 hay.  Acnilnblv iuppiie  comris  d-ntnic production,' impots les                    forcem  ad uneplypd hat  -o1lding h-uei-r, snudenim, ca. DIfi,sit--Oo
coota, and changes In st-kh.  let -uppli-a ro-ldd  animal feed, seeds,              in  -ar... ro-trien ar  tot  -up-rble.
_onitoe   usd In ford procssng, and 1ss- In disnltbtion. teqaire-                     eal       man    -Feal  lahor forc  as peroetag  of total labor forc.
-etn weertissted by PRO bass  on phyoiologJ-1  sesfrnma                                g4jjss             )-Labor forc  In faring, fo restry, hunting and
actoo  yn  health rousode-in, onvi 'scrtal t-mpratna1ri   _ bdy          ghts,         fishing anpercetage of total labor force
agt:ad urndistributin -of populst-o, and nl1c-iog 10 p                  Idrt  o      Industry (p-ret) - Labor for-ve onmiing,  -ont-ti-o, manfacturingac
ustet houshold Iec-1.                                                                e-t-icttp, ea, I.teangsanp manag  of t,tal laboc forc.
Per oaito supply ofPr-teis (gram   peIr dap) - Pr-nie cotent o'f pe                    PariiainRt,pren   totlml,adfmle-Priiaino
_msta ne  supply of food per day., et supply of fend is oris-d a                       atlitityrae  are        ptmyund amttl1ml,ad  eaelbor`fnree asIer
abov. Requi-ests f. o  al  coutrIes. establIshedrby UiDA provide Pus a                rntgen  f total, male and female poplation of all ages  -epeti-eip;
minimu  alsanr, of ht gram   of  utat  prtein Per dap and 20 gesm  of                  1*0, 1970, and 195data.  Thre  ar  lIOn .parnc-paisob rates reflecting
anIml an  pule prtot  of:hthin10 grno should Is animal protein.                  age-se   marutrn7 ofhypoultion, and long time tred.  A fee estimates
These standardo are losrhantos f 75 gPs  oP tsta1 protein and                          aefro  a.iniml  oroa
07 grai-  oanmlprotein an an  -teg  fur the arId, proposed by PAt                    lesg-in ~Pemmdn  Rtio  -  Ratio of pepulation under 10 and bt and  -r to
in the Third World rood iur-y.                                                         the tabs  fcein age group of 15-6l yea..
dervedfrm aimls  ndpolnInI gram  pee day.                                 0305 POTPDlOmic
Cid(gm1-b) MortalIty Rtpr titusad) -Annualdeaths per thouad-essaeo   rvt  soe  hn  nca  n   id       eeod  byrisa
Is age group I-_Leara  to chituqe- in this  w age nep; for mes  desel-                   5 presmt, risbest  .Rpecet, poet 20 percet, an  pooret hI percet
oping coutrIes data drei-d fro   tf  tables,                                             of hnassablda.
RHIATH                                                                                   POtVERsY TAPirS GOPO
"'11f hoot-y at Pirt  -yers  - Averge nuber of year  of life                              intimated Abalute Preerty Isom   ee   Pt e   moa     ubna    ua 
reann   t brh       ,17,ad1977. data                                               Absouatr poverty isr-m   -ire  Is that   ba.lve  hl   ehivh a mina1
Irfant Sa-rility Rats (per thoucnd]"  Annual deat.hs of infants under onntrothnally  adequats diet Plum  em-etial non-f-vd rui ete is ant
pea  of age yes thousand lIve hirtho.                                                    affordable.
hcresa toOafs Wate  (percentof popultion  - total, urban, and rura  -          Eitimand RelatireP-sts Inoelvl(R   e  mpta) -ubnmlss
leher of people (ittl, urban- n   ua    ihraoa                   cest                    Rsrarrlaive perty incom   leelisa-thr   of messge pee capita
safe sates suppl(icue  treated surf. mesiner  or  ntreand hut                            persna  incom   of tise coutry. Urban1- eoi.I derted fro  the coa   .e.el
.._otambnntrd cae     hao  atht fr.. p-tot- borehole,, spring.,                          nith adjustment for higher cot of living  is urban areas.
and saitr  wells  as Percentages of their respective populations  in                   1t;tme  P,nuanssPelu  Alalt   oet   ao    ee   yretl-ehna
a ra   rea a public fotais cr standyct loaa               eethnrrl-Pret _s  _panId. (uban ad roal   bsae"''i7ti3id.                                                ""
eesfrom  a h-n map be conidered as being sithit r-senble
acsof thatI- hos . I  rura  ane-saoabe            Ies ud imply
that the ho..e-ife or amber. of -tehoshold do not have t  spend                                                                 fEncsis and S-i.i Data t,icis
dap-op-tni-ste part of the day in fetblng the family's sates see ds                                                          conomIc Analysis and P-jectioms Depsrtaa
Augiat 1979



D~~    ~~~ F                        -      
2~~~~ _                     _    0.                7   _W_77w_SW~~~~   |   
. 3                I    2.              >i on_  __t _- ___*  ..  
^    "- ~~~            - ^. .a                               ^ 
3               ~                   ???~ 0F SoS-- o7oI0              3
oo _-e_  o -            0000 ee~_   _00-_w     .s       ___*___
COrot|@|  8         F?.?  |;             00... w 0 0 -<F   0-
e   __*  o"2 3o _w~0_  ~!                  __       _  __ 2X_
V~~__O      
K&9@1              ??   gO_w             ?       38g    -v  
o_~~~  ~~         f__o                                :.;  :n>__ Wo_  $     _e ::*   
sw_o~_|  ~~-                     0^~?             f  _~  ~rW  
*~~~~~                                    00      ::, ;|-0                *Ss       ONr __  _o
R~~~        . a. ;-_ 000   0                                                      _'Q   000 
t                                             - -t - ~~~~~~~.440.4 -      3 



ANNCX I
-  27  -  .rge 5 of 5
8ALANClt 09 PAYtITO. FX78RKA1 0AUS _SNYC!. nr.T AND CR0DOTWRThI83S
(Carreet US$ dIllo.1
Artel tProIr"ted
1973     1974      1975     1976      1977       19781i    1979       1980      1985       1990
ose ofWrolanc   of Pa-e-ta
7 port: (           Nnrliog  NFS)                     2,084.7  3.025.4  2,796.5  3,490.6  4,029.3   4,930.7   6,300.0   7,660.0  12,R35.0  24,967.7
Iepoet  (Inrioding NFS)                               2,256.3  3,353.2  3,487.3  3,911.9  5.097.a   5,919.2   8,140.0   9,460.0  13,904.5  24,650.4
6aoource b-l-nce                                       -173.6   -327.8   -609.9   -421.3 -1,064.4            -989.2  -1.840.0   1,800.0  -1,069.5   317.3
Net f-tor  -rfrte 1000.,                                -20.8      -0.7       5.4    -41.6    -72.5    -154.5    -210.0    -300.0    -925.0  -1,412.5
Ne0 lot,reet roynents                                   7.0      36.0     69.0      26.1      -4.0     -69.4    -100.0    -210.0    -766.9  -1.170.7
Of tltith no pbllc 0 & LT 1o.n.                     -25.1    -28.1    -364.      -44.3    -64.5    -101.8    -133.1    -174.5    -487.1    -802.0
Dlr-1t 1n--tnt i0-noo                                 -28.0    -37.0    -64.0    -66.1    -68.5        -72.8      -75.5      -80.0    -192.5    -290.0
Workers  -eItt-enCeS (0.1)                              0.0       0.0      4.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      22.9       24.5      34.4       48.2
Curr-nt tr..nfere (net)                                 145.5    241.0       80.1     22.8      39.3       40.4      60.0       s0.0      100.0     110.0
Belaore on. --re-t  -crot                               -48.9    -87.5   -605.3   -440.0 -1.097.6  -1.103.4  -1.990.0  -2,020.0  -1,894.5    -985.1
P.Ove-t  dIrect llvest.,nt                               67.0    135.6      85.5      79.1    106.1       50.0       60.0       75.0     276.3      487.0
Crants * graro-lOhe flont                                 0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Pobli, M 6 ILT I.ne
Ilebursene,                                            69.0      95.9    149.2    241.7    362.6       739.5      900.0   1,010.8   1,960.4   2,697.6
A    fmr-tleallo                                      -28.9    -32.3   -38.7    -43.4    -87.8         -90.7    -164.1    -722.1    -620.1  -1,092.7
let dl.b-r-r-ent.                                      39.2      63.5    110.5    198.3    274.8       648.8      735.9      78S.7   1,340.3   1,604.9
Other SI LT 10cr,
Mlahorseerta                                          178.9    326.2    399.6    279.7    311.8        501.3      900.0   1,150.0   1,393.0       462.2
Aa,ortlatlon                                         -223.1   -197.2   -235.1   -245.9   -264.2    -467.2    -520.0    -600.0    -650.6  -1,167.8
Ne t dlhb.r...n.t.                                    -44.2    129.3      64.5      33.8     47.6       34.1      380.0      550.0     542.4    -705.6
se of 08SF resource.                                       0.0      0.0      0.0      77.1       1.8     181.4      200.0      200.0     -30.0        0.0
Short-tern capitol rrennnctlons                          42.0      55.5    127.5    130.2    256.2        84.0      120.0     250.0      180.1      252.6
CaIrt -l orontottlons 8_1                                 57.8     96.3     77.2    -11.4    136.2    -371.9          0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Cha-8. In  --ternee (- - Iacreaaal                     -113.0   -392.7    140.1    -73.0    275.0        476.9      494.1      176.3     414.8    -654.5
Jet foreign exchange reselbs 1k
(osd of perfod)                                     1,306.0  1,599.0  1,406.0  1,444.0  1,135.8        659.9      166.0      10.0   2,634.5   5,320.9
Grant end Loan Cnon,ltmonte
OfOtrial grants                                           0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Totel public t 4 LT loan-                                87.1    636.5     223.4        372.3    633.0   1,220.0
IL5R                                                   15.0    142.0      95.0    158.0    137.8       256.0
7DA                                                    25.0       7.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       33.1
Other aolttltereal                                      6.4      77.2     62.7      92.1     47.0      194.7
naroneos ntx24.0    200.5                                                 47.7      32.2    106.4      312.0
0If sttch reotr.lly pllsond    -I.oo.e.  '            0.0       0.0      0.     0          0.0        0.0
Joppller.                                               0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
fl..n nll institotloos                                 16.7       9.7     18.0    100.0    341.9       423.7
Othor M0 4 LT loan. (Nthere  v1lablo)                   178.9    415.9    392.5    360.2    348.9        531.8
Cr rt aee nt of total  -o.mitcant. (X)                 44.600   31.400   16.700   11.500   10.200    14.869
Average  nterest (X)                                    0.044    0.057    0.076    0.081    0.080        0.072
A-er-ga  et-rty (yetar)                                29.100   23.800   23.500   18.500   14.000    12.832
Hledl t- and Tooz-Tern Debt (DIsbursed ocIy)
Total debt o       4tttandlog (OD end  f period)       903.9  1,160.7  1,345.6  1,606.8  1,931.9   2,691.0
Irr.eludog t,dtsb.rsed                                1,182.4  1,730.0  2,009.5  2,404.0  3,145.9   4,594.3
Puhblc dtebt nerone                                     -34.9    -60.4    -73.2    -87.7   -152.3    -202.9
Intere-t                                                -25.1    -28.1    -34.5    -44.3    -64.0    -100.7
Other n & LT debt nernOct                              -255.8   -266.8   -314.5   -245.9   -338.3    -590.8
total debt  -ervfre                                    -310.7   -327.2   -387.7   -333.6   -490.6    -796.7
.ebt Jordan (:)
Debt er,ree ratio                                        14.9      10.8     13.9       9.6    12.2        16.1
Db -t Invt te rotlo  Ld                                  16.2      12.0     16.2      11.5    13.9        17.6
Debt Leentr/GOP                                           2.9       2.0      2.7       2.0     2.7         3.6
pabl O   dehb  seroic_/G..ornso_ t savnna                 4.3       2.5      3.5       3.7     4.4         6.3
Ter. (2)
Inte.a.t or total DOD/total ditbors.eet.                 53.7       5.3      5.6       5.4      5.7        5.6
Tot.l debt  -e-vuca/Gonarnsict rwntt                     12.4      11.8     11.9      10.7     12.0       19.6
Derendanny Fntotns nor M  ILT Delbt (S)
GC..  dtshtr.ecenta/Isportr (1-ctdl.  N8S)               11.0      12.6     12.9      13.3      10.9      21.0
llet trarstoIepnrtn  (Inrlndtno N0FS)                    -2.8       2.8      1.8       4.8      2.0       10.2
81st teas. Oor/6rOts dhararsearnta                      -23.3      22.5     13.6      36.5     18.4       48.7
ue_- (X )
18R0 ddIa  retnt/ot   total d1lh...eaent.                14.8       8.0      9.1       8.3     12.0        9.3
lank Grnup dl,borents/trre-  totol di.b.rse.et.t         14.8       8.3      9.7       9.3     13.6        9.9
18R0 bOD/to.tl 030                                       26.2     28.8      20.0      1.6      17.9       20.2
8 nk CGtP DD06t/otl WDO                                 24.2     20.9      20.4     19.2      18.9       21.3
0160 d'nt seI vIleltatol drbt ner,lne                     8.0       8.5      8.3      1O.9      9.8        7.8
Sk Grt..., debt  .rvlo/t-ral   t-                         8.0       8.5      8.3     18.9       9.8        7.8
Knesl Debt (Dl-b.rted only)                           Oltat-ndi.n  12(31178
(C-nr st  A8  onillott)                                Anoent        2
IERD                                                    434.8      24.5
la-b Group                                              459.3      25.8
Other anltllet-ral                                      257.5      14.5
Governennon                                             549.2      30.9
Of ,hirk  -entrslly pla.n.d econol-es /c                0.0       0.0
n-ppult rh                                                9.0       0.3
61 t..nclal  Iratitntion.                               502.1      28.2
londe                                                     0.0       0.0
Total pnhllc M & LT debt                              1,777.1    100.0
Other M & LT debt                                       913.9      51.4
Tnttl pnbllc debt (inludlog  adoehur.-d)             3,680.4    207.1
Total M * LT debt (Inclodllg ..dt,b-rsrd)             4,594.3    258.5
/- Pnaleloeinsy.
eb NRt  onelgn .se.te: US$ eqnlnalert of Ld.e 31.                                                                                             October, 1979
Ic  ln-ledee CttA cntsie., Peoples R..pabO1  of Chit...  o-th  ros, Sosbh Viet ta*
ld  -Inladoag set ditect iv-st-ett  -nosne.



- 28-
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND /a
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1980)
Loan or                                                                 Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                                  Less Cancellations
Number Year         Borrower                          Purpose      Bank       IDA  Undisbursed
Twenty-four loans and one credit fully disbursed                   388.90    5.50    -
822   1972   Kingdom of Thailand                     Education      15.40        -    2.78
864   1972   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom           37.00        -    0.77
870   1972   Kingdom of Thailand                     Highways       28.60        -    -
369   1973   Kingdom of Thailand                     Education          -   19.50    2.59
461   1974   Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation         -    7.00    0.95
977   1974   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power          75.00        -    8.34
992   1974   Industrial Finance Corporation
Thailand                             Industry       11.70        -    0.20
1021  1974   Metropolitan Water Works Authority   Water             55.00        -    0.11
1149  1975   Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation    95.00         -   67.58
1198  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Rural Dev.    21.00(TW)   -    8.84
1199  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Livestock       5.00(TW)   -    3.05
1243  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Rubber         50.00        -   31.58
1253  1976   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom           26.00        -    4.29
1271  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Education      31.00        -   20.25
1327  1976   Industrial Finance Corporation of
Thailand                             Industry       25.00        -    7.42
1393  1977   Kingdom of Thailand                     Agriculture   28.00         -   20.75
1468  1977   Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation    55.00         -   37.67
1485  1977   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power          50.00        -   26.04
1492  1977   Industrial Estates Authority of
Thailand                             Industry        4.80        -    3.12
767   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Population         -   33.10/b 33.01
1519  1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Transport.   110.00         -   64.32
1527  1978   Provincial Electricity Authority        Rural Elect.  25.00         -   22.61
1556  1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Housing         8.60        -    7.64
S-10  1978   Natural Gas Organization of
Thailand                             Natural Gas    4.90         -    0.21
1620  1978   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom           90.00        -   90.00
1630  1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation    17.50         -   17.18
1638  1979   Kingdom of Thailand                     Urban          16.00        -   14.00
1662  1979   State Railway of Thailand               Railways       16.70        -   16.70
1690  1979   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power          80.00        -   80.00



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
Loan or                                                                 Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                                  Less Cancellations
Number   Year         Borrower                    Purpose            Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
913      1979   Kingdom of Thailand             Education               -    35.00   35.0
929      1979   Kingdom of Thailand             Agriculture             -    25.00   25.0
1752     1979   Kingdom of Thailand             Ag. Extension        40.00       -    40.0
1773     1980   Petroleum Authority of          Natural Gas
Thailand                       Pipeline          107.00/d         107.0
1787     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Irrigation           80.00            80.0
Total                                                        1,598.10  125.10  879.0
of which has been repaid                                     214.70    0.09
Total now outstanding                                        1,383.40  125.01
Amount sold /c                        68.62
of which has been repaid           43.21                      25.41
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                1,357.99  125.01
Total undisbirsed                                              782.45   96.55
/a This summary includes Bank Group loans/credits signed as of March 31, 1980
/b Of which $3.1 million is Norway grant participation.
/c Of which $43.3 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.
/d Includes refinancing of Loan S-10-TH ($4.9 million).



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1980)
Amounts ($ million)
Year       Company                Type-of Business          Loan    Equity    Total
1959   Concrete Products and   Cement and Construction
Aggregate Co., Ltd.      Materials                 0.30       -       0.30
1964/  Industrial               Development                    -    0.38       0.38
1970     Finance Corporation      Finance Company
of Thailand (IFCT)
1969/  Siam Cement Group        Cement and
1975/                             Construction
1978/1979                         Materials                28.33    4.24      32.57
1977   Mutual Fund Company      Money and Capital
Limited                  Market                       -    0.29       0.29
1977   United Sugar Terminal   Food and Food
Limited                  Processing                2.50    0.20       2.70
1978   Siam Commercial Bank    Small and Medium
Scale Industries         2.00        -      2.00
1979   Bangkok Glass Industry
Company, Limited       Glass Containers            4.85    0.25       5.10
1979   Siam City Cement         Cement and Construc-
Company, Limited         tion Materials           36.00    4.00      40.00
1979   Thai Orient Leasing
Co. Ltd.               Capital Market                 -    0.15       0.15
Total gross commitments                             73.98    9.51      83.49
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                          48.86    2.56      51.42
Net held by the Corporation                         25.12    6.95      32.07
Total undisbursed                                   34.00       -      34.00



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
(As of March 31, 1980)
Loan No. 822 Second Education Project (Kasetsart University); $15.4
Million Loan of May 24, 1972; Effective Date: August 22,
1972; Original Closing Date: June 30, 1978; Current
Closing Date: July 31, 1980
Although the technical assistance and educational aspects of
the project are largely on schedule, civil works are about three years
behind schedule with consequent delays in furniture and equipment procure-
ment. The delays in civil works result from delays in contracting archi-
tectural consultants, completing tender documents, and awarding contracts.
These delays also reflected ineffective management which has begun to improve
after the recent formation of a commission of senior officials to coordinate
project implementation. Consequently, civil works are expected to be
completed by June 1980 and equipment procurement, by September 1980. The
specialist services program under the project is nearly completed. Out of
26 experts, 21 have completed their assignment and the remainder have been
recruited. Recommendations of experts for improvement of teaching, research
and extension activities are considered worthwhile and have been implemented
by the university staff. All the fellowships have been awarded; nearly all
recipients have completed their training. Total project cost will exceed
appraisal estimates by about 35%.
Credit No. 369 Third Education Proiect; $19.5 Million Credit of April 11,
1973; Effective Date: August 8, 1973; Original Closing
Date: June 30, 1978; Current Closing Date: September 30,
1980
All project components are virtually completed except the Teacher
Training Colleges (TTC) component which is about three years behind schedule.
Good progress is generally being made in the pedagogical development of
project components except at Songkla University where the attraction of
teaching at Bangkok universities is resulting in high staff turnover.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project implementation.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
Loan No. 1271 Fourth Education Project; $31 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: February 9, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Progress in project implementation follows approximately the
appraisal estimate. There have been no significant delays in civil works
or procurement of furniture and equipment. Nearly all fellowships have been
awarded. Staff training programs are on schedule but need to be improved, as
does supervision by the Ministry of Education of its nonformal education
programs.
Credit No. 913 Fifth Education Project; $35 Million Credit of June 28, 1979;
Effective Date: October 12, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1985
Good progress is being made in project implementation: (i) the
Central Procurement Unit has been established; (ii) sites for all first phase
institutions have been acquired, and construction is expected to be completed
by mid-1981; (iii) Phase I sketch plans and lists for most furniture and
equipment have been prepared; and (iv) technical assistance consultants have
been identified and partly contracted.
Loan No. 864 First Telecommunications Project; $37 Million Loan of December
5. 1972: Effective Date: March 1. 1973; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1977; Current Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project is lagging a few months behind the revised time schedule
established in 1975 due to delays in procurement. The Bank loan is fully
committed and as of March 31, 1980, $0.8 million remains to be disbursed.
Nearly all of the local telephone network expansion has been completed.
Loan No. 1253 Second Telecommunications Proiect; $26 Million Loan of June 11,
1976; Effective Date: August 25. 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Procurement action on
all Bank-financed items is complete. The Bank loan is fully committed and
$21.7 (83%) had been disbursed as of March 31, 1980. Local telephone network
expansion is a few months behind schedule. The project is now expected to be
completed by the end of December 1980, 11 months behind schedule, and to be
fully disbursed by September 1981.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
Loan No. 1620 Third Telecommunications Project; $90 Million Loan of
October 4, 1978; Effective Date: January 3, 1979;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Due to a delay in the borrower's decision on standardization of
switching equipment and cables, action on procurement has been delayed by
about 9-12 months. Waiting lists have been introduced in all telephone areas
and procedures for giving new connections revised. Progress on implementation
of other project components is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1519 Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project: $110 Million
Loan of March 23, 1978; Effective Date: June 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Progress is generally satisfactory. Procurement of maintenance
equipment is under way, and most contracts have been awarded. Construction
of project roads is well under way, with most contracts on schedule.
Loan No. 1662 Fif h Railway Project; $16.7 Million Loan of April 23, 1979;
.Effective Date: August 22, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Progress on project implementation is satisfactory.
Credit No. 461 Northeast Irrigation Improvement Project: $7 Million Credit
of February 19, 1974; Effective Date: October 7, 1974;
Original Closing Date: June 30, 1979; Current Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
The project will be completed two years behind schedule as a result
of initial delays in appointing consultants and in procuring earthmoving
equipment. Work on rehabilitation of main canal systems has been completed
and the pace of construction of tertiary canals has improved considerably.
The current estimate of project cost is $30.3 million, compared with $12.5
million at appraisal. This increase is due to inflation being higher than
foreseen at appraisal, the decision to provide new tertiary canals over an
area of 34,700 ha rather than the 21,500 ha assumed at appraisal, and the
adoption of higher standards for tertiary development than envisioned at
appraisal. The higher costs are compensated by increases in projected
commodity prices and the economic rate of return is now estimated at 24%
compared to 22% at appraisal. Progress on the rainfed rice component has been
affected by management difficulty in integrating the work of several different
disciplinary groups.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
Loan No. 1630 Second Northeast Thailand Irrigation Improvement Project:
$17.5 Million of December 4, 1978; Effective Date: May 9,
1979; Closing Date: September 30. 1985
The consultant's contract was signed in Mlarch 1979. Work by
contract is delayed but "force account" work began in early 1980. Procurement
of vehicles and equipment is delayed due to difficulties in reconciling the
language used in existing bidding documents with recently introduced
government regulations on procurement.
Loan No. 1149 Phitsanulok Irrigation Project; $95 Million Loan of July 25,
1975; Effective Date: October 31. 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
Major civil works are behind schedule, but project completion is
still expected by mid-1984. Construction work on the diversion dam is
progressing well and RID expects to award a third canal contract in
time to commence construction during the next dry season. About 4,500 ha of
on-farm development was completed in 1979. Thus, total area provided with
on-farm development is now 9,000 ha or 10% of the project area. All studies
financed under the project are proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1468 Second Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project; $55 Million
Loan of September 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 23, 1977;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
Equipment procurement is progressing satisfactorily. Rehabilitation
and on-farm development works on about 15,500 ha were completed in the 1979
construction season bringing the total area developed to 22,000 ha, which
is in accordance with the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1787 Eleventh Irrigation Project; $80 Million Loan of
February 17, 1980; Effective Date: April 2, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
This loan became effective on April 2, 1980.
Loan No. 1198T Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project; $21 Million
Loan of February 27, 1976; Effective Date: June 29, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
After a delay of one year in appointing consultants, satisfactory
progress is being made on the engineering of village roads. The first con-
tract for construction of 114 km has been completed and work has begun on
two contracts for a total of some 250 km. Procurement problems have
delayed the water supply components, but most of the drilling equipment has
now been delivered, drilling crews have been recruited and are being trained.
The rural electrification component has been completed, and progress on
agricultural extension and land settlements is satisfactory. After a slow
start-up, the Upland Crop Improvement Component is progressing satisfactorily.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
The program management, with the assistance of a recently appointed program
advisor, has undertaken a critical review of past work and is gradually intro-
ducing an innovative program of research to help solve the problems of upland-
crop farmers in the Northeast.
Credit No. 929 Northern Agricultural Development Project; $25 Million
Credit of June 28, 1979; Effective Date: October 12, 1979:
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Preparation for the first year of project implementation have been
satisfactory, particularly in view of the fact that the implementing agencies
have no prior experience with Bank-supported projects.
Loan No. 1199T Livestock Development Project; $5.0 Million Loan of February
27, 1976; Effective Date: May 25, 1976; Closing Date: June
30, 1981
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily but disburse-
ments remain about eighteen months behind appraisal estimates. The seed
production and pasture development programs are prograssing well and the
loaned-bull and artificial insemination program, hitherto hindered by the
delay in importation of cattle, are improving.
Loan No. 1243 Rubber Replanting Project; $50 Million Loan of September 13,
1976: Effective Date: January 14, 1977; Closing date: June
.30, 1981
The project is one year behind schedule due to procurement diffi-
culties and initial delay in loan signing as well as in agreeing on the
formula of fertilizers to be procured through ICB. Implementation is
improving, however. Staff constraints have delayed completion of the
socio-economic survey of rubber smallholders.
Loan No. 1393 National Agricultural Extension Project: $28 Million Loan
of May 17, 1977; Effective Date: September 1, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Supervisory staff have been appointed in all 33 project provinces,
and remaining vacancies are expected to be filled by end-1980. The quality of
training, particularly that for subject matter specialists, can be further
improved. Efforts to rectify shortcomings in the quality of leadership and
technical support are being made in the weaker provinces. Excellent extension
results have already been achieved, in particular through the extensive use of
small pumps for dry-season cropping by small farmer groups, and in improve-
ments in home gardens. The civil works program is about two years behind
schedule because of high inflation and, until recently,



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
the low unit cost ceilings for civil works set by the Budget Bureau. It is
expected that contracts for all remaining civil works will be awarded before
October 1980. Procurement of vehicles, equipment and materials is on
schedule. Disbursements are lagging through the delays in the civil works
program. Consultants continue to provide excellent assistance.
Loan No. 1752  Second National Agricultural Extension Project; $40 Million
Loan of September 18, 1979; Effective Date: December 18, 1979
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This loan became effective on December 18, 1979, and implementation
progress to date is satisfactory.
Loan No. 977 Srinagarind (Ban Chao Nen) Hydroelectric Project; $75 Million
Loan of April 15, 1974; Effective Date: June 14, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Civil works under the project are nearly completed. The
installatioa of the turbine generating units is expected to be completed on
schedule. Project c.sts are likely to be about 30% higher than appraisal
estimates, due mainlj to additional grouting work required beneath the main
embankment. The progress on resettlement has been satisfactory, and all of
the families affected have now been resettled.
Loan No. 1485 Pattani Hydroelectric Project; $50 Million Loan of
September 23. 1977; Effective Date: December 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The construction of the main civil works is proceeding satis-
factorily. Implementation is about one month behind schedule. The initial
delay was caused by slow mobilization of the contractor and poorer-than-
expected rock conditions at the downstream ends of the diversion tunnels.
Orders for all major equipment (financed by the Kuwait Fund) have been
placed. Construction for the resettlement component is progressing according
to schedule. Disbursements are generally in line with appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1527 The Accelerated Rural Electrification Project; $25 Million
Loan of March 9, 1978; Effective Date: June 7, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
After an initiating delay in procurement, progress on project
implementation is satisfactory.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
Loan No. S-10 Natural Gas Development Engineering Project, $4.9 Million Loan
of July 28, 1978; Effective Date: September 25, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30. 1980.
All the project preparation activities and preliminary engineering
have been completed. In July 1979, the Borrower, the National Gas Organiza-
tion of Thailand, was taken over by the Petroleum Authority of Thailand who
is the Borrower for a loan of $107 million for the Second Gas Pipeline
project.
Loan No. 1690 Bang Pakong Thermal Power Project; $80 Million Loan of
August 9, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This loan is not yet effective.
Loan No. 1773  Second Natural Gas Pipeline Project; $107 Million Loan of
February 15, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
This loan is not yet effective.
Loan No. 1021  Bangkok Water Supply Project; $55 Million Loan of June 28,
1974; Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Original Closing
Date: June 30, 1979; Current Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Physical work on the project is proceeding satisfactorily. The
quality of construction and the performance of consultants on supervision
of construction of the IBRD portion of the project is good. Because of the
initial delays in contract awards, the project is expected to be completed
by the end of 1980. Due to inadequate tariffs, which were last revised in May
1972, MWWA's financial performance continues to be poor. Although MWWA's
proposals for raising the water tariffs in line with increased operating costs
were approved by Cabinet, parliamentary opposition has put these tariff
increases in abeyance.
Loan No. 1556 Bangkok Sites and Services Project; $8.6 Million Loan of
June 15, 1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Progress is generally good with only minor delays in implement-
ation. Current cost estimates for civil works are below appraisal esti-
mates.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Loan No. 1638 Bangkok Traffic Management Project; $16 Million Loan of
January 25. 1979: Effective Date: April 25, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
After an encouraging start, the project's overall progress has
slowed. The most pressing concern is to strengthen the role of OCMRT in
guiding project implementation.  The policy package featuring area road
pricing has made little progress in gaining acceptance. Recently, a healthy
dialogue on the role of various agencies took place that may help to push
the implementation of the project.  Tangible project progress to date has
been largely limited to the installation of a computer-controlled traffic
signal scheme which has been a technical success.
Loan No. 1492 The Minburi (Lat Krabang) Industrial Estate Project; $4.75
Million Loan of December 5, 1977; Effective Date: March 24,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
On-site infrastructure has been progressing. Bunding, drainage,
and three of the four deep wells have been completed. Substantial progress
is being achieved in road construction, sewerage, and water distribution.
Land sales have been very encouraging with nearly all of available plots
either firmly committed or being negotiated, and are well ahead of appraisal
estimates. These sales have been achieved at an average sales price of B
300,000 per rai, as compared to projected sales price of B 250,000 per rai
in the appraisal. In order to accommodate substantial demand for the Export
Processing Zone, IEAT has enlarged this area to 30 ha. The estate's full
development is expected by mid-1980.
Loan No. 992 Second Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand (IFCT)
Project; $12.0 Million Loan of June 4. 1974; Effective
Date: September 4. 1974: Original Closing Date: September 30,
1978; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Since June 1974 when the loan was made, IFCT's financial condition
continued to be good. The loan is fully committed and nearly disbursed.
Loan No. 1327 Third IFCT Project; $25 Million Loan of December 8, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date: December
31, 1980
The loan commitment rate was initially slower than expected
because of sharply depressed investment climate in 1976. This has much
improved. The IFCT's capital structure and liquidity position have
improved, however, with successful share capital increases. Satisfactory
progress has been made on the institution-building aspects of the project.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
Credit No. 767  Population Project; $33.1 Million Credit of February 27, 1978;
Effective Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
Due to initial staffing problems, key project activities were held
up initially and major elements of the project are about six months behind
schedule. The Ministry of Public Health is, however, taking appropriate
action to strengthen project management, improve coordination and remove
impediments to implementation.



- 40 -
ANNEX III
Page I
THAILAND
PROVINCIAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare the project: One year.
(b) Agency which prepared the project: Provincial Water
Works Authority.
(c) First presentation to the Bank: February 1979.
First mission to consider the project: June 1979.
(d) Appraisal missions: June and November 1979.
(e) Completion of negotiations: April 25, 1980.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: November 1, 1980.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III:  Special Conditions
(a)  The Government has agreed that it will:
(i) undertake a review of the institutional and funding
arrangement to enhance the development of the rural
water supply subsector (para. 33);
(ii) ensure that the increases in water rates of PWWA will
be put into effect (paras. 56 and 57); and
(iii) provide PWWA with sufficient funds to operate existing
systems and carry out its development program to the extent
self-generated funds are insufficient (para. 58).
(b) PWWA has agreed that it will:
(i)  review the design of each system to ensure that it is cost-
effective and send to the Bank for comment proposals
for those systems estimated to cost more than $100,000
(para. 39);



- 41 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(ii) employ engineering, accounting and management consultants
whose qualifications and terms of employment are acceptable
to the Bank (para. 40);
(iii)  furnish its audited opening balance sheet and other financial
statements for its initial fiscal periods through September 30,
1980, and the auditor's reports thereon, by September 30,
1981, and furnish the audited financial statements and
auditor's report for each subsequent fiscal year within nine
months after the end of each year (para. 48);
(iv) gradually increase its urban water rates beginning in fiscal
year 1982 so that, by 1985, sufficient revenues would be
generated to cover cash operating expenditures and debt service
and carry out a study of urban water rates and formulate
policies on a rate structure for presentation to the Bank by
June 30,1981 (para. 56);
(v)  reassess, by September 30, 1985, the factors affecting the
level of urban water rate levels, recommend as to the extent
additional cost recovery should be provided, and implement such
recommendations as PWWA, the Government and the Bank agree
(para. 57);
(vi) complete a study of rural water rate levels, structures and
cost recovery, and recommend a policy no later than
September 30, 1983 (para. 58); and
(vii)  not incur any debt, except with Bank concurrence, until
its net revenues rise to a level at least 1.5 times its
debt service obligations (para. 58);
(viii)  encourage the use of safe public water by undertaking a
program of educating the public in the advantages of using
safe water supplies and giving residential consumers the
option of paying for their water service connections in
monthly installments (para. 62).
(c) An additional condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan is
that PWWA employ consultants to carry out the design and
construction supervision of works for the Immediate Improvement
Program (para. 37).






THAILAND
~~~N ~~~~PROVINCIAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
BURMA        cronapa                                                              immncta~~~~~~~~~~~-d,tem.prouenenft program
BU RAAA                                  ?~~~~                                             40 SF-t Phos
*                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Notional capital
/S                              @    ~~~~~~~~Regional headc-aters/Chang.ar capitals
o    Changusot Ip,ovonial) Qapitals
* Town or o.ilage5
Mae                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cno-gu'st lprooinciol) looUnda-er
-Regional bo,nd-ries
C sMOI                                                                         - C-  Irermotiona  noun,iaries
unpsen          ton'LAO
dsa rur~    ~         ~       PEOPLE'S
u'7s~                 n, L isuO                           ~                                     susgO   5   ~ NaDEnM.nREnP.
T ko           *- rTS         i AskON*  S                                                     *     aus
Ounhsosb.oMO~O
NKus~~~husubus@ ~         c ohtu is   uhu?Do& R T    K MUH~r-
Pattinis~~~~~~~~~~~CO                                               Nkh
0  0  ~  Pe    ussshss  Olsons ,sksss   FOvINC>4LWATO  W      RKS AUTORT'
NOUMOO.RT31 ...
ROT~~O~i5Pi  00.   P  is        Orssssusatrsr  ~       RtO~ON i-iPAoOoARTERS  Ud.
Dunsuss 055 0   t     -a                          h., nkus                 ho       
~~5~~~1                 4QI   R--        UonRachrhn 
\K-                           h.       R          ~                             URA oI   ThAni  CH       4-,
I? ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~10    Phitonolous                                                                     6
P                              (~~~~~~~~~~~    1~~~~~2   Ra-tb-i0               6
tusa/                                              1~~~~~~~~~~             ~      ~~~~~3 CLompho3n  4
Ci"'  /I                                                 {~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  1~~~4   Nakh-n SiTchasnnaa    4
1   15    Soson hlcatha             6 
0  - v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                                           8Cin  . 
12-                                                                                                          LO    Phi~~~~~~~~sa~-ulo  us s,'
5  )          ~~~Go// of    Thai/and-                                                                tsnas ussiosu
TI. ft                                                                                                  -m-n t         t4llI
Pt' noa                            A-RON Si ,uAM-9AkA                                             9           4 nf
Pus Porak
toe, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     N
s-.~~~~            -        5/ ~~~Sooth
000  200            .    OSul                        -- -   -      - /                C          ~~~~~China  Sea
TOO                       200                                                                                  0           40-00
MALAYS A                                                 E SIA~~~~~~~o



