Document of
The World Bank                      F                   wp
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2831-TH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THAILAND
PROVINCIAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
May 9, 1980
East Asia and Pacific Region
Regional Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients on_,
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit              Baht (B)
US$1                    =  B 20.25
B 1                       US$0.05
B 1 million                US$49,400
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)                  =  39.37 inches (in)
1 cubic meter (cu m)         =  35.3 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 kilometer (km)             =  0.62 mile (mi)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
PWWA - Provincial Water Works Authority
MWWA - Metropolitan Water Works Authority (of Bangkok)
PWSD - Provincial Water Supply Division (of the Ministry of Interior)
RWSD - Rural Water Supply Division (of the Ministry of Public Health)
GOVERNMENT OF THAILAND AND AGENCIES
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND: STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PROVINCIAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
1.  WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                            1
levels of Service   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                              1 .  I
Water Supply  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                          1
Sanitation ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .....   2
Water Pollution   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                          2
Institutions  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                          2
Water Supply - Bangkok  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                          3
Water Supply - Provincial Areas   . . . . . . . . . . . . .                          3
Sector Strategy   ....  .            .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .     .....  4
The Role of the Bank  ....  .              .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .....      4
2.   THE PROJECT   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                           5
Project Genesis...                                                                     5
Objectives and Description  ....  .                .  .  .  .  .     ...  .            6
Cost Estimates  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                          6
Financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                          8
Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                          8
Consultants   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                          8
Procurement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                          9
Disbursement .  .....  .              .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ......     .    10
3.  EXECUTING AGENCY AND PROJECT MANAGEMENT   . . . . . . . . . . .                           10
Organization and Management   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         10
Training  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         11
Water Systems   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         11
Accounts and Audit ....  .              .  .  .     . .....  .    .  .  .  .  .    .  12
Project Organization and Management   . . . . . . . . . . . .                         12
Nonproject Works . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                          12
Monitoring and Review of Progress   . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         13
4. FINANCIAL ASPECTS.. ...                                                                    13
Record of Finances.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         13
Operating Results  . . . . ..13
Rural Systems . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         15
Establishment of Accounting and Data Systems   . . . . . . .                         15
Financing Plan   ....  .            .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .   .  16
Financial Projections  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         18
Water Rates and Billings.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         18
Future Finances  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
5.  JUSTIFICATION AND RISK ...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . .. .  ....   .  21
Project Justification. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            21
Internal Rate of Return.. . . .                                         22
Adverse Effects  . . . . . . . . . . ..                        .        23
The   Poor   .   .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .   .   .  .   .   .  .   .   .   .  .   . .   . .    .  .  23
Risk . . .  ........ .......... .............. .............. ........... ...  23
6.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION    ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .    .  24
CHARTS
1. IBRD 21624 Activity Schedule
2. IBRD 20886 Organization Chart for Provincial Water Works Authority
3. IBRD 20982 Project Organization and Management
MAP
1. IBRD No. 14825 Provincial Water Works Authority - Regions and Project
Areas
ANNEXES
1. Project Description and Cost Estimates
2. Consulting Services - Outline Terms of Reference
A. Engineering Services
B. Financial MIanagement Services
3. Quarterly Disbursement Schedule
4. Provincial Water Works Authority - Income Statements FY77-86
5. Provincial Water Works Authority - Sources and Applications of Funds
FY77-86
6. Provincial Water Works Authority - Assumptions for Financial Statements
7. Internal Financial Rate of Return
8.  Sample Tariff Exercise
9. Documents and Data Available in the Project File
The project was prepared by the staff of the Provincial Water Works Autho-
rity, assisted by staff of the WHO/IBRD Cooperative Program. Preparation
misssions were in Thailand in January and October 1979. The project was
appraised in June and November 1979 by Messrs. Bruestle, Kapur and Smeltzer.



THAILAND
PROVINCIAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.  WATER SUPPLY ATD SANITATION SECTOR
Levels of Service
1.01      Water Supply.  About 20% of Thailand's population of 47 million live
in urban areas (defined by Government as communities with populations of more
than 5,000 people) and 80% in rural communities. About 50% of the urban
dwellers (5 million) are concentrated in Metropolitan Bangkok and about 4.7
million reside in 330 other population centers classified as municipalities
and towns.  The estimated 38 million rural population is scattered in some
51,000 villages. Urban population has been rising by almost 5% per year and
the overall annual growth rate is about 2.5%.
1.02      Only one-fourth of the population is served by public water supply
systems. The remainder, numbering some 35 million people, depend on water
drawn from sources of doubtful safety. Although Thailand's overall health
situation is relatively good, water and sanitation related diseases remain
high on the list of common diseases. The diarrheal group is the third most
common cause of death for all ages and the second most common cause of death
for children under six. In formulating the country's health program for the
Fourth National Development Plan, the Ministry of Health, assisted by the
World Health Organization (TWHO), identified water and food borne diseases as
the area of first priority.
1.03      About 70% of Bangkok's population have access to safe water.  About
two thirds of the municipalities and towns have piped water supply systems and
these serve about 60% of the potential consumers. The quality of service is
mixed depending upon each system's age and quality of operation. About 90% of
the urban systems use surface water treated by conventional processes. The
Government's policy is that all service connections be metered; however a
large percentage of meters are out of order and in most systems the
unaccounted-for water is high.
1.04      At present there are about 570 piped water supply systems which
serve 1,200 rural areas, with populations in the range of 2,000 to 5,000
persons each. Because the systems are not fully reliable and of inadequate
capacity, and because alternate water sources are available, only 30% of the
village inhabitants are connected to the systems. The source of supply for
about 50% of the systems is groundwater, which generally is chlorinated. The
balance of systems are supplied by springs or surface water, the latter being
treated by conventional methods. During the rainy season many people prefer
to use rain water, therefore, some water plants are shut down in the rainy
months. Operation and maintenance of the plants is the responsibility of the
villages. The operations of the systems vary from good to poor dependent upon
local interest, the competence of the operators and the resources made
available by the community. In many instances, skilled manpower, chemicals
and spare parts are in short supply.



-2-
1.05      For the smaller villages, the number or percentage of population
presently benefitting from an improved water supply is not known within a
reasonable degree of accuracy. The National Economic and Social Development
Board's statistics show that about 44% of the rural population has, at some
time or another, been provided with water from shallow and deep wells, metal
and concrete storage tanks, ponds and piped systems. Unfortunately, many of
these improvements have not been adequately maintained. A 1978 WHO assessment
of the water supply sector reported that only 10% of the rural population has
access to safe water.
1.06      Sanitation.  Sewage collection and disposal is, in general, the
responsibility of local authorities. But there are only two waterborne
sewerage systems in Thailand both of which are small. Most houses which have
piped water supply use septic tanks or cesspools but these do not always
function properly because of the impervious soils frequently found in
Thailand. Most cities and towns have some kind of storm drainage system,
usually open ditches or covered rectangular concrete drains on both sides of
roads. In many places these drains collect wastewater as well as storm water
but they are frequently obstructed by silt and garbage which compound the
sanitation problem.
1.07      Under a village health and sanitation project started in 1960 with
United States assistance, some 1.5 million water seal latrines were installed
up to 1975 serving about 9 million people or about 24% of the rural popula-
tion. An ongoing UNDP project (TRA/004) in the field of environmental health
contains pilot projects for sanitary excreta disposal in smaller towns and
rural areas. A regional cities project currently being prepared for possible
Bank financing would, among other things, address the waste water and drainage
deficiencies in five of the larger urban centers outside Bangkok. That
project is expected to demonstrate solutions applicable to other towns
throughout the country. For Bangkok the problem of drainage and sanitation
would be addressed by a flood protection and drainage program being prepared
by the Bangkok Metropolitan Administration.
1.08      Water Pollution.  In urban areas water pollution caused by domestic
wastes is aggravated by industrial waste discharges. There are about 40,000
registered industrial enterprises, including 10,000 in Bangkok, of which about
75% are without waste treatment facilities. Legislation prohibiting untreated
waste discharge has existed since 1942, but has not been adequately enforced.
Public and official concern over water pollution is growing and this has
resulted in a recent increase in regulatory, monitoring and planning activi-
ties.
Institutions
1.09      Consistent with Bangkok's pre-eminent position in virtually all
aspects of Thailand's government and economy, the institutional arrangement



-3-
for water supply consists essentially of two major divisions, Bangkok and
other-than-Bangkok. The latter division is comprised of both urban and rural
systems which are administered by several agencies, the most important of
which is the beneficiary of the proposed loan, the Provincial Water Works
Authority (PWWA).
1.10      Water Supply - Bangkok.  Bangkok's water supply is the responsi-
bility of the Metropolitan Water Works Authority (MWWA), a state enterprise
under the Ministry of Interior. MWWA plans, builds and operates a water
system which supplies about 3-1/2 million persons or 70% of Bangkok's
population. The remainder, mostly in outlying areas, rely upon private
groundwater sources. In early 1980 MWWA completed a US$220 million expansion
project which added 800,000 cu m per day of supply, increasing its production
by 65%. Over the period 1980-84 MWWA plans to invest US$360 million to expand
its system by an additional 400,000 cu m per day. To this end it has obtained
US$42 million and US$67 million in financing from Japan and the Asian
Development Bank, respectively.
1.11      Water Supply - Provincial Areas.  Prior to the formation of PWWA in
early 1979, water supply for areas other than Bangkok was administered by
several agencies. Responsibilities were ill defined and fragmented, operation
and maintenance performance of all agencies was generally poor and none of the
agencies had the capacity to undertake broad development programs. PWWA was
created as a state enterprise to improve service to consumers by consolidating
and revitalizing operations and improving compensation and benefits so as to
maintain and attract qualified staff. PWWA was formed by consolidating two
major water supply agencies: one, the Provincial Water Supply Division (PWSD)
of the Public Works Department in the Ministry of Interior, was responsible
for water supplies in urban communities other than Bangkok; and the other, the
Rural Water Supply Division (RWSD) of the Ministry of Public Health, was
responsible for (i) piped rural water supply systems for larger rural
communities, i.e., those with population in the range of 2,000 to 5,000
persons, and (ii) selected nonpiped systems. PWWA took over all of PWSD's
systems and RWSD's piped systems; it now has about 760 systems under its
jurisdiction. It also provides advice, upon request, to concessions covering
44 urban systems which are owned and operated by municipal authorities or
local entrepreneurs.
1.12      Although there still remain seven agencies dealing with water supply
outside of Bangkok, the setting up of PWWA has achieved a substantial con-
solidation of the water supply sector. The remaining agencies mostly handle
nonpiped rural water systems. They are the Sanitation Division of the
Ministry of Public Health; the Groundwater Division of the Ministry of
Industry; and the following four agencies of the Ministry of Interior: (i)
Well Drilling Section of the Public Works Department, (ii) Accelerated Rural
Development Office; (iii) Department of Local Administration; and (iv)
Department of Community Development.



-4-
1.13      The rural water supply subsector is still fragmented and in need of
consolidation. A unified agency with a broad mandate to improve rural water
supplies throughout the country would serve as a much needed focal point for
addressing institutional, staffing and funding problems, and would develop
strategies for improving performance in the rural subsector. In 1979
Government had under consideration a proposal to create a rural water supply
authority along the lines of the PWWA but this has since been shelved. During
negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government that it would under-
take a review of the institutional and funding arrangements and of development
strategies for the rural water supply subsector by January 1, 1982.
Sector Strategy
1.14      Thailand has, in general terms, embraced the UN Drinking Water
Decade's target to provide all communities with potable water by 1990 but it
has still to develop a strategy and to determine investment levels necessary
for achieving this. The World Health Organization, with financing from the
Federal Republic of Germany, has proposed to assist the Government in the
preparation of a plan of action for meeting Drinking Water Decade targets.
PWWA, whose jurisdiction potentially covers all of Thailand's municipal and
town populations, would play a key role in meeting the target. Pending
development of a long-term national strategy, PWWA has a program which calls
for the operation and maintenance of systems and the improvement and expansion
of its service areq through (a) improvement and rehabilitation of 140 existing
urban areas where (apacity is now underutilized because of service deficien-
cies; (b) rehabilitation of those existing rural systems found to be
functioning inadequately; (c) construction of about six new urban systems and
about 20 new rural systems annually with the objective of providing all
communities of 2,000 or more with piped water; and (d) expansion of capacity
in selected larger towns. In the Bangkok metropolitan area, MWWA is carrying
out a major expansion of its water supply system over the period 1980-84 with
assistance from Japan and the Asian Development Bank. MWWA is planning a
continuing series of expansion projects through the late 1980s, and beyond
with the objective of extending its service area and served population.
The Role of the Bank
1.15      Bank involvement to date in the water supply and sanitation sectors
of Thailand has included (i) a 1974 loan (1021-TH) of US$55 millio-i .o M;7VA7
for its expansion program in Bangkok, (ii) about US$5 million in assista-ce   ,
the Accelerated Rural Development Department for providing villagE wells as
part of the 1976 Northeast Rural Development Project (Ln. 1198T-Th), and (ii-i)
provision of water supply and improved sanitation and solid waste dispos-i  to
low income residents under the Bangkok Sites and Services and Slum Impro
Project for which a loan (Ln 1556-TH) of US$8.6 million was made in 1978
Implementation of the Bangkok Water Supply Project has been successfully
completed but the related objective to strengthen 2MWWA's financial posiLi,r
has not been realized, largely because of the Government's failure .o ell
tariffs to increase with costs.  Implementation of the village well driilr 



program is proceeding satisfactorily after initial procurement delays.
Implementation of the water supply and sanitation components of the slum
improvement project is roughly on schedule.
1.16      One of the major conclusions of the 1978 Basic Economic Report was
that a larger share of resources must be channelled to the provinces to
stimulate and support the rural sector if Thailand is to continue growing
while distributing her wealth more equitably. Consistent with this strategy,
Bank support for water supply and sanitation in Thailand will increasingly
focus on provincial areas through assistance to the smaller municipalities and
to institutions such as PWWA which provide vital infrastructure. A major
objective of this assistance and of selected projects benefiting Bangkok will
be the development of programs which reach the poorer members of the communi-
ties and of appropriate pricing policies so that these programs can be self-
financing. In the water supply sector, studies to be carried out under the
present project will help strengthen PWWA's financial viability and are likely
to result in a project which would be suitable for Bank support to expand
capacity in the larger urban centers. Also, the Bank intends to pursue its
dialogue with the Government on the appropriate strategies for development of
the rural water supply subsector with a view towards identifying programs
suitable for Bank financing. A recently negotiated National Sites and
Services Project will improve water supply and sanitation services to the
urban poor both in Bangkok and provincial cities. In the sanitation sector, a
regional cities project currently being prepared for possible Bank financing
would, among other things, address the waste water and drainage deficiencies
in five of the larger urban centers outside Bangkok. That project is expected
to demonstrate solutions applicable to other towns throughout the country.
2. THE PROJECT
Project Genesis
2.01      PWWA has as its first priority the continued sound operation and
maintenance and efficient utilization of existing systems. To this end it
would endeavor to rehabilitate those systems which are functioning at less
than full capacity. Soon after PWWA's formation, its staff conducted a survey
of the urban systems which were transferred from PWSD. The survey identified
deficiencies such as broken equipment, deteriorated facilities, poor metering
practices and underutilized capacity. Proposals for upgrading about 70 of
the systems were prepared, and the need for upgrading an additional 70 systems
were identified. PWWA staff plan to conduct a similar survey of the 570 rural
water systems transferred from RWSD. PWWA also recognized the need to carry
out major expansion programs in some of the larger towns (with population
ranging from 30,000 to 100,000) and for rural areas but projects for these
have yet to be prepared. Under the proposed loan the Bank would support
PWWA's efforts to rehabilitate its urban water systems and to prepare future
projects. PWWA staff prepared the project and were assisted in their work by
staff of the WRO/IBRD Cooperative Program and a Bank-financed consultant.



-6-
Objectives and Description
2.02      The primary objective of this project is to help PWWA develop into a
strong institution. The vehicle used will be the support of PWWA's efforts to
rapidly improve the 140 existing urban water supply systems which its staff
found to be urgently in need of rehabilitation, and the preparation of future
projects. Concurrent with this, the proposed loan would support PWWA's
efforts to strengthen its organization, management and operation and mainte-
nance capability through the financing of specialists services, training and
equipment.  The water system improvements, termed the Immediate Improvement
Program, are to be done in two phases and would consist of rehabilitating
facilities; providing replacement and supplemental equipment such as pumps,
motors, production and customer meters and chemical feeders; expanding
distribution pipe networks and service connections; providing mobile equipment
for construction, maintenance and operations; and improving operations and
maintenance procedures and training personnel. The first phase would consist
of improvement work on about 100 systems where the design and physical work is
rather straightforward. The second phase is for the balance of 40 systems
where some water source exploration and more extensive planning and design
work is required. Implementation would take about four and one-half years
from late-1980 through mid-1985. A detailed description of the project is
in Annex 1.
2.03      Preparation of future projects would be for the expansion of systems
in larger towns, for the rehabilitation of selected rural systems, and for new
rural systems. In an effort to capture economies of scale, planners would
employ uniform investigation and planning procedures and, to the extent
feasible, standardized designs.   For the urban systems, in order to ensure
that the most critical areas are the first recipients of future projects, 15
areas would be studied at reconnaisance level, 10 of these would be studied at
feasibility level and five would be designed in detail. For the rural
systems, PWWA's survey (para. 2.01) would identify those which would be
included in a future rural rehabilitation program. During negotiations the
Thai delegation stated that the Government would seek grant financing for the
preparation of future projects, but if such financing is not found by
January 1, 1981, the preparation work would be funded by the Bank loan as
prescribed herein. If grant financing is found, any savings of loan funds
would be reallocated to cover works under PWWA's development program as agreed
with the Bank.
2.04      Management advisory services would aid in the setting up of manage-
ment and accounting systems, preparing administration manuals, reviewing the
data communications and processing needs of PWWA, and the training of staff.
Outline terms of reference for these and other services are in Annex 2. In
addition to management consulting services, PWWA is exploring with UNDP the
prospect of UNDP funding a senior management adviser who would report directly
to the Governor.
Cost Estimates
2.05      The estimated cost of the project is summarized below.  Itemized
annual project costs are shown in Annex 1.



- 7 -
SUMM4ARY COST ESTIMATE
(March 1980 base prices)
(B 20.25 = US$1)
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   % foreign  Component
Item             ----- B million -          ---- US$ million ----    exchange  % of total
A. Immediate improvement
program, first phase
Equipment               39.7   158.9   198.6    2.0        7.8      9.8         80          19
Civil works             48.3    32.2    80.5    2.4        1.6      4.0         40           7
Engineering              2.9    11.7    14.6    0.1        0.6      0.7         80           1
Subtotal A          90.9   202.8   293.7    4.5    10.0    14.5              69          27
B. Immediate improvement
program, second
phase
Equipment               23.5    94.0   117.5    1.2        4.6      5.8         80          11
Civil works             83.2    55.4   138.6    4.1        2.7      6.8         40          13
Engineering              7.4    23.6    31.0    0.4        1.1      1.5         76           3
Subtotal B          114.1   173.0   287.1    5.7        8.4    14.1          58          27
C. Preparation of future
projects                  16.2    64.8    81.0    0.8        3.2      4.0         80           8
D. Advisory services and
training                   3.8    15.2    19.0    0.2        0.8      1.0         80           2
Subtotal A-D       225.0   455.8   680.8   11.2    22.4    33.6              67          64
E. Contingencies
Physical                  27.0    54.7    81.7    1.3        2.7      4.0         67            8
Price                    138.1   166.5   304.6    6.8        8.3    15.1          55          28
Subtotal E            165.1   221.2   386.3    8.1    11.0    19.1             57          36
Total                 390.1   677.0 1,067.1   19.3    33.4    52.7             63         100



-8-
2.06      Costs for the Immediate Improvement component were estimated by
PWWA and WHO/IBRD Cooperative Program staff on the basis of a survey of the
required work and the costs of recent contracts and force account work. They
are based upon planning for the improvement of 68 systems, extrapolated to the
140 systems covered by the project. Costs for the preparation of future
projects and for advisory services and training are estimated by PWWA with the
assistance of Bank staff and a consultant. Consulting costs reflect current
local and international price levels for similar services. An allowance of
12% has been applied to all costs for physical contingencies. Price
contingencies applied to the March 1980 base prices including physical
contingencies are: for local expenditures, 1980, 14%; 1981, 13%; 1982-3, 12%;
1984, 10%; 1985, 9%; for foreign expenditures, 1980, 10.5%; 1981, 9%; 1982,
8%; 1983-5, 7%. The estimates include duties and taxes on imported goods
amounting to about US$2.5 million equivalent.
Financing
2.07      The proposed Bank loan to PWWA of US$40 million would cover the
estimated foreign exchange costs of the project (US$33.4 million, equivalent
to 63% of the total project cost) as well as US$6.6 million for interest and
other charges on the Bank loan. The local costs of the project, estimated at
US$19.3 million equivalent, would be met by Government as equity contributions
to PWWA.
Implementation
2.08      PWWA has created a Project Office which is responsible for
administering the project and coordinating the project activities of the
various PWWA departments and regional offices, other Government agencies,
consultants and the Bank. PWWA will staff the Project Office with a Chief,
and, at a minimum, a financial analyst and five engineers. The Project Office
will also be able to draw upon other PWWA headquarters and regional staff as
necessary. For the first phase of the Immediate Improvement Program, the con-
sultants, assisted by PWWA staff, would review the planning already completed
by PWWA, conduct field investigations, prepare designs and contract documents.
The consultants would do the same for the second phase but in addition, do the
initial planning and water source investigations. The consultants would
supervise construction but be assisted iii this work by PWWA staff. The same
consultants, working with PWWA's Department of Operations and Services, would
assist PWWA in setting up operations and maintenance programs and a related
training program. Project activities would be carried out as shown in the
schedule of Chart 21624.
Consultants
2.09      The Immediate Improvement Program would require about 250 man-months
of local and foreign consulting services, and these would probably be provided
by a joint venture of a local and a foreign firm. An additional 17 man-months
of consulting support would be needed for operation, maintenance and training
advisory services. These services would cost about US$3 million equivalent.



-9-
Engineering services for the preparation of future projects would be provided
by one or more local firms working with a principal foreign firm. This work
is estimated to require 550 man-months of servicn; at a cost, including the
cost of ground and surface water source explorations, of US$5.4 million equi-
valent. Management services and training in accounting and management fields
would involve a total of about 45 man-months of local and foreign expertise
and are estimated to cost US$0.5 million equivalent. Man-month costs are
estimated to average B 70,000 (US$3,500 equivalent) for local and US$9,800 for
foreign professionals inclusive of salaries, overheads, fees, travel, and sub-
sistence. During negotiations agreement was reached with PWWA that it would
employ engineering and management consultants for the above services whose
qualifications and terms of employment are acceptable to the Bank. Employment
of engineering consultants would be a condition of effectiveness of the pro-
posed loan.
Procurement
2.10      The nature and size of the civil works contracts - well drilling,
pipe laying, equipment installation and treatment plant improvements in widely
scattered locations and of relatively low monetary value (i.e., averaging less
than US$0.5 million equivalent with none exceeding US$1.0 million equivalent)
- are such that, in view of Thailand's well developed construction industry,
foreign firms would not be interested. Therefore civil works contracts (which
have a total value of US$14 million equivalent) would be awarded following
competitive bidding in accordance with local procedures. Contracts would be
advertised in Thai and English in the local press, specimen draft documents
would be in English and final documents would be in Thai. Foreign firms would
be eligible to bid and bid evaluation procedures would follow the Bank's
Guidelines for Procurement. PWWA forces would install some equipment, but
this is a relatively minor activity expected to cost less than 5% of the
estimated civil works expenditures.
2.11      Where feasible, equipment and vehicles would be grouped in contracts
of at least US$100,000 (with a total value of about US$18 million equivalent)
and would be awarded after international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Bank's guidelines. A 15% preference margin, or the prevailing
customs duty if lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in the
evaluation of bids. Equipment and vehicle contracts below US$100,000 would
be awarded under competitive bidding procedures of the Government which are
acceptable to the Bank. Selected items costing less than US$20,000 each and
in aggregate up to US$300,000, may for reasons of urgency or compatibility
and after prudent shopping be purchased directly from suppliers.  Contracts
for civil works and equipment estimated to cost US$500,000 or more, and for
equipment estimated to cost US$100,000 or more, would be submitted to the
Bank for review before bidding and before award; other contracts would be
submitted after award.



- 10 -
Disbursement
2.12     For equipment contracts disbursements would be made against 100% of
the foreign exchange cost of imported equipment, 100% of the ex-factory cost
of locally manufactured equipment and 65% of expenditures for equipment
procured locally. Disbursements for civil works would be at 25% of total
expenditures. For consultant services, disbursements would equal 100% of
foreign and local expenditures. Disbursement for all items would be made
against standard Bank documentation except expenditures for civil works by
force account would be disbursed against statements of expenditure with the
supporting documentation retained by the Borrower and held available for
inspection by Bank supervision missions. The project will be completed in
mid-1985 and disbursements from the loan are expected to be completed by
March 1986. The quarterly disbursement schedule is in Annex 3.
3. EXECUTING AGENCY AND PROJECT MANAGEMENT
3.01      PWWA would be the borrower and the Government agency responsible for
project execution. It was created in early 1979 by the Provincial Water Works
Authority Act of 1979, reports to the Ministry of Interior, and is responsible
for all piped water supplies outside the territory of the Bangkok Metropolitan
Water Works Authority. Formed by merging two predecessor agencies (para.
1.11), PWWA has a staff of about 5,500 persons and is responsible for plan-
ning, building and operating, or overseeing the operation of, the water
systems under its jurisdiction; at present, there are about 760 such systems.
Organization and Management
3.02      PWWA is governed by a board consisting of a chairman and 10 other
members, most of whom are officials from other Government agencies and
ministries and all of whom are appointed by the Cabinet for a three-year term.
The chief executive of PWWA, designated as Governor, has the responsibility
for day-to-day operations in accordance with the policies and regulations
prescribed by the Board. He is assisted by three Deputy Governors for
Technical Affairs, for Operations and Services and for Administration. The
management of PWWA is striving for decentralized operational control. Fifteen
regional offices have been established, each under a Regional Manager to be
responsible for all operational aspects including maintenance, accounting,
billing and collection of revenue, and for reporting to the headquarters at
Bangkok. The Immediate Improvement Program to be financed by the proposed
loan would also be carried out with the support of the regional offices.
PWWA's organization is shown in Chart 20886.
3.03      PWWA is established as a financially and managerially autonomous
state enterprise to build and operate piped water supply systems but the
charter limits the degree of autonomy; for example PWWA's tariffs must be



- 11 -
approved by the Cabinet. Experience in Thailand shows that, even under the
enterprise form of institution, political considerations play an important
role in the decision process, particularly with regard to tariffs.
3.04      PWWA's first Governor served in an acting capacity during the first
six months of PWWA's existence. A Vice-Rector of the National Institute of
Development Administration, he provided sound leadership during the initial
formation of PWWA in selecting qualified and experienced personnel for the key
positions and in setting up a sound organizational structure. In October,
1979 a permanent Governor was appointed. A sanitary engineer and former
Rector of Khon Kaen University, he has excellent credentials and has begun
addressing the problems of the new organization. The three Deputy Governors
are qualified and experienced in their respective fields and are supported by
capable staff, several of whom have academic qualifications from foreign
universities. PWWA is in the process of integrating its staff-4,800 of whom
came from PWSD and 500 from RWSD--and placing them into appropriate positions
and grades. It has improved staff benefits and compensation (having given an
initial salary increase of 20% to all employees).
Training
3.05      PWWA has a training program but this would be reviewed and improved
under the project. Technical staff would receive on-the-job training from the
engineering consultants working on the planning, design and construction. The
consultants for operations and maintenance (which would probably be from the
same group of engineering consultants) in addition to directly training key
staff would review and recommend improvements to existing PWWA operations and
maintenance training programs. Finally the consultants to be employed to help
PWWA set up management and accounting systems would train PWWA staff in their
use.
Water Systems
3.06      Upon its creation PWWA took over 190 urban water systems from the
PWSD and 570 piped rural water systems from the RWSD. PWWA owns and operates
the urban water systems with its own staff as did PWSD. These systems produce
about 436,000 and sell about 300,000 cu m per day. The populations of the
urban areas range from 4,000 to 105,000 and average 13,000; on average the
systems serve about 60% of the intended design population.
3.07      The rural systems acquired from RWSD are operated by local bodies
under the guidance of PWWA. They supply about 1,200 villages which have
populations ranging from 2,000 to 5,000 people; in all about 1.6 million
people live in these villages. Only about 30% of the populations in the
villages connect to the systems because alternative (but perhaps less safe)
water sources are frequently available at lower cost. In order to promote
greater use of safe water, agreement was reached that PWWA would by December
31, 1981, with the support of the Ministry of Public Health and Ministry of
Education and in consultation with the Bank, prepare a program for educating



- 12 -
the public in the advantages of using safe water supplies and thereafter
implement the program.
Accounts and Audit
3.08     Records of the local water supply systems of PWWA have been main-
tained on a cash basis and, together with information on assets, are incom-
plete. PWWA staff is in the process of establishing an accounting system and
is gathering information to prepare the opening balance sheet and other
initial financial statements (paras. 4.08-4.10). PWWA's accounts will be
audited by the National Audit Council but, initially, delays are expected in
the finalization and auditing of accounts because of the substantial work
involved in gathering information, establishing accounts and auditing them.
Accordingly, agreement was reached that PWWA will furnish to the Bank its
audited opening balance sheet and other financial statements for its initial
fiscal periods through September 30, 1980, and the auditor's reports thereon,
by September 30, 1981, and will furnish the audited financial statements and
auditors's report for each subsequent fiscal year within nine months after the
end of such year.
Project Organization and Management
3.09     The project will be managed by a special office (para. 2.08), created
in October 1979, which reports to PWWA's Technical Affairs Department.
Because of the nature of the Immediate Improvement component (i.e., numerous
small subprojects in scattered locations) and the decentralization objectives
of PWWA, the regional managers and the Operations and Services Department
would play an important role. Overall the project would be managed, and the
majority of goods and services procured, by PWWA's headquarters in Bangkok.
3.10     Consulting services in operations and maintenance would be under the
direction of the Operations and Services Department. Consulting services for
the studies and design component will be managed by PWWA's Technical Affairs
Department. Advisory committees comprised of relevant central and local
government agencies and interested groups will review proposed plans to ensure
that they meet national and local conditions and needs. Representatives from
the localities for whom the studies are conducted will be members of sub-
committees established to ensure that local preferences are heard and adopted.
Chart 20982 shows the organization for project management and execution.
Nonproject Works
3.11     In addition to the project, PWWA will continue to carry out the
routine programs of new works which it acquired from its predecessor agencies.
PWSD traditionally has done about six new urban systems per year, and RWSD
about 20 piped rural systems per year.  The urban systems cost on average B 20
million each, and the rural systems, B 3 million each. Over the four and
one-half year project period PWWA would spend about B 715 million for these



- 13 -
new works. In addition it intends to prepare and carry out a program to
rehabilitate its 570 piped rural systems. A preliminary cost estimate for
this work is B 125 million. The costs of the above programs would be met, as
in the past, by Government contributions until such time as PWWA is in a
position to finance them (Chapter 4 below).
Monitoring and Review of Progress
3.12       Monitoring of the progress of the project will be through quarterly
and annual progress reports prepared by PWWA. The progress reports will
include relevant data on physical and financial progress of the project.
Reporting formats for the progress reports were discussed during negotiations.
3.13       Performance indicators as listed in the Project File (Annex 9) will
serve as a basis for evaluatin-g progress towards the objectives of the
project, and these will be reported to the Bank on a periodic basis during
proj ect execution.
3.14       Periodic review of the progress of the project will be made by the
Bank. Review missions at about six-month i-ntervals are contemplated. Upon
completion of the project, PWWA would prepare a completion report within six
months of the closing date of the loan.
4. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
Record of Finances
4.01       Records of the local water supply systems of PWWA have been kept on
a cash basis and do not provide a complete picture of expenditures or account
for fixed assets, depreciation, receivables, payables or inventories. W4hile
records of cash receipts from water service have been maintained by the indi-
vidual systems, operating expenses have in large part been included with
expenditures for local public services other than water supply and cannot be
separately identified. Preparation of the normal financial statements and
projections have thus been constrained and are based to a considerable extent
on assumptions as to past operating results. These will be tested as the
project develops and sound accounting standards are established.
4.02       OperAting Results.  The financial statements presented for PWWA
cover primarily its urban water supply systems, presently numbering about 190,
which are operated by PWWA. They do not include revenues of the much smaller
rural piped water supply systems, about 570 in number, which though owned by
PWWA are operated by the local governments and the revenues from which are
used by them for local service. PWWA has no present plans to take over the
operation of the rural systems. It acts in an advisory capacity with respect
to such systems and provides from its budgets amoun-ts for a part of their
operating expenses and capital costs. These expenditures, which are



- 14 -
estimated to have been about 8% of the total operating expenses and 20% of
total capital costs of PWWA and its predecessors in FY78 and FY79, are
included in the financial statements of PWWA as operating expenses and capital
costs, respectively.
4.03      The following table summarizes for FY77-79 the estimated results of
operations of PWWA and its predecessors. The revenues are based on records of
actual receipts of the urban water supply systems, with FY79 partly estimated.
Because the records of actual expenses are incomplete, the expenses are based
on a detailed assessment by the PWWA staff of expenses for purposes of the
FY80 budget, with the figures duly adjusted for the earlier years. Data on
water production and sales are estimates. Details of these operating results
are included in Annex 4.
PROVINCIAL WATER WORKS AUTHORITY
FY ended Sept. 30                                        1977       1978       1979
Water produced (cu m millions)                            118        130        159
Water sold (cu m millions)                                 80         90        110
% sales to production                                      68         69         69
Number of connections ('000)                              215        235        255
Average water rate (B per cu m)                           1.9        1.9        1.9
---- (Bahts million) ----
Revenues                                                  169        196        238
Salaries and allowances                                   104        125        160
Other cash expenses                                       106        118        128
Total Cash Expenses                                  210       243        288
Surplus (deficit) before depreciation                     (41)       (47)       (50)
4.04      The above summaries indicate cash deficits from operations, before
allowance for depreciation, of B 40-50 million annually in FY77-79. Major
factors responsible for these deficits, despite increases in quantities of
water sold, are (a) the relatively low level of water rates, (b) inefficient
and under utilization of installed capacity, and (c) unaccounted-for water,
exceeding 30% of water production, which could be reduced through improvements
in the water systems. Measures to be taken under the project to increase
water rates, extend and improve plant utilization and metering, promote the
taking of connections and train staff for increased operating efficiency
should help to correct these deficiencies.



- 15 -
4.05      Rural Systems.  Available information on over 500 rural water supply
systems, operated by the local governments, is insufficient to determine their
operating results or to provide the basis for estimates. In FY78 the rural
systems had revenues of about B 31 million from water service to 88,000
connections. This amounted to about 14% of the total revenues and 27% of the
total number of connections for urban and rural systems. Information with
respect to quantities of water produced and sold by the rural systems is not
available, and figures gathered from the rural systems by PWWA on operating
expenses are incomplete. The expenses identified for FY78 total B 19 million.
However, in that year PWWA's predecessor agency for rural systems, the RWSD,
provided B 23 million for operating expenses of the rural systems, which
indicates that such systems were operating with deficits. Information to
clarify this situation is not available but would be developed by PWWA during
the project.
Establishment of Accounting and Data Systems
4.06      It is evident from the limited information available that accounting
and data collection systems need to be improved for both the urban and the
rural systems. In addition to the deficiencies in records of operating
results, the lack of information on existing fixed assets and other assets and
liabilities of the water systems (para. 4.01) postpones the time when balance
sheets can be prepared and operating statements completed. Moreover, there is
not sufficient basis, until the assets have been inventoried and valued, for
preparing meaningful balance sheets and determining deoreciation charges
affecting net income.
4.07      Equally important is the gathering of physical data, initially and
on a continuing basis, through establishment of a data collection system.
Such a system would inform management on a local and regional basis of such
important factors as population, population served, water produced and sold,
numbers of connections, water consumed by classes of customers and per capita,
and household income. This information, together with timely financial
statements would provide management with a sound basis for improving and
extending the water supply systems and resolving such issues as feasible water
rate levels and structures and cost recovery.
4.08      Because of the numerous urban and rural water supply systems in
scattered locations, the work of gathering accounting and physical data and
setting up the related systems is a formidable task which will require some
time to complete. PWWA central and local staff are engaged in a program to
inventory and assess the items required to prepare the opening balance sheet
and other initial financial statements. The fixed assets of the water systems
will be valued on the basis of approximate replacement cost, with allowance
for accumulated depreciation; the annual depreciation charges will be
determined on the basis of revalued gross fixed assets in service. PWWA
expects that by June 1, 1981 its staff will have completed its assessment, set
up a public utility accrual accounting system, and prepared its opening
balance sheet and other financial statements for its initial fiscal periods
through September 30, 1980.



- 16 -
4.09      Although the operation by the local governments of the rural water
supply systems of PWWA continues (para. 4.02), there is need for the develop-
ment of accounting and data collection systems for them. The ownership of the
rural systems is vested in PWWA, which is responsible for their progress, and
PWWA advises the local governments on them and provides funds toward their
operating and capital costs. In the light of these relationships, considera-
tion would be given in devising PWWA's accounting systems to the appropriate
accounting treatment of the rural systems in the financial statements and
reports of PWWA. PWWA intends to prepare individual and consolidated
financial statements for urban and for rural systems and consolidated
statements for each of the 15 regions and PWWA.
4.10      The work of gathering information for the initial financial state-
ments of PWWA, devising a modern public utility accounting system which fits
the needs of PWWA and the local water supply systems, and setting up a useful
data collection system would be the primary responsibility of PWWA's staff.
In view of the numerous operating units and the regional nature of PWWA's
operations, PWWA is considering the installation of electronic data processing
systems, at regional and headquarters levels. For the individual urban and
rural systems, standardized accounting systems, which will facilitate training
and interchange of personnel, will be developed. To assist PWWA, a consulting
firm which specializes in management and accounting will be engaged to
recommend and help install suitable accounting, management information and
data collection systems and to recommend organizational and staffing changes
and equipment and training needs required to operate the systems effectively.
Agreement was reached at negotiations that PWWA will (a) by December 1, 1980,
engage for this work management consultants whose qualifications and terms of
reference are acceptable to the Bank;/1 and (b) by June 1, 1981 complete the
gathering and assessment of the information (for both urban and rural systems)
required for PWWA's initial financial statements, install its public utility
accounting and data collection systems, and prepare its opening balance sheet
and other financial statements for its initial fiscal period May-September
1979 and its first full fiscal year ending September 30, 1980.
Financing Plan
4.11      Statements and projections of sources and applications of funds for
FY77-86 are in Annex 5. The financing plan for the project construction
period FY81-85, summarized from the projections for those years, is as
follows:
/1  Draft terms of reference are given in Annex 2.



- 17 -
FINANCING PLAN FOR PROVINCIAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT, FY81-85
B million      US$ million         %
Requirements of Funds
Capital expenditures
Project                               1,067             52.7           37.3
Interest during construction             133             6.6            4.7
Other works                            1,059            52.3           37.1
Total                                2,259            111.6           79.1
Cash operating deficits /a                 466            23.0           16.3
Working capital                            132             6.5            4.6
Total Requirements                   2,857            141.1          100.0
Sources of Funds
IBRD loan                                 810             40.0           28.3
Government equity
For project                             390             19.3           13.7
Other works                              889            43.4           30.8
Total Government Equity              1,270            102.7           44.5
Government subsidy /b                      525            25.9           18.4
Consumer contributions                     252            12.5            8.8
Total Sources                        2,857            141.1          100.0
/a Represents excess of PWWA's operating expenditures over operating
revenues.
/b Represents Government subsidy needed to meet cash operating deficits
in FY81-84.
4.12      The proposed Bank loan of US$40 million equivalent would provide
about US$33.4 million or 63% of the funds required to meet the project cost
of US$52.7 million as well as US$6.6 million for interest during construction
on the loan. Financing of interest during construction is proposed because
PWWA faces severe financial deficits which require substantial government
subsidies. Government equity contributions would provide the balance of
US$19.3 or 37% of the project cost. When the costs of other works and the
funds required to meet operating expenditures and provide working capital
during the project construction period are included, the total fund
requirements are US$141.1 million, of which 28% is provided by the Bank loan;
45% and 18%, respectively, by Government equity contributions and subsidy of



-18 -
cash operating deficits; and 9% by consumer contributions for service
connections. The financing plan is satisfactory. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that, until completion of the project, the Government will
provide to PWWA as equity (a) the funds required to meet the local costs of
the project and any cost over-runs on the foreign component, and (b) operating
expenditures, working capital requirements and debt service, to the extent
they are not met by funds generated internally by PWWA. It is intended that
PWWA's capital expenditures for other works will also be financed by
Government equity, since there would be insufficient income coverage for debt
service requirements to permit the issuance of additional debt (paras. 4.15
and 4.29).
4.13      The proposed Bank loan to PWWA would be guaranteed by the
Government and would be repayable over a period of 20 years, including a
five-year period of grace. The assumed interest rate is 8.25%.
Financial Proj ections
4.14      The assumptions underlying the financial projections for PWWA in
Annexes 4-5 are detailed in Annex 6.
4.15      The projected income statements show a continued increase in operat-
ing deficits of PWWA in FY80 and FY81 until a program of water rate increases
commencing in October 1981 is instituted. Although there would be sizable
increases in water production and sales as a result of the project and the
program of other works, initially the additional revenues would be more than
offset by increased expenses of operation because of higher production and
staff costs and prices. The projections indicate cash operating deficits
increasing to about B 130 million in FY80 and B 180 million in FY81. There-
after, as a result of the water rate increases together with improvements in
operating efficiency, deficits decline until FY85 when they are eliminated.
Water Rates and Billings
4.16      The number of connections in the urban systems total about 270,000,
substantially all of which are metered. An estimated 30% of the meters are
defective and cannot be used to determine the charges to the customers. About
80% of the total quantity of water sales is to residential customers, 10% to
commercial/industrial customers and 10% to government agencies. There are
relatively few public standpipes, and water consumption from them is
negligible.
4.17      The water rate charged for urban water supply is a uniform B 2 per
cu m except for government consumers, which are charged a rate of about
B 1.4 per cu m.  The average rate per cu m sold is about B 1.9.  The billings
to customers are calculated on the consumption recorded by working meters.
Customers with defective meters are billed on the average consumption for
the last three months in which the meter was working. The principle of



- 19 -
graduate_ water rates based on quantity use and ability to pay has not been
adopted in fixing rates, and rate levels have not been raised to keep pace
with increased expenses.
4.18      Sizable water rate increases will be required to enable PWWA to meet
operating expenses and debt service on the proposed Bank loan. The question
of reasonable and sustainable future rate levels is difficult in view of the
uncertainties as to demand, income patterns and capabilities of paying for
service. However, PWWA's management believes, on the basis of its experience
with the local water systems, that the proposed rate increases can be sus-
tained under a program of improved service, if introduced over a period of
years as assumed. The Provincial Water Works Authority Act of 1979, creating
PWWA, provides that before it can implement changes in water rates authori-
zation must be obtained from the Cabinet as well as from a committee whose
members are appointed by the Cabinet.
4.19      The present water rates would be continued in FY81, the first year
of the project, while PWWA is completing its assessment of the operations of
the local systems, initiating accounting and information systems and devising
a structure for the prospective increases in water rates. Commencing not
later than October 1981, the water rates of the urban systems would be
increased gradually so that by FY85 and thereafter their revenues each fiscal
year would be at least sufficient to cover cash operating expenses (i.e.,
excluding depreciation) of the urban systems and of PWWA's headquarters and
regional offices, and debt service. This would entail an increase in the
water rates each fiscal year to provide revenues at least sufficient to meet
the following percentages of operating expenses and debt service: FY82, 70%;
FY83, 80%; FY84, 90%; FY85 and each fiscal year thereafter, 100%. According
to the projections, this would require increases in the average water rates of
about 25% annually from FY82 through FY85. Agreement was reached with
Government and PWWA on this program of water rate increases.
4.20      The structure of urban water rates for the rate increases should be
reviewed by PWWA and a policy for rate structure formulated. A sample tariff
structure is referenced in para. 5.06 and outlined in Annex 8. Agreement was
reached at negotiations that PWWA, not later than June 30, 1981, will complete
such a review and, based on its findings and the Bank's comments thereon,
establish a water rate structure for FY82-85.
4.21      The projected urban water rates would not necessarily recover
depreciation charges or a return on capital investment. The rate increases
appear to be just within the ability of the consumers to pay (para. 5.06); a
higher level of water rates is not justified at this time. However, when a
sounder basis has been established for determining the expense levels of the
water systems, including the impact of depreciation charges, and when the
effects of the rate increases in the early years have been observed, this
situation should be reviewed. Accordingly, agreement was reached at negotia-
tions, that by September 30, 1985, PWWA will complete a reassessment of the
factors affecting urban water rate level and structure and implement such new
water rates as PWWA, the Government and the Bank shall agree.



- 20 -
4.22      With respect to the factors affecting water rates of the approxi-
mately 570 rural systems operated by local authorities, less information is
available than for the urban systems.  About 85,000 of the 90,000 rural
liousehold connections are metered, the balance are charged a flat rate.  There
is no information available as to the extent of deficient meters. The water
rates charged for metered rural water supply range from B 2-5 per cu m, the
variation being among communities, with B 3 the most usual rate.  There are
some unmetered taps in district offices and temples which provide water free
of charge. There is no information available on unaccounted-for water.
4.23      Because operating results of the rural water supply systems are not
known, meaningful conclusions cannot be reached as to cost recovery. It
appears from the identifiable expenses and the extent of subsidies provided in
past years by RWSD that cash expenses of the rural systems have exceeded
revenues (para. 4.05). It is unclear whether the revenues generated by the
rural systems under the operation of local authorities, or for that matter the
revenues of the urban water supply systems, have been used entirely to meet
expenditures for water supply, particularly where records of those expendi-
tures have not been separated from records for other public services (para.
4.01). These questions will be clarified upon the installation and
implementation of suitable accounting systems.
4.24      When a reliable record of operating results becomes available for
the rural systems, PWWA should study water rate levels and structures and cost
recovery for such systems and formulate and implement a policy with respect to
them. This undertaking would have the objective of eliminating, if feasible,
any operating deficits of the rural systems and reducing or eliminating the
subsidies provided by PWWA and the Government. Meanwhile, it will be
necessary for PWWA, mainly by means of Government contributions, to continue
to provide funds to support the rural systems. Agreement was reached at
negotiations that, not later than September 30, 1983, PWWA will carry out a
study of rural water rate levels and structures and cost recovery, recommend a
policy with respect to them and advise the local authoiities operating such
systems on the implementation of such policy.
4.25      The lack of information precludes an accurate comparison of billings
with collections. Water bills are rendered on a quantity, estimated or
flat-rate basis, depending on whether the connections have meters that are
working. PWWA's management indicates, on the basis of its experience with the
local systems, that payments of water bills are made fairly prGmptly and that
it has generally not been necessary to resort to cutting off service to secure
payment. The exception to this collection experience is certain Government
agencies which sometimes pay bills only after delays up to several years. The
annual billings to Government accounts are estimated to constitute about 5-10%
of the total billings to all customers. At negotiations, agreement was
reached that the Government will take all measures necessary to (a) pay, or
cause to be paid to PWWA not later than March 31, 1982, all unpaid bills
for water service to public agencies due as of September 30, 1980, and (b)
ensure that, commencing with FY81, all other amounts for service will be paid
when due and in no event later than sixty days after the date of billing.



- 21 -
4.26      In addition to the charges for water sales, consumers will continue
to be charged the initial cost of new service connections. In order to assist
low-income consumers in paying for water service, agreement was reached at
negotiations that (a) PWWA will give residential consumers the option of
paying for their water service connections in monthly installments, and (b)
water supplied through public standpipes will be metered and billed to the
consumers or to the municipality or other local jurisdiction in which the
standpipe is located at the lowest residential rate.
Future Finances
4.27      On the basis of the financial projections PWWA's cash operating
deficits from its urban water supply, headquarters and regional offices
operations would be eliminated commencing in FY85. Studies to be completed by
PWWA by FY85 would, on the basis of operating information and experience
developed in the course of the project, determine for subsequent years water
rate levels and cost recovery policies for both urban and rural water supply
systems. Thus, the project provides the opportunity to improve substantially
the financial outlook for urban and rural water supply in Thailand, which was
a major objective of the legislation creating PWWA.
4.28      Although the Bank loan would provide the major part of the funds
required for the project, the amount of the loan would constitute at the end
of FY85 only about 40% of the total capital expenditures of PWWA during the
project period and a much smaller proportion of its total assets. Debt
service would not be earned by PWWA until FY85, the period of time required to
implement the program of rate increases.
4.29      With regard to any indebtedness which might be proposed by PWWA,
agreement was reached at negotiations that PWWA will not incur long-term debts
without the consent of the Bank unless net income before interest and depre-
ciation is at least 1.5 times the maximum debt service in any future year.
5. JUSTIFICATION AND RISK
Project Justification
5.01     On taking over the operation of piped urban water supply systems,
PWWA staff conducted a survey which indicated that the systems were operating
on average at only 45% of the design capacity and serving only 60% of the
potential customers. The limitations on system performance were found to be
caused by aged plant, inadequate water sources, inadequate distribution
systems and connections, excessive leakage and improper system operation. The
survey showed that about two thirds of the systems are in need of repairs and
modifications including the replacement of pumps, motors, chlorinators,
chemical feeders and meters, the repair of filters, and the repair and



- 22 -
expansion of distribution systems and service connections. In addition about
20% of the systems are in need of larger water source capacities in order to
take full advantage of the installed capacities of treatment plants and
distribution, systems. The systems and regional offices were found to need
additional maintenance and repair facilities and equipment, and improved water
quality monitoring equipment and procedures. The Immediate Improvement
Program was formulated by PWWA staff specifically to correct these
def iciencies.
5.02     About 140 systems are covered by the Immediate Improvement Program to
be financed by the proposed loan. The program is expected to improve, over a
two to four and one-half year time span, service to about one million persons
and to provide new service to an additional half million people. The average
per capita cost for new customers served by the program is about B 800 ($40)
which is only 40% of the usual per capita cost of new water systems in
Thailand. The high productivity of this investment is attributable to it
being based upon improving, at modest cost, the utilization of existing plant.
The planning and design of improvements for each system includes an analysis
to ensure that the proposed selection is least-cost and effective (the format
for an analysis report is given in Annex 2). During negotiations it was
agreed that the analysis of subprojects estimated to cost in excess of
US$100,000 each (about 70% of the subprojects) would be reviewed by the Bank
prior to proceeding with construction; for other subprojects the analysis
would be kept on file and be subject to review by Bank missions.
5.03     Another important element of the project is its contribution to
building PWWA's institutional capacity. Under the project PWWA's operations
and its maintenance, accounting and training programs will be reviewed and
strengthened. Thus, in addition to having a satisfactory rate of return, the
project is justified on the grounds that it provides &n essential service at a
fraction of the usual cost, and that it helps develop an agency which has a
major responsibility for achieving Thailand's Drinking Water Decade
objectives.
Internal Rate of Return
5.04     In calculating the internal rate of return of the Immediate Improve-
ment Program, benefits have been taken as the incremental revenues earned
as a consequence of the Program, taking into account the gradual increase in
tariffs as agreed with PWWA and the Government; costs include the capital
costs relating to the Program and the incremental operating expenses necessary
to bring systems improved under the Program to full utilization. On this
basis, the internal rate of return is 8%. If one assumes that, beyond 1985,
tariffs will be increased in steps to cover, by 1989, PWWA's depreciation
requirements - consistent with the Government's policy of putting all state
enterprise on a sound financial footing - the rate of return is 11%. These
returns probably understate expected economic benefits since intangible bene-
fits, such as improvements in health and the quality of life, are not fully
reflected in the prices charged for water service.



- 23 -
Adverse Effects
5.05     The physical component of the project is expected to result in long-
term improvements in public water supplies in the 140 beneficiary towns. But
during construction there may be some disruption of existing water supply and,
possibly, vehicular and pedestrian traffic in lanes where new pipelines are to
be constructed. Also the additional supply of water will create additional
waste water. Waste water disposal and drainage is generally the responsibi-
lity of local authorities, but although PWWA has no responsibility for this
subsector its engineers have and would continue to advise local officials on
technical matters related to it. This project does not explicitly address the
drainage and wastewater subsector because it falls outside the purview of the
beneficiary, and because the remedial action would encumber and delay the
project, which is of an urgent nature, by requiring the collection of data on
town-specific problems and solutions involving the participation of a myriad
of local and central agencies. Drainage and sanitation is being addressed by
several other ongoing and proposed projects (see para. 1.07).
The Poor
5.06     In Thailand about 18% of the households living in towns have incomes
below the poverty line. In general the existing public water supply systems
benefit proportionally more middle income households than lower income
households. The improvements proposed under the project are designed to
broaden the numbers and increase the proportion of poor persons served.
The project would provide new service for about 300,000 poor people. It is
expected that, under a model tariff level and structure to be adopted, a
minimum wage earning family could afford to take a water connection and basic
quantity of 80 liters per person per day. (Annex 8 sets forth an exercise to
demonstrate a model tariff structure and the ability of low income consumers
to afford public water service). In order to encourage the taking of
connections, residential consumers would be given the option of paying for
their water service connections, which cover the costs of labor and materials
from the water main to the courtyard and the water meter, in monthly
installments (para. 4.26).
Risk
5.07     In addition to improving physical systems, this project has as a
major purpose the consolidation and strengthening of PWWA as an institution.
Mangement assistance is provided to help achieve this goal; however, there are
other factors which will influence the outcome. Most important is manage-
ment's ability to create a productive and harmonious working environment for
its staff, a task complicated by the fact that staff come from two Government
departments and are geographically dispersed. Putting PWWA on a sound
financial footing will also be difficult; in the face of inflation, operating
costs are expected to climb steadily while political pressures will seek to
keep tariffs down. Nonetheless, the application of the covenants on water
rates proposed in Chapter 4, are a major step toward achieving financial
viability. Because this is PWWA's first project involving foreign and local



- 24 -
consultants and international procurement, there may be delays in planning
and design and in procurement. These would be minimized by the use of
standardized investigative procedures, designs, specifications and contract
documents and by bulk purchases. There is also the risk that the physical
works would not be properly designed or installed. This risk is mitigated by
the diversity of the systems to be improved (a failure of one improvement has
no impact upon others) and by the checks which would exist in the interactions
between PWWA staff, the engineering consultants and the Bank. Finally, there
is a possibility that PWWA will, in its efforts to carry out the project,
divert attention from its other activities - particularly operations and main-
tenance of urban and rural systems. During negotiations, both delegations
acknowledged the importance of high standards for operation and maintenance;
clauses in the loan and guarantee agreements call for this, and the provision
of advisory services would help to ensure it. In all, the risks associated
with the project are considered acceptable in view of the priority attached to
supplying provincial areas with potable water and the need to establish PWWA
as an institution capable of performing this task.
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      Puring negotiations Government agreed that it will:
(a) undertake a review of institutional and funding arrangements and
development strategies for the supply of water to rural areas by
January 1, 1982 (para. 1.13);
(b)  provide to PWWA as equity, until completion of the project, the
funds required to meet (i) the local costs of the project and any
cost over-runs on the foreign component, and (ii) operating
expenditures, working capital requirements and debt service, to the
extent they are not met by funds generated internally by PWWA (para.
4.12); and
(c) ensure that the increases in water rates of PWWA set forth in
para. 4.19 will be put into effect.
6.02      During negotiations PWWA agreed that it will:
(a) prepare by December 31, 1981, a program for educating the public in
the advantages of using safe water supplies, and thereafter
implement the program (para. 3.07);
(b) by December 1, 1980, engage management consultants to help PWWA
install suitable accounting, management information and data
collection systems and to recommend organizational and staffing
changes and equipment and training needs required to operate the
systems (para. 4.10);



- 25 -
(c) by June 1, 1981, complete the gathering and assessment of the
information for urban and rural water supply systems required
for PWWA's initial financial statements, install its public
utility accounting and data collection systems and prepare its
opening balance sheet and other financial statements for its
initial fiscal period Mlay-September 1979 and its first full
fiscal year ending September 30, 1980 (para. 4.10);
(d) on October 1, 1981, commence a series of annual rate increases
for its urban water supply systems so that by FY85 rates would be
at least sufficient to cover cash operating expenses (excluding
depreciation) of the urban systems, of PWWA's headquarters and
regional offices and debt service (para. 4.19);
(e) by June 30, 1981, complete a review of urban water rate structure
for the water rate increases, and based on its findings and the
Bank's comments thereon, establish a water rate structure for
FY82-85 (para. 4.20);
(f) by September 30, 1985, reassess the factors affecting urban
water rate level and structure and implement such new water rates
as PWWA, the Government and the Bank shall agree (para. 4.21);
(g) by September 30, 1983, carry out a study of rural water rate
levels and structures and cost recovery, recommend a policy and
action with respect to them and advise the local authorities opera-
ting such systems on the implementation of such policy (para. 4.24);
and
(h) review the design of each system to ensure that it represents the
least cost solution, and send to the Bank those reviews which are
for subprojects estimated to cost in excess of US$100,000 (para.
5.02).
6.03      The employment of engineering consultants to assist PWWA in the
engineering design and supervision of construction of the project is a condi-
tion of loan effectiveness (para. 2.09).
6.04      The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$40 million equivalent
for a term of 20 years including a grace period of five years.
May 9, 1980



THAILAND
PROVINCIAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ACTIVITY SCHEDULE
Government Fiscal Year         1980                 1981                 1982                     19P                     1984                   1985                      1986
Calendar Year           1980                   1981                    1982                    j83                  1984                     1985                   1986
Quarter    1    213               i    2    3    4       1    2    3    4        1    2    3    4        1      3                                4      14
Elapsed Month              1 _                   13        19          25         31            37        43           49        54            60        66           69        75
A. Employ Engineering and Management
Consultants 
Prepare Proposals                                    *
Evaluate Proposals and Select Firms
Negotiate Contracts
Sign Contract and Begin Work                           I n
Loan Effective
B. Immediate Improvement Program, First Phase
Investigate and Plan
Design and Tender Documents
Procure Equipment                                                           T             _                  - _
Procure Civil Works
Build                                                                                                         --               -m                   
C. Immediate Improvement Plan, Second Phase
Investigate and Plan
Design and Tender Documents
Procure Equipment                                                                                       -     -    -_|
Procure Civil Works
Build                                                                                                                    I                 -    m     m     -     -    -     *                   Close Date
D. Prepare Future Projects
Reconnaissance Studies
Feasibility Studies
Final Design
E. Advisory Services and Training
Operations and Maintenance Services
Accounting and Financial Services
Training                                                                        -    -    -    -    -W                                                                                           B
World Bank - 21624



THAI LAND
PROVINCIAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PROVINCIAL WATER WORKS AUTHORITY
ORGANIZATION CHART
Board of Directors
Governor
Office of                                       O Office of                  Office of
Governor        j                            Internal Auditor              the Inspectors
Deputy for                                                          Deputy for                                                         Deputy for
Administration                                                   Operations & Services                                                Technica Affairs
|  _  _   l   _   l                                                         .    .                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Technical and
Personnel &             Financial &          Materials Purch-                                               Water Operations            Project                                      Project Planning
Clerical                                                                         ~~~~~~~~        ~        ~~~~~~~~Division  Office                  I    Dp  mn
Clerical              Accounting           asing & Supply                                                                                                                            Department
Department             Department               Division
Administra-  Accounting  Materials                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~Regional                        Engineering             Rural Water              Construction
L Administra-        [     Account ng   |            ater a s                                  Ofie                                     Deatmn                     Suppl               Supriso
tive Section              Section                Planning                                                                                         Department         l                 Suptersn
Personnel              Financial               Purchasing
Section     l    1     Section      l    S     Section           Administrative        Operations and
Section  Section                                  dministrative SectionMaintenance        Technical Section
Section              Section
Law                   Budgeting               Storage
Section                 Section                 Section                                                    Rural Water Works
Supply
Section                              Urban Water Works
Clerical            Operations        Customer Services
Section              Section               Section                                                          W
I   I I          I                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~World Bank -20886



THAILAND
PROVINCIAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Project Organization and Management
Immediate Improvement                                                                                             Management Services
Program                                                                                                     For PVWWA Centrl                                                                      Pretion of Future
for 140 Water Systems                                                                                             and Regional Offices                                                                       Proje.ts
|    PWA Department of Technical                PWWA Department of Operations                     Primary Responsibility   - PWWA Department of Administration
Affairs and                                     and Servicers                           Secondary Responsibility - PWWA Department of Operatiovs and                    Main Advisory Committee                         Advisory Committee
Regional Offices                     PWWA Operations of Local Waterorks                                                       Servces                                  (Representing National It-sts                       On. for Each Study
- PWWA Department of Technical                              and Standards)                               Area, Representing
4   |    Project Office. l  ;                                                                                                Affairs                                    i                                1 r                Local Interestsro n_
n neain erWWA Centrl                                                                                                           Management CoAsCetantntra
vnsaltant                           RePfgional Staff
Consultant  _  _    _    _ _   Regional Staff  ]                                                                                          l    Primary Responsibility   -Department of Technicalr Affairsilit    - Dpartent f Tehnicl Afair
l  l                                                                                                                     j s           l  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Secondary Ri,sponsibility -Department of Operations and
I  t   X   Z                                                                                                                    l                            -O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~perators of local waterworks
Investigate                                                                                        - Prepare initial financial statements                                                              PWWA           L  __
I ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _                                           Set up commercial accounting system                                                             Studies Office 
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N Pepae accounting and admini=nt                                                         | ,ti                                                        t 
- Train staff in procedures
CotrctrsPWAgore
|DesignW Dak    2
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ol Be k - 208



-29-
ANNEX 1
Page 1
THAILAND
PROVINCIAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Project Description and Cost Estimates
1.        A survey by staff of the Provincial Water Works Authority of
its 190 urban water systems indicates that water treatment plants are
operating at an average of only about 45% of the design capacity and only 60%
of the potential customers are being served. The constraints to more
efficient system performance and which adversely affect the quality ard
quantity of water produced are aged and worn plant and equipment, inadequate
raw water sources, leaks, blockages and broken meters in distribution systems,
and lack of funds to implement needed improvements. In addition, in about ten
municipalities full scale water supply development programs involving
feasibility studies, design and construction of new systems are required in
order to supply existing and projected populations. PWWA has therefore
requested Bank support for a project involving immediate and long-term
programs with the following goals in view:
(a) Strengthen PWWA organizational, management, accounting and training
systems.
(b) Restore existing water treatment plants and appurtenances and
improve operating efficiencies and production levels.
(c) Develop on an urgent basis new water sources and intake facilities
as required for those existing systems where installed treatment
or distribution capacities exceed water source capacity.
(d) In balance with increased production resulting from improvements,
extend distribution systems and connections to priority areas and
repair leaks and faulty meters.
(e) Carry out an extensive meter replacement and service connection
installation program for about 162,000 meters.
(f) Strengthen PWWA regional engineering, maintenance, operations and
water quality monitoring programs, and improve mobile equipment
rosters and meter repair shops.
(g) Prepare future projects for about ten larger municipalities.
Immediate Improvement Program
2.        PWWA regional engineers have made rapid surveys of the water sys-
tems and their findings indicate that about two thirds of the plants are in
need of repairs and modification including the replacement of pumps, motors,
production and customer meters, chlorinators and feeders, repairs to filters



-30-
ANNEX 1
Page 2
and plant drainage systems, and repairs and expansion of distribution systems
and installation of service connections. For about one third of the systems
there is a need to study and develop new water sources, and all of the systems
need additional support for equipment maintenance and repair and for water
quality monitoring and control.
3.        The correction of deficiencies and improvement of existing systems
is to be carried out under the project as the Immediate Improvement Program.
The program is divided into a first and second phase as follows:
(a) First Phase
Immediate improvements for about 100 provincial water supply systems
including rapid appraisals of needs, design, procurement and instal-
lation of equipment, and design and implementation of civil works.
(b) Second Phase
Immediate improvement feasibility studies, designs and construction
for about 40 towns experiencing serious water shortages and which
require exploration and study of alternative water sources before
improvements are designed and constructed. Activities include water
supply source investigations, feasibility studies, selection of most
feasible water source, design of civil works and equipment, procure-
ment of equipment, and construction.
4.        PWWA would be assisted in work on the Immediate Improvement Program
by engineering consultants. PWWA would also be the recipient of technical
assistance (under the UNDP Global Project in Appropriate Technology) in the
field of low cost distribution system design, and low cost design techniques
would be employed in the designs prepared under the project and for other PWWA
works.
Preparation of Future Projects
5.        Future projects for urban areas would be prepared by first
performing reconnaissance studies for about 15 areas; of these ten would
be selected by Government for study at feasibility level, and of these five
would be selected for final design (including the preparation of procurement
and contract documents). Engineering consultants would do the bulk of the
work. Selection would be based upon need, community interest and support, and
economic feasibility. A tentative list of cities is given below.



-31-
ANNEX 1
Page 3
City
Chonburi
Saraburi
Lopburi
Nakorn Rajasima
Ubon Rajathani
Khon Kaen
Udornthani
Chiang Mai
Lampang
Pitsanulok
Nakornsawan
Rajburi
Chum Porn
Nakhorn Srithammarat
Songkhla
6.        Work on the preparation of future projects in rural areas would be
(a) for the rehabilitation of existing piped rural systems, and (b) for new
rural piped and nonpiped systems.
7.        The Government has stated a preference for the use of grant funds
for project preparation and the Bank is assisting the Government in finding
such funds. To the extent such funds are used, savings in loan funds would be
reallocated to other PWWA needs as agreed between the Government and the Bank.
Advisory Services
8.        PWWA would also receive advisory services and training from engi-
neering consultants in the fields of operations and maintenance, and from
management consultants in the field of financial management. Outline terms of
reference for consulting and advisory services are given in Annex 2.
Cost
9.        Year by year local and foreign costs for implementing the project
and detailed cost estimates of selected project components are given in the
following tables.



THAILAND
PROVINCIAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Cost Estimate
(B million, 1980 base prices)
Local costs                                            Foreign costs
1981    1982    1983    1984    1985  Subtotal          1981    1982    1983    1984    1985  Subtotal    Total
A. Immediate Improvement
Program, First Phase
Civil works                    -     2.4    21.7    24.2         -    48.3             -      1.6    14.5    16.1         -    32.2         80.5
Equipment                      -        -    11.9    27.8        -    39.7             -      7.9   103.3    47.7         -   158.9        198.6
Engineering                  0.7     1.3      0.6      0.3       -      2.9          2.9      5.3      2.3     1.2        -    11.7         14.6
Subtotal A             0.7      3.7    34.2    52.3         -    90.9           2.9    14.8   120.1    65.0          -   202.8       293.7
B. Immediate Improvement
Program, Second Phase
Civil works                    -        -    25.0    33.2    25.0    83.2              -        -    16.6    22.2    16.6    55.4          138.6
Equipment                      -        -       -    14.1      9.4    23.5             -        -    18.8    56.4    18.8    94.0          117.5
Engineering                  0.4     4.0      1.5      1.5        -     7.4          1.2    13.0       4.7     4.7        -    23.6         31.0
Subtotel B             0.4      4.0    26.5    48.8    34.4   114.1             1.2    13.0    40.1    83.3    35.4   173.0          287.1
C. Preparation of future
projects                     1.6     8.1      6.5        -       -    16.2           6.5    32.4    25.9         -        -    64.8         81.0
D. Advisory services and
training                     0.8     1.0      1.0      1.0       -      3.8          3.8      3.8     3.8      3.8        -    15.2         19.0
Subtotal A-D           3.5    16.8    68.2   102.1    34.4   225.0             14.4    64.0   189.9   152.1    35.4   455.8          680.8
E. Contingencies
Physical                     0.4     2.1      8.2    12.2      4.1    27.0           1.7      7.7    22.8    18.3       4.2    54.7         81.7
Price                        0.5     5.4    34.8    68.7    28.7   138.1             1.7    14.6    64.0    66.8    19.4   166.5           304.6
Subtotal E             0.9      7.5    43 0    80.9    32.8   165.1             3.4    22.3    86.8    85.1    23.6   221.2          386.3
Total                  4.4    24.3   111.2   183.0    67.2   390.1             17.8    86.3   276.7   237.2    59.0   677.0         1067.1
x4



-33-                                  ANNEX 1
Page 5
THAILAND
PROVINCIAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Immediate Improvement Program: Detailed Cost Estimate for Equipment
(1980 base prices)
B million
A. Equipment for First Phase of Program
(About 100 towns and 15 Regional Offices)
Pipe  285 km  @ B 135/m                                                  38.5
Vehicles 355 ea  @ B 84,300 (avg)                                        29.9
Water meters 112,000 ea  @ B 440                                         49.3
Production meters 30  @ B 100,000 ea                                      3.0
Water service connections 38,800 ea  @ B 550                             21.3
Maintenance tools   L.S.                                                 23.2
Water test equipment   L.S.                                               5.5
Chemical feeders   L.S.                                                   7.2
Pumps and drives    L.S.                                                 18.7
Leak detection equipment  L.S.                                            2.0
198.6
B. Equipment for Second Phase of Program
(About 40 towns)
Pipe  214 km  @ B 135/m                                                  28.9
Vehicles  65 ea @ B 84,300 (avg)                                          5.5
Water meters  50,000  @ B 440 ea                                         22.0
Production meters 20 @ B 100,000 ea                                       2.0
Water service connection  50,000 ea @ B 550                              27.5
Maintenance tools   L.S.                                                  2.8
Chemical feeders   L.S.                                                   2.0
Pumps and drives   L.S.                                                  26.4
Preparation tanks L.S.                                                    0.4
117.5
Note: Quantities and prices are indicative and subject to revision during
final design.



-34-
ANNEX 2
Page 1
THAILAND
PROVINCIAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Consulting Services - Draft Terms of Reference
A. Engineering Services for Immediate Improvement Program
Ob j ectives
1.        The objectives of the engineering services for the Immediate
Improvement Program (IIP) are to investigate, analyze, plan, design,
procure and supervise the construction of the rehabilitation and expansion
of about 140 existing water supply system owned and operated by the
Provincial Water Works Authority (PWWA).
Background
2.        PWWA staff have conducted a survey of the water supply systems
they own and operate and have found that the systems on average operate at
only 45% of design capacity and served only 60% of their potential consumers.
The constraints identified which adversely effect the quality and quantity
of water supplied are malfunctioning plant and equipment and leaks,
blockages and broken meters in distribution systems. Moreover PWWA found
that with modest expansions of selected subsystems (usually water source
and/or distribution pipe and service connections) a proportionately larger
number of people could be served at relatively low cost. The IIP is
intended to repair and rehabilitate existing facilities and, where they can
be made rapidly and at modest costs, expand the capacities of selected
subsystems. Major expansions of capacity are not intended.
The Role of PWWA
3.        PWWA has established a Project Office which would have a chief, a
financial analysist and at least five engineers. Additional PWWA staff
resources would be made available to the Project Office as necessary. The
consultant would report to the Project Office, which would be responsible
for liasion within PWWA and with other government and external agencies.
4.        PWWA staff have conducted a survey and prepared reports on the
situations of 68 water systems. PWWA staff are knowledgeable of all systems
and possess selected data about them. The consultant would have access to
PWWA's records and to its staff, including regional staff not directly
assigned to the project.



-35-
ANNEX 2
Page 2
Tasks of the Consultant
5.        The consultant would do all work as necessary to fuliill the
objectives of these services. The major tasks are to:
(a) Develop the methodology, plan the timing of activities and
prepare descriptive charts for the carrying out of the investi-
gation, design, procurement and construction of the 140 sub-
projects of the IIP.
(b) Inventory existing facilities especially for capacities, sizes
and locations,and verify existing or prepare new maps showing pipe
sizes, connections, materials, valves, source and treatment
facilities and reservoirs. Inventory tools, spare parts and
chemicals; obtain name plate data. Alert PWWA if unauthorized
connections are found.
(c) Determine the condition of existing facilities. Identify broken and
partially closed valves, faulty air relief and vacuum valves, leaks
and excessive friction losses. Examine filter sand and underdrains
chemical feeders, motors, pumps and other key equipment. Check
floculation and sedimentation basins for shortcircuiting.
Calibrate water production meters.
(d) Determine hydraulic capacity of existing plants, pumps and
distribution systems, and determine which subsystems have
capacities t'hich do not match the overall system. For plants
compare the capacity of each unit with the theoretical capacity
of the design standard to which it was built. For distribution
systems use the computer analysis techniques provided to PWWA
under UNDP Project GLO/78/006. Also analyze the adequacy of numbers
of service connections.
(e) Where the water source is found to be inadequate conduct surface
and ground water source investigations; measure flows, evaluate
water quality, explore for ground water.
(f) Determine present day average and peak demands by category of
consumers including residental, government, commercial and
industrial.
(g) Determine the equipment and work required for the rehabilitation
of each subsystem (i.e., water source, treatment plant, reservoirs,
distribution system, service connections) to increase capacity to
meet demands. Plans for expansion should be only for work which
can be quickly and readily carried out at modest cost (i.e., no
major, long term expansions). Prepare preliminary designs and cost
estimates. Design the customer service subsystems (employing house
or yard connections or public standpipes so the needs of the poor
are equitably met.



-36-
ANNEX 2
Page 3
(h) Analyze the benefits and costs of the proposed work to ensure
that it maximizes cost-effectiveness. Prepare an Analysis Report,
the form of which is attached.
(i) Review PWWA's design criteria and recommend changes as appropriate.
Prepare standardized designs and contract documents.
(j) Prepare specific final designs and contract documents for work
to be done by contract using standard designs and specifications
to fullest extent possible. For work to be done by PWWA forces,
prepare instructions as necessary.
(k) Prepare procurement documents for support equipment such as
vehicles, maintenance tools, and laboratory and leak detection
equipment.
(1) As part of the planning and design process, the consultant may be
in a position to identify shortcomings in the way each system is
operated and maintained. If shortcomings are found, the consultant
should write a brief report suggesting corrective measures and
instruct the system operators in these measures as appropriate.
Also as part of the planning and design work identify and enumerate
the resources required to operate and maintain the rehabilitated
system. This would include labor, chemicals, power, fuel, tools
and parts.
(m) Assist PWWA in procurement, including advertising, receiving and
evaluating bids and making awards.
(n) Assist PWWA in monitoring the quality of procured equipment and
materials. Monitor the quality of construction. Certify progress
payments and the quality of completed work, and prepare as-built
drawings.
Reporting
6.        The consultant will prepare monthly reports on the progress of his
work; Analysis Reports for each subproject; tender evaluation reports; and
completion reports on the completion of each subproject (certifying to the
quality of the work).  He will assist PWWA staff in preparing monthly progress
payment documentation.
Work Schedule
7.        The consultant shall schedule his work so that the following target
dates will be met.



37                               Page 4
Item                                          Target date
(Months after consultant
contract is signed.)
Prepare detailed work schedule for these
consulting services, possibly on a CPM
format.                                                1 (November, 1980)
Prepare methodology for carrying out the
investigation, design, procurement, and
construction phases of the project                     2
Complete procurement documents for general
use equipment such as vehicles, meters,
pipe, laboratory and leak
detection equipment.                                   6
Complete the investigations, preliminary
designs, cost estimates and Analysis
Reports for the first batch of about
30 systems                                             8
Complete procurement documents for first
batch of systems.                                     12
Complete the preparation of investigations,
preliminary designs, cost estimates and
Analysis Reports for last/l batch of
systems.                                              20
Complete procurement documents for last
batch of systems.                                     24
Complete construction of first batch of
systems.                                              28
Complete construction of last batch of
systems.                                              56 (July, 1985)
/1 There would be several intermediate batches as determined by PWWA
and the consultant. This schedule shows the timing of activities
for the first and last batches only in order to depict the starting
and completion dates of major activities.



-38-                             ANNEX 2
Page 5
(Attachment I to Draft
Terms of Reference for
Engineering Consultants)
THAILAND
PROVINCIAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Analysis Report
Name and No. of system                        PWWA Region
Province                _                     Report prepared by:   _
(name and date)
Report reviewed by:
(name and date)
Before                After
rehabilitation       rehabilitation
(1980)               (1985)
I.   Service Level
Total population
No. of houses
Population served
No. of connections
House
Standlpipe
Commercial
Industrial
Government
Total
II. Capacities
Wells (no. and yield)
Source pumps (no. and capacity) /1
TransmLssion pipe (length and dia.)
Sedimentation (avg. and max.)
Filtration (avg. and max.)
Clearwell
Distribution pumps
Distribution system
Pipe sizes (mm)
Lengths (m)
Storage (cu m)
/1 Capacities of various components should be expressed in common units such
as cu m/day.



ANNEX 2
-39-                        Page 6
(Attachment I to Draft
Terms of Reference for
Engineering Consultants)
Before                After
rehabilitation       rehabilitation
(1980)               (1985)
III.  Operating Data
Water produced cu m/mo
Water produced liters/
capita served/day
Water sold
Water sold * water produced (%)
Value of water sold (billings)(B/mo.)
Value of collections (B/mo.)
Operating costs (B/mo.)
Wages
Energy
Chemicals
Other
Total
Operating cost per cu m produced
Operating cost per cu m sold
No. of employees
Energy (kw-hr/mo)
(liter fuel/mo)
Chemicals (chlorine, kilos/mo)
(alum, kilos/mo)
(other)
Vehicles (by type)



_40_                         ANNEX 2
Page 7
(Attachment I to Draft
Terms of Reference for
Engineering Consultants)
IV. Rehabilitation items, unit price and total price
Item                  No./length/capacity    Unit price    Total price
A.  Equipment
Wells
Source pumps
Production meters
Transmission pipe
Treatment plant
Chemical feeders
Distribution pumps
Distribution storage
Distribution pipe
Service connections
House
Standpipe
Other
Customer meters
Vehicle3
Miscellaneous
Total A.
B. Civil Works Contracts
(describe nature of work)
Force Account
Total B.
Total Cost of Rehabilitation (A + B)
V.  Sketch of existing system and
proposed improvements
(on separate sheet)



ANNEX 2
-41-                          Page 8
(Attachment I to Draft
Terms of Reference for
Engineering Consultants)
VI. Schedule of works
Target date      Actual date
Centrally procured equipment
Place order
Receive equipment
Civil works (describe nature of work)
Advertise
Open tender
Award
Notice to proceed
Complete
Force account (describe nature of work)
Begin work
Complete work
VII. Benefits
Household beneficiaries (nos. of persons)
with improved service
with new service
- by house connection
- by public standpipe
Commercial beneficiaries
Industrial beneficiaries
Government beneficiaries
Cost per capita of improvement /1
/1   Total cost e sum of population benefitting.



ANNEX 2
-42-                           Page 9
B. Operations and Maintenunce ,.dvisory Services for Urban and Rural
Systems /
(a) Review existing situation with regards to:
- allocation of responsibility for operation and maintenance
among PWWA and local entities;
- number and qualification of staff;
- location, nature and condition of existing and proposed
facilities;
- flow measurement and leakage;
- inventory of spare parts and supplies (such as fuels, chemicals
and building materials);
- logistical system for procuring and distributing
operations and maintenance equipment, parts and supplies;
- record keeping, monitoring and control; and
- financial resources for operation and maintenance.
(b) Recommend on and assist in implementing:
- allocation of responsibilities for operation and maintenance
among PWWA and local entities;
- organization for operations and maintenance and related inter-
office communications;
- staff numbers and location;
- a training program for operations and maintenance;
- management of staff and of the performance of work;
- budgeting for adequate operations and maintenance;
-  cost control;
- inventories: types, numbers, locations, controls;
-  procurement and distribution of equipment and supplies;
- scope, management and control of force account work;
- management of preventive maintenance;
/1 These services would probably be provided by the same consultants that
provide the engineering service for the Immediate Improvement Program.



-43-                          ANNEX 2
Page 10
- nature and type of mobile and construction equipment and tools;
- flow measurement and leakage control;
- monitoring and control of water quality.
(Operations and maintenance advisory services are estimated to require 17
man-months of professional services)
C.   Preparation of Future Urban Water Supply Projects
(a)  Conduct reconnaissance studies for 15 cities
-  Evaluate existing conditions - population; water demand for
domestic and other needs; equity of water service to various
income groups; existing public and private water
supplies; quantities, qualities, reliability; water supply
deficits and impact upon community; community's interest in
having expanded water supply.
- Outline possible solutions - conservation; improved use of
existing facilities; expanded source of supply; new or
expanded facilities.
- Evaluate costs and benefits of recommended solution;
- Rank the 15 urban areas in order of priority, using as criteria
community interest, present water supply deficit, impact upon
poverty group, cost/benefit comparisons.
- Prepare a report for each area, and a summary report.
(This work is estimated to require one to two man-months per area).
(b) Prepare feasibility studies for ten of the above urban areas (as
selected by PWWA). In this regard elaborate and perform in
greater detail the work required under A. In addition:
- Conduct hydrologic and subsurface investigations as necessary.
- Determine water source and recommend a least cost capital
expansion program to meet expected demands through 1995;
- Ensure that the expansion program equitably meets the needs of
the poor and that it is compatible with probable longer range
urban and water supply development needs.
- Prepare preliminary designs and cost estimates.
- Identify system deficiencies which can be quickly and simply
corrected in the form of preproject rehabilitation work and
prepare a program for carrying out such work.



ANNEX 2
Page 11
-  Prepare financial statements for last two years and for the
project period and 5 years beyond: statements of income and
expenses, balance sheet and sources and applications of funds
with appropriate supporting data and explanation of assumpt-
tions used for projections. Reflect and set forth recommended
water rate levels and structures and assess the consumers'
ability to pay on the basis of estimates of household income.
-  Review and recommend on organization of the water utility.
-  Review and recommend on staffing and training needs.
-  Review the cities' waste water and drainage problems and out-
line possible physical solutions.
-  Prepare a report for each city.
(This work is estimated to require 20-40 man months of professional services
per area).
(c) Prepare final designs and contract documents for five of the
above urban areas (as selected by PWWA).
- Prepare design drawings
- Prepare construction and equipment specifications
- Prepare procurement documents
- Prepare bills of quantities and detailed cost estimates.
(This work is estimated to require 20-40 man-months of professional
services per area).
D. Financial Management Services
Background and Obiective
1.        The Provincial Waterworks Authority (PWWA) plans a program of
immediate improvements to upgrade selected water supply systems so they
can operate at greater capacity in population centers where the demand
for water exceeds the supply presently available. PWWA intends to obtain
technical assistance of consultants to assist it in implementing the
immediate program, preparing master plans and feasibility studies for
longer-range expansion of water supply systems and providing assistance in
operation and management.



-455                          ANNEX 2
Page 12
2.        In order to enhance its capability to carry out the program of
expansion of water supply systems and to conduct its operations effectively,
PWWA propcoses to review and make appropriate changes in its organization and
managemei;.. To assist PWWA in this undertaking, a consulting firm which
specializes in management and accounting will be engaged to recommend and
help install suitable accounting and management information systems and to
recommend organizational and staffing changes required to operate the
systems effectively.
Scope of Work
3.        The consultant will review the operations of PWWA and its existing
accounting system. It will recommend a modern public utility accounting
system and prepare a system of accounts for PWWA, including systems for
construction cost accounting and flows of project funds.
4.        In formulating the accounting system, the consultant will take
into consideration the regional nature of PWWA's operations and devise
suitable systems for accounting and financial reporting by individual
urban and rural water supply systems and regions as well as for the central
and consolidated operations of PWWA.
5.        The consultant will recommend a management information system,
which will provide adequate and timely information and reports to PWWA
management and external organizations on PWWA's operations. The reporting
system will be based on the consultant's evaluation of the information
requirements of PWWA's management including the need for information to
assess the performance of individual water supply systems or regions as
well as the overall operations of PWWA (para. 4). It will include the means
for gathering data to aid management in planning extension of service, such
as data on population served, water produced and sold, numbers of connec-
tions, water consumption by categories of customers and per capita, house-
hold income, etc. The system will also include procedures for preparing
annual budgets and for longer-range financial forecasting.
6.        The consultant will make specific recommendations regarding
equipment, staffing and training needs required to operate the recommended
systems effectively. PWWA would be prepared to consider electronic data
processing systems if this would be economically viable, and analysis
of computer needs will take into account engineering and technical
applications in addition to those for accounting, finance and operations.
7.        The consultant will review the financial information presently
available or required to be obtained to form an adequate basis for
initiating the accounting system and preparing the initial financial
statements. The consultant will assist PWWA staff in developing formats
and procedures for assembling or obtaining such information, including the
inventory and assessment of the fixed assets of the PWWA water supply
systems.



-46-                            ANNEX 2
Page 13
8.        The consultant will prepare accounting manuals for the systems
approved by PWWA and will assist it in the implementation of the system
and the training of staff for that purpose.
9.        In order to give effect to the recommended systems, the consult-
ants should review and recommend any necessary amendments to PWWA's
financial regulations or legislation governing accounting and financial
management procedures.
Timetables and Reports
10.       The advisory services will be divided into three phases.  At the
end of the first phase lasting 3 months, the consultant will prepare an
interim report outlining the principal features of the recommended account-
ing and financial management systems together with organizational and
staffing changes and training and equipment required to operate the systems.
11.       During the second phase, lasting about 2 months, PWWA, Government
and the Bank will discuss the consultants' recommendations.
12.       During the third phase, lasting about 18 months and including one
complete fiscal year and completion of final accounts thereon, the consult-
ants will further develop the systems and training programs incorporating
any amendments discussed with PWWA and the Government, prepare operating
manuals and draft any necessary financial regulations and amendments to
relevant legislation; and assist in implementation of the systems. In
about six months after the end of the third phase work, the consultants
will return for a period of about two months to assist PWWA in resolving
any problems which may have been experienced in operating the systems.
13.       After the systems have been operating for not less than 12 months
the consultants will prepare a report to PWWA covering (i) the consultants'
assessment of the effectiveness and weaknesses of the revised systems
together with actions necessary to remedy any serious operating problems;
and (ii) the consultants' assessment of personnel engaged in the accounting
and financial management systems and the extent of additional staff changes
and further personnel training required.
The Consultant's Proposal
14.       It is envisaged that the consultant's services will require 30 to
50 professional man-months of advisory services intermittently over a 36
month period. Proposals should specify the consultant's approach to pro-
viding the services, a work program and staffing plan together with
curricular vitae of individual staff proposed and summary information
relating to the organization's experience in providing services of the type
proposed.
15.       In its evaluation of proposals PWWA will assign the weights of
(i) 50% for qualifications and experience of proposed staff; (ii) 25% for



ANNEX 2
Page 14
proposed approach in the provision of services; and 25% for organizations'
relevant experience.
16.       The consultants should submit a separate, sealed proposal of the
fee indicating the man-month rates for each proposed team member and the
extent of total payment in foreign exchange.
PWWA Inputs
17.       PWWA will provide the consultant with office space as requested
in its proposal. PWWA staff and officers will be available for interviews
about their work and the existing financial systems. The relevant staff will
be delegated as counterpart staff who would work with and prepare informa-
tion reasonably requested by the consultants, and who would supervise
implementation of the supported systems. The Governor of PWWA will appoint
a steering committee to oversee the consultant's services and review their
recommendations. Free access shall be given the consultant to all non-
confidential records, and with the Governor's consent, to confidential
records and financial data pertinent to their services.
Conditions and Limitations
18.       PWWA reserves the right to reject any submission and to accept any
submission in part and in full.
19.       Submissions must reach the office of the Governor of PWWA on or
before                    .  Submissions received later will not be considered.



-48-                               ANNEX 3
THAILAND
PROVINCIAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Quarterly Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
Bank FY &
quarter                     Cumulative                   % of
ending                     disbursement                  total
1981
12/31/80                         0.1
03/31/81                         0.3                         1
06/30/81                         0.6                         2
1982
09/30/81                         0.9                         2
12/31/81                         1.5                         4
03/31/82                         2.3                         6
06/30/82                         3.7                         9
1983
09/30/82                         5.0                        13
12/31/82                         8.5                        21
03/31/83                        11.5                        29
06/30/83                        15.2                        38
1984
09/30/83                        17.9                        45
12/31/83                        22.5                        56
03/31/84                        26.0                        b5
06/30/84                        30.2                        76
1985
09/30/84                        32.4                        81
12/31/84                        34.4                        86
03/31/85                        36.4                        91
06/30/85                        37.6                        94
1986
09/30/85                        38.8                        97
12/31/85                        39.6                        99
03/31/86                        40.0                       100



THAILAND
PROVINCIAL WATER WORKS AUTHORITY
Income Statements FY77-78 and Projected FY79-86
(Bahts million)
Fiscal year ending September 30
1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985.   1986
Water produced (cu m millions)                    118    130    159    180    203    225    250    275          300    325
Water sold (cu m millions)                         80      90    110    126    144    162    183    204         222    241
Percent sales to production                        68      69     69      70      71     72      73      74       74     74
Number of connections (thousands)                 215    235    255    275    295    325    355    385          415    445
Number of employees (thousands)                   4.4    4.8    5.3    5.8    6.0    6.3    6.5    6.8           7.1    7.4
Average water rate per cu m                       1.9    1.9    1.9    1.9    1.9    2.4    3.0    3.8          4.7    5.3
Operating Revenues
Water sales                                     150    170    210    240    276    389    555    771   1,041  1,287
Other                                            19     26      28      40     48      25      27      30      32      35
Total Operating Revenues                   169    196    238    280    324    414    582    801   1,073  1,322
Operating Expenses
Salaries and allowances                         104    125    160    242    290    348    418    501          601    721
Electricity                                      34     38      40      53     66      81      99    117      138    161
Chemicals                                        18     20      22      30     37      46      56      66      78      90
Fuel and lubricants                              14     15      16      22     27      34      41      50      59      69
Maintenance materials                             8       9     10      13      16     19      24      29      34      40
Connection materials                             14     15      16      22     25       -       -       -       -       -
Other expenses                                   18     21      24      32     45      55      69      87     104    122
Total Operating Expenses                  210    243    288    414    506    583    707    850   1,014  1,203
Operating income (loss) before depreciation   (41)   (47)   (50)  (134)  (182)  (169)  (125)   (49)               59    119
Interest charged to operations                      -       -      -       -       -      -       -       -        -     65
Net income (loss) before depreciation             (41)   (47)   (50)  (134)  (182)  (169)  (125)   (49)           59      54
Government subsidy                                 41      47     50    134    182    169    125         49        -       -
Balance                                                                                                           59     54



THAILAND
PROVINCIAL WATER WORKS AUTHORITY
Sources and Applications of Funds FY77-78 and Projected FY 79-86
(Bahts million)
------------- Project Period -------
Fiscal year ending Sep. 30                       1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984    1985  Total  1986
Sources of Funds
operating income (loss)
before depreciation                           (41)   (47)   (50)  (134)  (182)  (169)  (125)   (49)           59   (466)  119
Government subsidy                               41      47     50    134    182    169    125         49        -    525      -
Consumer contributions                            -       -      -       -       -     55      60      66       71    252    76
Loan - IBRD - Project                             -       -      -       -      18     83    261    286        162    810      -
Government Equity:
For project                                     -       -      -       -       9     37    147    174        23 -  390       -
Other works                                   137    213    232    274    215    186    181    178           120    880   203
Total Govt. Equity                          137    213    232    274    224    223    328    352          143  1,270   203        0
Total Sources                               137    213    232    274    242    361    649    704          435  2,391   398
Applications of Funds
Capital expenditures
Project                                         -      -       -       -     22    111    388    420        126  1,067       -
Other works                                   137    213    232    309    205    220    211    203          220  1,059   240
Total Capital Expenditures                  137    213    232    309    227    331    599    623          346  2,126   240
Debt service
Interest                                        -      -       -       -      5       9      20     40       59    133    65
Principal                                       -      -               -      -       -       -       -       -             54
Total Debt Service                           _       -       -      -       5       9     20      40       59    133   119
Working capital increase (decrease)               -       -      -    (35)    10       21      30      41      30    132    39
Total Applications                        137    213    232    274    242    361    649    704           435  2,391   398
.  .                                       .            _ .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1/



-51-
ANNEX 6
Page 1
THAILAND
PROVINCIAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial Statements
General
1.        The financial statements of the Provincial Water Works Authority
(PWWA) in Annexes 4 and 5 - income statements and statements of sources and
applications of funds - cover primarily the operations of the urban water
supply systems of PWWA, including those of its predecessor agencies prior to
May 1979. They do not include revenues of the rural piped water supply
systems, which are operated by the local governments and the revenues from
which are used by them for local service. PWWA acts in an advisory capacity
with respect to these rural systems and contributes from its budgets amounts
for a part of their operating expenses and capital costs. These expen-
ditures, which are a small proportion of the total for urban and rural
systems, are included in the financial statements as costs of PWWA.
2.        Separate records of cash receipts from water service have been
maintained by the local systems, but operating expenses have in large part
been included with expenditures for local public services other than water
supply and cannot be separately identified. For purposes of PWWA's FY80
budget, PWWA staff have analyzed and estimated the operating expenses and the
capital expenditures of the urban systems, and of PWWA's headquarters and
regional administration, together with the expected contributions of PWWA
toward capital and operating expenditures of rural systems. These budget
estimates are the primary basis for estimating the operating expenses for
FY77-79 in the annexed financial statements of PWWA.
3.        There is no accounting by the local systems for fixed assets,
depreciation, receivables, payables or inventories. PWWA is engaged in a
program to inventory and assess these items, including the fixed assets which
it will value for its opening balance sheet on the basis of approximate
replacement cost, less allowance for accumulated depreciation. PWWA staff
expects by June 1, 1981, to have completed this assessment, set up a public
utility accrual accounting system, and prepared its opening balance sheet and
other financial statements for its initial fiscal periods through
September 30, 1980. Because of the present lack of information required for
the preparation of balance sheets, none is included with the annexed financial
statements.
Income Statements
4.        Operating revenues for FY77 and 78 are based on actual receipts
from water service; for FY79 on estimates derived from actual figures for



-52-                              ANNEX 6
Page 2
part of the year; for FY80 on the budget estimates of PWWA; and for FY81-86
on the increased delivery capacity of the urban water systems expected from
the construction program. Other water revenues consist primarily of charges
for new service connections, meter rentals and meter repair charges. The
number of new connections are estimated at 20,000 annually for FY80 and FY81
and 30,000 annually thereafter by reason of the project and increased
capability to install connections. Starting with FY82, connection costs,
financed under the project, are to be included as fixed assets and consumer
contributions in balance sheets and sources of funds statements rather than in
the income statements (para. 13).
5.        Unaccounted-for water is projected to decrease gradually from 31%
of water produced in FY79 to 26% in FY84-86 as a result of the improvement
program and the operation of new systems.
6.        Continuation of the existing water rates of B 2 per cu m for
household and commercial/industrial services and B 1.4 for government
accounts, or an average of about B 1.9 for all service, is assumed through
FY81. Water rates would then be increased gradually to cover by FY85 and
thereafter cash operating expenses (operating expenses excluding depreciation)
and debt service on the Bank loan to finance the foreign exchange cost of the
project. The percentages of.such cash operating expenses and debt service
covered ly the water rate increases would be 70% in FY82, 80% in FY83, 90% in
FY84 and 100% in PY85 and each fiscal year thereafter.
7.        It is assumed that with increased levels of water sales and rates,
2% of annual water sales (included in other operating expenses) will be
written off as bad debts.
8.        Operating expenses for FY77-80 are estimated on the basis of PWW7A
staff assessments of expenses for the FY80 budget, duly adjusted for the
earlier years (para. 2); and for FY81-86 at increasing levels necessary to
provide extended service and to operate the systems adequately. Salaries and
allowances for FY80 are the budget estimates adjusted to reflect from January
1980 a 20% salary increase, equivalent to that awarded Government employees.
Froim PT71 on, the projections assume a 4% annual increase in the total number
of staff of headquarters, the regions and the urban systems and a total of 15%
annually for regular step increases in basic rates and for general wage
increases by reason of inflation. Other operating expenses are increased in
proportion to the increases in water production and for assumed price
increases at the rates of 10% annually for FY81-83 and 8% annually thereafter.
9.        No allowance is made for depreciation because of the lack of
information on the fixed assets of the water supply systems pending PWWA's
inventory and assessment (para. 3).
10.       Interest on loans to finance the project is capitalized until the
end of construction in FY85 and is thereafter shown as a deduction from
operating income.



_53.                             ANNEX 6
Page 3
Statements of Sources and Applications of Funds
11.       The estimated capital expenditures for the project are from the
detailed project cost estimates in Annex 1, which reflect the rehabilitation
and improvement of a total of about 140 urban water supply systems in
FY81-85. The projected capital expenditures for other works assume a con-
tinuation of a program of construction of about 6 new urban water supply
systems and 20 smaller rural systems annually and improvement of some
existing rural systems.
12.       Changes in working capital are not shown for FY77-79 because the
information is not available. The decrease in working capital for FY80 is
the cash of PWWA at the beginning of the year which the budget estimates
will be expended during the year. Increases in working capital in FY81-86
are projected for each year at the sum of one month's increase in operating
expenses for cash balances, 10% of annual increase in operating revenues for
accounts receivable, and four months' increase in chemicals, fuel and
maintenance materials for inventories; less one-half month's increase in
operating expenses for accounts payable.
13.       Starting with FY82, estimated payments received from consumers for
the cost of new service connections are credited to consumer contributions
(para. 4). An average cost of B 1,500 per connection is assumed at FY80
prices, and is escalated for price increases at the rate of 10% annually for
FY81-83 and 8% annually thereafter.
14.       The foreign exchange cost of the project, including interest
during construction, would be financed by the proceeds of the Bank loan to
PWWA. The interest rate assumed for the loan is 8.25% annually, and the
loan would be repayable in 30 equal semi-annual installments of principal
over a period of 20 years, including a grace period of 5 years. The
projections assume that the date of the loan will be July 1, 1980 and that
repayments of principal will commence in FY86.
15.       It is assumed that the local cost of the project, the cost of
other works and the funds required to cover cash operating expenses, working
capital requirements and debt service will, to the extent not met by funds
generated internally by PWWA, be contributed by the Government to PWWA as
equity. In the projections, the funds generated internally by PWWA are
sufficient, commencing with FY85, to cover fully its cash operating expenses
and debt service (para. 6).



-54-                                  ANNEX 7
Page 1
THAILAND
PROVINCIAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Internal Financial Rate of Return
1.   Assumptions
(a) Of the 162,000 meters to be purchased under the project, 65,000 are
for new connections and 97,000 are to replace meters on existing
connections. Of the 120,000 new connections to be installed over
the period (1982-85), 65,000 will be for new consumers
under the project and 55,000 are for new consumers under
nonproject works.
(b) Before the project, consumers with connections draw an average of
125 lpcd. After the project, all consumers with connections would
draw an average of 160 lpcd.
(c) In 1981 about 2.8 million people will be served by the 190 piped
urban systems.
(d) The term "project" as used in this annex means the Immediate
Improvement Program. Nonproject works consist of 24 new urban
water systems which come on line in the period 1982-85. The piped
rural water supply activities of PWWA are excluded from this
analysis.
2.   Incremental Sales
Incremental sales 1982-85 per income statement are 78 mil cu m, of
which:
(a) 23 mil cu m are attributable to new connections installed under the
project. Calculation: 65,000 connections x 6 persons/connection
x 0.16 cu m/person-day x 365 days/yr = 23 mil cu m/yr.
(b) 36 mil cu m are attributable to improved service to persons con-
nected in 1981.  Calculation: 2.8 mil persons x 0.035 x 365 = 36 mil
cu m/yr.
(c) 19 mil cu m are attributable to new connection installed under
nonproject works. Calculation: 55,000 connections x 6 x 0.16 x 365
= 19 mil cu m/yr.
3.   Incremental Operating Expenses
Operating expenses in 1981 and 1985, per income statement are B 506 and
B 1,014 mil respectively, (equivalent to B 460 and B 653 mil in 1980 prices).



_55_                                  ANNEX 7
Page 2
Incremental operating expenses in 1982-85 are:
(653-460) = B 193 million.
Incremental operating expenses per incremental cu m of water produced
are:
B 193 mil. - 78 mil cu m = B 2.5/cu m.
4.   Incremental Revenues
For the period 1980-86, the rates under the covenant agreed with
Government and PWWA would be:
Water rate            Water rate
Year            (current prices)        (1980 prices)
----------- B per cu m ------------
1980                 1.9                      1.9
1981                 1.9                      1.7
1982                 2.4                      2.0
1983                 3.0                      2.3
1984                 3.8                      2.6
1985                 4.7                      3.0
1986                 5.3                      3.2
5.   Connection Fees
B 1,500 per connection, collected as connections come into service.
New      Connection
connections      fee
Year       in service    (B mil)
1 (1981)          0           0
2            13,000          19.5
3            26,000          39.0
4            19,500          29.3
5 (1985)      6,500           9.8
Total           97.6



-56-                                  ANNEX 7
Page 3
6.   Incremental Water Sales, Operating Expenses & Revenues
Attributable to Prolect
Sales to  Sales to               Water    Connec-             Operat-
present      new      Total      sales      tion    Total        ing
Year      consumers  consumers  sales    revenues   fees   revenues expenses
-------(cu m mil.)--------    -----------(B mil.)-------------
1 (1981)        0          0         0          0         0         0         0
2              12          0         12        24        20        44        30
3              24          8        32         74        39       113        80
4              36         16        52        135        29       164       130
5 (1985)       36         23        59        177        10       187       147
6              36         23        59        189         0       189       147
7              36         23        59        189         0       189       147
8              36         23        59        189         0       189       147
9              36         23        59        189         0       189       147
10-25           36         23        59        189         0       189       147
7.   Cost and Revenue Streams
Capital     Operating       Total     Total        Revenues
Year     cost         expenses       cost      revenues    less costs
------------------------(B mil.)----------------------
1 (1981)        5            0            5         0           - 5
2              34           30           64        44          - 20
3             181           80          261       113          -148
4             201          130          331       164          -167
5 (1985)       67          147          214        187          -27
6               0          147          147       189            42
7               0          147          147       189            42
8               0          147          147       189            42
9               0          147          147       189            42
10-25            0          147          147        189           42
8.   Rates of Return
(a) Internal financial rate of return with water rates as agreed with
Government and PWWA = 8%.
(b) Return with a 20% capital cost overrun = 6%.
(c) Return with water rates as in (a) above through 1985 and with further
step increases in 1986-89 to recover depreciation by 1989 = 11%.



-57-                          ANNEX 8
Page 1
THAILAND
PROVINCIAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Sample Tariff Exercise
Note: This example uses realistic numbers to demonstrate ability to pay
and to illustrate a model tariff structure.
1. Assumptions
(a) 20% of connections are low income residential who take "basic need"
quantity of 80 lpcd and must pay no more than 4% of the minimum
wage established by Government. Minimum wage is B 1,350/month
in 1979.
(b) 70% of connections are middle income which take 160 lpcd.
(c) 10% of connections are commercial or industrial which take
300 lpcd.
(d) Connection cost: B 1,500 payable by the poor in 60 monthly
installaments @ B 25 per month.
(e) Average of six persons per connection.
(f)  Government consumption would be charged at the average rate per
cu m necessary to cover O&M costs. (In this exercise, B 4.2
per cu m, see (4) below.)
(g) Real and inflationary income growth, 1979 to 1985, is 10% p.a.
2. Calculation of Ability to Pay
(a) Maximum payment for water service for lowest 20 percentile:
4% x B 1,350 = B54
less connection cost B25 = B 29 per month.
(b) Basic quantity (first tier):
6 persons/connection x 80 lpcd x 30 day/month = 14.4 cu m/month,
say 15 cu m/month.
(c)  Affordable price per cu m       B 29  =  B 1.9 per cu m.
15 cu m



-58-
ANNEX 8
Page 2
(d) If ability to pay increases 10% per year (representing real and
inflationary income growth) the lowest 20 percentile can afford to
pay B 3.4 per cu m in 1985.
3. Quantities Taken by Income Groups
(a) Quantity taken by lowest 20 percentile:
At base price:
80 lpcd x 6 persons per connection x 30 days per month x 20
=  288 cu m/month
(b) Quantity taken by 20-90 percentile
At base price:  80 x 6 x 30 x 70  =  1,008 cu m/month
At second tier price:
80 x 6 x 30 x 70 = 1,008 cu m/month
(c)  Quantity taken by upper 10 percentile
At base price:  80 x 6 x 30 x 10  =  144 cu m/month
At second tier price:
80 x 6 x 30 x 10 = 126 cu m/month
At third tier price:
150 x 6 x 30 x 10  =  270 cu m/month
Total quantity taken = 2,844 cu m/month.
4. Revenue Required
Revenue required to cover O&M costs in 1985 is B 4.7 per cu m
(per income statement). Therefore total revenue required for this quantity
of water is = 2,844 x B 4.7 = B 13,367.
(Since the price of water service to Government is charged at B 4.7 per
cu m, consumption by Government can be dropped out of the calculation.)
5. Income Calculation Assume three tier tariff structure.
Say first tier price (0-15 cu m/mo) is B 3.4/cu m
Second tier price (15-30 cu m/mo) is B 5.5 cu/m
Third tier price (more than 30 cu m/mo) = B 7.7/cu m
Then revenues are:
For first tier (288 + 1,008 + 144)(3.4) = 4,896
For second tier (1,008 + 126)(5.5)        = 6,237



ANNEX 8
-59-                              Page 3
For third tier (270)(7.7)                      2,097
Total            B 13,230
This approximately equals revenue required to meet O&M costs,
yet low-income residential consumers can afford a basic need
quantity therefore the assumed tariff level and structure is
satisfactory.



-60-                              ANNEX 9
THAILAND
PROVINCIAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Documents and Data in the Project File
A.  Sector Reports
Al. Thailand. Water Supply and Sewerage Sector Study; World Health
Organization/World Bank Cooperative Program; August 1976
A2. Thailand. Rapid Assessment Report, International Drinking Water
Supply and Sanitation Decade; May 16, 1978
A3. Thailand. Secondary Cities Sector Study; IBRD; October 25, 1979
B. Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B1. Project Document, Immediate Improvement Program;
Prepared by PWWA; December 13, 1979
B2. National Water Supply Program; Technical Assistance to
PWWA; Terms of Reference for Consultants; prepared by
Brian Grover; May 14, 1979
B3. Secondary Cities Mission - July/August 1979; Brian
Ellis' Filed Notes
B4. Systems Evaluation of Village Water Supply and Treatment
in Thailand; Richard Frankel; June 1975
B5. PWWA Immediate Improvement Program Year 1979-1981 (This document
details proposed work and benefits for 68 urban systems.)
C. Documents
Cl. Regional Water Works Authority Act - 1979
D. Documents for Project Implementation
Dl. Performance Indicators
D2. Reporting Forms



ICC   /                                         04~~~~~~~~~~~U
THAILAND
>Ni0>JI\                               ~~~PROVINCIAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
-2,   BURMA                          ''             Se                                                           [mrn.iaornpovnr2tprssa
    Na1ona  cap to
'                                  o~~~~~~~~~~~~~ (hangear (Pro .nc.a  ca~pitals
08   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ STowns or v I ages
- begi-na  bouindaries    n-i
Ca--  Au*nktros                         s                                              Interna' o,o  eco,dories
A                       As               t~~~~LAO
'2   ~~~>'             ' ~DEM. REP.
K-                                                                          'Er, t ,rts     K
5    ,      '    noW7>-              -'-  rn~~~~~~~1  Pos                                                    eljx,.suS
V3t~~~~~~~~~~~~~IK "'1-''... n hoe-
oon Aeo.C  lE                                 0 <
WCHAW    -                                           -----ME   EGO   EAOATESPAVNE
Is                                                      3    LoA,   1hhi,.4
7  '2                           ,'-oOhnn-                                                         4    Nkhon,n,o,  ,si,pa 
-j  or   ,,   ~~~~~~~~ not  ~~~~~ ~~,,   4                    0.             *~~ Lior Ka     RcVoOhhSSAS
nyu'   ,,  ~          *           5~- sep 51 rsjosUdO, Tose)
'2  e n    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                         4y59,S  *y        , jar~~~~~~~~~~ Chag OS
(,   Sn  rs9h  ~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~ ~~         't2KK?             ~       9      .1p.g 
9<'-,,,, NoIE,,oPROC   \C'L A Tn- ORKS  AUHRT
2    Sasgburi                6
a                                                              3    Lop Ou
ft          I                 4    Hanson Ratchasinsa 4CIA I
0       '    ,                   q                                      lj5oiK-O-  i          B    (llang MaiE
ioc     20 0           300                                                     2              bNnhn ,T, nnra 
O                2;~~~&
5                                        I<                            55,0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~So,, POR
MO2, 
U                               of  Th~~~~N  AL/AYSAINn-dqEt



