4sAJ. zo85-UJIi
Documnent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3177-UNI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
NATIONAL ELECTRIC POWER AUTHORITY
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR A
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
December 11, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization,.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =   Naira (N)
US$1            =   NO.55
Ni              =   US$1.82
MEASURES AND UNITS OF MEASUREMENT
1 kilometer (km)           =   0.62 mile
1 kilovolt (kv)            =   1000 volts
1 megawatt (MW)            =   1,000 kilowatts
1 megavolt ampere (MVA)    =   1,000 kilovolt ampere
1 ton of oil equivalent    =   1,000 million keal
(t.o.e.)
ABBREVIATIONS
ECN       -    Electricity Corporation of Nigeria
EIB            European Investment Bank
NDA       -    Niger Dams Authority
NEPA      -    National Electric Power Authority
FISCAL YEAR
January 1     -    December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NIGERIA - POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      National Electric Power Authority (NEPA)
Guarantor:     Federal Republic of Nigeria
Amount:        US$100.0 million, equivalent
Terms:         Payable over 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at an
interest rate of 11.6 percent per annum. The Borrower
would carry the foreign exchange risk.
Project        Complementing the expansion of the Lagos distribution system
Description: that was financed in part by Loan 1766-UNI, the proposed
project would rehabilitate and expand distribution facilities
in 23 other cities and towns throughout Nigeria. In addition,
power lines and substations would be installed to interconnect
the Igbin thermal generating station (which is about to be con-
structed near Lagos) to the national high voltage network and
to the Lagos distribution system.
The program of technical assistance financed under Loan
1766-UNI would be sustained and strengthened by extending the
staff training program and by financing studies in a number of
areas critical to NEPA's organizational efficiency such as
the improvement of billing and revenue cQllection.
Project risks stem principally from NEPA's chronic shortage
of qualified technical and managerial staff equipped to handle
the project. An intensive program of staff training together
with heavy reliance upon external technical support should
keep risks within reasonable limits.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
tneir oiifcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:
Local     Foreign     Total
--------(US$ Million) ------
Equipment, materials & construction
Igbin interconnection                      14.5       38.6       53.1
Distribution in 23 cities                  20.2       61.8       82.0
Consultant services
General design and supervision              5.9        4.9       10.8
Studies & training                          1.8        4.9        6.7
Total Base Costs                   42.4      110.2      152.6
Physical Contingencies                        3.9        8.4       12.3
Price Contingencies                          29.4       29.9       59.3
Total Project Cost (including import
duties of US$5.6 million)                    75.7      148.5      224.2
Financing Plan:
Local    Foreign      Total
-------(US$ Million)-------
IBRD                                           -       100.0       100.0
Federal Government Loans and/or Internal
Cash Generation                            75.7       48.5       124.2
Total                              75.7      148.5       224.2
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year                       1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
----------(US$ Million)--------
Annual                                 16.0   22.0   26.0   21.0  15.0
Cumulative                             16.0   38.0   64.0   85.0 100.0
Rate of Return:                      17.5 percent (for distribution in
23 cities)
Staff Appraisal Report:              3041-UNI, dated October 6, 1981



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO NATIONAL ELECTRIC POWER AUTHORITY
FOR A TRANSMISSION AND POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the National Electric Power Authority (NEPA) with the guarantee of the
Federal Republic of Nigeria for the equivalent of US100 million to help
finance a power transmission and distribution project. The loan would have
a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 11.6 percent
per annum. NEPA would carry the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The last Country Economic Memorandum reviewing short-term develop-
ments in Nigeria (Report 3232-UNI) is dated April 7, 1981. A Basic Economic
Report examining the long-term economic prospects and policy options facing
Nigeria (Report 3341-UNI), dated August 17, 1981, has also been distribute'd
to the Executive Directors. Country data are attached as Annex I.
Political Background
3.        The present civilian Government, headed by President Alhaji Snehu
Shagari, assumed office on October 1, 1979, following 13 years of military
rule. The Government's priorities and policies are set out in the recently
issued Outline of the Fourth National Development Plan (1981-85). Rural
development, increased food production, education, and low-cost housing are
focal points of the new administration's program. The desire for decent-
ralization, and the fact that opposition parties hold office in many states,
constitute a formidable challenge for the Nigerian leadership in successfully
implementing a national development strategy.
Recent Economic Developments
4.        Although oil output rose rapidly in the early 1970s, reaching a peak
of 2.3 million barrels a day (mbd) in 1974, it was only with the quadrupling
of the oil price in 1973-74 that Nigeria's financial situation changed funda-
mentally. The dramatic rise in the oil income occurred at a time when Nigeria
ranked among the world's poorest countries and had a predominantly agricultural
economy, with manufacturing accounting for less than 10 percent of G(DP.
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's 1{eport
for the Anambra Water Supply and Sanitation Project approved by the Board
on July 7, 1981.



-2-
5.        The Government's first concern, as reflected in the Third National
Development Plan (1975-80), was to use the new wealth to modernize the country.
The four-fold increase in public revenue allowed initiation of a vast investment
program, and generated a growth rate of 7 percent a year. Public investment
was concentrated on developing transport and communication networks, expanding
education, and setting up heavy industry. But the large public expenditures
also caused high rates of inflation in the early years and wastage of resources.
In fact, expenditures rose much faster than income, and within two years
deficits reappeared on both the budget and the balance of payments. These
developments brought the country to the brink of a financial crisis in 1978.
6.        With the successive increases in the oil price over the past two
years - from US$14 to US$39 per barrel - Migerias financial position has once
again greatly improved. In 1980, export earnings and government revenue are
estimated at about 2-1/2 times the level in 1978. Federal Government expendi-
tures in the budgets of 1980 and 1981 have been allowed to rise roughly in
line with the increase in revenue. The composition of capital ex?enditures
proposed for 1980 and 1981 reflects the new Government's increasing emphasis
on agriculture, housing, waiter supply, and road maintenance. However, in
mid-1981, Nigeria's oil exports fell dramatically as the result of a glut in
the world oil market and the Government was obliged to take corrective price
action in an effort to recuperate previous export volumes. Although the glut
may prove to be temporary it underscores once again the fragile financial
basis of the Fourth Development Plan.
7.        Nigeria's pattern of economic growth over the past few years has
displayed many of the characteristics associated with the development of other
oil exporting countries. High rates of domestic inflation, combined with an
appreciating value of the naira, meant that domestic costs of production rose
relatively to foreign costs. At the same time, costs in such purely domestic
sectors as construction and services (where supplies could not be augmented
through imports) rose at a more rapid pace than costs in the tradeable sectors.
Consequently, agriculture and manufacturing were placed at a disadvantage
vis-a-vis both foreign produced goods (which became relatively cheaper) and
purely domestic sectors (which became more profitable). In the agricultural
sector, the output of subsistence crops as well as traditional export crops
stagnated. The manufacturing sector too found it difficult to compete with
imports, despite extensive government incentives, and suffered from rising
costs and infrastructure bottlenecks.
Poverty and Basic Needs
8.        Nigeria has an estimated population of 83 million (1979) and a per
capita income of about US$670. Although Nigeria is placed among the middle-
income countries, acute poverty is still widespread. In 1978, an estimated 35
percent of the households in the urban areas and 55 percent in the rural areas
were unable to meet the minimum expenditure required for food and other
necessities of life. A substantial portion--20 percent of all households in
urban areas and 40 percent in rural areas--did not have incomes adequate to
meet even basic food requirements.



-3-
9.        In terms of such health indicators as infant mortality, life expec-
tancy, and incidence of disea.ise, Nigeria is not much better than the Doorest
countries in Africa. Infant mortality is believed to be well over 100 per
thousand, and life expectancy still under 50 years. This is in spite of a
substantial rise in the number of doctors, nurses, and hospitals in relation
to Nigeria-s population. Reduction of mortality in Nigeria, as in other coun-
tries experiencing rapid rises in income, will be a slow process, requiring
the spread of an effective primary health care system and progress on a range
of related socio-economic factors, particularly nutrition, primary education,
and water supply.
10.       Nigeria has, however, taken big strides in human resource develop-
ment through the Government-s firm commitment to universal primary education
(UPE). As a result, some 60 percent of all school age children are now
enrolled, and in several parts of the south, UPE is already a reality. The
pace at which the program was pursued inevitably created problems, e.g. lack
of trained teachers, deterioration in the quality of education, diversion of
labor from agriculture, and a rising demand for secondary education. But
these initial troubles are likely to ease when the rate of expansion stabi-
lizes. Within the next two decades Nigeria should be transformed from a
country with very high rates of illiteracy to one where most of the population
has been to school.
11.       Although there was little increase in agricultural output during
most of the 1970s, off-farm rural activity expanded considerably, mostly from
public expenditures on construction following the oil boom. Rural incomes
were also augmented by the rapid growth in the service sectors and a probable
increase in remittances from urban areas. The growth in incomes appears to
have been spread widely and to have relieved the rural poverty somewhat.
12.       In urban areas, formal sector employment rose rapidly, perhaps
around 8 percent a year in the 1970s. But real wages appear not to have
risen over the last 15 years. In 1975, there was a substantial increase in
public sector wages, promptly followed by an increase in the private sector.
But this gain was quickly eroded by the ensuing high inflation and the
Government's restraint on further wage increases as part of its policy to
control inflation. However, recently the Government, under union labor
pressure, raised the minimum wage from N1Q0 to N125 per month, bringing it
in real terms to the level of 1970. Average real wage earnings appear to have
risen as a result of the distribution of employment moving towards the higher
paying sectors. Furthermore, since formal sector employment rose in relative
terms, an increasing proportion of the labor force came to enjoy a higher
standard of living. Although the relative size of the informal sector appears
to have declined slightly over the past decade, it still is the dominant mode
of employment in urban areas. Because of the rapid expansion in construction,
trade and commerce, the income earning possibilities in this sector remained
generally good, and average real incomes at the lower end of the scale pro-
bably remained stable, or even improved slightly.



-4-
Economic Prospects
13.       As the major source of public revenue and foreign exchange earnings,
oil is basic to an assessment of Nigeria's long-term economic prospects. On
present knowledge, Nigeria's oil output over the next decade is not expected
to 1- sustained above the average of 2.15 mbd; by 1990 it may even begin to
decline. With domestic consumption of oil products rising rapidly (over 15
percent a year), the exportable surplus is expected to decline from the
current rate of over 90 percent of output to about 70 percent by 1990.
Thus, if past trends persist, and no new sources of export earnings and public
revenue are developed to make up for the relative decline of the oil sector,
Nigeria's balance of payments and fiscal situation can be expected to tighten
over time. Even with a relatively moderate rise in imports, large current
account deficits can be expected to reappear towards the end of the 1980s,
leading to a deterioration in the balance of payments in the 1990s, when
maintenance of steady economic growth will become increasingly difficult.
Budgetary deficits could appear even sooner, threatening domestic economic
stability. Future dramatic increases in the oil price may postpone the
financial difficulties, but this is a risky basis for formulating a long-term
growth strategy.
14.       In order that dependence on imports may decline and non-oil exports
may gradually begin to replace oil exports, projections suggest that Nigeria
has roughly ten years to make the necessary structural adjustments. Accelera-
ting growth in agriculture and industry will be the most difficult task. The
growth of the other sectors of the economy, such as power, transport, and
construction, should receive its impulse primarily from commodity production.
The expected rapid increase in population and labor force (estimated at over 3
percent a year) necessitates maintaining a fairly high rate of economic growth
over the next two decades.
15.       The Government of Nigeria is committed to achieving a balanced and
sustainable economic growth path. The Outline of the Fourth National Develop-
ment Plan indicates that, while the unfinished projects from the Third Plan
period would be speedily completed, greater emphasis will be placed on sti-
mulating agricultural production. A target of food self-sufficiency by 1985
has been set. While the target is ambitious, and may not be achieved within
the plan period, it is indicative of the high priority that is being attached
to this sector. There is likely to be strong emphasis again on education, as
in the past, but the expected inclusion of a large low-cost housing program
would be a new departure. Given the great improvement in Nigeria's financial
prospects, and assuming an active private sector, domestic investment is
expected to be maintained at a high level. This should permit the economy to
grow at around 5 percent a year--more than 6 percent for non-oil GDP--with
fair potential for employment generation.



-5-
16.       The availability of skilled manpower will remain a major constraint
on economic development over the coming years. Although the Government has
given high priority to manpower development, there are still severe shortages
in several lines of activity. The dependence on expatriates is particularly
high in scientific and technical occupations. The demand for middle-level
skills is expected to rise rapidly with an increasing emphasis in government
programs on poverty alleviation, education, and preventive nealth. In the
short-term, expatriates may alleviate some of these shortages, but ultimately
the solution lies in improviag the quality and coverage of education and
expansion of pre-service and in-service training programs.
External Borrowing and Creditworthiness
17.       Total debt outstanding (including undisbursed) amounted to US$7
billion at the end of 1980. A limited amount of borrowing on commercial terms
is expected to continue. However, by the mid-1980s, when the debt service on
currently contracted loans will peak, payments will still amount to no more
than 5 percent of export earniags. The World Bank's share in total debt
outstanding amounts to about 15 percent. Given the relatively low level of
external indebtedness, the Government's generally cautious approach to external
borrowing, and the favorable prospects for oil, the debt service is liKely to
remain around 5 percent through 1990. Under the circumstances, Nigeria is
creditworthy for considerable Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA 1/
18.       Bank and IDA lending to Nigeria as of September 30, l961 amounted to
US$1,796.5 million (net of cancellations). The amount of these loans and
credits disbursed as of Septem'ber 30, 1981 was US$764.5 million, leaving an
undisbursed balance of US$1,032.0 million. Transport, power and water supply
together account for about 43 percent of total commitments; agriculture for
another 43 percent (most of which was committed in the last seven fiscal
years); and education, industry, urban and the post-war rehabilitation loan
for the remaining 14 percent of total commitments. Gross disbursements in
FY80 were about US$55 million, and US$73 million in FY81, but are expected to
increase in the coming years in line with the expansion of Bank lending to
Nigeria   There have been only two IDA credits to Nigeria, for 0835.3 mil-
lion; both are fully disbursed. IFC has made five loans to borrowers total-
ling US$17.3 million, and six equity investments totalling US$5.l million. Of
these amounts, US$5.4 million have been repaid, cancelled, or sold. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IEC investments,
as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report
for the Anambra Water Supply and Sanitation Project approved by the board
on July 7, 1981.



- 6 -
19.       The main thrust of the Bank's activities in Nigeria in recent years
has been to support agriculture and rural development, with particular em-
phasis on institution-building and transfer of technology. These objectives
are in consonance with the Federal Government's priorities under the Third
Plan, which places considerable emphasis on agriculture, and its policy to use
the proceeds of Nigeria's oil revenues to increase the productive capacity of
the economy, and thereby raise the standard of living of its population,
particularly the rural poor.
20.       In view of the interest which Nigeria has expressed in greater
Bank involvement, an expanded Bank lending program has been initiated.
in developing a broader approach to lending in Nigeria, a central objective
is to encourage the shift (already discernable in the Federal Government's
investment programming) away from the massive and diffused infrastructure
investment, which characterized the two or three years following the oil
boom of 1973/74, towards a more discriminating support for growth in the
commodity producing sectors. A second objective of Bank lending is to raise
the productivity of the lowest income groups and thereby diminish the inci-
dence of absolute poverty in Nigeria. This objective has been actively
pursued in recent agricultural projects, including the Bauchi State and Kano
Agricultural Development Projects approved by the Executive Directors on April
30, 1981, which benefit some of the very lowest income groups. Agricultural
lending of this kind would continue to figure prominently in the future
lending program. A third objective of Bank lenuing is to support the Federal
Government's efforts to diversify the economy, and reduce the excessive
dependence upon petroleum as a source of foreign exchange and fiscal revenue.
Agricultural lending, in particular, would include strengthening the poten-
tial for export crops.
21.       In accordance with these objectives, projects in both agriculture
and industry together should account for a large share of Bank lending in the
coming two or three years. Effective support for the commodity producing
sectors will also require strategic investment in production-related infra-
structure, however. There would appear to be good opportunities for the
Bank to make a significant contribution in power, water supply, and highway
maintenance. Further project identification work is under way in these
sectors. Similarly, there is a strong case for continued lending for
education. In this context, it is proposed that vocational, technical, and
teacher training be given special emphasis. Finally, the Bank would support
the Federal and state governments' efforts to spread the benefits of growth to
the social sectors. It is envisaged that some of the pressing problems of
rapid urbanization will continue to be addressed through a number of urban
development projects, along the lines of the ongoing project in Bauchi State,
focussed on the needs of the urban poor. The Bank is also considering a
request from the Federal Governmert to assist in overcoming the country's
health problems. A sectoral distribution of lending along these lines would
be in keeping with the need to generate employment, and would also support
the Federal Government's aim of mobilizing Nigeria's petroleum revenues to
alleviate poverty and improve the overall distribution of income.



PART III   THE POWER SECTOR
The Overall Energy Context
22.       Nigeria, the major energy exporting country in Africa south of the
Sahara, is well endowed with a broad range of energy resources among which
petroleum and natural gas figure most prominently. Proven reserves of
petroleum amount to 2.8 billion tons and this would suffice to maintain
production at a daily level of 2.2 million barrels for a period of 20 years or
so. Associated with the production of petroleum, some 20 billion cubic meters
of gas are produced each year. Plans to harness this associated gas have been
slow to materialize so that by 1978 only 6 percent was utilized and the rest
flared. However, the Government, with Bank assistance, has been evaluating
proposals for piping associated gas to the Lagos area where it would be used
for power generation and other industrial purposes. A pipeline project of
this nature would utilize about thirty percent of the gas now being flared.
Plans are also under way for a number of projects based upon the large reserves
of both associated and non-associated gas that are estimated at 2.7 billion
tons of fuel oil equivalent (t.o.e.). Amongst these plans, the production of
LNG is particularly important and a first project of this kind is already in
an advanced stage of preparation.
23.       In addition to petroleum and natural gas, Nigeria has other fossil
fuel resources in the form of coal. Known recoverable reserves are estimated
at 230 million tons of bituminous coal and 24 million tons of lignite, It is
thought that there may be a further several hundred million tons of undis-
covered resources but their presence still has to be established.   Coal
production now averages some 200,000 tons per annum and a recent expansion of
mining capacity raises the prospect that production may rise once again to
the peak of almost 1 million tons that was attained in 1958 when both NEPA
and and rail transport were important consumers of coal. Other less conven-
tional hydrocarbon resources such as tar sands and gas hydrates are known to
exist but they have been little explored and their production potential is
uncertain.
24.       Nigeria's endowment of hydraulic resources, on the other hand, have
been well defined and although on a per-capita basis they appear to be slightly
below the world average they are nevertheless significant. As of 1980, the
potential economically feasible instalable capacity was estimated at 4,500 MW
of hydro-power compared with only 760 MW presently utilized and a further
1,140 MW to be commissioned by 1984.
25.       As a basis for the systematic development of these diverse sources
of energy the Federal Government commissioned a study to evaluate the overall
energy situation in Nigeria and to identify policy options. This study, which
is to provide a framework for the design of energy policies within the context
of a Fourth Development Plan, was completed by March 1980. Although the study
falls short of providing a comprehensive assessment of alternative energy
sources, it nevertheless provides a valuable overview of the situation
by assembling a wealth of diverse data concerning known resources and by
pointing out the extremely promising prospects for solar energy -- a source
that had previously received scant attention.



- 8 -
26.       In September 1979, a move was made to establish a framework for
comprehensive energy planning with the creation of an Energy Commission to
coordinate national energy policies. A change of government took place
shortly tLereafter and the Commission has been slow to assume its respon-
sibilities. Nevertheless, the incoming administration demonstrated its
interest in comprehensive energy planning by appointing a special energy
advisor to the President. The office of energy advisor provides, for the
first time, a link between the activities of numerous public agencies such
as NEPA, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation and the Nigerian Coal
Corporation that have traditionally functioned in an independent fashion, each
with its own limited operational and sectoral focus. It has become a focal
point for assessing major project proposals such as an LNG facility and a
gas-pipeline from the Niger Delta to Lagos. The Bank is encouraging the
Nigerian authorities to view these projects within the context of an overall
national energy policy and has indicated readiness to provide technical
assistance in these matters.
The Power Sector
27.       Electric power accounted for 12 percent of total energy consumption
in Nigeria (estimated at upwards of 15 million t.o.e. in 1978) and about 22
percent of commercial energy consumption. Most of the public electricity
supply is generated and distributed by NEPA, although a smiall proportion is
provided by the States e4ther from their own generating facilities or by way
of purchasing power from NEPA. Private power generation for both industrial
and residential use has grown significantly, particularly during 1977-78 when
the public supply was prone to f-r^equent interruptions.
28.       NEPA, a semi-autonomous public corporation operating under the
overall responsibility of the Federal Ministry of Mines and Power, was
established in 1972 by a merger of the former Electricity Corporation of
Nigeria (ECN) and the Niger Dams Authority (NDA). The major policy orienta-
tion of NPA's activities is controlled by a Board of Directors consisting of
three appointees of the Ministry of Mines and Power, five senior officials of
related Federal Ministries and the General Manager of NEPA. Responsibility
for day-to-day operations lies with the General Manager himself along with six
Assistant General Managers in charge of engineering, operations, distribution,
commercial activities, finance and administration respectively.
29.       The organizational structure of NEPA seems appropriate to the
scale and dispersion of its operations. The construction and operation of
major generation and transmission projects is administered directly from
headqr-arters in Lagos where all senior management functions are concentrated.
By way of contrast, the planning, design and construction of distribution
systems of less than 33 KV are handled at the local level by 20 district
offices each of which has its own district manager and complement of engineers,
commercial staff and accountants. District offices are also responsible for
metering, billing and other customer related activities.



- 9-
Acting as a link between headquarters staff and the districts, there are four
regional offices -- one serving the Lagos metropolitan area and one each for
the northern, eastern and western regions. Assigned to the regional offices
are specialized technical staff that are made available to supplement the
skills of district level staff as needed.
The facilities of NEPA: present and planned
30.       The generating capacity at present available to NEPA amounts to
some 1,600 MW. Almost half of this capacity comes from the 760 MW hydro plant
at Kainji -- by far the largest single facility in Nigeria. Steam and gas
turbines at five thermal stations account for a further 830 MW. The small
remainder of available capacity relates to a number of minor diesel stations.
Generating plants are connected to the main load centers through 3,440 circuit-
km of 330 kv transmission lines feeding into 3,800 circuit-km of 132 kv trans-
mission lines through 8 main step-down stations. Some 60 sub-stations link
this principal transmission system with the distribution network.
31.       Although available capacity is sufficient to meet peak demand, there
have been power shortages from time to time. In the three years prior to
1980, a deficit of hydro-energy was caused by adverse hydrological conditions
affecting the flow of the Niger River into the Kainji Reservoir. A recurrence
of such exceptional hydrological conditions is unlikely and would probably.
not result in overall power shortages because additional thermal capacity has
since been installed. However, technical problems with the transmission and
distribution systems are a continuing cause of unscheduled interruptions in
supply.
32.       Recently, NEPA has been concerned both to increase its generating
capacity in anticipation of demand which is rising at the very rapid rate of
20 percent a year, and also to strengthen its system of transmission and
distribution. A number of new generation plants are being built including
a thermal plant at Igbin in the Lagos metropolitan area with an installed
capacity of 200 MW for the first stage rising to as much as 1,200 MW by
1985. Transmission facilities linking the Igbin station to the national
transmission grid would be provided under the proposed project. NEPA has
already embarked upon a program of distribution expansion in Lagos with a view
to overcoming supply constraints in the metropolitan area -- a major growth
pole for industry in Nigeria. The Bank extended financial support for this
undertaking within the context of a fifth power project (Loan 1766-UNI). To
complement investment in distribution for Lago3, the proposed project will
expand distribution facilities in 23 other cities and towns throughout
Nigeria, thereby contributing to a balanced dispersion of economic growth.
33.       The works currently under construction form part of an ambitious
but carefully prepared ten-year development program for the period 1977-1986.
A recent revision of that program provides for a further net expansion of
installed capacity amounting to some 4,000 MW by 1986. The project basis
has already been developed for 3,400 MW of additional capacity but project
specific proposals have yet to be identified for a further 600 MW.



- 10 -
34.       In 1979 a detailed feasibility study was completed for a hydro-
project to be located at Lokoja just south of the Niger-Benue River confluence
which could provide an initial 1,000 MW of capacity and an ultimate capacity
of 1,800 MW. However, the government has hesitated to accept the proposal
because of the large resettlement problem that would arise with the displace-
ment of an estimated 270,000 people by flooding.
35.       Several options confront NEPA in investigating the possibility of
alternative projects to substitute for Lokoja. The choice lies between other
hydro projects and/or more thermal projects which, in turn, may be based upon
gas, oil, coal or refinery residuals. A firm decision between these alterna-
tives must be made within the next year or so if a further incremental 600 MW
of capacity is to be on stream by 1986. This underscores the urgent need to
update the master plan for power development with a view to defining priorities
on the basis of sound comparative cost data that reflects the opportunity cost
to the Nation of alternative energy sources.
Bank role
36.       Since 1964 the Bank has made five loans for power development in
Nigeria, amounting to a total of US$316.8 million. The first of these loans
(372-UNI) was made to the ECN in 1964 for transmission and distribution
facilities in Lagos, Ibadan and Port Harcourt. The project was completed
in time and within the appraised cost estimates. A second loan (383-UNI)
was made to NDA also in 1964 to assist in financing the construction of a
hydro-electric scheme at Kainji. This project was subject to substantial
cost overruns which reflected, in part, an underestimation at the time of
appraisal of both the volume of civil works and the cost of equipment.
Another contributary cause of the cost of overruns, however, was the disrup-
tion in scheduling which resulted from civil war. A supplementary loan
(572-UNI) was provided in 1968 to help cover the additional foreign exchange
cost, thereby enabling the project to be completed in 1970 -- only one year
behind schedule. Since the merger of ECN and NDA, two loans have been made
to NEPA. The first (Loan 847-UNI of 1972) was to assist in financing the
installation of additional generating capacity at Kainji together with a
second transmission line to Lagos. The project was completed two years behind
schedule due, in part, to delays in the delivery of equipment because of port
congestion in Lagos. The delay in project execution resulted in cost overruns
of some 40 percent. In 1979 another loan was made to NEPA (1766-UNI) in
support of distribution expansion in the Lagos metropolitan area.
37.       An association with the power sector over seventeen years has
enabled the Bank to contribute significantly to planning, operational effi-
ciency and institutional development. With the objective of encouraging the
optimal deployment of scarce managerial and technical resources, the Bank
encouraged the unification of all power sector functions under the umbrella
of a single federal agency. With the establishment of NEPA in 1972 both the
Bank and the Government were able to focus their institution building efforts
in a more concentrated manner. Subsequently, Bank assistance also made
possible the preparation of a first nationwide integrated power development



- 11 -
program and, in 1979, when the prospect was raised that some of NEPA's respon-
sibilities may be delegated to state governments, the Bank once again counseled
successfully in favor of a unified structure.
38.       In recent years the managerial and organizational resources of
NEPA have been taxed to their utmost by an exceptionally strong growth in the
demand for power that has averaged 20 percent a year. Demand is projected
to continue growing at a similar pace during the next several years and the
problems inherent in satisfying this demand are likely to persist. At the
root of these problems is a severe shortage of skilled manpower. The Bank
has assisted NEPA to ameliorate this constraint by helping to finance the
establishment of a major training program. The proposed project would further
strengthen this effort. In addition, following upon discussions with the Bank
on ways to supplement its manpower resources, NEPA contracted outside services
to perform such routine tasks as the repair of vehicles and standard equipment.
39.       The Bank has long recognized the central importance to NEPA of a
strong and independent financial structure and Bank involvement in the power
sector has been instrumental in securing the adoption of an eight percent rate
of return on revalued assets as NEPA's explicit medium-term financial goal.
Tariffs were raised by 30 percent in 1977 and a further 50 percent in 1979,
thereby contributing significantly to the attainment of financial targets.
40.       The financial, organizational and staffing problems with which
NEPA must cope are deep-seated and will not yield easily to short-term solu-
tions. It is only by a continuous association with NEPA over the long-term
that the Bank can provide effective support for the development of sound
sector policies and appropriate institutional changes designed to resolve
sector problems. The policy issues that we propose to address in continuing
to lend for power are commonplace amongst power companies the world over, but
particularly difficult to resolve in the Nigerian context where a 20 percent
annual growth in electricity consumption places exceptional demands upon NEPA
over and above those normally encountered elsewhere. Overall sector planning
will continue to be a focus of attention in the dialogue between the Bank
and NEPA. Staff training and cost recovery will also continue to figure
prominently in the dialogue.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       The proposed project constitutes part of the ten-year expansion
program of NEPA for the period 1977-1986. It was identified in March 1978
during the course of preparing a fifth Bank-supported power project (Loan
1766-UNI). In mid-1978 NEPA engaged consultants to carry out a feasibility
study under terms of reference agreed with the Bank. On the basis of a draft
feasibility report that was submitted for review in May 1979 the project was
appraised in October of that year. A staff appraisal report (No. 3041-UNI,
dated October 6, 1981) is being circulated to the Executive Directors
separately. Negotiations were held in May 1981 in Washington. Supple-
mentary data on the project is to be found in Annex III.



- 12 -
42.       From its very inception the proposed project was viewed as com-
plementing the fifth power project by expanding distribution facilities in
23 cities and towns throughout Nigeria -- thereby providing a balance to the
previous focus on metropolitan Lagos. Yet another link to the fifth project
is the interconnection that would be constructed from the Igbin thermal
generating station (which is about to be built near Lagos) to the Lagos
distribution system as well as to the national high voltage network.
43.       A central objective of the project would be to assist in meeting
the rapidly increasing demand for electric power and, in particular, to
establish facilities for power distribution consistent with a balanced disper-
sion of economic growth throughout the country. At the same time the Bank
would sustain and strengthen its efforts to assist NEPA introduce appropriate
policy and institutional reforms in areas critical to operational efficiency.
Project description
44.       The power distribution system would be expanded in the following
23 cities and towns of which 18 are state capitals.
Aba            Enugu           Maiduguri      Port Harcourt
Abeokuta       Ibadan          Makurdi        Sokoto
Akure          Ilorin          Minna          Warri
Bauchi         Jos             Onitsha        Yola
Benin          Kaduna          Oshogbo        Zaria
Calabar        Kano            Owerri
Power consumption in these cities and towns is expected to grow at an average
annual rate of 12 percent although some of the smaller towns (such as Bauchi,
Makurdi and Yola) may exhibit much higher growth. A comprehensive program
of transmission and distribution has been developed to meet the projected
increase in demand and the proposed project would focus specifically on those
aspects of the program that relate to the high tension systems. Under the
projcct, 321 circuit-Km of 132 KV and 33 KV transmission lines would be
installed as well as 1,875 MVA of substation transformer capacity. The low
tension distribution facilities that would be needed to complement these
proposed project investments would be furnished by NEPA as part of its routine
capital program.
45.       A distinct and separate component of the project would be to connect
the Igbin thermal power station scheduled for construction soon in the Lagos
area with the national transmission network through 50 Km of double circuit
330 KV transmission lines. A further 49 Km of double circuit transmission
lines would connect the generating facility with the high voltage n;2twork of
the Lagos metropolitan area, thereby providing additional support to the
distribution system currently being expanded with Bank participation through
Loan 1766-UNI. In conjunction with these transmission lines, provision has
been made for some 1,320 MVA of transformer capacity to be installed at the
corresponding substation terminals.



- 13 -
46.       The project would also provide for 15U man uaontris of consultant
services to continue the training program begun under the tiftn bank-support6a
power project (Loan 1766-UNI).   A further 3U man monthls of snort term con-
sultancy would be provided to undertaKe studies aimed at irncreasirng the opera-
tional efficiency of NEPA and encoumpassing, i) the preparation of a completion
report for the fourth Bank-supported power project (Loan 647-UNI) that was
completed in June 1980, ii) a review of billing and collection systems and
iii) an updating of the power development master plan that was financed some
six years ago under Loan 847-UNI.
Project Implementation
47        The project would be implemented by NEPA over a period of about five
years. The design and supervision of work relating to the Igbin interconnec-
tion has already been contracted to consultants. Bids tor the construction ot
lines and substations relating to this project compornent have been received
and evaluated by NEPA to the satisfaction of the Bank.    Consultants have also
been appointed for the preparation of bidding documenits ana subsequent super-
vision of distribution facilities in 23 cities.
48.       NEPA has many years of experience in the planning and execution
of both generation and transmission projects so that tthe successful imple-
mentation of the proposed project should pose no special proolems. Primary
responsibility for project planning and execution would lie with staft trom
NEPA headquarters. Close liaison would need to oe estaDlishea Detween nead-
quarters staff and the district offices responsible for linKing discrioution
facilities to the high tension transmission system. The existing trameworK ot
communication between headquarters and districts appears adequate to thandle
this task. Experience with previous bank projects indicates, nowever, tnat
expeditious project implementation will De contingent upon a sustained eitort
to overcome the institutional shortcomings of NEPA that, in large part, stem
from a serious shortage of technical and professional statf throughout the
organization.   In this respect, the institution builiing oojectives of the
proposed project will have a direct bearing upon the efficient execution of
the transmission and distribution components, as well as preparing the ground
for enhancing the overall efficiency of NEPA.
49.       Global indicators of manpower efficiency point to a progressive
improvement in the productivity of NEPA personnel during recent years. Tlhe
ratio of consumers to employees rose from 31 in 1974 to 51 ill l979 and, over
the same period, sales per employee rose from 163,000 kWh to 25_,00U kWh.
Recognizing its obligation to raise overall productivity still further NEPA,
in the context of Loan 1766-UNI, agreed to aim at additional improvements in
the ratio of consumers to employees.
50.       Notwithstanding the increase in productivity as measured by sucn
global indicators, however, efficiency is still seriously impaired by per-
sisting shortages of skilled manpower.   To amaeliorate thils proDlem tihe riftn
Bank-supported power project included a training componenit tnat was nesigned
to establish a permanent capability for the systematic identitication of



- 14 -
manpower requirements and training needs. It also made provision for the
finance of training equipment and instructors. The proposed project would
provide for a continuation of this program by financing 150 man months of
short-term consultant services at a cost of US$8,800 per man month. NEPA
would provide housing for these consultants. It would be a condition of
disbursement against this category of project expenditure, that the training
program financed under Loan 1766-UNI had been successfully implemented and the
corresponding loan amount fully disbursed. (see paragraph 4(b) of Schedule 1
to Loan Agreement).
51.       The management of NEPA has long been aware that a serious obstacle
to the retention of qualified technical and professional staff is a salary
scale that is constrained by Federal Government pay guidelines. In this
respect NEPA is placed at a considerable disadvantage in competing with
private industry for qualified manpower resources. At the same time, the
management has been equally conscious that a higher salary scale would not be
sufficient in itself to resolve NEPA's manpower problems because there is a
fundamental shortage of skilled manpower throughout the economy. The first
priority, therefore, has been to establish a training program that will
increase the overall supply of those specialized skills needed by NEPA. Now
that this program is operational under the direction of a full-time training
manager, it is appropriate that NEPA should turn its attention to establishing
a salary scale that will permit it to retain technical manpower once trained.
NEPA has already commissioned a study on the structure and level of salaries
that will furnish a basis for discussions with the Federal Government relating
to the introduction of a competitive salary scale.
52.       Although the primary focus of institution building is directed
towards the amelioration of manpower constraints, some significant organiza-
tional innovations aimed at improving service reliability in general would
be introduced in parallel with the proposed project. With the objective of
reducing the incidence of unscheduled interruptions in power supply, it was
agreed during negotiations that NEPA would introduce a monitoring informnation
system to permit the quantification of overall system performance and the
identification of frequent causes of power failures, concentrating on correc-
tive action in the weaker areas of the supply system. The systems and distri-
bution operating unit of NEPA would be strengthened so that it may manage this
monitoring information system effectively (see Section 4.03 of Loan Agreement).
In conjunction with the introduction of an overall monitoring system, agreement
was also reached at negotiations that NEPA would undertake a special power
flow study of the proposed Igbin interconnection with the Lagos distribution
system so as to ensure smooth operation under both normal and contingency
conditions (see Section 3.03 of Loan Agreement).
53.       It is expected that the overall operational efficiency and finan-
cial integrity of NEPA would be further strengthened by the recommendations
of studies to be financed by the proposed project (see para. 46 above).
Consultants to undertake these studies would be employed with qualifications
and on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (see Section 3.02(a) of



- 15 -
Loan Agreement). The cost of these short-term consultant services is esti-
mated at US$13,000 per man month. This relatively high cost is attributable
to the high cost of hotel accommodation and subsistence in Lagos.
Project Cost
54.       Total project cost is estimated at US$224.4 million   (including
taxes and duties of US$5.6 million), of which the foreign exchange component
would amount to US$148.5 million or 68 percent. A breakdown of costs by
major expenditure categories is presented in the loan and project summary.
The construction of distribution facilities for 23 cities would account for
63 percent of project cost and the interconnection of the Igbin thermal
station for a further 33 percent. The sum of US$9 million provided for
consultant services, training and studies would account for the remaining four
percent of project cost.
55.       Allowance has been made for physical contingencies equal to 10 per-
cent of base costs for the distribution facilities to 23 cities. Taking due
account of the recent evaluation of bids for powerlines and sub-stations, a 5
percent average allowance has been made for physical contingencies relating to
the Igbin interconnetion system. Price contingencies on base cQSts plus
physical contingencies have been estimated at a rate of 15 percent a year for
local costs and at a rate declining from 9 percent in 1981 to 6 percent in
1986 and beyond for foreign exchange costs. On this basis total contingencies
are estimated at 47 percent of base costs.
Project Finance
56.       The proposed loan of US$100 million equivalent, to whigh the
Federal Government would extend its guarantee, would finance 46 percent of
total project cost net of taxes and would amount to 67 percent Q the foreign
exchange cost. The remaining project cost of $124.4 million would be financed
by NEPA through loans from the Federal Government or through internal cash
generation. There are good prospects for NEPA being able to secure supplier's
credits on some of the imported equipment and this may reduce the need to
borrow from the Federal Government. If so requested, the Bank stands ready to
assist NEPA in seeking cofinancing for the proposed project.
Financial Performance and Cost Recovery
57.       For many years following its establishment in 1972, the financial
position of NEPA was unsatisfactory. Electricity tariffs remained unchanged
until 1977 and a 30 percent increase in October of that year was insufficient
to compensate for the effects of a persistent domestic inflatiQg. An esti-
mated revaluation of NEPA's assets over this period indicates that the finan-
cial rate of return on revalued assets declined from some 4.4 percent in
1972/3 to zero after 1974/5. In the absence of sufficient internally
generated funds, NEPA was obliged to rely increasingly upon loans from the
Federal Government to finance its investment program. The contribution of
NEPA itself to its own capital budget diminished from 84 percent in 1972/3 to
only 7 percent in 1977/8. As a result, NEPA's ratio of debt to equity, based



- 16 -
on an estimation of revalued assets, rose from 30/70 in 1972/3 to 45/55 in
1977/8. There were only two factors to mitigate this otherwise disappointing
financial performance. First, the debt/equity ratio of NEPA, although less
advantageous than in 172, was still low enough to permit a good margin for
further borrowing. Second, the Federal Government had furnished loans on easy
terms at 5 percent interest and with a maturity of 25 years including five
years grace on both principal and interest.
58.       A significant turn of events came about in August of 1979 when
the Government approved a major increase in tariffs. The accounts for 1979/80
revealed an effective average increase of 56 percent as well as a significant
amelioration of the previously regressive tariff structure. Financial projec-
tions indicate that the 1979 tariff adjustment, in conjunction with an in-
crease in power sales consequent upon the commissioning of new generating
capacity, could lead to a twofold increase in the revenues of NEPA by 1982.
This would take NEPA a long way towards its goal of an 8 percent rate of
return on revalued assets -- a goal that was articulated in a covenant to the
Loan Agreement of 1980 (Loan 1766-UNI) and is reaffirmed again within the
context of the proposed loan (see Section 5.05(a) of the Loan Agreement). To
prepare the way for this further rationalization of tariffs, NEPA has engaged
consultants to carry out a study of tariffs based on marginal cost principles
with terms of reference determined in consultation with the Bank. Assurances
were given during negotiations that the results of the study will be discussed
with the Bank and that further revisions will be made to the tariff structure
in line with the recommendations of the study (see Section 5.05(b) of Loan
Agreement).
59.       The revenue position of NEPA is adversely affected also by arrears
in payment by many consumers. Bills outstanding amount to about US$170
million -- equivalent to almost 7 months of invoicing. The normal cycle of
billing and collection can account for no more than two months of this lag.
NEPA continues in its efforts to speed up collection by reducing delays in
billing, improving its analysis of arrears and resorting increasingly to large
scale disconnections. The proposed project would reinforce these efforts by
financing a comprehensive study of the decentralized billing and collection
systems with a view to making detailed recommendations for improvements.
Consultants for this purpose would be engaged with qualifications and on terms
acceptable to the Bank.
60.       Assuming that the problem of customer arrears can be gradually
reduced in size and that appropriate tariff increases are introduced from
time to time, it is projected that the net internal generation of funds by
NEPA would amount to some US$3.4 billion for the five year period ending
1985/6. This would finance about 36 percent of its total requirements for
investment and working capital during the same period. In view of NEPA's
still limited acquaintance with the international capital market, borrowing
from abroad is likely to be modest in relation to the US$9.5 billion capital
program. Consequently, it may be anticipated that NEPA will call upon the



- 17 -
Federal Government to finance upwards of 60 percent of its capital budget
during the next five years -- amounting to the equivalent of some US$5.8
billion.
61.       As long as NEPA continues to invest such massive amounts of capital
in expansion, there appears to be no realistic alternative to substantial
financial support from the Federal Government. This, in turn, points to
the likelihood of a further increase in the debt/equity ratio although, even
if support from the Federal Government were exclusively in the form of loans
without any further equity contributions, the detrimental effect of a rising
debt/equity ratio would be mitigated by the process of inflation. The
sheer size of NEPA's investment program clearly calls for careful financial
planning on the part of the Nigerian authorities. Agreement was reached
during negotiations that the Federal Government would undertake to formulate
proposals for meeting NEPA's investment needs and to discuss them from time
to time with the Bank (see Section 3.04 of Guarantee Agreement). In their
dialogue, the Bank and the Federal Government would continue to address
themselves primarily to the question of adequate cash generation by NEPA.
They would also seek to strengthen NEPA's financial position with a view to
enabling it, in the long run, to borrow more extensively in the international
capital markets.
62.       Recognizing the need to control its overall level of borrowing NEPA
subscribes to the principle that net revenues in any year should be at least
1.5 times greater than the debt service required for the succeeding year.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that NEPA would seek the agree-
ment of the Bank before incurring any additional debt in the event that the
ratio of net revenues to debt service were to fall below 1.5 (see Section 5.07
of Loan Agreement). Provided tariffs are increased as appropriate this
financial guideline is not expected to preclude NEPA from raising sufficient
capital for the remainder of its ten-year development program.
Procurement
63.       All goods, civil works and services financed by the Bank would
be procured through international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank guidelines. Foreign companies desiring to tender for project execution
would be exempt from legislation requiring them to incorporate as Nigerian
companies. The Nigerian authorities agreed to this exemption at the time of
negotiating Loan 1766-UNI and agreed further that the exemption should apply
equally to the procurement of all goods, civil works and services financed by
the Bank under any other loan. As a general rule, procurement contracts would
provide for the training of Nigerian staff as appropriate, thereby fostering
the Federal Government's objective of accelerating the transfer of technology.
64.       For the high voltage transmission lines (estimated to cost US$53.1
million), NEPA would continue the standard practice of design, supply and
erection contracts. In the case of substations the following contract pack-
ages would be procured separately: (i) power transformers; (ii) design, supply
and erection of structures, switchgear, control and protection equipment and
(iii) civil works (mainly buildings). The aggregate value of these contract



- 18 -
packages has been estimated at US$147.4 million. For purposes of bid evalua-
tion domestically manufactured equipment, such as electrical conductors, would
be allowed a 15 percent preference or the applicable import duty, whichever is
lower. However, on the basis of past experience it is expected that almost
all contracts will be awarded to foreign suppliers. Consultant services for
the training of specialists, other short term consultants and studies, valued
in the aggregate at US$9.0 million, would be contracted on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank.
Disbursement
65.       The proposed loan would be disbursed over a period of five years
from 1983-87. For all equipment and civil works contracts, disbursement would
be made against appropriate documentation for 60 percent of foreign expendi-
tures or 60 percent of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured goods.
The aggregate amount of these disbursements is estimated at US$77.4 million.
In the case of consultant services, including services for design and super-
vision, staff training and studies, disbursement would be made against 100
percent of foreign expenditures up to an estimated maximum of US$12.7 million.
It would be a condition for the disbursement of loan funds for staff training,
that the training program initiated under Loan 1766-UNI had been successfully
implemented and fully disbursed. A provision for US$10 million has been made
on an unallocated basis.
Economic Justification
66.       In the process of project preparation a systematic approach was
adopted for each of the twenty three cities concerned. Design standards
were optimized with respect to demand projections and consideration was given
to several different possibilities for meeting the growth in demand over
the coming years before the least cost solutions were identified and selected.
Similarly, in the case of the Igbin interconnection, the least cost solution
of several alternatives was adopted giving due weight to the need for a system
that would reduce the likelihood of power failures to within reasonable bounds.
67.       Insomuch as the Igbin interconnection constitutes onLy one part
of a much larger generation, transmission and distribution project, it does
not lend itself to an economic rate of return calculation. In the case of
the expansion program to serve the incremental demand in 23 cities, however,
the economic rate of return has been estimated at 17.5 percent. This figure
may be on the low side because it does not take account of the consumer
surplus that may come about as a result of the project. Nor does it capture
the indirect benefits that may result from a better dispersion of economic
activity throughout the country as a result of the proposed project. If
project costs were to be 10 percent higher than expected and revenues lower
than expected by a factor of 15 percent, the corresponding rate of return
would be 13 percent.



- 19 -
Project Risks
68.       There are no unusual risks foreseen in implementing the project.
Experience shows, however, that the severe shortage of technica.' and pro-
fessional expertise with which tMEPA is confronted may erode its overall level
of organizational efficiency and this, in turn, may affect the project in-
directly. A sustained effort in staff training and continue6i heavy reliance
upon expatriate technical personnel in the medium-term future should keep
this risk within reasonable limits.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the National Electric
Power Authority, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Federal Kepublic of
Nigeria and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section f (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
70.       Special conditions of the proposed loan are listed in Section Ili
of Annex III of this Report.
71.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply witn the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - kECOMM1ENDATION
72.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington D.C.
December 11, 1981



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
NIGERIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
NIGERIA                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE5AGES
LAND AREA (TtlUUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                      - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TUTAL            923.8                               MUST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     448.4              1960  /b    1970 Lb ESTIMATE Lb  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US)                 160.0       250.0    670.0                794.2                  1616.2
ENERGY CUNSUMPTIUN PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS UF CUAL EQUIVALENT)     28.8        48.2      83.0                707.5                 1324.1
PUPULA1'IUN AND VITAL STATISTICS
PuPULAtIUN, MID-YEAR (TIIUUSANDS) 51598.0   66182.0   82603.0
URBAN PUPULATIUN (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 13.1       16.4      20.0                 27.7                    64.2
PUPULATIUN PRUJECTIUNS
POPULATIUN IN YEAR 200U (MILLIONS)                    161.3
STATIONARY POPULATIUN (MILLIONS)                      459.0
YEAR STATIONARY PUPULATION IS REACHED                2105
PUPULATIUN DENSITY
PER SQ. K11.                      55.9       71.6      89.4                 55.0                    34.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    125.0      152.0     179.7                130.7                    94.5
PUPULATIUN AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
U-14 YRS.                        45.4        46.6      47.6                 46.0                   40.7
15-U4 YRS.                        52.3        51.0      50.0                 51.2                   55.3
65 YRS. AND ABUVE                  2.3         2.4       2.4                  2.8                    4.0
PUPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOIAL                              2.4        2.5       2.5                  2.8                     2.4
URBAN                             4.7         4.7       4.7                  5.1                     3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     51.9       50.6      49.7                 46.9                    31.4
LRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THUUSAND)    25.0        20.5      17.1                 15.8                    8.4
GCUSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.4        3.4       3.4                  3.2                     2.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTURS, ANNUAL (THUUSANDS)       ..        7.6      33.2
USERS (PERCENT UF MAKRRIED WUOIEN)  ..         ..
FoUD AND NUTRITIUN
INDEX UF FUUD PRODUCTIUN
PER CAPITA (19b9-71=100)        100.0       102.0      86.0                 89.9                   108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT UF
REQUIREMENTS)                   79.0       82.0      83.0                 92.3                   107.6
PRUTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         43.0        44.0      45.0                 52.8                   65.8
UF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       11.0       10.0      11.0                 16.1                    34.0
CHILD (AGLS 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     37.4       29.3      22.4                 20.2                     7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   38. 7       44.0      48.5                 50.8                    64.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THUUSAND)                             ..      154.0/c      ..                   ..                    70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TUTAL                               ..         ..        ..                 27.4                    65.7
URBAN                               ..         ..        ..                 74.3                    79.7
RURAL                               ..         ..        ..                 12.6                    43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPUSAL (PERCENT
OF PUPULATION)
TUTAL                               ..         ..        ..                   ..                    59.9
URBAN                               ..         ..        ..                   ..                    75.7
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..                   ..                    30.4
POPULATIUN PER PHYSICIAN         73711.4    24667.2   15742.0              13844.1                  1728.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    6020.0/d    5073.0    4012.7               2898.6                  1288.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2765.0/e   2221.7    1369.5               1028.4                  40i.2
URBAN                               ..      494.4     373.8                423.0                   558.0
RURAL                               ..    18488.8    5494.7               3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..         ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE UF HUUSEHULD
TOTAL                               ..         ..
URBAN                              ..           *-      4.7
RURAL                              ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSUNS PER RUOUM
TUTAL                               ..         ..
URBAN                             3.0          ..       2.2
RC'AL                              ..
ACLESS TU ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
UF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             81.0         ..        ..
URBAN                            81.3          ..      42.4
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..



-  21    -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
NIGERIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SMUT
NIGERIA                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE%GXS
M- OST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOMPF
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIATE /b    AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENOLLHEHI RATIOS
PRYARY:      TOTAL                36.0        32.0      62.0                 73.7                   101.7
MALE                 46.0        41.0         ..                96.8                   103.0
FEMALE               27.0        24.0        ..                 79.0                   101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 4.0         6.0      13.0                 16.2                    35.3
MALE                  6.0         8.0        ..                 25.3                    34.9
FEMALE                1.0         4.0        ..                 14.8                    35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)   5.0         8.5       3.0/f                5.3                    30.1
PUPIL-ThACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           30.0        34.0      34.0                 36.2                    29.6
SSCo2DARY                         19.0        21.0      25.0                 23.6                    15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       15.4           .        ..                   ..                    80.0
COHSMUOTION
PASSEBR CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.7         0.9        ..                 32.3                    42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         2.8        19.3      66.8                 69.0                   215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.1         1.1       5.7                  8.0                    89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST-) CIRCULATIOti PER
TNUUSAND POPULATION                  8.0         4.8       6.9                 20.2                    62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..          ..       0.5                  0.7                     3.2
LAbOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    21788.5     25991.9   30310.1
FEMLE  (PERCENT)                  41.3        40.6      39.9                 36.7                    22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             70.8        62.1      54.7                 56.6                    35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                10.4        13.8      18.4                 17.5                    23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               42.2        39.3      36.7                 37.2                    31.8
MALE                                50.3        47.3      44.6                 47.1                    49,0
FEMALE                              34.4        31.5      29.0                 27.5                    14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.1         1.2       1.4                  1.3                     1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     472.0                381.2
RURAL                               ..          ..     181.0                156.2                   187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US5 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               A.          ..     402.0                334.3                   513.9
11URAL                              ..          ..     134.0                137.6                   362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                   ..                      ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Moat Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1965-66 average;  /d 1963; /e Including ex-North Cameroon under British administration;   /f Certain
fields of study previously classified under other second level education of vocational or technical
nature are now reported under general education.
May, 1981



14.4
04                                                     2
.      .....            20 2  2 20 2. 02- 2I'll.    2.
R2.2.   .220 2 .  .   2                                   ; -  2 22.  2222 2 2 2 2 2 - 2222 222 222202 2.
2  22 2   2 12 .-   2 22 02 2   2.22   2 2  .2 22 22 2.E222. . .  .  2
2 2  2 2 2 2  . 2~2 22  22 22 22  22  2  2  2 2 2 22  2 2222 222 2  2 222 222   2 22   22 2 2 ~ 2  2.
.22 222 2  2 22.22.2..22 222 222 .2.   22 0.2   2   22 2  2   22 2  2 2  2  2.2...2   1 .2.2 .  .
2  2  2.22 2222 2.22  2.  22  222.2  24  27  22  2 2 2 22 2 2 0 2*  2.2.R2 2  2   2.2
22  2.22   2  22 .222 22  2 2  -4  21  22 2 2  2;  -2 2   2 2 2 2 2 22222 2
22  22..2.1j2 22 .22 2.2 2  2 2  2 2  2222..4222  2 2  .2  2 2R 22  R.2 2.2.2.22 .2.
22  .  2.2   2222 22.222 2  2  22  02222 222   22 2  22 2.2 22  2  .22  2  2  2  2  22 02  2. 22  12  222
2  22 2   2 222   .2~1  .2   .22   2.  22. 222 222   22 22  *   22 2.22  2 122  22 2 R
2.  2 422 2222 222 .12   2   22   22 22.2222211 2   2 22  22.2   22 ~ 2   2 22 7
2.2  2  22  22  22  222.212222  2  2 22  0 22.2  2   1.0222 2  2
>22  22A2 2 22   2.  2  2 22 22   2 2   2 2 22
12   .2 2       . 2   22 .2   2 2 2 0 22 2 2   2 2   2  2 .2   . 2 2
21 .1.  22-.22  2 2.  2 2   2   2  2  2 2 0 0 . 2 2 22 2   2 2   2 2
2  .2 2.2 222 2.22 222   .2   22  2  42  2 22. 2.22 22   222 222 22.   2.. 22  224
2  22 22.2 2222 2222 022 2  22 22.20  02  2  2  22 2.2   222 2  22   2
.j22 22 ~ 2  2 2  2 2  2  222 2.2   2212.2 22  ~ 2l22~  .
.2  22   2  22.  22.2.2   2   22 22. 2  2 42  22  ~ 2 2  7 .2
R22222  222   .22  .2.  .2 2 .2   .o . 2 2 0220
22 .2 22 22 22 2  2  2 2  ..22 22 2  22  2 22 20 02  0   22222 22 22 0  222 .1   2
2.2       222 2222.222    2.2 222..2 .22.2  2.22..
752    12422  2 1 2 ~  .2 22
2.  .222 022 2222 2  212  222  2.2 222 22  222 202 2  2  .22 .  2212   22
.222 2  2 2.22 2.2.222.  0 222   022 2.2 2202 2  22.  2.222.2 2  22 222 2  2  2  2
2  222 222002  2  22  2  2.2   21 22 22  2021 222  2 22 2  . .22022.. ..
22 2 2 2 2 22 2 V2 2  0I  4 2 2 2 2 2 2I. . 2 2 2 2 2   2 22 2   2 2 2 2 22 2
22  202.~.2   2  0  222  2  22 2.2 2220 22  2.220 2222.2  2.2 2  .2  2  222 0  2 222  222  2
R02      2   22E    E2 2   a2  240 20R. 2 2022.2  2.2   2 . 1 2 2 . 2 2      22
2222.212221022  222122  21  22  202122222.02222  .22 2 2 22 . 2 2 2 2  2. 22 20 2 2
22 22.22 222 2  2.  2222  22 .2   22 222 2222 22  2 222  22 22  . 22  2222 10  2.2  2  0  2



- 23 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978                                        ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, Constant Prices)
US$ Mln.       % _1973-77                                1977             1978
GNP at Market Prices             58800       100.0                       7.4              3.0              5.6
Gross Domestic Investment        18423        31.3                      30.9              6.4              7.8
Gross National Saving            14939        25.4                     17.7              -8.8              9.4
Current Account Balance          -3261         5.6                        -                -                -
Exports of Goods, NFS            12116        20.6                     -3.4              -1.8              7.1
Imports of Goods, NFS            14580        28.4                     36.0              21.5             -8.3
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Value Added                    Labor Force/                V. A, Per Worker
US$ Mln.    __                  Mln.    __                    us           %
Agriculture                       13920.       23.9               17.0     56.0                 819        43.0
Industry                          21922        37.7                5,2    17.0                 4216       220.0
Services                          22318        38.4                6.7     22.0                3331       174.0
Unallocated                          -           -                 1.4      5.0                  -           -
Totai/Average                58160       100.0               30.3    100.0                1919       100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                           Central Goverrnent
(N Mln.)           % of GDP                 (N Mln.)          % of GDP
1979/80    1978 719  1976/77-197            1979/80    1978/79   1976/77-1977/78
Current Receipts                   13288       19.5        34.4                 9805      12.2         20.0
Current Expenditure                 5428       13.1        15.7                 2890       6.9          8.0
Current Surplus                     7861        6.4        18.7                 6915       5.3         12.0
Capital Expenditures                9095       18.3        30.0                 7320      11.7         18.9
External Assistance (net)
MONEY, CREDIT, AND PRICES              1975         1976         1977           1978            1979         1980 2/
(Million N Outstanding End Period)
Money and Quasi Money                  4167         5732         7439           8087           10406        11502
Bank Credit to Public Sector           -608          653         2634           4105            3678         2494
Bank Credit to Private Sector          1798         2423         3465           4684            5413         5846
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP      25.1         26.9          28.8          n.a.            n,a.         n.a.
General Price Index (1960 = 100) 3/   289.6        352,4        423.1          492v5           550.0        604.0
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                    33.5          23.9         15.4          16.5            11.8          9.9
Bank Credit to Public Sector            ,,           .,         303.4           55.8           -10.4        -32.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector          58.4         34.8         43.0           35.2            15.6          8.0
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
2/ Data cover the period June 1980.
3/ Index of Urban Consumer Prices up to 1977. National Price Index from 1978.
Not available.
April 1981



ANNEX I
-     24  -Page 5 of 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                  MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1977-79)
1978      1979      1980                                      US$ Mln.     %
(Millions US$)
Exports of Goods, NFS             11,319    17,796     24,758      Crude Oil                        12,107    92.2
Imports of Goods, NFS             14,580    15,285     20,723      Cocoa Products                      640     4.9
Resource Gap (deficit - -)        -3,261     2,511      4,035      Palm Products                        30     OM2
Tin                                 18      0.1
Interest Payments (net)              246      -247        370      All Other Commodities               332     2.6
Workers' Remittances                 -         -          -
Other Factor Payments (net)         -474      -201       -876                       To1            13,127    100.0
Net Transfers                       -269      -388       -576                        ota
Balance on Current Account        -3,758     1,675      2,953
Direct Foreign Investment            211       305        340      EXTERN4AL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1980
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                    1,434     1,022      1,138                                         US$ Mln.
Amortization                       -24       -38       -141
Subtotal                         1,410       984        997      Public Debt, incl. guaranteed       7,149
Capital Grants                       -         -          -        Non-Guaranteed Private Debt          ,.
Other Capital (net)                 -151        10         81      Total outstanding & disbursed
Other items n.e.i                    -69       388        478
Increase in Reserves (+)           2,357    -3,362     -3,892      DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980k1
Gross Reserves (end year)                                                                                X
Net Reserves (end year)            2,348     5,710      9,602
Public Debt. incl. guaranteed         1.7
Fuel and Related Materials                                         Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Imports                                                          Total outstanding & disbursed
of which:  Petroleum             275       343        442
Exports
of which:  Petroleum           8,505    16,877     24,743      IBRD/IDA LENDING (June 30, 1981)(Millions $)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                       IBRD    IDA
1976:  N1.00 = US$1.60                                               Outstanding & Disbursed           543.4   37.3
1977:  N1.00 = US$1.55                                               Undisbursed                       595.1    -
1978:  N1.00 = US$1.57
1979:  N1.00   US$1.66                                               Outstanding incl. Undisbursed   1,138.5   37.3
1980:  N1.00 - US$1.83
* 1981:  N1.00 - US$1.36
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of G6ods and Non-Factor Services.
2/ Excluding four loans which are not yet effective.
Not Available
* As of June.
June 1981



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
(As of September 30, 1981)
Loan or                                                                US$ Million
Credit                                                         Amount (less cancellation)
Number    Year     Borrower    Purpose                          Bank     IDA      Undisbursed
Sixteen loans and two credits fully disbursed                   479.6    35.3
838-     1972     Nigeria     Roads                             26.3                   5.6
929      1973    Nigeria      Education                         54.0                  32.5
1045      1974     Nigeria     Cocoa Development                 20.0                   2.1
1091      1975     Nigeria     Livestock                         21.0                  10.4
1092      1975     Nigeria     Agric. Dev. Funtua                29.0                   0.6
1099      1975     Nigeria     Agric. Dev. Gusau                 19.0                   0.3
1103      1975     Nigeria     Rice Development                  17.5                   5.4
1164      1975     Nigeria     Agric. Dev. Gombe                 21.0                   0.1
1183      1975     Nigeria     M.W. State Oil Palm               29.5                  20.0
1191      1976     Nigeria     E.C. State Oil Palm               19.0                  13.0
1192      1976    Nigeria      W. State Oil Palm                 17.0                  11.8
1454      1977     Nigeria     Agric. Dev. Lafia                 27.0                  11.5
1455      1977     Nigeria     Agric. Dev. Ayangba               35.0                  13.1
1591      1978     Nigeria     Nuc. Est. Smallholder Oil         30.0                  22.3
1597      1978     NIDB        Industrial Development            60.0                  47.1
1667      1979    Nigeria      Agric. Dev. Bida                  23.0                  17.3
1668      1979    Nigeria      Agric. Dev. Ilorin                27.0                  20.4
1679      1979     Nigeria     Forestry                          31.0                  26.3
1711      1979     Nigeria     Water Supply - Kaduna             92.0                  90.2
1719      1979     Nigeria     Agric. & Rural Mgmt. Inst.         9.0                   8.4
1766      1980    NEPA         Power - Lagos                    100.0                 100.0
1767      1980     Nigeria     Urban Development - Bauchi        17.8                  17.6
*1838      1980    Nigeria      Agric. Dev. - Oyo-North           28.0                  28.0
1854      1980    Nigeria      Agric. Dev. - Ekiti-Akoko         32.5                  32.5
1883      1980    Nigeria      Roads                           108.0                  107.5
*1981      1981    Nigeria      Agric. Dev. - Bauchi            132.0                  132.0
*1982      1981    Nigeria      Agric. Dev. - Kano              142.0                  142.0
*2029      1981    Nigeria      Tech. Assistance-Agric.          47.0                   47.0
*2036      1982    Nigeria      Water Supply - Anambra            67.0                  67.0
Total                                      1,761.2    35.3       1,032.0
Of which has been repaid                     183.6     2.8
Total Outstanding                          1,577.6    32.5
Amount sold                   16.8
Of which has been repaid      16.8             0.0
**Total now held by Bank & IDA               1,77.6     32.5       1,032.0
Total undisbursed
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1981)
Fiscal                                         Type of           Amount in US$ Million
Year                                          Business           Loan   Equity   Total
1964, 1967,    Arewa Textiles Ltd.             Textile Mfg.        1.0     0.6     1.6
1970
1964           Nigeria Industrial              Dev. Fin. Co.               1.4     1.4
Developsent Bank Ltd.
1973           Funtua Cottonseed               Veg. Oil           1.6              1.6
Crushing Ltd.                   Crushing
1973           Nigerian Aluminium              Aluminium          1.0      0.3     1.3
Extrusion Ltd.                  Processing
1974           Lifiaga Sugar                   Sugar                       0.1     0.1
Estate
1980           NTM                             Textiles            6.2     0.7     6.9
1981           Ikeja Hotel                     Tourism             7.5     2.0     9.5
Total Cross Commitments                           17.3     5.1    22.4
Less cancellations                               1.4     0.1      1.5
Less sold and repaid                             2.4     1.5      3.9
Total Commitment now held by IFC                  13.5     3.5    17.0
Undisbursed                                        6.5     2.0     8.5
* Not yet effective
** Prior to exchange rate adjustments
1/ Undisbursed balance was cancelled & loan was closed on Nov. 13, 1981.



- 26 -                               ANNEX Il
Page 2 of 7
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION4 1/
Loan No. 929-UNI    Third Education Project:   USS54.0 million Loan of
August 16, 1973; Effective Date: January 14, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Since appraisal, project costs have increased fourfold. In FY79,
the scope of the project was reduced and the closing date was extended.
Project management has since then improved, but project progress is behind
schedule.
Loan No. 1045-UNI    Second Cocoa Project:  US~2U million Loan of
October 11, 1974; Effective Date: October 15, i975;
Closing Date: September 30, 1981
The project's planting targets have been fully achieved by all
four participating states. Loan recovery performance has however surfaced
as a major problem. A tight "action program" has been initiated, and
updating and reconciliation of farmer loan records has been completed. A
Project completion report es being prepared.
Loan No. 1091-UNI   Livestock Development Project:   US$21.U million Loan
of March 20, 1975; Effective Date: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: July 1, 1983
Project implementation has improved. The project is now under
good management which has overcome most of the initial problems. Supporting
services are better organized, and credit is now being effectively channeled
through NACB. The closing date was recently extended two years to allow
production investments to be completed.
Loan No. 1092-UNI   Funtua Agricultural Development Project:    Ub29Q.U million
Loan of March 20, 1974; Effective Date: January 5, 1976,
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
Project implementation is complete with satisfactory farmer response
and the full support of both Federal and State Governments. Demand for inputs
is consistently above appraisal estimates. The federally controlled Agricul-
tural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit financed under this
loan is fully operational. A project completion report is under preparation.
An expanded second stage project to cover the remainder of Kaduna State has
been appraised.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -                              ANNiX II
Page 3 of 7
Loan No. 1099-UNI   Gusau Agricultural Development Project:   'JSt19.0 million
Loan of April 4, 1975; Effective Date: January 5, 1976;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
The project has been completed with satisfactory support from
both Federal and State Governments. Farmer response has been good, and
appraisal objectives have been met and in some cases exceeded. A project
completion report is under preparation. A loan has been negotiated in support
of a second phase project covering the whole of Sokoto State and will be
submitted for Board consideration in due course.
Loan No. 1103-UNI   Rice Project:   US$17.5 million Loan of April 25,
1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31,1982
Protect implementation made a slow start due to deficiencies in
counterpart funding and staffing limitations. The Bank has withdrawn from
the project component located in Cross River State because of acute problems
of cost overruns and inadequate physical progress. Physical project progress
is better in Anambra State and Imo State but development has been impaired by
insufficient counterpart funding. Once this problem is resolved, considera-
tion will be given to reallocating the balance of loan funds held over from
the Cross River State cumponent to the components in Anambra and Imo States.
Loan No. 1164-'UNI  Gombe Agricultural Development Project:   US$21.0 million
Loan of September 29, 1975; Effective Date: DecemDr' 29.
1976; Closing Date: July 1, 1982
The project has been implemented satisfactorily with full support
from both Federal and State Governments and is virtually complete. A project
completion report is being prepared. The whole of Bauchi State is to be
served by a second-stage project supported by the Bank (Loan 1981-UNI).
Loan No. 1183-UNI   Mid-Western (Bendel) State Oil Palm Project:   US$29.5
million Loan of December 31, 1975; Effective Date:
October 17, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Appraisal targets for the tucleus estate and smalliolder components
have not been met due to delays in land acquisition and the project has been
facing serious financial and managerial pro'blems. Persistent difficulties
forced the Bank to suspend disbursements under the nucleus estate part of the
Loan as of July 13, 1981. However, progress under the smalltiolder component
continued to be satisfactory and, with the appointment of managin6 agents for
the estate company and additional counterpart funding from Bendel State, tne
Bank lifted suspension on November 1, 1981.



-28 -                                ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
Loan No. 1191-UNI    East Central (Imo) State Oil Palm Project:   US$19.0
million Loan of February 12, 1976; Effective Date:
April 6, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Project implementation was initially delayed due to the creation of
new states and problems with staffing. Even though appraisal planting targets
have not been met and the construction of palm oil mills has been delayed, the
project has the best potential for smallholder oil palm development, and
planting rates are now at an acceptable level. The palm oil mill is currently
being designed. The project has recently encountered serious problems due to
the insufficiency of counterpart funding.
Loan No. 1192-UNI    Western (Ondo) State Oil Palm Project:   US$17.0
million Loan of September 22, 1976; Effective Date:
February 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The smallholder component continues to face financial difficulties,
and final targets may not be achieved. For the nucleus estate component, land
acquisition, maAagement, and funding problems have delayed progress. Plantings
are in poor condition and processing facilities are inadequate. Because of the
increasingly serious nature of these problems the Bank. suspended disbursements
under the Loan as of February 28, 1981. However, as the result of corrective
action taken by Ondo State, the Bank lifted the suspension on November 1, 1981.
Loan No. 1454-UNI    Lafia Agricultural Development Project:   US$27.0
million Loan of June 28, 1977; Effective Date:
March 3, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Although local counterpart funding is now adequate, the project
is still experiencing some problems of a technical nature, particularly
concerning extension and training. However, overall project progress is
satisfactory.
Loan No. 1455-UNI    Ayangba Agricultural Development Project:   US$35.0
million Loan of June 2b, 1977; Effective Date:
March 3, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project continues to improve with satisfactory support from
the Federal and State Governments. The most significant improvement is
the introduction of the Training and Visit system, which has enhanced the
impact of the extension services. Farmer participation and physical pro-
ject progress is good. Disbursements are also proceeding satisfactorily,
but the timely provision of counterpart funding remains a problem.



- 29 -                               AiNhX ilL
Page 5 of 7
Loan No. 1591-UNI   Rivers State Nucleus Estate/Smallholder Oil Palm
Project: US$30.0 million Loan of July 24, 197h;
Effective Date: July 10, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
Loan effectiveness was delayed because of problems regarding
completion of the State Loan Agreement, a Management Agreement, and Federal
and State Legal Opinions. Physical progress is satisfactory, but funding
problems persist after some improvement in late-1980. The smallholder
component faces some managerial difficulties.
Loan No. 1597-UNI   Nigerian Industrial Development Bank, Ltd.:    US~6O
million Loan of June 15, 1978; Effective Date:
October 24, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
About 70 percent of the loan has been committed and about 20 percent
disbursed. Both are less than expected at the time of appraisal owing to
the investment climate in 1978/79 which was affected very much by the un-
certainties surrounding the change in government in late-1979.   The invest-
ment climate has recently improved considerably, however, and it is expected
that the loan will be fully committed within a few months.
Loan No. 1667-UNI   Bida Agricultural Development Project.   US$23 million
Loan of September 17, 1979; Effective Date: April 25,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is progressing very well.
Loan No. 1668-UNI    Ilorin Agricultural Development Project:  US$27 million
Loan of September 17, 1979; Effective Date: April 25,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Project progress was impaired at first by delays in the recruitment
of intermediate-level project staff. These problems have now been substan-
tially resolved and project implementation, although not yet fully satisfac-
tory, is improving.
Loan No. 1679-UNI   Forestry Plantation Project:   US$31 million Loan of
October 29, 1979; Effective Date: June 30, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is progressing satisfactorily, despite occasional
problems in securing state funding.



30 -                              ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
Loan No. 1711-UNI   Kaduna Water Supply Project:   US$92 million Loan
of July 16, 1979; Effective Date: July 22, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation was delayed by some initial procurement
problems which have now been resolved. The State Government approved a tariff
increase in April 1981, but the protracted approval process had made the
increase inadequate. The Kaduna State Water Board is now pursuing a further
increase.
Loan No. 1719-UNI   Agricultural and Rural Management Training Inistitute
Project: US$9 million Loan of July 16, 1979; Effective
Date: March 30, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1964
Management consultants are in the field, and project implementation
has been initiated.
Loan No. 1766-UNI   Lagos Power Distribution Project:   US$100 million
Loan of February 19, 1980; Effective Date: July 22,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project, although some six months behind schedule, is pro-
gressing in its initial stages. Tender evaluations for project materials,
equipment, and services have been received by the Bank for review and approval,
and consultant engineering services are proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1767-UNI   Urban Development Project (Bauchi State):   US$17.8 million
Loan of February 19, 1980; Effective Date: August 12, 19b0;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Project progress has been impaired by management and staffing pro-
blems. As a result of efforts by the Bauchi State authorities to resolve
these problems, the situation has now improved substantially. Civil works
have begun, and an accelerated implementation schedule has been introduced
that will permit the project to be completed within the time span envisaged at
appraisal. Technical assistance to the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria is
proceeding well, and has already resulted in better management and in an
improved planning and project implementation capability.
Loan No. 1838-UNI   Oyo-North Agricultural Development Project:   US28.0
million Loan of August 25, 1980; not yet effective;
Closing Date: September 30, 1985
The Oyo State Government has fulfilled almost all the effectiveness
conditions.



-31 -                                ANNEX LI
Page 7 of 7
Loan No. 1854-UNI   Ekiti-Akoko Agricultural Development Project:   US$3Z.5
million Loan of December 15, 1980; Effective Date: November
20, 1981; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
The project is proceeding satisfactorily in its initial stages.
Loan No. 1883-UNI   Sixth Highway Project:   US$108 million Loan of August
25, 1980; Effective Date: December 11, 1980; Closing
Date: March 31, 1985
Contracts for the road strengthening works, the feasibility study
of the Calabar-Ikom road, and the training of maintenance technicians have
been awarded, and the project is progressing satisfactorily in its initial
stages.
Loan No. 1981-UNI   Bauchi State Agricultural Development Project:   US$132
million Loan of September 2, 1981; not yet effective;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
Almost all conditions of effectiveness have been fulfilled, management
is in place and the project is proceeding well.
Loan No. 1982-UNI   Kano Agricultural Development Project:   $142 million Loan
of September 2, 1981; not yet effective; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
The Kano State Government is making good progress toward meeting
the effectiveness conditions.
Loan No. 2029-UNI   Agricultural Technical Assistance Project;   US$47 million
Loan of September 2, 1981; not yet effective; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
The Federal Government is making good progress towards meeting the
conditions of loan effectiveness.
Loan No. 2036-UNI   Anambra Water Supply and Sanitation Project:   USA67 million
Loan of November 13, 1981; not yet effective; Closing Date:
September 30, 1987.
The Anambra State Government is making good progress towards meeting
the conditions of loan effectiveness.



- 32 -                              ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
SIXTH POWER PROJECT
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project: 19 months
(b) The agency which has prepared the project: NEPA and Consultants
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank: March 1978
(d) Date of the first Bank mission to consider the project: March 1978
(e) Date of departure of the Appraisal Mission: October 28, 1979
(f) Date of completion of negotiations: May 7, 1981
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: March 31, 1982
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) NEPA will no later than June 30, 1982, strengthen the organization
of its systems and distribution operations unit in charge of
recording and analyzing power failures (para. 52);
(b) NEPA will engage consultants to review its billing and collection
systems (para. 46);
(c) NEPA will carry out a power flow study of the interconnection
of the Igbin generating station to the Lagos power system
(para. 52);
(d) NEPA will take all necessary action, including adjustments in its
tariffs to achieve an 8 percent rate of return on the average value
of net fixed assets in operation (para. 58);
(e) NEPA will engage consultants to update the power development master
plan that was financed under loan 847-UNI (para. 46).



/I G                                                    E  R
sI\                    /     Katsina
IN.G E R
Talat  afar      Kankiyd%
<              BirninKebbi  f ;)  r   0   r  0                                 Hoc
1sa K                                    A~
l2\Ad            \    \           --~        GusaL<S
)12 I                       -                   N           12  K a   O   *3jaR.
Funtua
P,                                         J     /Zl X; KG;   e6g   JS <
Na u
-                                                             B auchi
Shiroror
N0
EN N  p         Kainjii  Al  IJo
L I        A   T  E t
ft          IseyinU                                    R
I/fe
Abeoku a                                          O a anr
J,L                                                      LI iG B N J
AAGr
p          nish0Aakl1
MALIi         .1ospele                         /C
NIGER  ZHD.D.TA
UPPEI- )                   T             Owr
OVOrri                                              1      C A M  REPOO
NIGERIA  .
zBNI,                                                           CalabQr
/CAMERO PNr
EOUATORIAL                                L _.  K~~Ee
GUINJEA
'GABON



I B R D 150Q4
N                                                12'                 \        ! -    C   HAD     MAY 1980
N     I G   E  R                                                                         H9  A D
V2.'
i--  Vo-,                           SjH                         X     iZake Ch)d t *a
Kono  ~ tcot~                                             aiduguri
| CAMEROON
Bauchi               Gombe
N                                                                         CA H,  A
iK   \\  X                      )     SSIXTH                  POWER      PROJECT
'                                    i<- >t 1/    330 and 132 Kv Power Transmission System
\  YndRvm(\                           7".      Power Distribution System  For 23 Cities
UNDER
.O '00 4/- -            -                                            EXISTING   PROJECT    CONSTRUCTION
I .-->x                                         Power distribution syst4em  *0)@
r  4              U     <       \.    ./   Hydro generating station  U                        r
)    r                  \               Thermal generating station  *                      -
fr   /-                                 ~~330kv line*               *-*-
132 kv line
0 Cities or towns
SfFaV   -                 i                               Rivers
- ; 5State boundaries
IR-   Internotionl boundaries
CAMH EROONROEC
0        3  a00 o    K       200            300
CnPbbr                                                                      Kilone ersy m    50
Poe50 ,b100                           150     -   200
rhis map has been prepared by the World ranks staff exlusively for the convenience
;  of tie readers ofCtie rep ort to v,h  r s atta;,ed  Toe deownn,sr,rns used ted the
botr,nda'ias shor4n on tiels map do notlrrt. aZrc icn crtl pof f/c Le /or/d Bank anrc is
-                                          .ltl,h.jtes. any ,c,dgment r  th, /ql rz  l tac3uFr ol trw tenitryk or arn) nndorsemeret cr
acceptance of suct boundaries.
C  E  0 0N                                    --- Iteratioal oundrie



