Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22496
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-28390; PPFI-P9440)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$35.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOR THE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
June 29, 2001
Rural Development m
Country Department 11
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 26, 1995)
Currency Unit = Guinean Franc (GNF)
GNF 1.00 = US$ 0.001
US$ 1.00 = GNF 978
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Al           Artificial Insemination
BCEPA        Agricultural Policy Coordination Office
CBPP         Contagious Bovine Peri-pneumonia
CIRAD        Center for International Cooperation in Agronomic Research for Development
DNA          National Agriculture Directorate
DNE          National Livestock Directorate
DPDRE        Prefectoral Directorate for Rural Development and Environment
FEW          Field Extension Workers
IITA         International Institute of Tropical Agriculture
IRAEF        Regional Inspection for Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry
IRAG         Agricultural Research Institute of Guinea
LPDA II      Second Sector Policy Letter
LSRP         Livestock Sector Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1752-GN)
MAEF         Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry
MC           French Ministry for Cooperation
NASP         National Agricultural Services Project
OP           Fanners Organization
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SNPRV        National Rural Development and Agricultural Extension Service
SOP          Farmer Organizations Specialist
TS           Subject Matter Specialist
UEP          Experimental Farmer Groups
WARDA        West African Rice Development Association
Vice President:   Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:   Mamadou Dia
Sector Manager/Director:   Jean-Paul Chausse
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Suzanne Piriou-Sall



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GUINEA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT (Cr. 2839-GN - PPFI-P9440)
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  15
6. Sustainability                                                                      16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       17
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     19
9. Partner Comments                                                                    20
10. Additional Information                                                            20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID. P001081                                       Project Name: NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL
SERVICES PROJECT
Team Leader: Suzanne Piriou-Sall                           TL Unit: AFTR3
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: June 29, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL SERVICES                 L/C/TF Number: IDA-28390;
PROJECT                                                       PPFI-P9440
Country/Department: GUINEA                                                Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: AE - Agricultural Extension; AG - Agency Reform;
AL - Livestock; AR - Research; VY - Other
Environment
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  01/15/1995                               Effective: 08/09/1996         10/03/1996
Appraisal:  06/28/1995                                MTR:                        04/12/1999
Approval:  04/02/1996                               Closing:                     12/31/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE;
GOVERNMENT/LIVESTOCK; GOVERNMENT/AND FORESTRY
Other Partners:  European Union, French Republic (Ministry of Cooperation, Caisse Francaise de
Developpement)
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                         Edward V. K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Mamadou Dia                                Jean-Louis Sarbib
Sector Manager:      Jean-Paul Chausse                          Randolph Harris
Team Leader at ICR:   Suzanne Piriou-Sall                       Franz Schorosch
ICR Primary Author:   Dirk Nicolaas Prevoo; Amadou
Oury Diallo
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives and design of the National Agricultural Services Project (NASP) need to be
assessed against the situation prevailing in Guinea at the time of project preparation (1994-1996).
Agriculture was characterized by smallholdings (averaging less than 2 ha), low productivity due to
limited use of improved agricultural technology, animal traction and commercial inputs.
Production increases had been mostly due to area expansion. The public expenditure review
carried out jointly by Government and IDA in early 1995, showed that: (i) public sector
involvement in agriculture was disproportionately large relative to needs; (ii) the pattern of
recurrent and investment expenditure funding was almost entirely donor driven, with donors
fimding 85 percent of investment expenditures and 80 percent of recurrent expenditures; (iii)
insufficient attention to operating and maintenance, especially for rural infrastructure; and (iv) the
high cost of public investment in agriculture (including substantial use of technical assistance) with
limited impact. The livestock sector had already benefited from a long policy dialogue between
the Government and the donor community, which had been supported by IDA through the
Livestock Sector Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1725-GN; LSRP), which closed in 1995.
To address these issues, Government prepared an Agricultural Sector Policy Note and with the
support of donors, the NASP. The NASP was to be a first step towards an integrated sector
investment program in the agricultural sector. It was co-financed by the European Union, the
French Ministry of Cooperation (Ministere de la Cooperation Franqaise, MC) and the Caisse
fran(aise de developpement (CFD). A seperate Livestock Sector Policy Letter had been prepared
as part of the LSRP.
The project's development objective was to improve nationwide agricultural productivity and
production, incomes of fanners and food security. The operation was designed to: (i) reshape the
public sector role to complement the private sector and support private sector led growth; (ii)
develop human capital, i.e., the knowledge and skills of both professionals (researchers, extension
agents and livestock specialists) and farmers; and (iii) improve Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock
and Forestry's (MAEF) capacity to provide services that are public goods and to arrest
environmental degradation.
The NASP was consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Guinea. Its overall
objectives and the goals the operation was designed to achieve were clearly appropriate given the
sectoral analysis and the country's own vision as detailed in its Agriculture Sector Policy Note and
the Livestock Sector Policy Letter.
3.2 Revised Objeetive:
The mid-term review confirmed the pertinence of the original objectives of the project.
3.3 Original Components:
In support of the project's objectives, the project included the following four components:
* institutional capacity building of MAEF (US$6.9 million or 9 percent of base costs)
* agricultural extension (US$31.0 million or 39 percent of base costs)
* agricultural research (US$20.3 million or 25 percent of base costs)
- 2 -



*  livestock and animal health component (US$21.2 million or 26 percent of total base costs)
*  responsiveness to social, gender and environmental issues (costs included under the other four
components)
The components were well designed and formed a coherent framework in support of the project's
objectives. Many of the institutional reforms proposed were in line with Bank practice at the
time. The sole exception was the pilot entrepreneur capacity building scheme sub-component of
the institutional capacity building of MAEF component. The design of this pilot was not yet clear
at the time of Board presentation of the project and was to be detailed during the first year of
project implementation. The sub-component was, however, only added at appraisal and leaving
the details for implementation was not uncommon at the time.
3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not substantially revised during project implementation.  The pilot
operation was suspended following the 1999 supervision mission because of the relatively high
costs and low impact.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry is rated marginally satisfactory. The project was a follow-on of two earlier
operations (First Agricultural Services Project, Cr. 1636-GN, and the Livestock Sector
Rehabilitation Project, Cr. 1725-GN). The preparation team appropriately focused on the lessons
learned from these prior operations and addressed these satisfactory in project design. The
development objective was clearly defined and had appropriate indicators. As mentioned above,
the project's components formed a coherent framework in support of the development objective
and were technically well designed. The analysis presented in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)
was superficial, but supplementary information was available from the existing Project Completion
Reports and project documents in file. In addition, a good project implementation manual had
been prepared. As mentioned before, the project was in support of the Bank's and Government of
Guinea's development strategies. The design was not overly complex and did not introduce new
concepts, but was in support of agreed reforms with the Government and in the case of the
livestock sector, ongoing reforms. The timetable for the institutional reforms at the Agricultural
Research Institute of Guinea (Institut de recherche agronomique de guinee, IRAG) was very
optimistic given the Bank's experience in other countries, which became apparent during project
implementation.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievenment of objective:
The project's overall development objective was to improve nationwide agricultural productivity
and-production, incomes of farmers and food security. The overall outcome of the project is rated
satisfactory as the project was successful in increasing agricultural productivity, production and
incomes. As the key performance indicators in Annex show, agricultural gross domestic product
grew faster under the project than expected. In addition, the share of agriculture in the national
domestic product increased by two percent from 22 in 1996 to 24 percent in 2000 (estimated). In
absolute terms agricultural GDP increased to 449 billion GF, exceeding appraisal estimates by 2
billion GF. This was achieved primarily by increasing productivity through the adoption of new
technologies and improved plant varieties by the 46 percent of the farm families reached by the
-3 -



project, and improved animal husbandry practices. General food security increased and reach its
target one year early in 1999. Agricultural exports slightly lagged behind appraisal estimates, but
this was caused by external factors over which the project had no control. Imports of meat and
diary projects declined precipitously as a result of the continued livestock reforms and increased
livestock productivity. In addition, the strengthening of agricultural research has availed the
country access to a continuous flow of improved farming technologies. Fertilizer use lagged
slightly because of the delayed adoption of the regulatory framework liberalizing trade in chemical
inputs. This had, however, no impact on the project's overall outcome. The details for individual
components are provided below.
4.2 Outputs by components:
A. Institutional Capacity Building.
This component's objectives were to strengthen the field presence and technical capacity of
MAEF in the areas of sectoral policy formulation, project and donor coordination, and
agricultural statistics. Despite the achievements of most objectives, the component is rated
marginally satisfactory, as the pilot project failed to have an impact.
A.]. Agricultural Policy Coordination Office (Bureau central des etudes et de planification
agricole, BCEPA). The specific objective of this component was to improve the capacity of
BCEPA for policy formulation and coordination of donors and projects. In order to achieve this,
staff was trained in economic analysis and consulting services were provided. BCEPA also
assured the coordination of project activities through the technical coordination committee and
supervision. The objective was achieved and the sub-component is rated satisfactory.
BCEPA satisfactoriy carried out several studies. The first study related to the redefinition of the
role of MAEF given Government's policy to withdraw from the provision of services that could be
more efficiently provided by the private sector, and redeployment of staff from headquarters to
the field. Government was to refocus on key functions such as policy setting, regulation and
control. The document was discussed in the Council of Ministers. A subsequent study focussed
on the reorganization of the National Agriculture Directorate (Direction nationale de
l'agriculture, DNA). This study was completed and the recommendations were still being
implemented at the time of credit closing, with DNA refocussing on strategy fortnulation,
regulation and control. As part of this process, the phyto-sanitary service of DNA has been fully
privatized. Thirty-three civil servants responsible for phytosanitary treatment of plants, left the
civil service and installed themselves as private service providers. They have been successful at
this because of existing demand and started to hire and train auxiliaries (about 50 in total) to assist
them in their work. As part of a third study, a staff inventory was carried out, and job
descriptions and a training plan were defined. The training plan formed the basis for training
activities under the project. A fourth study focussed on the agricultural input distribution system.
At the time, several distortions existed that limited inputs consumption. The study was to
propose revised legislation that would address bottlenecks caused by regulations related to the
distribution and taxation of inputs. This applied in particular to Japanese fertilizer aid, which was
distributed using a system of quotas by region. The Government failed to implement the
recommendations of the study until well after the mid-termn review in 1999, despite repeated
requests by the Bank. Despite the delays, this was an important accomplishment given the
oppostion of vested interests that benefitted from the status quo. Several additional studies were
- 4 -



carried out by BCEPA under joint financing of the MC and the Bank. These studies related
mostly to crop specific issues.
BCEPA carried out the planned review of the agricultural sector investment program. Combined
with other preparatory work, this review led the way to the Second Sector Policy Letter (
Deuxieme lettre de politique de developpement agricole, LPDA II). This policy letter was
adopted in October 1998 by the donors participating in the round table and now forms the basis
for the rural development program. A review of the possibility of collecting user fees (through a
cess or direct contributions) was to be studied as a result of this review. Pilots were introduced
for cost recovery in research and extension. The results were judged satisfactory and cost
recovery will be used in the design of the follow-on project. A tariff review was started late in the
project, but not completed prior to credit closing.
Support was also provided to the Agricultural Statistics Office of MAEF. The goal was to
improve the reliability of data collected. Two surveys were carried out, the agricultural survey (
Enquete agricole) in 1997, and the national agricultural census (recensement nationale de
l'agriculture), which started in 2000. FAO provided technical assistance to these activities. This
helped ensure the integrity data collection methods and analysis. The study to measure project
impact was not carried out.
Economic simulation software was installed within MAEF and staff trained in its use. The
software simulates the impact of policy decisions on agriculture in the sub-region. Unfortunately,
the software is too sophisticated and insufficient numbers of staff trained in its use to be of value.
The installation of a Geographic Information System for the management of rural investments
could not be completed because of delays in its delivery.
Equipment and training was provided to the all the personnel of the 33 Prefect level Directorates
for Rural Development and Environment (Direction prefectorale du developpement rural et de
l'environnement, DPDRE) and the 7 Regional Inspections for Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry
(Inspection regional de l'agriculture, de 6levage et desforets, IRAEF)
A.2. Pilot operation. The objective of this sub-component was to encourage MAEF employees
(civil servants), especially those who were already engaged in subsidiary economic activities, to
leave the public sector and become private entrepreneurs. The sub-component is rated higly
unsatisfactorv. Implementation was carried out by Pride Guinee, which had executed a private
sector development project for USAID. The preparatory studies were completed as planned and
the pilot operation was launched in 1997. An information and sensitization campaign of all
MAEF personnel was carried out to explain the objective of the pilot operation. Subsequently,
initial training was provided to about five hundred ministry staff. Implementation progress under
this sub-component was slow. By November 1999, only nine staff had received financing (in the
form of a credit) to leave the public sector and install themselves as private entrepreneurs. The
sub-component was suspended following the November 1999 supervision mission as results were
negligible and overhead costs were high (US$1.2 million). Lack of clearly defined severance
procedures for staff eligible for support under the sub-component was a main determinant of its
failure. Despite the lack of progress made under the pilot, a dialogue was started within the
- 5-



Government on how to deal with this issue and the objectives of the proposed redefinition of
Government's role is now better understood among potentially affected civil servants. This is
especially important as it has taken away existing insecurities based on misinformation.
B. Agricultural Extension Component.
This component's objective was to strengthen agricultural extension to accelerate the
dissemination of appropriate and sustainable technologies.  Activities were implemented as
planned and the objective was fully achieved with the component rated fully satisfactory.
Strengthening of Agricultural Extension. Management of the National Extension Service (
Service national de la promotion rurale et de vulgarisation, SNPRV) was decentralized as
planned. Staff was hired by the regional and provincial departments and financial management
was decentralized to the regional level. Bank accounts were opened in each region and
accountants hired and trained. Budgets were established at the regional level and reviewed each
trimester. This decentralization of budgetary execution and personnel management avoided the
problems that negatively affected extension work during key periods in the past as staff worked
with those who hired and evaluated them, and funds were made available in a timely and
transparent manner.
The training program for extension staff was executed as planned. All Field Extension Workers
(FEWs) received refresher training, fortnightly training with the content adapted to their work
program and basic training in carrying out participatory community diagnostics.  Monthly
Technical Review workshops were regularly organized in each region, with participation of
Subject Matter Specialists (Techniciens sp&ialis6s, TS), researchers from IRAG, senior
extension staff and beneficiaries. Additional meetings were organized as needed. All TS
participated in annual training workshops for TS in Monitoring and Evaluation and surveys, and
several TS were trained to serve as Farmer Organization Specialists (Specialiste en organisations
paysannes, SOP). Training in management techniques was provided to 80 supervisors, 33
coordinators and 8 regional directors. Finally staff benefited from a number of national and
international study tours.
Implementation of the project has shown the need for SNPRV to evolve. The present setup has
served the country well in building a basic capacity amongst farmers. The time is now coming to
improve services to farmers that have shown that they are ready to move beyond the support that
can be provided by FEWs. These farmers need access to higher qualified and demand driven
extension advice. This will need to be addressed during a follow-on phase.
Monitoring and Evaluation and Beneficiary Assessments. The SNPRV's M&E system had
been tested and found to be satisfactory. What was lacking was a qualitative feedback from the
beneficiaries on the services provided by the SNPRV.  As a result, systematic client
consultation/beneficiary assessments were introduced to measure the qualitative impact of
extension on beneficiaries. These assessments showed that beneficiaries were satisfied with the
services provided by the SNPRV and confirmed that the oil spill effect of extension did not occur.
This formed the rationale for the change from placing emphasis on working with contact groups
to working increasingly with OPs, where they existed.
- 6 -



Support to Contact Groups of Farmers. SNPRV was to work with 200,000 farmers organized
in 20,000 contact groups and covered by 1,300 Field Extension Workers (FEW). In order to
achieve this the number of FEWs was to be increased from 800 to 1,300. During implementation
the decision was made to provide the FEWs with mobylettes rather than bicycles to increase their
mobility. In addition farmers increasingly grouped themselves in Farmers Organizations (
Organisations professionels, OP). As a result, only 200 additional FEWs needed to be hired and
200,000 families organized in 40,000 groups were reached. This represents about 38 percent of
all farmers (the goal for 2000 was 40 percent). Where OPs were present, the SNPRV did not
formn groups, but worked with the OPs instead. FEWs were able to establish almost 60,000
demonstration plots in 2000, while the goal for that year was 34,000 (almost 50 percent more).
The adoption rate increased from 30 percent in 1996 to 46 percent in 2000 or 92,000 farm
families versus an objective of 80,000 farm families (50 percent of 160,000 families).
Several new varities and planting/plant maintenance techniques had been adapted/developed by
IRAG and were introduced by the SNPRV during the project. Seeds for improved WADRA rice
were provided to 22,000 farmers by test farmers between 1997 and 2000. It is not clear whether
there was onward distribution by the recipient farmers to other farmers. As only about 62 percent
of farmers grow rice, the adoption rate is of the improved seeds achieved around 20 percent in
less than three years. Adoption of a wider basket of rice production technologies has been
consistently over 50 percent during project implementation. On average rice yields increased
from 1.46 tons/ha in 1996/97 to 1.92 tons/ha in 1999/00 (about one-third over three years).
Where comparison data are available, contact farmers consistently have much higher yields than
non-contact farmers (rainfed areas: 1.98 tons/ha by contact farmers versus 1.60 tons/ha by non
contact farmers). For other crops this information is summarized in the table below
- 7 -



Yield of                    Yield of
contact                  ether farmers
farmers (tons/ha)
Crop       % of         % of      1996/97  1999/00     %       1996/97  1999/00
farmers    producing                      adoption
producing    farmers                       by contact
in 2000    contacted                      farmers
(2000)    _ _ _ _                       _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Com            26           35         1.58     2.34      52        1.06     1.54
Groundnut      43           43         1.12     1.55      72       0.95 X    1.12
Cassave        29       not available   7.81    9.87      50       5.39     6.82
Onion          13       not available    17.8  24.8-35.8  49% in    not      not
Haute   available available
Guinee and
14% in
Moyenne
Guinee
Aubergine  not available    40         12.0     14.3      64        9.0      11.5
Tomatoes   not available    25         15.9     18.7      49        10.3     13.5
(I 8,750 total
farmers)
Coffee     not available    73         1.1      2.0       94        0.8      1.0
(49,768 total
farners)
Potatoes    not available   25         17.8     24,8      98        10.4     13.2
(21,429 total
farmers)                             _
Support to OPs. SNPRV provided training to OPs in the areas of commercialization, financial
management, collective inputs purchasing, etc. At the end of the project, 8,500 OPs existed, and
over 100 unions, four federations and one national council. On a pilot basis, support was
provided to OPs to plant 6,000 ha with improved coffee tree material.
Support to Women. In 1996, a unit was created within the SNPRV that provided training to
extension staff and rural women on social issues and post-harvest technologies (storage and
transformation). As a result the percentage of women touched directly by the SNPRV increased
from two percent in 1996 to 48 percent in 2000.
Seeds Multiplication. Under the Agricultural Seeds Project (Cr. 1864-GN), the cost of seeds
multiplication at the seed centers had been a major impediment to widespread dissemination of
improved seeds. One kilo of rice seeds ranged from GF 500-1,000, corn GF 500 and groundnuts
GF 1400. The SNPRV trained interested farmers in seed multiplication on a communal basis.
This led to improved access of farmers to improved seeds at lower cost.
Collaboration with Others. During the start-up of the project, emphasis was shifted to the
economic and financial impact of improved technologies rather than focussing foremost on
production increases. Contractual relationships were entered into with several NGOs, including
SG2000, I'AFVP, CMC, CLUSA, ACT and numerous development projects. This enabled the
SNPRV and the participating NGOs to capitalize on each other's strengths (e.g., SG2000: inputs
- 8 -



promotion; AFVP: lowland development). With the help of SG2000, small storage facilities were
constructed to help farmers store crop and inputs. Larger storage facilities were constructed at
the union and federation level. Contractual relationships were also developed with rural radios
and communities to spread technical messages on a wider scale in local languages. A survey
showed that 22 percent of farmers that were contacted by the SNPRV in Moyenne Guinee and 8
percent of contact fanners in Haute Guinee received technical advice through these means.
C. Agricultural Research Component.
This component's specific objective was to build a sustainable agricultural research capacity
responsive to farmers' needs by developing appropriate technologies. This was to be achieved by
implementing a number of institutional strengthening measures and improvements in research
organization and management. The component achieved most of its objectives, however some
with serious delays that affected the outcome of the proposed institutional reforms. In the case of
Government's delayed budgetary support, it also affects the institute's ability to function
efficiently. It is therefore rated marginally satisfactory.
The revised statutes for IRAG, which were to strengthen its autonomy and accountability, were
not adopted until February 1999. Almost three years later than planned and despite repeated
threats by supervision staff that the project would be suspended unless action was taken. IRAG's
Board could not be appointed until after the adoption of its revised statutes and therefore did not
meet for the first time until 1999. The External Review Board for the research programs was
established only in early 2000. This board was considered an important instrument for improving
the quality of research programming, but did not meet prior to credit closing. IRAG felt that with
credit closing imminent, the review was unlikely to have an impact on the quality of the research
program as future IDA funding was uncertain. Cofinanciers of IRAG funded specific research
activities and had therefore less of an interest in an overall review of research priorities. It is
unlikely that this delay impacted on project outcome and research results. In case of a follow-on
project, it would, however, be important to have an evaluation of the research programs early on.
A research master plan was developed to guide the future research priorities, and human and
physical resources needs. Thirty-three priority programs were identified and research programs
were refocused on the principal crops in their agro-ecological zone.  Following an initial
evaluation of its research staff in 1996, IRAG proceeded with the nomination of research program
coordinators, program heads and redeployed research staff to its regional centers. A detailed
medium-term plan was elaborated, which was discussed with farmers and other development
partners at the regional level.
Improved human resources management started with a test of all of IRAG's research staff before
the end of December 1996 and of senior staff before the end of December 1997. The advantage
of the evaluation was twofold: (i) it allowed classifying staff on an equal basis with other research
institutions in the sub-region on the basis of their training and work experience, which the grading
system within MAEF could not accommodate; and (ii) a targeted training program could be
developed. The testing of staff was very successful despite initial opposition by staff who feared
that the tests would lead to lay-offs. The training program started in 1998 and included long-term
-9-



overseas training and shorter courses in Guinea (twenty courses covering such subjects as
English, information technology, research project preparation, statistical analysis, and
management). The training program was executed as planned.
The new financial management procedures, including the separation of procurement from the
financial and accounting functions, decentralization of responsibilities to the research centers, and
separation of the commercial activities from the research activities were mostly implemented as
planned, but not until after the adoption of Government of the revised statutes of IRAG in 1999.
The financial controller, however, was not hired, which meant that the intemal audit function was
not carried out as planned.
The SAR foresaw the rationalizing of IRAG's network of stations and laboratories, but did not
make clear what this meant (reduction, size adjustments). Station and laboratory management
was improved through training of station managers. An inventory was made of the status of
infrastructure and requirements to carry out the research master plan. Only limited, relative to
needs, rehabilitation of infrastructure was carried out during the project.
To improve the relevance of its research, collaboration with intemational research centers such as
the Center for Intemational Cooperation in Agronomic Research for Development (CIRAD,
Centre de coop&ration internationale en recherche agronomique pour le developpement),
International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA), West African Rice Development
Association/Association de developpement du riz en afrique de louest (WARDA/ADRAO), and
ITC, was strengthened. Seven collaborative livestock research programs were developed with
ITC. CIRAD made nine technical assistants available to IRAG. WARDA/ADRAO and IITA
helped IRAG to strengthen beneficiary participation and reduce the time needed between
generation of a new technology and extension.
Several reforrns were implemented to improve research - extension - farmer linkages in research
programming, monitoring and evaluation. Experimental Farmer Groups (Unites experimentales
paysannes, UEP) had been created by the SNPRV under the predecessor project. Researchers
and extension staff worked with the UEPs to identify priority research needs of farmers. The
large number of UEPs relative to qualified research and extension staff made the system difficult
to manage and did not allow for proper diagnostics to be carried out. Tests were executed with
individual farmers, which diminished the impact on group participation, and extension workers
were not adequately trained to properly guide the UEPs. The experiment with UEPs was
discontinued in 1998. Instead IRAG refocused on farming systems research in one village in each
of the five agro-climatic zones. This allowed IRAG to better focus its staff and improve the
quality of research advice on these sites. In these zones, IRAG would set up Conseils de centre.
These are consultative mechanisms that help define IRAG the research agenda for the region and
evaluate results in the region with farmers/potential users.
Cost recovery was tested with the execution of research programs under contract with OPs.
Examples are the Federation of Fouta Djalon Producers, the Federation of Coffee Growers of
Forest Guinea, the Union of Cotton Associations and the Union of Pineapple Growers. These
tests of working under contract have shown that substantial scope for cost recovery exists.
- 10-



One major issue for IRAG is the replacement of research and technical staff. About 80 percent of
staff on-board today will retire by 2010 and all staff will have retired by 2013. The SAR foresaw
that ten 10 staff would need to be hired each year to prevent a disruption of research work, so far
only 9 have been hired under French funding. IRAG did not want to use IDA funds to hire new
staff, as it was not convinced of the availability of such funds after credit closing.
IRAG was expected to be inscribed in the Government's budget with the adoption of its new
statutes (change from in essence a line department to separate entity). This was done for fiscal
year 2000 (although no funds were made available) and now a proposal for GF 350 million is
included in the draft finance law for fiscal year 2001. This amount is insufficient to cover IRAG's
fmancing gap, making it difficult for the institute to maintain research activities at its present level.
Even though the SAR did not specify research outputs, IRAG was successful in
developing/adapting a large number of varieties for each of the climatic zones. Excellent results
were obtained with improved varieties of rice, corn, fruit trees, coffee trees and manioc. In
addition, improved guidelines were developed for intensification of production of coffee, rice,
potatoes, etc. The research results were made available to the SNPRV for extension (described
above).
D. Livestock and Animal Health.
This component's specific objective was to improve animal production and veterinary support
services to herders. All measures were implemented as planned and physical targets were reached
or exceeded, as detailed below. The outcome for this component is therefore rated higbly
satisfactorv.
Improved Animal Health. Vaccination coverage is now entirely assured by the private sector.
About 11,000 grassroots auxiliaries cover over 70 percent of the 210,000 livestock holding
families. The auxiliaries receive training from private veterinarians contracted by DNE. Aside
from vaccinations, these auxiliaries provide basic care for animals and act as conduits for
extension. Mass compulsory vaccination campaigns are carried out under contract by private
veterinarians (mandat sanitaire). The cost of vaccination has as a result been reduced from GF
400 to GF 300 per head. About 92 percent of cattle have been vaccinated against Contagious
Bovine Peri-pneumonia (CBPP), Rinderpest and Peste des Petits Ruminants. The number of
outbreaks was reduced from 125 in 1988 to only 6 in 1998 (and by 43 percent reduction since the
start of the project).  Epidemiological surveillance was started with, as its objective the
certification of Guinea as free of foot and mouth disease. Prior to credit closing the country had
been 10 months free of foot and mouth disease.
The Salt Lick Production Agency (APILEC, Atelier de pierres de leches) and the Veterinary
Procurement Agency (CAVET, Cabinet d'achat des produits veterinaires) were privatized as
planned by September 30, 1996. Delays in effectiveness changed this condition from a dated
covenant to a condition of effectiveness. The distribution of animal health products is, thus
entirely assured by the private sector. At the time of credit closing, there were five wholesalers
- 11 -



(wholesale), 42 private veterinarians (wholesale and retail) and 128 semi-intensive to intensive
livestock farms active in input distribution (retail).
Institutional Support. The process that had started under the predecessor Livestock Sector
Rehabilitation Project continued under the PNSA. The National Directorate for Livestock (
Direction nationale de 16levage, DNE) refocused on its public service mission and completed the
transfer to the private sector of animal health care and inputs distribution. The DNE remained
responsible for policymaking, support to the development of herder and other professional
organizations (including research and extension), and epidemiological surveillance and control.
Following the redefinition of its functions under the predecessor project, DNE was successful in
reducing its staff from 1,600 in 1990 to 986 by credit closing, 92 percent of which presently work
outside of Conakry.
DNE successfully reduced its dependency on technical assistance from 19 man-years during the
1993-1997 period to 1.25 man-years in 2000 and national staff is now responsible for donor
coordination and taking a much more important role in project preparation. Training was
provided to 308 staff and 340 livestock posts were equipped at the Decentralized Rural
Communities level to monitor activities in the field.
Links were strengthened with IRAG and a livestock research program developed. The three main
areas of intervention for research were to increase meat, milk and organic fertilizer production.
Given the medium- to longer-term nature of the research, it is still too early to present results.
Extension was also strengthened with the training of eight livestock TS. These specialists were to
improve agriculture and livestock integration. However, the planned transfer to the extension
service did not happen prior to credit closing.
Animal production systems improvement. The goal of this sub component was to promote
poultry and improve the quality of the dairy herd and add value added to the income of livestock
holders.
The DNE continued its support to groups of herders started under the predecessor project.
About 1,050 groups were provided with support (primarily capacity strengthening). In addition,
DNE provided support to 173 departmental, 33 provincial, 4 regional and the national
coordination committees. A total of 54 conflict management committees were established in
transhuman migratory areas to help resolve conflicts between farmers and herders. As a result,
integration of livestock and agriculture is taking place and social friction has been reduced.
Support to meat production was provided through infrastructures and training of meat processors.
About 27 percent of cattle were marked at the end of the project and two databases were created:
one for marked animals and one for slaughtered animals. Support to village poultry production
was provided through the grassroots auxiliaries who provided vaccination support to interested
farmers. Breeding for improved dairy production was supported through artificial insemination.
An improved milk processing technology was introduced for the processing of cheese. In
addition, about GF 220 million (US$120,000 equivalent) was provided as credit to 43
entrepreneurs. The credit was used to support the development of model farms (128 in existence
- 12-



at credit closing) started by former civil servants that had to leave following the reorganization of
DNE.
The potential for artificial insemination (Al) was reviewed as part of the elaboration of a National
Genetic Resource Management Policy. Al has potential in areas close to cities and where milk
has high value added.
Infrastructure and Natural Resources Management Support. In support of transhuman
migration, support was provided by DNE to farmers and herders to jointly develop, manage and
maintain improved access to, tracks, drinking troughs and cattle crushes. Improvements were
supported by the project on a matching grant basis. A study was undertaken to evaluate the
carrying capacity of the different climatic zones. Subsequently, programs were elaborated to
restore/improve pastures.  In deficit areas, alternative food sources were identified and
incorporated in the extension services program. The Regional Pilot Pastoral Program, launched in
1997 and for which activities started in Guinea the following year, was instrumental in helping to
get these activities off the ground. The goal of this program is to address pastoral development as
part of a wider set of issues affecting the rural population. Initial results relating to pasture
management and cooperation between farmers and livestock owners are very encouraging.
E. Cross component.
In addition, the project had as a cross component objective to increase responsiveness to social
and gender issues as well as environmental concerns. As discussed above, a small gender unit at
national level of SNPRV was created and several TS (mostly women) were trained in
socio-cultural issues that would enable them to work more easily with women. Work program
and research priorities included subjects important to women (transformation and conservation).
The main gender related activity that did not get off the ground was support to women for income
generating activities.  SNPRV  increasingly included topics emphasizing water and soil
conservation, preserving and improving soil fertility and training of farmers in environmental
monitoring. Mass communications media were used to raise environmental awareness.
An AIDS/STD awareness raising activities were added to the project in 2000. The SNPRV took
this up first, followed by DNE. Activities focussed on sensitizing project staff and beneficiaries of
the risks, means of transmission and ways to protect against HIV/STDs. A pilot was launched
with th help of the Ministry of Health and the National Program to Fight AIDS. As a result,
700,000 people received information from the SNPRV and 110,000 (including 1,000 women)
from the DNE on the modes of transmission and means of protecting oneself and family from the
disease. it has become clear as a result of the pilot that frontline field staff of rural development
agencies are an efficient vehicle to reach large numbers of potential victims that could otherwise
not be easily reached.
The component is rated satisfactorv.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The SAR did not present an overall rate of return for the project given its composite nature, but
presented an estimate for the livestock component (30 percent) and for the combined research and
- 13 -



extension comnponents (46 percent). The project impact study, which was not originally planned
but request by the Bank in 1999, was not carried out and estimates are therefore based on
information obtained from the monitoring and evaluation units of DNE and SNPRV. Given the
absence of detailed price data that an impact study might have provided and the short
implementation period of the project, the ICR can only provide broad indications and compare
these with the estimates in the SAR
The project has consistently met, and in the case of coffee exceeded, average adoption rates for
agricultural crops as defined in Table 2, Annex 4, of the SAR. Average yields for the four main
crops for which data were available (rice, cassava, groundnuts and com), were within 10 percent
of appraisal estimates. In addition, overall project costs are expected to be close to appraisal
estimates. Using the same parameters as the appraisal estimate, this would mean that the
economic rate of return for the agricultural extension and research component would be around
30-35 percent.
In the case of livestock, census data show that herd growth rates have exceeded appraisal
estimates by about 15 percent. No information is available on milk production. It is, however,
likely that given the larger than expected herd increases and substantial decreases in milk and milk
product imports, that the increase in milk Using similar assumptions as those used by the SAR
mission, the project benefits are expected to be at least as much. This would be in line with other,
freestanding, livestock projects.
The fiscal analysis could not be replicated in the absence of information on rural tax collection.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rate of return was presented in the SAR and the collection of such data was not
foreseen. The ICR therefore does not present one.
4.S Institutional development impact:
The project's institutional development impact was substantial. BCEPA was strengthened
through training and new equipment. In addition, it had gained increasing experience in the
satisfactory executiong of studies and supervising consultants. IRAG was also strengthened as a
result of its strengthened autonomy, decentralization, the new research master plan, and
strengthened collaboration with beneficiaries and tests with cost recovery. The end result was
less than planned, as it did not have an opportunity to gain experience with its strengthened
autonomy, the internal audit function and the independent reserach review board. SNPRV was
also further strengthened under this project through the decentralization of its functions and
continued staff training, increased mobility of staff and strong collaboration with DNE, IRAG and
beneficiaries. DNE continued the process of strengthening its key responsibilities, improve data
collection and improve collaboration on livestock issues with IRAG and SNPRV. It also
increased the use of contractual service providers as a means of reducing costs and reaching more
beneficiaries.
- 14 -



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There were no such factors.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Effectiveness. Credit conditionality was not overly demanding and the credit was declared
effective about five months after signature.
Political Environment. The project's institutional strengthening, agricultural extension and
livestock components benefited from positive experience gained under predecessor projects and
ongoing  dialogue.    The  Government  had  already  embarked  on  a  policy  of
decentralizationldeconcentration and a gradual withdrawal by Government from productive
activities. Much positive experience had already been made in this context under the predecessor
Livestock Rehabilitation Project. In the case of the research component, the rationale for making
the proposed changes was less evident to Government. The proposed changes, which would limit
political interference in the day to day management of the institute, with no clear medium-term
gains to policy makers, led to serious delays in Government adopting the revised of IRAG.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Procurement. Procurement was poorly managed, leading to unnecessary delays. During the last
supervision mission, the procurement specialist of the Guinea country office concluded, that
procurement was lacking in the following areas: (i) establishment and adherence to annual
procurement plans; (ii) proper publication of procurement notices; (iii) availability and updating
of procurement documents; (iv) discrepancies between the procurement procedures utilized and
those defined in the development credit agreement; and (v) inadequately defined procurement
responsibilities.
Financial management and audits. The status of the annual audits improved each year. The
accounting system at IRAG, which was centralized and followed standard Government
conventions, was decentralized and brought up to date to international accounting standards. The
book keeping of the SNPRV and the BCEPA was also satisfactory overall.
Implementation arrangements. The project's implementation arrangements posed no problems
during project implementation. No new units were created and arrangements were the same as
those used under predecessor projects. A steering committee oversaw project implementation
and- overall coordination agency for the overall project was assigned to the BCPA. The project
was almost exactly carried out as planned, except for the delays in the research component and
the pilot operation sub-component.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
At appraisal project costs were estimated at US$90.5 million. The breakdown over the financiers
is shown in Table 2.B. Actual project costs were estimated at US$80-90 million. Insufficient
information is available on the contributions of other financiers and the Government's
- 15 -



contribution, but given that the project was planned as executed, it is likely that actual costs are
close to appraised costs. The actual contributions are also shown in Table 2.B. The IDA credit in
the amount of SDR23.6 million (US$35.0 million equivalent at the time of negotiations) was fully
disbursed.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Sustainability is likely. The project was part of a long-term program and designed to lead to the
integration of all donor funded activities into coherent national programs. Sustainability was not
expected to be achieved by the end of this project. The SAR defined sustainability only from a
least-cost persepctive. Unit cost for service delivery (research, extension and livestock) was
expected to be reduced to about US$20 or two percent of agricultural GDP per farm family. This
was considered an acceptable cost for the country. In addition, user fees and other cost recovery
mechanisms were expected to reduce the burden on the state's budget even further. It is not clear
how this number was calculated, which makes it difficult to compare the final cost data with those
presented in the SAR. Actual project costs are about 5-10 percent lower than the appraisal
estimate and implementation indicators were met or exceeded. Unit cost per beneficiciary family
is therefore likely to be no higher than the appraisal estimate. In addition, cost recovery was
successfully implemented by IRAG and SNPRV. However, even with the adoption of cost
recovery and efficiency measures, the country can ill afford to pay for agricultural services
without continued outside support until cost recovery mechanisms and efficiency measures are
fully implemented. This would be the objective of a Bank operation, which is presently under
preparation.
Instutional sustainability is very likely. In the case of the livestock sub-sector, much progress has
been made in refocussing the role of Government and in transferring certain responsibilities to the
private sector. To a lesser extent similar progress has been made with DNA, where the process is
still ongoing.   All institutions benefitting from  project support have been substantially
strengthened through decentralization and training. At the DNA, the process of refocusing of its
role has started and the phytosanitary service has been fully privatized. IRAG did not fully
achieve its institutional objectives because of an overly optimistic timetable, yet substantial
progress was made in ensuring the independence of the institute, strengthening the focus of its
research programs through the new master plan and regular consultations with stakeholders, and
through decentralizing management.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
No specific transition arrangements were made as part of the final supervision missions, as this
project was viewed to be part of a longer-term commitment by the Bank and other donors to the
country. Preparation of the follow-up IDA operation was delayed and donor funding is making
up some of the present shorfall to ensure that basic activities can be continued until Bank funding
becomes available again sometime during the 2002 fiscal year.
- 16-



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Preparation. Performance at this stage was satisfactorv.  The project was a follow-on of two
earlier operations (First Agricultural Services Project, Cr. 1636-GN, and the Livestock Sector
Rehabilitation Project, Cr. 1725-GN). The preparation team did focus on the lessons learned
from these prior operations and addressed these appropriately in project design. The main change
for this project was that it supported a program for which broad donor support existed. The
design team properly estimated the Government's commitment to most of the proposed changes,
except for the research component.  In the latter case, the design team  seems to have
underestimated the timeframe needed for implementing the required changes to make the institute
fully independent from Ministerial interference. The pilot project (sub-component 1.(a)) was not
yet part of project design at this stage.
Appraisal. Performance at this stage was marginally satisfactory. The background analysis as
presented in the SAR was weak. This was in part because this poject was pushed through as a
fast track operation with limited time between appraisal and Board presentation and the region
was favoring short reports at the time. It is likely that the appraisal team, like the design team,
underestimated the amount of time needed to complete the envisioned institutional changes at
IRAG. All other components were adequately appraised. The pilot project was a late addition at
the request of the Government and implementation details were therefore left for the first year of
project implementation.  This was not an uncommon practice at the time.  The project
implementation manual and background documents were well prepared.
7.2 Supervision:
Performance at this stage was marginally satisfactory. Missions were adequately staffed and with
an appropriate skills mix, although budgetary difficulties reduced the frequency of these missions
below the desirable level. Regular supervision and implementation support was provided by one
international and one national staff at the resident mission in Conakry. Documentation by
supervision missions was poor outside of the aide-memoire. The limited effectiveness of dated
covenants and the difficulty in enforcing them other than through a general suspension of the
credit, made it difficult to ensure that the agreed upon statutory changes of IRAG and budget
appropriations were adopted in a timely manner. Procurement was regularly supervised from the
resident mission in Senegal given the weak performance of the project early on. This did not lead
to the expected improvements despite training efforts. The latest PSR noted that: "processes
show various weaknesses: (i) annual procurement plans have not always been elaborated, or, if
elaborated, not followed; (ii) tenders have not been published adequately; and (iii) the various
ceilings of the DCA have not always been followed." QAG reviewed the quality of the
supervision of the research component and rated it satisafctory.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
The overall performance of the Bank is judged marginally satisfactorily.
- 17-



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Its performance at the time of project preparation and appraisal was satisfactory. The Borrower
provided an updated sectoral policy that served as the basis for the reforms introduced under the
project.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
During implementation, Government performance related to IRAG and the pilot project was
unsatisfactory.  Regarding IRAG, dated covenants were routinely ignored and no budget
inscription was made for IRAG as agreed, leading to budget problems for the institute towards
the end of project implementation and delays in recruiting new personnel. Regarding the pilot
project, the Government failed to develop separation procedures and the pilot project activities
therefore failed to have any impact. In Government's defense, it can also be easily argued that the
pilot was started before a supporting framework was in place. The Government adopted and
implemented the updated livestock and agriculture sector policies prepared by DNE and BCEPA.
As noted above, procurement performance was weak. The overall judgment is satisfactory
because of the tremendous progress made in implementing the updated agriculture and livestock
sector policies.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The project was implemented by three agencies (IRAG, SNPRV and DNE) and one technical
department (BCEPA) and supervised by a steering committee. In addition, coordination was
ensured by a technical committee constituted of representatives of the implementing agencies.
Implementation by the implementing agencies was satisfactory overall. In the case of DNE and
SNPRV, implementation was highly satisfactory. DNE is now considered one of the strongest, if
not the strongest, livestock departments in West Africa. Its technical capacity has been markedly
strengthened over the past ten years and technical assistance to the department has been sharply
reduced. SNPRV adapted itself to a changing environment and increasingly emphasized working
with producer organizations. It also choose to improve the mobility of existing staff - and thereby
increase the number of beneficiaries that could be served by each field worker - over a further
increase in staff, thus contributing to a more sustainable size of its work force. Execution of the
annual workprograms and financial management was satisfactory. BCEPA satisfactorily executed
the planned studies and updated the agricultural policy. IRAG satisfactorily implemented its work
program and strengthened research programs, despite the delays in adopting the institutional
changes and budget allocations. DNE, IRAG and SNPRV also improved collaboration in
technical areas (primarily livestock). Overall performance of the implementing agencies is rated
satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower's overall perfornance is judged satisfactory.
-18-



8. Lessons Learned
The main lessons learned are:
(i)    Political buy in of Government into a proposed far fetching privatization is an absolute
necessity for its successful implementation. This can be achieved by demonstrating up-front that
privatization can be a win-win proposition as in the case of DNA and DNE (cost to Government
was reduced, former employees were helped to start a new career, and beneficiaries saw the range
of services and the coverage rate increased). In the case of IRAG where the gains were less
clearly demonstrated, the reform process was slow.
(ii)   Reform is a long-term process that spans the life of more than one project. It requires the
adoption of an agreed approach by all concerned parties to be successful. The case of the
livestock reforms is such an example. It has taken over a decade to implement and has broad
support of all involved (Government, beneficiaries, employees and donors). It is considered a
model for other countries because of the gradual manner in which it was implemented.
(iii)   Working through existing national directorates instead of project units, and using civil
servants instead of contractual personnel for project implementation strengthens Government's
capacity and ownership.
(iv)   The difficulty of scaling up a successful pilot. The pilot project was based on a successful
pilot program for USAID to train civil servants and motivate them in joining the private sector.
The scaling up within the project failed as only very few civil servants left as a result of the
training. It is, however, widely recognized that Ministry restructuring is an extremely difficult
enterprise. Motivating and equipping staff so they will leave the public sector is not merely
achieved by providing training. A sound program must also assist concerned staff during the
transition. The establishment of private phytosanitary plant protection service providers and
private veterinarians, which was implemented seperate from the pilot project, was more successful
for this reason.
(v)   When a program  is cofmanced by several donors using different financing and
implementation procedures, it is important to come to clear arrangements regarding coordination
and information sharing. In this project these aspects were not well laid out, making it difficult to
get access to information on project implementation aspects from the project's cofinanciers.
(vi)  the failure of the Bank to provide adequate resources to ensure proper project supervision
and implementation assistance
(vii)  Development objectives have to be more realistically assessed in particular in the realm of
institutional reforms on which a project has little control and where extensive policy dialogue is
needed
(viii) This operation was a fast track operation. Such a type operation bears the risk that certain
-19-



aspects of the project may not be ready for implementation. Built-in flexibility is therefore an
essential feature of such a project.
(ix)   Successful restructuring and functioning of a sub-sector requires that  a) the policy
environment be conducive to reform and privatization, and that, b) the right balance be struck in
terms of transfer of competencies to the private sector and grassroots/decentralized institutions.
The public sector needs to maintain key regulatory and control functions. The livestock sector is a
good example of such a restructuring.
(x)    Services are greatly enhanced when accountability of service providers to the clients is
improved.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower prepared a project completion report, which is available from project files. In addition, the
Government provided comments on the ICR itself which were incorporated into the text. The sole area
where the ICR and the Government differ is concerning the rating of the research component, where
Government feels that the rating should be satisfactory whereas the Bank feels that the rating should be
retained as marginally satisfactory. The Bank's rating is based on the fact that not all institutional
objectives could be achieved because of the delays in implementing the reforms. The Government feels that
regardless of these delays, much progress was made and that overall the objectives were achieved.
(b) Cofinanciers:
No comnments were received.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
No additional information is available.
-20 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projectod in last PSR                ActualLatest Estimate
Overall Sector                                                             All for 2000, except where otherwise
indicated.
Increase in Gross Agricultural Domestic    not available                   449 billion
Product (in constant 1989 GNF) to 447
billion
not available                        120 billion (1999, estimate for this year was
Increased agricultural exports to 156 billion                              130 billion; 2000 data are not yet available)
GNF by 2000
Food security index of 180 by 2000   not available                         180 achieved in 1999 (2000 data not yet
(1988=100)                                                                 available)
Land productivity for cereals index at 125 by  not available               not available
2000
Forest cover ('000 ha) of 13,982ha by 2000  not available                  14,051 (1999, goal for this year was 14,041)
Fertilizer use on arable land (kg/ha)  not available                       3.5 (2000 data not yet available; 1999 goal
increased to 5.0 kg/ha by 2000                                             for this year was 4.5)
Agricultural Extension
50% adopton rate by 2000 (80,000 families) not available                   46% (91,356 farm families)
Livestock
Census of livestock by categories (not
defined in SAR)
cattle (1995=2,202,259; 2000=2,431,000)   not available                    2,787,058
sheep (1995=612,294; 2000=727,000)   not available                         819,722
goats (1995=728,681; 2000=865,000)   not available                         959,935
pigs/swines (1995=46,160; 2000=59,000)  not available                      55,645
Cattle slaughtered (1995=119,530;    not defined in specific outputs (defined in   146,980
2000=145,400)                        economic analysis annex)
Live cattle sales (1995=44,682;      not defined in specific outputs (defined in   80,054
2000=90,200)                         economic analysis annex)
Meat imports (1995=1,556; 2000=769)  not defined in specific outputs (defined in   913
economic analysis annex)
Milk and milk product imports (not defined)  not available                 1995=20,679 tons; 2000=7,346
Research
not specifically defined             not applicable                        not applicable
Other components
not specifically defined             not applicable                        not applicable
-21 -



Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                     Projcted in last PSR                   ActuaLatest Estimat
Agricultural Extension
24% of farmers families contacted through
CG by 2000 (160,000 farm families)     not available                           198,600
40% of farmers contacted in 2000 are    not available                          46%
women
Livestock
Vaccinations in 2000
-CBPP: 500,000/year                    not available                           708,167
-PPR: 300,0001year                     not available                           74,760
20,000 Serological analyses per year
performed by 2000                      not available                           25,347
40 private veterinarians established by 2000
not available                          47
500,000 PPCB vaccinations done by prvate
veterinarians in 2000                  not available                           598,107
900 GF per head of cattle consumption of
veterinary products in 2000            not available                           753
End of project
The SAR did not provide a logical framework, which was common at the time. Output indicators were
defined in broad terms (increase in agricultural GDP, etc.). The Form 590 and PSRs did not track the
infonnation in a transparent format. The ICR therefore presents the indicators included in the SAR.
-22 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)      . .
Appraisal   ActuallLatest   Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million    USS million
Instutional capacity building of MAEF                 7.00           6.04
Agricultural extension                               29.70           11.37
Agricultural research                                20.40           7.86
Livestock development and animal health              20.50           5.89
Responsiveness to social, gender and enviromnental issues  1.80
PPF                                                   1.00           0.91
Total Baseline Cost                                  80.40          32.07
Physical Contingencies                               4.40
Price Contingencies                                  5.70
Total Project Costs             90.50           32.07
Total Financing Required              90.50          32.07
Total cost numbers per component are not available, as the cofinanciers applied their own procurement and
fumding rules. In addition, most funds were not managed directly by the implementing agencies. The
actual cost column therefore only shows the contribution of IDA to the project. The cost for the
Responsiveness to social, gender and environmental issues component is included in the other components.
Actual total project costs are estimated at US$80-90 million.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (A raisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category      ICB        Prcurement Method            N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00          1.00          0.00         2.80          3.80
(0.00)        (0.70)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.70)
2. Goods                     9.10          0.30          0.20          0.10         9.70
(9.10)       (0.20)        (0.20)        (0.00)       (9.50)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00          10.90        15.60        26.50
(0.00)       (0.00)       (10.90)       (0.00)       (10.90)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00          17.10        33.50        50.60
(0.00)       (0.00)        (13.90)       (0.00)      (13.90)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                      9.10          1.30         28.20        52.00         90.60
(9.10)       (0.90)        (25.00)       (0.00)      (35.00)
A minor rounding error occurred because the data in the SAR are presented using one decimal. The total
of this table should therefore be US$90.5 million)
- 23 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method I
Expenditure Category          ICB             NCu            Other          N.B.F.       Total Cost
1. Works                          0.00            0.70            0.00     1     0.00           0.70
(0.00)          (0.49)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.49)
2. Goods                          5.60            0.20            0.22           0.00           6.02
(5.60)          (0.15)         (0.17)         (0.00)          (5.92)
3. Services                       0.00            0.00           11.71           0.00           11.71
(0.00)         (0.00)         (11.71)         (0.00)         (11.71)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00           17.35           0.00           17.35
(0.00)         (0.00)         (13.88)         (0.00)         (13.88)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
Total                          5.60            0.90           29.28           0.00           35.78
(5.60)          (0.64)        (25.76)          (0.00)        (32.00)
Data in this table show IDA financing only. Procurement for non-bank financed activities were procured
seperately and only incomplete information is available.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
X Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
I                                                                Percentage of Appraisal
Component               Appraisal Estimate             ActualLatest Estimate
^                  ~~~~~~~~IDA  GoVt.     CoF.       IDA        Govt.     CoF.    IDA  IGoVt.| CoF.
Institutional capacity     6.20                            6.04                           97.4
building of MAEF
Agricultural extension     11.40                           11.37                          99.7
Agricultural research      8.40                            7.86        0.33               93.6
Livestock development and    5.80                          5.89                           101.6
animal health
Responsiveness to social,  2.10                            0.00                            0.0
gender and environmental
issues
PPF                        1.00                            0.90                           90.0
Information on the contribution by Government and the cofmanciers to the specific components is not
available. The total Government contribution is estimated at about US$3.78 million.
- 24 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
The SAR did not present an overall rate of return for the project given its composite nature, but
presented an estimate for the livestock component (30 percent) and for the combined research and
extension components (46 percent). The project impact study, which was not originally planned
but requested by the Bank in 1999, was not carried out and estimates are therefore based on
information obtained from the monitoring and evaluation units of DNE and SNPRV. Given the
absence of detailed price data that an impact study might have provided and the short
implementation period of the project, the ICR can only provide broad indications and compare
these with the estimates in the SAR
The project has consistently met, and in the case of coffee exceeded, average adoption rates for
agricultural crops as defined in Table 2, Annex 4, of the SAR. Average yields for the four main
crops for which data were available (rice, cassava, groundnuts and corn), were within 20 percent
of appraisal estimates. In addition, overall project costs are expected to be close to appraisal
estimates. Using the same parameters as the appraisal estimate, this would mean that the
economic rate of return for the agricultural extension and research component would
conservatively be re-estimated around 30-35 percent.
Appraisal estimate        ICR estimate        ICR estimate as % of
appraisal estimate
Crop         adoption      yields     adoption     yields     adoption     yields
rate                    rate                    rate
Rice            61         2.18         50          1.92         82          88
Groundnuts      56          1.50        72          1.55        129         103
Corn            76         2.05         52          2.34        68          114
Cassava         56         12.00        50          9.87        89           83
Coffee          48      not available   94         2.00         196     not available
Note: for the appraisal, the highest adoption rate listed for the technical messages for each crop
were used. Similarly, the highest yield obtained for all the regions was used rather than the
weighted average. In the case of the ICR estimate the weighted average was used, which is
lower.
In the case of livestock, actual project costs were estimated to be close to appraisal estimates also.
Census data show that herd growth rates have exceeded appraisal estimates by about 15 percent.
No information is available on milk production. It is, however, likely given the larger than
expected herd increases and substantial decreases in milk and milk product imports, that the
increase in milk production was close to appraisal estimates. Using similar assumptions as those
used by the SAR mission, the project benefits are expected to be at least as much. This would be
in line with other, freestanding, livestock projects.
The fiscal analysis could not be replicated in the absence of information on rural tax collection.
- 25 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                   No. of Persons and Specialty             Performa ce Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)     Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count            Specialty                       Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
Feb. 25, 1992 -             21    1 FMS
March 18,1992                     1 Economist
I Veterinary
I Agro-Economist
I Civil Works Engineer
Feb. 14-25, 1993            12   1 Sr. Agriculturist
I Ag. Services Specialist
Jan. 31 - Feb. 20,          21    1 Agricultural Scientist
1994                              I H.R. & Training Specialist
I Institutional Organization Sp.
I Extension Specialist
I Village Org.&Private Struc
Support Specialist
I Research Specialist
I Economist
Nov. 14-18, 1994             5   1 Ag. Economist
3 Extension Specialists
I Economist
Feb. 26 - March             24    1 Economist
19, 1995                          4 Gender issues consultants
I IFD Advisor
I Extension Specialist
May 2-19, 1995              18   1 Economist
I Extension Specialist
June 19-30, 1995            12   1 Gender Issues Specialist
I Extension Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
Jun. 27-Jul. 27,            30    1 Economist
1995                              2 Extension Specialists
I Livestock Specialist
I H.R. Research Specialist
I Research Specialist
I Research Center Mgmt Sp.
I Research Prog. Specialist
I Operation Analyst
I Procurement Specialist
I Disbursement Analyst
3 French donor
3 USAID donor
I European Union donor
December 1995
- 26 -



Supervision
Dec. 8-20, 1996              13   1 Ag. Serv. Specialist               S              S
March 3-7, 1997               7   1 Livestock Specialist               S              S
June 1-12, 1997              12   1 Research Specialist                S              S
I Extension Specialist
1 Economist
I Ag. Serv. Specialist
I Extension consultant
I OP Specialist consultant
I French donor
I Livestock Specialist
Sep. 29, 1997                     Procurement Specialist               S              S
Jan. 27 - Feb. 16,           21   2 Extension Specialist                S             S
1998                              1 Research Specialist
I Livestock Specialist
1 OP Specialist Consultant
May 20-22, 1998               3   1 Research Specialist                S              S
1 Extension Specialist
Nov. 1-20, 1998              20   1 Economist                           S             S
I Livestock Specialist
I Extension Specialist
April 12-23, 1999            12   1 Economist                           S             S
(MTR)                              I Project Advisor
I Research Specialist
I Livestock Specialist
I Decentralization Specialist
2 Extension Specialists
I FMS consultant
I OP Specialist consultant
Nov. 1-12, 1999              12   1 Research Specialist                 S             S
I Min. Restruc.&Ag. Trainer
I Livestock Specialist
I Extension Specialist
I Research & Soil Fertility Sp.
I Extension Spec.&Privatiza Sp
I FMS
I OP Specialist consultant
I French Donor
Apr. 8-17, 2000              10   I Sector Director                    S              S
I Decentralization Specialist
July 10-18, 2000              8   1 Ag. Serv. Specialist               S              S
I FMS
Aug. 6-14, 2000               9   1 Ag. Serv. Specialist                S             S
I FMS
- 27 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, MModest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
N Sector Policies                        O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
Z Physical                               OH *SUOM ON ONA
[I Financial                             O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Institutional Development              0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
L Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  ON  *NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Z Gender                           O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
I Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Li Private sector development            0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
El Public sector management              0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)                 O H  O SU G M  O N  * NA
- 28 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
F Lending                                           O HSOS  OU  OHU
I Supervision                                       OHS *S  O U  O HU
O Overall                                           OHS *S  O U  O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
 Preparation                                       OHS OS  OU  O HU
Z Government implementation performance             O HS OS  0 U  0 HU
 Implementation agency performance                 O HS O S  0 U  0 HU
N Overall                                           O HS O S 0 U O HU
Implementmg agency performance is based on the overall performance of the four implementing agencies.
-29 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Staff Appraisal Report,
Project Implementation Manual
Annual Monitoring and Evaluation Reports of SNPRV and DNE
Project Aide M6moires
Individual Implementing Agency Project Completion Reports (BCEPA, DNE, SNPRV and IRAG)
- 30 -



MAURITA                                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 276
KSENEOAL~~~'  -, -                       S  E  N   E  G   A   L                                                                  GIE
SENEALY     M A L I                                                                                            NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
SIERA L~OB~-'r'C6TE
ATLATiC~1te~DYIVOIRE ~GHANA
OCEAN~
GUINEAo.
BIRSST
Rain rarest                               Region Boundaries~~~~~LO                              PE -O          EA~
SOvnnhoBuhovna-.- ntrtinlBndre
Light forest with Swampy Areas     -I                    R   R                20o
A   T L A   N   T I C ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ey td~,.t th  gl tW , ,y ~exe-e
t4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                        
Research Center~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tCMtt19



