Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15216-GUI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
MARCH 12, 1996
Agriculture and Environment Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQIJIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Guinean Franc (GNF)
US$ 1.00 = GNF 978 (as of December 26, 1995)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCPA      -      Bureau de Coordination de la Politique Agricole (Agricultural Policy Coordination
Office - MAEF)
CfD       -      Caisse francaise de Developpement
EU        -      Union Europeenne (European Union)
DNA       -      Direction Nationale de l'Agriculture (National Agriculture Department)
DNE       -      Direction Nationale de 1'Elevage (National Livestock Department)
IRAG      -      Institut de recherche agronomique de Guinee (Agricultural Research Institute).
LPDA      -      Lettre de Politique de Developpement Agricole (Letter of Agricultural Development
Policy)
MAEF      -      Ministere de l'Agriculture. de l'Elevage et des Forets (Ministry of Agriculture,
Livestock and Forests)
MC        -      Ministere de la Cooperation Francaise (French Ministry of Cooperation)
M&E       -      Monitoring and Evaluation System
NASP      -      National Agricultural Services Project
PNAE      -      Programme National d'Action Environnementale
SMS       -      Subject Matter Specialist
SNPRV    -       Service National de la Promotion Rurale et de Vulgarisation (National Rural
Development and Agricultural Extension Service)
SNSA      -      Service National des Statistiques Agricoles (Agricultural Statistics Office - MAEF)
SPAAR    -       Special Program for African Agriculture Research
T&V       -      Training and Visit Extension
USAID    -       United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31



- 11 -
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CONTENTS
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                   .         .         ............................ iv
I.  Country and Sector Background                                      ..I
A.  Current Agricultural Situation                               .I
B.   Main Sectoral Issues and Sector Strategy                          .I
II. The Project                                             ..3
A.      Lessons Learned and Results of Previous Bank Involvement                .3
B.  Project Rationale and Objectives                              .3
C.  Summary Program/Project Description                               .4
D. Detailed Features                                       .5
E.  Project Costs and Financing .10
F.      Procurement, Disbursement, Accounts and Auditing .11
G. Project Implementation .11
H.  Monitoring and Evaluation .12
III. Assessments .12
A. Technical Assessment .12
B.  Institutional Assessment .13
C. Economic Assessment .13
D. Financial Assessment .14
E.  Environmental Assessment .14
F.  Project Sustainability .15
G. Benefits .15
H. Risks .15
IV.  Agreements Reached and Recommendation .16
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal missioii that visited Guinea in July, 1995, comprising Fraiiz Schorosch
(mission leader), Mathurin Gbetibouo, Marie-Helene Collion, and Lucie Tran (AF5AE); Noel Chabeuf (AF3AE); Joseph
Toledano (Resident Mission, Conakry, Guinea); Daphne Spurling, Pierre Rondot, Hannibal Muhtar (consultants). The mission
was joined by Liba Feldblyum (LOAAF) and Bernard Abeille (AF5DR). The following representatives of cofinanciers
participated in the appraisal: P. Remy, A. Borderon, R. Gouin (French Cooperation); J. Dean (USAID); and F. Viault
(European Union). The docwnent was cleared by Messrs. R. Harris (Division Chief, AF5AE) and B. Fredriksen (Acting
Director, AF5).



- iii -
ANNEXES                                                                                                                           Page No.
Annex 1:
A:         Estimated Project Costs .................................................                                         18
B:         Financing Plan .................................................                                                  18
C:         Summary Cost Tables .................................................                                             19
Annex 2:            Procurement, Disbursement, Accounts and Auditing Arrangements .......................... 27
Annex 3:             Monitoring and Evaluation Plan and Project Performance Indicators ........................ 33
Annex 4:             Economic Analysis ................................................. 38
Annex 5:            Agricultural Sector Policy Note .................................................                                 51
Annex 6:            Issues Concerning Agricultural Extension .................................................                        60
Annex 7:            Documents Available in the Project File .................................................                         61
MAP:   IBRD 27658



- iv -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Republic of Guinea
Implementing
Agency:               Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Forests (MAEF) through the Agricultural
Research Institute (IRAG), the National Rural Development and Agricultural
Extension Service (SNPRV), and the Livestock Department (DNE)
Beneficiaries:        Farmers and herders
Poverty:              Not applicable
Credit amount:        SDR 23.6 million (US$35.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Commitment
Fee:                  0.50 percent on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less
any waiver
Onlending Terms:      IDA funds for agricultural research would be made available to IRAG as
executing agency in the form of a grant.
Financing Plan:       See Annex I
Net Present Value:    N/A
Map:                  IBRD 27658
Project Identification
Number:               1081






STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
I. Country and Sector Background
A. Current Agricultural Situation
1.           The First Republic (1958-1984) imposed heavy taxation on agriculture and provided little
support for technology development and dissemination and rural infrastructure. Consequently, the
performance of the agricultural sector was poor and the agricultural trade balance became negative. With
the change in regime and economic liberalization, agriculture has grown since the late 1980s at a rate of
over 3.0 percent p.a., reaching a peak of 5.1 percent in 1994. Agriculture has great potential for increased
production through yield increases, given Guinea's favorable climatic and agro-ecological conditions, and
the currently low levels of technology.
B. Main Sectoral Issues and Sector Strategy
2.            Guinea's agriculture is characterized by small holdings (70 percent of farms have less than
2 ha), and very low labor and land productivity due to limited use of improved agricultural technology,
genetic material, animal traction, and commercial inputs. Consumption of fertilizers is only about 8,000
tons per year, and pesticide consumption is negligible. Average yields (kg/ha) for the major crops are as
follows: paddy -- 600-1,500; fonio -- 500; corn/millet and sorghum intercropped -- 900; groundnuts -- 600;
and cassava 7,000. These yields are low due to declining natural soil fertility, low input use, poor seed
quality, and poor husbandry practices. Except for the last few years, yields were stagnant and production
increases were mostly the result of area expansion. Over the years, the agricultural trade balance has
deteriorated: rice imports have increased and agricultural exports have stagnated. Prior to 1984, total rice
imports remained below 80,000 tons; in 1985 they reached 110,000 tons; and by 1994, 270,000 tons. In
1994, these rice imports amounted to about US$50.0 million or five times the value of major agricultural
exports.
3.           In addition, the public expenditure review carried out by IDA and the Government in early
1995 raises the following key issues concerning agricultural investments and the role of the Ministry of
Agriculture, Livestock and Forests (MAEF): (a) public sector involvement in agriculture is large and
disproportionate to what is needed to provide an enabling environment for agricultural growth. The
functions, structure and size of the MAEF (currently about 9,000 employees) need to be reexamined. This
is all the more important as producer organizations, village associations and small enterprises are
increasingly able to carry out some of the activities previously provided by Government departments; (b)
the current pattern of funding of recurrent and investment expenditures in agriculture is untenable.
Personnel expenditures take up almost all (97 percent) of MAEF's recurrent budget, and donors are
financing 85 percent of investment expenditures as well as 80 percent of recurrent expenditures. This
situation has led to a donor-driven and fragmented investment program; (c) insufficient attention is paid to
operation and maintenance expenditures, especially for rural infrastructure.  Credible strategies for



- 2 -
maintenance and cost recovery need to be developed; and (d) the cost of public investment in agriculture is
high (including substantial expenditures for technical assistance) and its impact is limnited. Criteria need to
be established for judging the acceptability and priority of investment projects. MAEF also needs to ensure
that extemally financed projects fit into the core investment program, that their numbers remain within
manageable limits and that their development impact is commensurate with the expenditure made.
Expansion of cultivated area, low and stagnant crop yields, and rising per capita food imports are all
indications that the efficiency of agricultural investment urgently needs to be enhanced. As implementation
capacity in MAEF expands, and in order to accelerate this process, all projects remaining in the public
sector domain should be integrated into national programs under the line departments; the creation of
parallel project implementation units should be avoided. All of this will require a new partnership between
MAEF and intemational donors. In this context, the role of long-term technical assistance needs to be
reviewed with a view to reducing it over time and replacing it with short-term consultancies whenever
outside expertise is needed.
4.            The Government is aware of these issues and has started to rationalize public sector
investments in agriculture, and to coordinate the interventions of different donors more closely. Two
specific measures have been taken in this context: (a) development of this operation, i.e., the National
Agricultural Services Project (NASP) as a tool to rationalize public expenditures; and (b) formulation of
an agricultural sector policy note (Annex 5). The NASP harmonizes donor interventions in key areas of
agricultural development, and its design addresses in a practical manner the concerns raised in the public
expenditure review. The agricultural policy note, which is an integral part of this operation, states the
Govenmment's position in key areas: (a) respective roles of the public and private sectors in agricultural
development; (b) improvements in the quality of individual investment projects and in the agricultural
public investment program as a whole; (c) cost recovery and recurrent cost financing; (d) technical
assistance; (e) input supply systems; and (f) the procedure that will be followed with all the donors to
update the Agricultural Development Policy Letter. In the agricultural policy note, MAEF states clearly
that its primary role is to encourage private sector initiative and investments by creating the enabling
environment, and by limiting itself to the provision of services and infrastructure that have a public goods
nature. MAEF is determined to transform a public sector administration that was bloated under the First
Republic into a lean, technically competent development administration. To this effect, MAEF has carried
out an institutional analysis of all its units and their staff and is in the process of readjusting the staffing of
the Ministry in accordance with a more narrowly defined mandate. The proposed project will help
accelerate this process and promote a viable solution to the problem of overstaffing within the Ministry
through voluntary staff reductions (see para. 14).
5.            The Govemment's overall goals and strategy for the agricultural sector are articulated in
its 1991 Letter of Agricultural Development Policy (LPDA), which was submitted to IDA as part of the
National Agricultural Export Promotion Project (Cr. 2407-GUI). The overall goals are to: (i) promote
food security and reduce food imports (especially of rice); (ii) promote agricultural exports (coffee, fruits,
and cotton); (iii) provide essential support services to rural producers, and (iv) ensure a rational
management of natural resources. The Govemment strategy to achieve these objectives is to: (a) pursue
the macro-economic reforms agreed under the SAL and sector adjustment programs to reinforce the market
economy; (b) continue to disengage the State from productive activities and from services that can be
privatized; (c) improve business conditions to attract private agricultural investments, (d) improve
agricultural research and extension, and develop a seed industry; (e) improve rural infrastructure, and (f)
build up local administrative capacity. The agricultural policy letter will be fomally revised by December
31, 1996, by which time the Government, after consultation with IDA and other donors, will organize a
donors' meeting to review investment needs not covered by this project. Main areas for investment are
rural infrastructure (rural roads, village water supply, and small-scale irrigation), and credit. The



agricultural sector policy note referred to in para. 4 will form the basis for the revised agricultural policy
letter.
II. The Project
A. Lessons Learned and Results of Previous Bank Involvement
6.            The proliferation of small, incoordinated donor-financed projects has in the past overtaxed
MAEF's sector management capacity, leading to parallel implementation arrangements, insufficient
counterpart funds, lack of commitment by Government to implement them, and contradictory philosophies
of development. This approach needs to be replaced with long-term national programs. Synergy between
agricultural services is best achieved when projects are under common management. Experience under the
Gueckedou Agricultural Development Project and the First Agricultural Services Project (Credits
1635/1636-GUI), for which Perfornance Audit Reports are available, shows that it is essential to: (a) have
flexible and simple program designs with clear objectives and well-defined management structures; (b)
ensure timely availability of counterpart funds; and (c) avoid complex co-financing arrangements. Draft
Implementation Completion Reports are also available for the recently completed Livestock Sector
Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1725-GUI) and the National Seeds Project (Cr. 1864-GUI). The main lessons
learned from the successful Livestock Rehabilitation Project are the importance of: (a) a proper
macroeconomic incentive framework; (b) good identification and preparation which highlight the main
difficulties facing the subsector; (c) regular supervision missions staffed with the right skills and including
cofinanciers; (d) constructive dialogue with the line implementing agency; and (e) training for project staff
and beneficiaries (herders). Experience with this project also highlighted the problems associated with
inadequate counterpart funding. Major lessons learned from the less successful Seeds project are: (a) the
need to create a demand for improved technology through effective agricultural support services (research
and extension) and appropriate pricing policies; (b) the importance of involving private sector stakeholders
at the outset to develop a private seeds industry; and (c) the importance of strong management based on the
development of local capacity, with less reliance on expatriate technical assistance. All of these lessons
have been incorporated in the design of the present project and plans for its implementation and
supervision.
7.            A quantitative impact evaluation of extension activities supported under the Agricultural
Research and Extension Project (Cr. 1955-GUI) is currently underway. It is based on a random sample of
1,024 farmers. The final results should be available by April 1996, after the rice harvest. Preliminary
results indicate that the extension program is working satisfactorily: (a) 61 percent of the sample of farmers
indicated that they knew of the program's existence; (b) 26 percent reported that they had received advice
directly from an extension agent; (c) nearly all farmers (92 percent) receiving extension advice considered it
to be "very useful" and deemed it important for the extension service to continue disseminating messages
on imnproved practices (95 percent). When asked to rate the impact on crop output of the extension
recommendations they had adopted, 59 percent of these farmers rated it as "very successful" and 39
percent as "successful".
B. Project Rationale and Objectives
8.            The agricultural sector in Guinea has great potential for responding rapidly to a carefully
designed investment program in agriculture with special emphasis on the provision of agricultural services
(technology generation and dissemination, and improved animal health and husbandry practices).
Agriculture can play a significant role in the economic adjustment process by providing the initial supply



- 4 -
response needed to stimulate economic activities, and also by reducing food imports and providing a
sustainable source of export earnings to support long-term economic growth. If the anticipated growth is to
materialize, MAEF's policy formulation and coordination capacity needs to be strengthened, and greater
efficiency in service delivery and in the provision of aid will be essential. Donor support to Guinean
agriculture needs to be well coordinated and MAEF needs to regain control over externally funded projects.
Under the NASP, there would be a partnership between the Government and donors for the provision of
agricultural services. The Government would be responsible for identifying and preparing its priority
programs, and would work with donors to improve the efficiency and sustainability of those programs,
without sacrificing ownership.
9.            The NASP is a direct successor to two ongoing operations financed by IDA and other
donors -- the Livestock Sector Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1725-GUI) and the Agricultural Research and
Extension Project (Cr. 1955-GUI) -- and would build on their achievements. It would also be closely
coordinated with the IDA-financed Rural Resources Management Project which is scheduled for Board
presentation in FYI 997. The NASP's overall development objective is to improve nationwide agricultural
productivity and production, incomes of farmers and food security. The operation is designed to: (i)
reshape the public sector role to complement the private sector and support private sector led growth; (ii)
develop human capital, i.e., the knowledge and skills of both professionals (researchers, extension agents
and livestock specialists) and farmers; and (iii) improve MAEF's capacity to provide services that are
"public goods" and to arrest environmental degradation. The project's imnplementation objectives are to:
(a) strengthen the field presence and technical capacity of MAEF in the areas of sectoral policy
formulation, project and donor coordination, and agricultural statistics; (b) strengthen agricultural
extension to accelerate the dissemination of appropriate and sustainable technologies, and increase land and
labor productivity; (c) improve agricultural research's output of appropriate technologies for increased
productivity; (d) improve animal production and veterinary support services to herders; and (e) increase
responsiveness to social and gender issues as well as environmental concems.
10.          The NASP is consistent with the Bank's country assistance strategy (CAS) for Guinea,
which was presented to the Board in February 1994. It is the first step in a strategy to move towards
integrated investment lending in the agricultural sector, and constitutes the first in a series of time slices
fmanced under a long-term program. It is cofinanced by several donors and links key subsectors of the
agricultural investment program more closely. It was prepared primarily by Guinean task forces, including
broadly-based participation of stakeholders in the definition of agricultural research priorities. It will be
implemented by MAEF without the creation of separate project units. IDA's strategy in supporting NASP
is to focus on the provision of basic, core agricultural services and to concentrate on systemic solutions in
the form of time slices within long-term national programs.
C. Summary Program/Project Description
11.          The overall agricultural services program is being supported by the European Union (EU),
France (MC and CfD), and IDA. Project preparation for the NASP started in November 1994 when a joint
Borrower/lDA mission provided advice on expanding the scope of agricultural services throughout the
country. A Project Preparation Facility advance of $1.0 million was granted in October 1995 to finance
project start-up and prepare project executing agency staff for integrating previous projects' activities into
the new national program. The NASP has four components: (a) institutional capacity building in MAEF;
(b) agricultural extension; (c) agricultural research; and (d) livestock and animal health. It will be executed
by some 3,000 of MAEF's 9,000 staff (SNPRV/extension -- 1,700; IRAG/research -- 600; DNE/animal
health -- 600; BCPA/policy coordination; and DNA/agricultural field offices -- 100). The EU is financing



- 5 -
animal health, genetic selection of milk cattle, animal traction, and slaughter and marketing facilities in
certain parts of the country, as well as agricultural research in one of the six research stations. France is
financing technical assistance for IRAG through its Ministry of Cooperation (MC), and the component to
strengthen producer organizations, and support to the development of poultry and small ruminants through
its Caisse fran,aise de Developpement (CfD). The IDA project would cover the remaining gaps for policy
analysis, project coordination, and agricultural statistics; agricultural extension; agricultural research in the
remaining five research stations; and animal health and livestock marketing and processing in the areas not
funded by EU. This four-year, US$90.5 million program (about US$22.6 million/year) represents about
40 percent of the Government's annual public expenditure in agriculture, and will give farmers throughout
the country access to quality agricultural services. Donor support by component is shown in Table 1.
Table 1: Donor Support by Component
Component                IDA      EU         MC        CfD
a) Institutional Capacity  x
Building of MAEF
b) Extension
(1) Field Extension    x
(2) Support to Farmers
Organizations                                    x
c) Research                x       x          x
d) Livestock Development and
Animal Health          x        x                   x
D. Detailed Features
Institutional Capacity Building of MAEF
(Base cost - US$6.9 million; 9 percent of total base costs)
12.          To improve the capacity for policy formulation and coordination of donors and projects,
the project would provide professional advisory services and staff training in economic analysis to the
Agricultural Policy Coordination Office (BCPA) of MAEF. With this support, BCPA would carry out
several policy and organizational studies. Two of the priority studies to be carried out by BCPA would be:
(a) a study aimed at reorganizing and streamlining the National Agriculture Department (DNA) inter alia
through a redefinition of its functions and redeployment of staff; and (b) a study analyzing the Borrower's
current agricultural input distribution system with a view to increasing its efficiency and encouraging the
development of a private sector input distribution system. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that
the study conceming the reorganization and streamlining of DNA, and the policy study concerming the
agricultural input system, would be carried out and completed by September 30, 1996. The results and
recommendations of these two studies will be presented to IDA for its review and comment before
December 31, 1996 (para. 35 (a)). In addition, and based on the findings of the Guinea Public Expenditure
Review of December 1995 and issues addressed in the "Agricultural Policy Note", BCPA would carry out
inter alia the following policy studies: (c) review of the existing agricultural sector investment program in



- 6 -
order to determine the associated recurrent costs and to identify possibilities for cost recovery through,
inter alia, introduction of a levy on commercial crops, and/or user fees for services delivered by MAEF
(rural roads, land titling, extension advice); and (d) agricultural sector review with special emphasis on an
analysis of how best to encourage private sector investments, improve agricultural marketing, and stimulate
agricultural exports. These studies will be carried out and completed by September 30, 1997, and their
results and recommendations will be submitted to IDA for review and comment not later than December
31, 1997 (para. 35 (a)). Thereafter, the Borrower will promptly implement the recommendations of these
four studies as agreed upon and in accordance with a timetable satisfactory to IDA, and taking into account
all measures required to update the agricultural policy letter which was submitted to IDA under the
National Agricultural Export Promotion Project (Cr. 2407-GUI).
13.   The project would also finance support for: (i) MAEF's agricultural statistics office to produce
reliable data; and (ii) rehabilitation of MAEF's office space for staff at the regional and departmental
levels.
14.           The project would support the formulation and implementation of a pilot operation
(entrepreneurship capacity building scheme) to encourage MAEF employees, especially those who are
already engaged in subsidiary economic activities, to leave the public sector and become private
entrepreneurs. An information campaign for all MAEF employees would be carried out, explaining all
aspects of the operation. During an initial short training module, applicants would be screened for their
aptitude as business people. Successful candidates would then receive further tailor-made training directly
related to the kind of business they would like to engage in and would be assisted in preparing their
investment projects and in obtaining credit on commercial terms. The precise procedures to be followed
would be modeled on the success in this field of the private enterprise development project "PRIDE"
financed by USAID and executed by the NGOs VITA and PRIDE/Guinee. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the Borrower shall: (a) not later than December 31, 1996, carry out a detailed design
study required to develop the entrepreneurship capacity building scheme; (b) submit the results and
recommendations of this study to IDA for review and comment; and (c) promptly thereafter, implement this
scheme in accordance with the implementation modalities and schedule agreed upon with IDA. This study
would include, inter alia, a determination of the kind of separation benefits, over and above training and
access to credit, that would be needed to induce people to leave MAEF in favor of private sector
entrepreneurship, and of the practical steps needed during the transition period (para. 35 (b)). Government
would sub-contract this pilot operation to VITA PRIDE/Guinee and financing of up to US$2.0 million
would be set aside for the training of future entrepreneurs (US$0.2 million) and for credit for their new
enterprises (US$1.8 million). Receipt of a report and recommendations on implementation modalities and
schedule satisfactory to IDA for this entrepreneurship capacity building scheme, will be a condition of
disbursement of IDA funding for this scheme (para. 37). Separation benefits would not be financed by
IDA; other donors have expressed their interest in financing such benefits if the feasibility study is
conclusive. After an initial, specially designed information campaign, the first training module would be
launched in July 1996. These training modules would be repeated every three months, and it is expected
that some 500 MAEF employees would participate during the two-year pilot phase. Based on the
experience of PRIDE to date, it is expected that some 30 percent of the participants would become
successful entrepreneurs and would leave the Ministry. Before July 31, 1997 and during the mid-term
review, results of this pilot operation would be evaluated to make the necessary adjustments and if feasible,
accelerate its rate of implementation.



-7 -
Agricultural Extension Component
(Base cost - US$3 1.0 million; 39 percent of total base cost)
15.          The main objective of this component would be to provide a continuous flow of
appropriate extension recommendations to Guinea's 670,000 farm families. The extension service (Service
National de la Promotion Rurale et de Vulgarisation - SNPRV) would be in direct contact with about
200,000 farmers (organized into about 20,000 contact groups) through some 1,300 field extension workers,
backed up by supervisors and Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs). All farmers would be encouraged to
apply and test technical recommendations in small plots or on selected animals and to adopt new
technologies more widely. On the qualitative side, the project would seek to:
(a)    further decentralize the management of the SNPRV and improve management of the
logistical aspects of the extension service;
(b)    continue to upgrade the skills of staff at all levels through continuous tailor-made training.
A training and human resource management program would be carried out, including (i)
fortnightly training of extension staff by subject matter specialists; (ii) monthly
technological review meetings involving research and extension staff, and farmers; (iii)
training of farmer organization specialists; (iv) training in field diagnosis, monitoring and
evaluation, and surveys; (v) training of trainers; (vi) training in supervisory techniques;
(vii) management training; (viii) training in techniques involved in carrying out tests and
trials in farmers' fields; and (ix) study tours inside the country and abroad.
(c)    continue to improve the "diagnostic skills" of front-line extension agents;
(d)    further expand the achievements of the completed IDA-funded Agricultural Seeds Project
(Cr. 1864-GUI) and popularize improved varieties through formal and informal
distribution channels;
(e)    strengthen the existing monitoring and evaluation system by introducing systematic client
consultation and "beneficiary assessments";
(f)    promote, strengthen and work more closely with farmer organizations through the
provision of advice to farmers for the organization and management of groups and
associations, and better access to commercial marketing and supply outlets, credit
institutions, and seed producers, plant and improved livestock breeders; and
(g)    broaden extension recommendations to cover not only production aspects, but also crop
protection, natural resource management, and storage, processing and marketing.
16.          The project would finance training, and acquisition of 4-wheel drive vehicles, motorcycles
and bicycles for 1,700 extension staff, short-term consultant services, equipment and a modest amount of
civil works for the rehabilitation of existing buildings. During the first year, the project will also support
the launching of pilot extension initiatives to: (a) improve the quality of extension recommendations by
putting more emphasis on their economic and financial aspects; (b) develop a mass communications
strategy to support face-to-face extension activities; and (c) develop contractual relationships with
specialized NGOs in extension support activities. More pilot operations may be identified and executed
over the life of the NASP. Government will formulate projects for the identified pilot initiatives, as needed,



- 8 -
and obtain IDA's non-objection before implementation. Lessons learned from the pilot initiatives will be
appropriately adapted and then mainstreamed.
A2ricultural Research Component
(Base cost - US$20.3 million; 25 percent of total base cost)
17.           The main objective of this component would be to build a sustainable agricultural research
capacity within Guinea's agricultural research institute (Institut de Recherche Agronomique de Guinee -
IRAG) that responds to farmers' needs by developing appropriate technologies. The NASP will support
priority research programs and the evaluation of professional staff working in research. An on-the-job
training and scientific tutoring program will be developed for the researchers and implemented with the help
of existing French technical assistance. In addition, young graduates will be recruited and further training
will be provided locally or abroad. The Institute will be reorganized to: (a) adjust the composition and
functions of its governing bodies; (b) separate financial and accounting functions from that of procurement;
(c) create a position for internal auditing and human resource management at IRAG headquarters; (d)
create a position of station manager at each research center. The project will also support continuing
improvement in research organization and management by: (a) improving the relevance of research by
involving extension agents and farmers in the programming, monitoring and evaluation of research
activities; (b) strengthening the autonomy of IRAG, as well as its accountability, by granting more
decision-making power to its Board of Directors and its management; and (c) ensuring higher quality and
more efficient research. To this end, a system for ongoing performance evaluation and reward will be put
in place, based on a researcher "statute" to be included in the revised organizational rules and procedures
of IRAG; (d) improving the logistical and financial management of IRAG; (e) rationalizing IRAG's
network of experimental stations and laboratories, and improving management and maintenance of
infrastructures through systematic on-the-job training; and (f) participating closely in regional research
within the SPAAR framework. The credit provide funding for research activities only in the following
centers: Koba, S&edou, Bordo, Foulaya, Bareng, and Kilissi (excluding the seed production center). The
agro-processing laboratory at Foulaya will be rehabilitated during the third year of project implementation,
once the agro-processing research team has been constituted.
18.          The following assurances were obtained at negotiations.  The Borrower  shall, by
December 31, 1996, reorganize IRAG as required to increase its overall efficiency including, inter alia, by
establishing personnel rules and adopting an operational manual, all satisfactory to the Association.
Furthermore, the Borrower shall cause IRAG to: (a) carry on its operations and conduct its affairs im
accordance with sound administrative, financial and research practices under the supervision of qualified
and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; (b) (i) carry out by
December 31, 1996, a comprehensive assessment of the competency skills of its research staff; and (ii) by
March 31, 1997, formulate and thereafter promptly implement a career development plan designed to
attract and retain talented research staff within IRAG; (c) (i) submit to the Association for its review and
comments the draft competency skills assessment report and career development plan referred to in
paragraph (a) above; and (ii) promptly finalize and implement them in accordance with the
recommendations and timetable agreed upon with the Association; and (d) enhance its financial
management system by not later than December 31, 1997, by adopting appropriate procedure to record all
of its expenditures through a cost accounting methodology acceptable to the Association (para. 35 (c)).



- 9 -
Livestock and Animal Health ComDonent
(Base Cost - US$21.2 million; 26 percent of total base cost)
19.          The main objective of this component would be to increase the productivity of Guinean
livestock, thereby augmenting national meat and milk production and improving nutrition, and raising the
income and standard of living of herders. It would have four main sub-components:
(a)   Improved Animal Health would be achieved through increased vaccination coverage
against gazetted diseases (CBPP, Rinderpest, peste des petits ruminants), and improved
drug distribution. Vaccination, currently a public service, is gradually being transferred to
private veterinarians operating under contract (the so-called mandat sanitaire). All
vaccinations will eventually be carried out by private operators. The Government
pharmaceuticals procurement agency (CAVET) is scheduled for privatization before
September 30, 1996. Drug import and distribution, already 50 percent private, will then
be entirely private.
(b)   Institutional Support - Government staff will be retained to carry out "public good"
services (collection of sectoral economic data, public health duties), and to help support
herder and other professional organizations (livestock traders, butchers) so they can
modernize their operations. Headquarters staff will further develop their capacity to devise
development policies and monitor their implementation.
(c)    Animal production systems improvement will be achieved through support to village
poultry production, to peri-urban poultry and pig farming, to regional dairy development
and animal traction, as well as through support to the modernization of livestock and
animal product marketing facilities. Village poultry production would be boosted through
the development of vaccination coverage against Newcastle disease by grassroots
auxiliaries operating in cooperation with village associations and private veterinarians (an
activity that has already started). Breeding for improved dairy production will be further
developed around Boke and Beyla based on the "open nucleus selection system" involving
village herds around the breeding stations. New traditional milk processing technologies
will be introduced (manufacture of Wara cheese), and dairy product marketing will be left
entirely to the private sector. A credit scheme will help finance semi-modem peri-urban
pig and egg-layer farms operated by qualified technicians no longer employed by
Government.
(d)    Infrastructure and natural resources management support - holding pens and concrete slabs
would be built for the marketing and slaughter of animals, under a commitment from users
to manage and maintain them and collect fees for that purpose. Similarly, small pastoral
infrastructures (drinking troughs, cattle crushes, access tracks) would be developed on a
matching grant basis with the contribution of beneficiaries, in order to help improve
natural resource management and conservation, and on the basis of the commitment of
herders to maintain the facilities.
ResDonsiveness to Social. Gender, and Environmental Issues
(Costs included under the other components)
20.          All project components include actions to improve the social and gender responsiveness of
the agricultural support services: a small unit will be created inside the SNPRV at the national level and
selected female agents will act as socio-cultural SMSs at the regional level; all extension agents will receive
training on how to deal effectively with different target groups; transformation and conservation



- 10-
technologies (typically women's activities) will be introduced into the research and extension agendas;
promising income-generating activities will be tested with women's groups; and female leaders will be
trained in group and financial management.
21.          All project components also include actions to reduce possible negative effects of
agricultural production technologies on the natural environment and to enhance their positive impact. To
this end, a mitigation plan will be put in place and its implementation will be assessed during the mid-term
review. This mitigation plan -- funded under the project -- will consist of the following five elements:
(a)    careful evaluation and selection of agricultural technologies that have a positive impact on
the natural environment, with heavy emphasis on soil and water conservation practices and
agroforestry;
(b)    environmental training (for staff) and a mass communications plan;
(c)   training of farmers and their organizations to deal with soil degradation problems;
(d)    environmental monitoring actions in related areas; and
(e)    adaptive research activities geared towards these issues.
All of these activities will be carried out by staff of executing agencies (extension and livestock agents and
researchers) with short-term technical assistance.
E. Project Costs and Financing
22.          The total base cost of the project, net of taxes and duties, is estimated at about 78.7 billion
Guinean Francs (US$80.4 million equivalent). The base cost estimates reflect November 1995 prices.
Physical contingencies amount to about US$4.4 million and are estimated to be 10 percent of civil works,
10 percent for goods, 5 percent for other investment costs and for operating costs. Price contingencies,
amounting to US$5.6 million, represent about 7 percent of total base costs and are based on estimated
annual forecasts of international inflation rates for foreign manufactured goods (from 1.9 percent to 3.0
percent) and estimated annual inflation rates in Guinea for local costs (5 percent per annum). Foreign
exchange portion of total project cost is 40 percent. A summary of total project costs is given in Annex 1.
23.          The proposed IDA credit of US$35.0 million would finance about 38.8 percent of total
program costs of US$90.5 million, including 55 percent of foreign exchange and 28 percent of local costs.
In addition, the project would be financed by: (a) Government contribution of US$26.7 million equivalent,
mostly for salaries (US$23.5 million) and recurrent expenditures; (b) beneficiary contributions of US$1.0
million equivalent, mainly in the form of labor and local building materials, and (c) cofinancing
contributions of US$27.8 million, distributed as follows: US$10.9 million equivalent from the European
Union (EU); US$11.1 million equivalent from the French Ministry of Cooperation (MC); and US$5.8
million equivalent from the Caisse francaise de Developpement (CfD). Taxes and duties foregone,
estimated at about US$20.5 million, represent the Government's additional contribution but are not
included in the total project costs. To ensure timely availability of adequate counterpart funds
(US$800,000 per year), assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Borrower will: (a) open and
maintain an account (the Project Account) in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association; (b) deposit into the Project Account an initial amount equivalent to US$300,000; (c)
thereafter, deposit into the Project Account by the first day of each calendar quarter, an amount equivalent
to US$200,000 or such other amount as shall have been agreed upon at the beginning of each fiscal year
between the Borrower and the Association in the light of the budgetary requirements of the Project; and (d)



- I1 -
ensure that funds deposited in the Project Account shall be used only for the purposes of defraying the cost
of expenditures incurred for the execution of the Project (para. 35 (d)). The initial deposit of US$300,000
equivalent will be a condition of credit effectiveness (para. 36 (a)).
F. Procurement, Disbursement, Accounts and Auditing
24.          Details of procurement, disbursement, accounts and auditing are provided in Annex 2.
The main executing agencies (SNPRV, IRAG and DNE) have satisfactory financial management systems
in place and are fully familiar with Bank procedures concerning procurement, disbursements, and
accounting and auditing. IDA would finance: (a) goods totaling about US$9.1 million to be procured
through international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures; (b) works and goods totaling about US$1.0
million to be procured through national competitive bidding (NCB) procedures; and (c) goods and services
totaling about US$25.0 million to be procured through other procedures, including international and local
shopping for goods and short lists for consultants' services. The project's three cofinanciers would
administer procurement for their share of the financing according to their respective rules and procedures.
The proposed IDA Credit of US$35.0 million equivalent would be disbursed over four years, with
disbursements to be completed by December 31, 2000. IDA funds for agricultural research would be made
available by the Borrower to IRAG as a grant, under a grant agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and IRAG and satisfactory to IDA. Execution of this grant agreement on behalf of the Borrower
and IRAG is a condition of credit effectiveness (para. 36 (b)). To facilitate disbursements, a special
account would be established for each executing agency and operated in a commercial bank, under terms
and conditions satisfactory to IDA. All cofinancing would be on a parallel basis and administered by each
donor.  During negotiations, assurances were obtained that project accounts will be audited by
international, independent auditors under TORs acceptable to IDA and reports on such statements will be
provided within six months after the close of each fiscal year (para. 35 (e)). The contracting of independent
auditors, on a multi-year basis, and certification by auditors that the accounting system of each
implementing agency is operational, is a condition of credit effectiveness (para. 36 (c)).
G. Project Implementation
25.          MAEF would have overall responsibility for implementing the NASP and no parallel
administrative project units would be created. Each of the executing agencies, i.e., BCPA, SNPRV, IRAG,
and DNE would be responsible for the execution of their respective components.  The NASP
implementation manual was reviewed during negotiations and its adoption is a condition of credit
effectiveness (para. 36 (d)). Thereafter, the Borrower will take all measures necessary to ensure that the
Project is carried out in conformity with the project implementation manual (PIM) and shall not make any
change to the PIM which would materially or adversely affect the execution of the Project; and maintain
policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance
with indicators satisfactory to IDA, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of its objectives.
To coordinate implementation of all NASP components, assurances were obtained during negotiations that
the Borrower will establish by June 30, 1996, and thereafter maintain: (a) (i) a Project Steering Committee;
and (ii) a Project Technical committee, all with membership and functions and responsibilities satisfactory
to Association; and (b) ensure that each technical department of MAEF responsible for carrying out any
part of the Project is headed at all times by staff with experience and qualifications satisfactory to the
Association (para. 35 (f)). The chairman of the NASP Steering Committee would be the Secretary General
of MAEF and members would comprise the Directors of the executing agencies, the Director of the Rural
Resources Management Project, senior officials from the Ministries of Plan and Finance, and
representatives of  the private sector (farmers' organizations).  BCPA would be responsible for



- 12 -
consolidating the annual work program, preparing sector budgets for approval of the NASP Steering
Committee, and coordinate with donors on annual reviews, supervision missions and implementation issues.
The Steering Committee would have a sub-committee on environmental impact monitoring, composed of
the Directors of BCPA, the Rural Resources Management Project, the PNAE, and the NGO Guinee
Ecologie. The Project Technical Committee would be composed of the Directors of the executing agencies.
In addition, during negotiations the following assurances were obtained: (a) by September 30 of each year,
MAEF would submit its draft annual work programs, investment proposals and related budgets for each
project component to IDA for its review and comments; (b) by November 30 of each year, finalize the said
work programs and related budgets by taking duly into account the comments and recommendations made
by IDA; and (c) promptly thereafter, carry out the work programs as they shall have been finalized in
agreement with IDA. Finally, the Borrower has agreed to ensure that any new investments to be made for
the purposes of fostering agricultural extension, research and livestock development activities are included
in the MAEF's work program; meet criteria of economic return acceptable to IDA; and have the funding
required to cover their anticipated recurrent costs available through the Borrower's budget (para. 35(g)).
H. Monitoring and Evaluation
26.          Details on the project's monitoring and evaluation arrangements, including the key
performance indicators, are provided in Annex 3. Each executing agency already has a monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) system, that will be further strengthened under NASP. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that MAEF and the executing agencies will maintain a project monitoring and evaluation
system satisfactory to IDA, including adequate policies and procedures to enable monitoring and evaluation
of NASP on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to IDA. At Project completion
and not later than six months after the Closing Date (December 31, 2000) the Borrower will furnish to IDA
a plan for the future operation of the project (para. 35 (h)). In addition, a joint mid-term review by the
Borrower, IDA, and the co-financiers would be carried out not later than March 31, 1998 to assess the
progress achieved in the execution of the project (para. 35 (i)).  This review will cover: (a) the
implementation and management aspects of the project, including policy reforms, the performance and use
of technical assistance personnel, the role of national counterpart staff, the status and results of training,
reporting, accounting and audit performance, disbursement and procurement procedures, the functioning
and the level of amounts deposited in the Project Account, and the progress achieved in the formulation and
execution of the voluntary departure pilot scheme; (b) not later than thirty (30) days prior to the mid-term
review, the Borrower shall furnish to IDA, for its comments, a detailed report, including an evaluation of
the progress achieved in implementing the various components of the project, and a draft action plan
containing proposals for remedying identified deficiencies; (c) the Borrower shall, promptly thereafter (i)
prepare and adopt an action plan, acceptable to IDA, based on the recommendations stemming from the
aforementioned review; and (ii) thereafter, carry out the said action plan for the remaining period of project
implementation.
m1. Assessments
A. Technical Assessment
27.          The design of NASP is based on the experience gained in the implementation of two,
ongoing, IDA-funded projects and is technically sound. Design of the agricultural extension component is
based on Training and Visit (T&V) management principles that have been internalized, have proven their
effectiveness, and are being applied flexibly (see Annex 6). In addition, through pilot operations that were



- 13 -
started in 1994, a methodology for farmer participatory research has been developed and is now being used
systematically by SNPRV. Hence, extension recommendations are developed jointly between researchers,
extension agents and farmers and are situation-specific. This has been facilitated through considerable
investments in training (abroad and in-service) of staff, especially Subject Matter Specialists. Special
attention has been given to attune the extension service to women farmers' needs and to involve NGOs in
service delivery. Finally, with support from CfD, producer organizations are being strengthened, which in
turn facilitates the task of developing and providing extension advice. In the design of the research
component, care was taken to address all the fundamental weaknesses of IRAG and to systematically build
up its research capacity. Research priorities were defined with Bank support through a participatory
method that brought together all the major stakeholders. All activities under the livestock and animal health
component are extension of activities that were already successfully carried out under the IDA financed
Livestock Sector Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1725-GUI).
B. Institutional Assessment
28.           SNPRV is the successor organization of the IDA-financed national extension program and
its management and staff are competent and dynamic. Since 1987, when pilot extension activities were
started with Bank support, management and staff have gained considerable experience through learning-by-
doing, short-term technical assistance, various types of training, and support from Bank and other donor
missions. Expansion of the size of the extension service and its geographic coverage has been gradual,
thereby allowing adequate time to build up management capacity and carefully select and train new staff.
IRAG on the other hand, has been less successful in benefiting from the support that was provided under
IDA financing. IRAG lacks competent researchers and its research management, as well as human,
financial and physical resources management is still weak. The Ministry has agreed to a series of remedial
measures: giving greater autonomy to IRAG, hiring a few young researchers every year on contract to
rejuvenate the institute, and carrying out a formal evaluation of all researchers to define training needs of
each researcher. In addition, MC has agreed to change the terms of reference of its technical assistance
inside IRAG to place much more emphasis on scientific tutoring and training of Guinean researchers than
in the past. Finally, management of research has been strengthened by appointing one scientific director
per station to be responsible for the quality of all research activities, and by introducing closer supervision
from the scientific director of IRAG. DNE, which was completely restructured under the Livestock
Rehabilitation Project and had all of its staff has retrained, is competent to fulfill the tasks assigned to it
under the NASP.
C. Economic Assessment
29.           Given the large size and composite nature of the current project, the overall assessment of
its economic viability is based on several criteria: (a) traditional cost-benefit analysis for the livestock
component, (b) cost-effectiveness and cost-benefit analysis for the extension and research components, and
(c) fiscal impact analysis of the whole project. Most of the benefits from the livestock component would
come from increased beef and milk production in cattle herds with better animal health and a more
conducive institutional environment. The rate of growth of the cattle herd is assumed to increase from 1.0
percent in 1996 to 1.35 percent by the year 2009. Similarly, milk production would increase by about 30
percent over the same time span. Under these assumptions, the National Directorate of Livestock estimates
that the ERR would be around 30 percent. An independent ex-post estimate of the ERR for similar
investments financed under the recently completed Livestock Services Rehabilitation Project was found to
be 18 percent. Concerning research and extension, there is wide scope for increasing returns. Current crop
yields are low and over the past five years, 50 percent of farmers have adopted one or more technical
messages extended by SNPRV. The agricultural research and extension components will contribute to



- 14 -
improved crop and animal husbandry practices and to developing and disseminating new agricultural
technology. Monitoring and evaluation surveys by SNPRV indicate that with existing technology, crop
yields have increased by about 30 percent for farmers having direct contact with the national extension
service. Ex-post and independent measures of the economic impact of agricultural extension in countries
with lower agricultural potential than Guinea suggest returns ranging from 70 to 100 percent. A combined
ERR was estimated at 46 percent, assuming that the national agricultural extension service will cover 50
percent of the territory by the year 2000 (up from 30 percent currently) and that about 70 percent of rice
farmers (compared with less than 50 percent current) would adopt the improved technical messages. Key
assumptions on area covered, adoption rates and yield increases by crop and by natural region are in Annex
4, pages 11 to 13. Under the recently completed National Research and Extension Project (Cr. 1955-GUI),
it was estimated that to achieve a 25 percent ERR, aggregate crop yield would have to increase by 15
percent between 1988 and 1995. Actual rice yield increased by 44 percent, cassava 50 percent, groundnut
33 percent, and maize 11 percent in areas covered by the national service. This suggest that the 46 percent
ERR is reasonable and can be obtained from the proposed project, especially given that the project will
foster synergy between livestock and agricultural activities, leading to positive externalities on higher crop
yields particularly in transhumance areas of Guinea Maritime.
D. Financial Assessment
30.           Annual expenditures for the services covered under the project as a percentage of the
agricultural GDP in 1994 (US$750 million) are as follows: research - 0.7 percent; extension - 0.8 percent;
and livestock services - 0.7 percent. These percentages are well within international norms for these kinds
of public expenditures. All three components were carefully tailored to the absorptive capacity of the
respective executing agencies, and the proposed investments constitute least-cost solutions. The project
support to institutional strengthening, including a much needed restructuring of MAEF, would have a
positive impact on public finances and can be expected over time to lower the salary bill. For more detailed
information, see the economic analysis in Annex 4. By integrating ongoing and future investments in
research, extension and livestock services into national programs, the unit costs for these services will be
lowered significantly. Especially in the case of extension, the unit costs per farm fanily will be lowered
from between US$20 - US$100, depending on the type of crop- or area-based extension project, to US$10
for the SNPRV under the NASP. In the case of livestock services, pharmaceuticals are sold on a
commercial basis and herders pay 200 GNF per animal and vaccination, which constitutes 50 percent of
the costs for these services. Overall, the proposed project would generate estimated annual incremental
recurrent cost of US$6.5 million equivalent in 1995 prices, representing 6 percent of total public
expenditures on agriculture in 1994. Given the low income of a large proportion of the rural population,
cost recovery at this time would have adverse welfare implications. However, the possibilities for partial
cost recovery of agricultural services will be analyzed as part of the review of MAEF's current investment
program and its associated recurrent costs (see para. 12).
E. Environmental Assessment
31.           The NASP is rated "B" for environmental assessment purposes, and an environmental
analysis was carried out during August/September 1995. The report (available in the Project File)
concludes that the NASP would have a neutral or positive impact on the natural environment, provided that
the mitigation plan to be funded under the project, described in para. 21, is put in place and carried out.



- 15 -
F. Project Sustainability
32.           After studying the multiplicity of projects in extension, research and livestock development
carried out in the past, the Government has, on the basis of results and least-cost considerations, committed
itself to a national program which will integrate ongoing and future efforts in the provision of agricultural
services. This approach will lower the unit cost of delivering these services and limit it to some US$20 per
farm family or about 2 percent of agricultural GDP. Expenditures of this magnitude fit within the
country's public finances and are likely to be sustained over the long term. Through the provision of more
professional and regular agricultural services, the project will contribute to a growing confidence of the
farming community in the administration, which should, if successful, ensure longer term sustainability of
project efforts. Further, the Government will study the possibilities for cost recovery through introduction
of a cess on commercial crops, and/or some cost recovery for extension advice. Also, under the NASP, the
Government will pilot initiatives for private sector/NGO participation in extension on a cost-sharing basis.
Over time, it can be expected that improved prosperity of the farming sector will permit more cost recovery
and generate a demand for extension services from sources other than those publicly funded. The
institutional sustainability of the program is enhanced by the fact that there is strong government and
beneficiary ownership; the program has been designed by Guineans and would use existing channels for
implementation.
G. Benefits
33.           The NASP would benefit the economy in several ways. It would focus the role of the
Ministry of Agriculture on the provision of key agricultural services; increase the efficiency and impact of
the provision of these services and reduce waste in public expenditures. The institutional improvements in
extension, research, and animal health would translate into the widespread diffusion and adoption of better
agricultural technology, increase farmers' productivity, production and incomes, and accelerate the
agricultural growth rate. The NASP would have a favorable impact on rural poverty alleviation through
increased crop and livestock production and diversification. Women play important roles in Guinea's
agricultural sector as farmers, managers, decision makers, farm laborers, and are expected to be major
beneficiaries of the NASP. Increased incomes for women should result in improved household food
security, nutrition and health areas where women are largely the decision makers.
H. Risks
34.           The risks foreseen include: (i) ineffective management and training of widely scattered
extension, research and livestock agents; (ii) the failure of Government and/or donors to sustain the long-
term commitment required to achieve durable improvements in the effectiveness of agricultural support
services; and (iii) shortage of counterpart funds and long-term  fiscal sustainability.  Concerning
agricultural services, good management is expected as a result of the application of T&V management
principles, restructuring of research, and improving the linkages among extension, research, and farmers.
Performance of the project executing agencies will be assessed through the monitoring and evaluation
arrangements and through joint support missions in the field by donor agencies. The multi-donor annual
review of work plans and budgets, as well as the mid-term review, will allow fine-tuning of programs and
build long-term commitment. Regarding counterpart funds and fiscal sustainability, the reduction of
independent projects and the reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture will significantly reduce the unit
costs of these services, and thereby increase the capacity of the Government to fund the single national
agricultural services program. Also, it is expected that the review of the agricultural sector investment
program (para. 12) will identify new possibilities for cost recovery.



- 16-
IV. Agreements Reached and Recommendation
35.           Assurances were obtained at negotiations that:
(a)   the Borrower will carry out and complete organizational and policy studies concerning:
(i) the reorganization and streamlining of DNA, and (ii) the agricultural input system, by
September 30, 1996 and present the results to IDA before December 31, 1996. In
addition, the Borrower will carry out and complete (iii) an agricultural sector investment
review, and (iv) a review of the agricultural sector by September 30, 1997and present the
results to IDA before December 31, 1997 (para. 12);
(b)   the Borrower shall: (a) not later than December 31, 1996, carry out a detailed design study
required to develop the entrepreneurship capacity building scheme; (b) submit the results
and recommendations of this study to IDA for review and comment; and (c) promptly
thereafter, implement this scheme in accordance with the implementation modalities and
schedule agreed upon with IDA (para. 14);
(c)   the Borrower shall, by December 31, 1996, reorganize IRAG as required to increase its
overall efficiency including inter alia by establishing personnel rules and adopting an
operational manual, all satisfactory to the Association. Furthermore, the Borrower shall
cause IRAG to: (a) carry out its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with
sound administrative, financial and research practices under the supervision of qualified
and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; (b) (i)
carry out by December 31, 1996, a comprehensive assessment of the competency skills of
its research staff; and (ii) by March 31, 1997, formulate and thereafter promptly
implement a career development plan designed to attract and retain talented research staff
within IRAG; (c) (i) submit to the Association for its review and comments the draft
competency skills assessment report and career development plan referred to in paragraph
(a) above; and (ii) promptly finalize and implement them in accordance with the
recommendations and timetable agreed upon with the Association; and (d) enhance its
financial management system by not later than December 31, 997, by adopting appropriate
procedure to record all of its expenditures through a cost accounting methodology
acceptable to the Association (para. 18);
(d)   the Borrower will:  (a) open and maintain an account (the Project Account) in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association; (b) deposit into
the Project Account an initial amount equivalent to US$300,000; (c) thereafter, deposit
into the Project Account by the first day of each calendar quarter, an amount equivalent to
US$200,000 or such other amount as shall have been agreed upon at the beginning of each
fiscal year between the Borrower and the Association in the light of the budgetary
requirements of the Project; and (d) ensure that funds deposited in the Project Account
shall be used only for the purposes of defraying the cost of expenditures incurred for the
execution of the Project (para. 23);
(e)    To facilitate disbursements, a special account would be established for each executing
agency and operated in a commercial bank, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. Project accounts will be audited by international, independent auditors under TORs
acceptable to IDA and reports on such statements will be provided within six months after
the close of each fiscal year (para. 24).



- 17 -
(f)   the Borrower will establish by June 30, 1996 and maintain thereafter a Project Steering
Committee and a Project Technical Committee with membership, functions and
responsibilities acceptable to IDA, and ensure that each technical department of MAEF
responsible for carrying out any part of the Project is headed at all times by staff with
experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Association (para. 25).
(g)    The Borrower will: (a) by September 30 of each year, submit its draft annual work
programs, investment proposals and related budgets for each project component to the
Association for its review and comments; (b) by November 1 of each year, finalize the said
work programs and related budgets by taking duly into account the comments and
recommendations made by the Association; (c) promptly thereafter, carry out the work
programs as they shall have been finalized in agreement with the Association. The
Borrower will also ensure that any new investments to be made for the purposes of
fostering agricultural extension, research and livestock development activities are included
in the MAEF's work program; meet criteria of economic return acceptable to IDA; and
have available, through the Borrower's budget, the funding required to cover their
anticipated recurrent costs (para. 25).
(h)    MAEF and the executing agencies will maintain adequate policies and procedures to
permit monitoring and evaluation of the NASP on an ongoing basis, in accordance with
indicators satisfactory to IDA. At Project completion, and not later than six months after
the Closing Date (December 31, 2000), the Borrower will furnish to IDA a plan for the
future operation of the project (para. 26); and
(i)    A joint mid-term review by the Borrower, IDA, and the co-financiers, will be carried out
no later than March 31, 1998 (para. 26).
36.           Conditions of credit effectiveness:
(a)    establishment of a Project Account with an initial deposit of US$300,000 equivalent (para. 23);
(b)    execution of the grant agreement on behalf of the Borrower and IRAG (para. 24);
(c)    contracting of independent auditors, on a multi-year basis, and certification by the auditors
that the accounting system of each implementing agency is operational (para. 24); and
(d)    adoption of a Project Implementation Manual (para. 25).
37.           Condition of disbursement: for the entrepreneurship capacity building scheme receipt of a
report and recommendations on implementation modalities and schedules satisfactory to IDA (para. 14).
38.           Recommendation: Subject to the above terms and conditions, the proposed project would
be suitable for an IDA credit of US$35.0 million equivalent to the Republic of Guinea, on standard IDA
terms, with 40 years maturity.



- 18 -
ANNEX 1-A. I-B
Page 1 of 9
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
ESTIMATED COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
A. Estimated Costs
IDA
Funding
(including
Local     Foreign     Total   contingencies)
Project Component                                            - ----------- -
A. Institutional Support to Ministry of Agriculture
1. Agricultural Policy Coordination Bureau (BCPA)     0.4        1.0         1.4          1.3
2. National Directorate of Agriculture (DNA/SNSA)      1.3       1.0         2.3          1.6
3. Support to Regional Directorates                   0.8        0.6         1.4          1.3
4. Pilot Operation to Reduce Staff of MAEF             1.1       0.8          1.9         2.0
B. Extension
1. National Level "                                  14.6        1.5        16.1          2.3
2. Regional Level                                     4.1        4.6         8.6          9.1
3. Support to Farmers' Organizations                  2.2        2.8         5.0           -
C. Research                                               8.1       12.2        20.4          8.4
D. Livestock                                             13.4        7.1        20.5          5.8
E. Gender in Development and Environmental Action          1.1       0.7         1.8          2.1
F. PPF Refinancing                                         1.0      --           1.0          1.0
Total Baseline Costs                                     48.1       32.3        80.4           -
Physical Contingencies                                 2.4       2.0         4.4
Price Contingencies                                    3.4       2.3          5.7          -
Total Project Costs/IDA Credit                           53.9       36.6        90.5         35.0
1/ Includes salaries of all extension staff.
B. Financing Plan
Local       Foreign       Total
---------US S million------------
Government                                                       26.7            -         26.7
Beneficiary Contribution                                          1.0            -           1.0
European Union                                                    6.5          4.4          10.9
Caisse francaise de Ddveloppement                                 2.5          3.2           5.8
Ministere de la Cooperation Francaise                             2.3          8.8          11.1
IDA                                                              14.8         20.2         35.0
Total                                                            53.9         36.6         90.5
Note: Does not include Govermuent contribution in terms of duties and taxes foregone are estimated at about US$20.5 million.



GUINEA
National Agricultural Services Project II (Filename: AGSERV2 (excl. taxes)/12-21-95)
Components Project Cost Summnary
%     % Total
(GNF '000)                              (USS)                   Foreign   Base
Local       Foreign       Total       Local       Foreign       Total    Exchange  Costs
A. INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT TO MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
1. Agricultural Policy Coordination Bureau (BCPA)                  420,184      955,545     1,375,729     429,636      977,040     1,406,676      69       2
2. Direction National de l'Agriculture (DNA) (including SNSA)     1,283,961     967,286     2,251,247    1,312,843     989,045     2,301,888      43       3
3. Support to Regional Directorates
Prefectoral Level Rural Development Directorate (DPDRE)          480,370      345,742      826,111      491,176      353,519      844,695       42       1
Regional Inspectors (IRAEF)                                      258,426      266,866      525,292      264,240      272,869      537,109       51       1
Subtotal Support to Regional Directorates                          738,796       612,608    1,351,404     755,415      626,388     1,381,803      45       2
Subtotal INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT TO MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE           2,442,941    2,535,438    4,978,379    2,497,895    2,592,472    5,090,367      51       6
B. EXTENSION
1. National Level
Conakry - Headquarters/Extension                               14,282,390    1,502,584    15,784,974    14,603,671  1,536,384    16,140,055     10      20
2. Regional Level
Kindia                                                           569,600       784,779    1,354,379     582,413      802,432     1,384,845      58       2
Boke                                                             493,264       597,838    1,091,102     504,360      611,287     1,115,646      55       1
Mamou                                                            394,661       596,423     991,085      403,539      609,840     1,013,379      60       1
Labe                                                             384,107       438,153     822,260      392,748      448,009      840,757       53       1
Faranah                                                          410,549       446,861     857,410      419,784      456,913      876,697       52       1    1
Kankan                                                           804,476       607,405    1,411,880     822,572      621,068     1,443,641      43       2
Nzerekore                                                        901,296     1,004,080    1,905,376     921,571     1,026,667    1,948,238      53       2
Subtotal Regional Level                                           3,957,953    4,475,539    8,433,492    4,046,987    4,576,216    8,623,202      53      11
3. Support to Farmers' Organizations                              2,107,040    2,771,680    4,878,720    2,154,438    2,834,029    4,988,466      57       6
Subtotal EXTENSION                                                 20,347,383    8,749,803    29,097,186    20,805,095  8,945,628    29,751,724     30      37
C. RESEARCH
Bareng                                                             877,941     1,987,543    2,865,484     897,690     2,032,253    2,929,943      69       4
Seredou                                                            863,004     1,924,513    2,787,517     882,417     1,967,805    2,850,222      69       4
Koba                                                               724,314     1,765,704    2,490,018     740,608     1,805,423    2,546,031      71       3
Foulaya                                                           1,016,394    2,204,741    3,221,136    1,039,258    2,254,337    3,293,595      68       4
Bordo                                                              810,237     1,909,982    2,720,219     828,463     1,952,946    2,781,410      70       3
Klissi                                                              199,394      208,916     408,311      203,880      213,616      417,496       51       1
Conakry - Headquarters/Research                                   3,428,496    1,970,871    5,399,367    3,505,620    2,015,205    5,520,825      37       7
Subtotal RESEARCH                                                   7,919,781    11,972,271    19,892,052  8,097,936    12,241,586    20,339,521    60      25
D. LIVESTOCK
1. Animal Health and Livestock Development Programs               5,107,375    3,045,454    8,152,829    5,222,265    3,113,961    8,336,225      37      10
2. Slaughtering and Marketing Infrastructure                      1,359,612    1,493,646    2,853,258    1,390,196    1,527,246    2,917,442      52       4
3. Subsector Studies and Surveys                                    124,409      467,505      591,914      127,207     478,021      605,229       79       1
4. Support to Decentralized Services                              1,370,067    1,542,451    2,912,517    1,400,886    1,577,148    2,978,034       53      4
5. Training and Program Coordination                              5,176,579      404,598    5,581,177    5,293,025     413,699     5,706,725       7       7
Subtotal LIVESTOCK                                                 13,138,041    6,953,654    20,091,694    13,433,579  7,110,075    20,543,655      35     26 D)
E. GENDER IN DEVELOPMENT                                            1,093,457      707,773    1,801,229    1,118,054     723,694     1,841,748      39       2n
F. INCENTIVE SCHEME FOR MAEF                                        1,094,040      733,680    1,827,720    1,118,650     750,184     1,868,834      40       2   X
G. PPF Refinancing                                                    978,000           -       978,000    1,000,000           -    1,000,000         -      1
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                  47,013,643    31,652,618    78,666,261    48,071,209    32,364,640    80,435,849  40    100o '- 
Physical Contingencies                                            2,357,393    1,990,339    4,347,731    2,410,422    2,035,111    4,445,533      46       6 o
Price Contingencies                                               3,302,704    2,208,253    5,510,957    3,376,998    2,257,927    5,634,926      40       7
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                   52,673,740    35,851,210    88,524,949    53,858,629    36,657,678    90,516,308  40    113



GUINEA
National Agricultural Services Project 11 (Filename: AGSERV2 (excl. taxes)/12-21-95)
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Sunmnary
%    % Total
(GNF '000)                             (USS)                  Foreign   Base
Local      Foreign       Total       Local       Foreign       Total    Exchange Costs
1. Investment Costs
A. Cil Works                                           1,551,916    1,561,108    3,113,024    1,586,826    1,596,225    3,183,051   50       4
B. Vehicles                                             233,279    4,458,548    4,691,827     238,526    4,558,842    4,797,369     95       6
C. Equlpment and Supplies
1. Agricutural Equipment                               24,515      468,536     493,051       25,066     479,076      504,142      95       1
3. Office Supplies                                      4,862        7,337      12,199        4,972       7,502       12,474      60       -
4. Office Equipment                                   102,326    1,955,703    2,058,029     104,627    1,999,696    2,104,324     95       3
5. Office Fumiture                                     50,893       76,792     127,685       52,038       78,519     130,557      60       -
6. Other Equipment                                    238,460      359,809     598,269      243,824      367,903     611,727      60       1
Subtotal Equiprment and Supplies                        421,056    2,868,177    3,289,233     430,528    2,932,696    3,363,224     87       4
D. TRAINING
1. Training - Overseas                                262,914    1,465,485    1,728,399     268,828    1,498,451    1,767,279     85       2
2. Training - Local                                  5,668,132    1,165,581    6,833,713    5,795,636    1,191,801    6,987,437   17       9
Subtotal TRAINING                                      5,931,046   2,631,066    8,562,112    6,064,464    2,690,252    8,754,716    31      11
E. CONSULTANT SERVICES AND STUDIES
Consultant Services - Expatriate                            -    2,489,417    2,489,417           -    2,545,416    2,545,416    100       3
Consultant Services - Local                           363,059       91,302     454,362      371,226       93,356     464,582      20       1
Studies                                                     -      580,830     580,830            -      593,896     593,896     100       1
Subtotal CONSULTANT SERVICES AND STUDIES                363,059    3,161,549    3,524,609     371,226    3,232,668    3,603,894     90       4               o
F. Technical Assistance                                 406,618    8,586,705    8,993,324     415,765    8,779,862    9,195,627     95      11
G. Incentive Scheme                                    1,094,040     733,680    1,827,720    1,118,650     750,184    1,868,834     40       2
H. PPF_Refin                                            978,000           -      978,000    1,000,000           -    1,000,000       -       1
Total Investment Costs                                  10,979,014   24,000,834   34,979,848   11,225,986   24,540,730   35,766,716   69      44
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Operation and Maintenance
1. Buildings/Roads Maintenance                        396,095      196,247     592,342      405,005     200,662      605,667      33       1
2. Vehicle and Motorcycle                            4,105,158    2,033,919    6,139,077    4,197,503    2,079,672    6,277,175   33       8
3. Office/Scientific Equipment O&M                    295,103      146,210     441,313      301,741      149,499     451,241      33       1
4. Misc. Operating Costs                             4,279,523    2,751,785    7,031,309    4,375,791  2,813,687    7,189,477     39       9
5. Technical Assist.-Related Operating Costs         1,493,162     739,794    2,232,956    1,526,751     756,436    2,283,186     33       3
Subtotal Operation and Maintenance                    10,569,041   5,867,956   16,436,998   10,806,791   5,999,955   16,806,746     36      21
B. Supplies
1. Agricultural Inputs                                285,298      141,352     426,651      291,716      144,532     436,248      33       1
2. Office Supplies                                    407,590      201,942     609,532      416,758      206,485     623,243      33       1
3. Other Supplies                                     556,033      275,489     831,522      568,541      281,686     850,227      33       1
4. Travel Allowance                                  1,809,380     896,466    2,705,845    1,850,082     916,631    2,766,713     33       3            os z
Subtotal Supplies                                      3,058,301   1,515,249    4,573,551   3,127,097    1,549,335    4,676,432     33       6
C. Incremental Staff                                    542,086      268,579     810,665      554,280      274,621     828,900      33       1
D. Personnel                                          21,865,200          -   21,865,200   22,357,055           -   22,357,055       -      28            0  l
Total Recurrent Costs                                   36,034,628    7,651,784   43,686,413   36,845,223    7,823,910   44,669,134   18      56
Total BASELINE COSTS                                    47,013,643   31,652,618   78,666,261    48,071,209   32,364,640   80,435,849   40    100
Physical Contingencies                                 2,357,393    1,990,339    4,347,731  2,410,422    2,035,111    4,445,533     46       6
Price Contingencies                                    3,302,704    2,208,253    5,510,957    3,376,998    2,257,927    5,634,926   40       7
Total PROJECT COSTS                                     52,673,740   35,851,210   88,524,949   53,858,629   36,657,678   90,516,308    40    113



GUINEA
National Agricultural Services Project II (Filename: AGSERV2 (excl. taxes)/12-21-95)
Project Components by Year - Totals Including Contingencies
(USS)
Totals Including Contingencies
1998        1997         1998         1999         Total
A. INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT TO MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
1. Agricultural Policy Coordination Bureau (BCPA)                       811,312      338,007      319,170       73,997     1,542,486
2. Direction National de rAgriculture (DNA) (including SNSA)             663,243      646,376     633,997       649,040    2,592,656
3. Support to Regional Directorates
Prefectoral Level Rural Development Directorate (DPDRE)                359,574     283,287      166,544      173,716      983,121
Regional Inspectors (IRAEF)                                            291,927      105,455     109,796       114,524     621,702
Subtotal Support to Regional Directorates                                651,501      388,742     276,340       288,240    1,604,823
Subtotal INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT TO MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE                2,126,056    1,373,125    1,229,508    1,011,277    5,739,965
B. EXTENSION
1. National Level
Conakry- Headquarters/Extension                                      4,233,898    4,556,740    4,205,483    4,179,359    17,175,479
2. Regional Level
Kindia                                                                 479,194     349,162      315,430      476,442     1,620,228
Boke                                                                   366,425     236,984      275,068      429,514     1,307,992
Mamou                                                                  295,594      337,253     330,362       220,196    1,183,405
Labe                                                                   272,791      126,741     265,504      322,526      987,562
Faranah                                                                312,010     261,202      259,552       187,288    1,020,053
Kankan                                                                 225,951      109,356     683,236      706,065     1,724,609
Nzerekore                                                              628,734     526,343      667,326      450,530     2,272,933
Subtotal Regional Level                                                2,580,699    1,947,042    2,796,478    2,792,562    10,116,781
3. Support to Farmers' Organizations                                   1,363,213    1,409,054    1,457,940    1,513,194    5,743,401
Subtotal EXTENSION                                                       8,177,810    7,912,835    8,459,900    8,485,116    33,035,661
C. RESEARCH
Bareng                                                                   803,877     775,792      913,185       877,071    3,369,925
Seredou                                                                  805,780     764,001      872,966       832,892    3,275,639
Koba                                                                     735,037     633,947      785,066       767,781    2,921,829
Foulaya                                                                  904,255      802,082    1,037,184    1,052,871    3,796,392
Bordo                                                                    797,900      710,976     881,676       802,742    3,193,294
Kilissi                                                                  133,209      110,283      121,449      114,274     479,214
Conakry - Headquarters/Research                                        1,214,296    1,231,253    2,012,070    1,687,075    6,144,694
Subtotal RESEARCH                                                        5,394,354    5,028,333    6,623,595    6,134,706    23,180,988
D. LIVESTOCK
1. Animal Heafth and Livestock Development Programs                    2,271,744    2,392,276    2,488,011    2,592,877    9,744,908
2. Slaughtering and Marketing Infrastructure                             521,744    2,130,659      694,271       97,964    3,444,638
3. Subsector Studies and Surveys                                         244,240      143,798      147,996      152,949      688,982                            Z
4. Support to Decentralized Services                                   1,986,703      465,032      484,404      505,450    3,441,588                         r >c
5. Training and Program Coordination                                   1,656,829    1,466,558    1,473,527    1,481,197    6,078,111
Subtotal LIVESTOCK                                                       6,681,260    6,598,323    5,288,208    4,830,437    23,398,228                            -
E. GENDER IN DEVELOPMENT                                                   747,472      444,695      463,597      484,051    2,139,815 5
F. INCENTIVE SCHEME FOR MAEF                                               108,377    1,913,274           -            -    2,021,651
G. PPF Refinancing                                                        1,000,000          -             -                 1,000,000
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                      24,235,329    23,270,584    22,064,808    20,945,586    90,516,308



GUINEA
National Agricultural Services Project II (Filename: AGSERV2 (excl. taxes)/12-21-95)
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Totals Including Contingencies
(US$)
Totals Including Contingencies
1996        1997         1998        1999         Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                                      881,283     2,242,096     646,833           -    3,770,212
B. Vehicles                                        2,319,732    1,087,420    1,068,049    1,138,059    5,613,261
C. Equipment and Supplies
1. Agricuitural Equipment                         320,061            -      265,585           -      585,646
3. Office Supplies                                  3,569        3,686        3,810       3,952       15,017
4. Office Equipment                              1,012,282     584,434      451,495     409,114    2,457,325
5. Office Furniture                                98,507       16,954       18,416      19,100      152,977
6. Other Equipment                                215,930       12,286      220,988     293,744      742,947
Subtotal Equipnrent and Supplies                   1,650,350     617,359      960,293     725,909    3,953,911
D. TRAINING
1. Training - Overseas                            520,226      382,941      533,314     568,098    2,004,579
2. Training - Local                              1,828,675    1,875,060    2,216,582    2,327,310    8,247,627
Subtotal TRAINING                                  2,348,901    2,258,001   2,749,896    2,895,408   10,252,206
E. CONSULTANT SERVICES AND STUDIES
Consultant Services - Expatriate                 1,034,249     648,924      651,739     503,110    2,838,023
Consultant Services - Local                       127,713      133,364      139,321     145,706      546,105
Studies                                           373,212       92,374       94,455      97,102      657,142
Subtotal CONSULTANT SERVICES AND STUDIES           1,535,174     874,661      885,516     745,919    4,041,270
F. Technical Assistance                            2,497,168    2,552,880    2,613,711   2,689,740   10,353,499
G. Incentive Scheme                                 108,377     1,913,274          -            -    2,021,651
H. PPF_Refin                                       1,000,000           -           -            -    1,000,000
Total lnvestment Costs                              12,340,986    11,545,690    8,924,298    8,195,036   41,006,010
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Operation and Maintenance
1. Buildings/Roads Maintenance                    185,621      166,713      192,698     159,175      704,207
2. Vehicle and Motorcycle                        1,701,573    1,774,057    1,888,785    1,963,611   7,328,025
3. Office/Scientific Equipment O&M                123,785      128,797      134,099     139,873      526,555
4. Misc. Operating Costs                         1,891,833    2,116,801   2,173,618    2,180,983    8,363,236
5. Technical Assist.-Related Operating Costs      626,328      651,687      678,515     707,731     2,664,260
Subtotal Operation and Maintenance                 4,529,139    4,838,055    5,067,714    5,151,374   19,586,283
B. Supplies
1. Agricultural Inputs                             99,094      103,849      142,988     167,007      512,938
2. Office Supplies                                214,814      191,122      154,578     161,234      721,748
3. Other Supplies                                 410,358        2,370      561,193       2,574      976,495
4. Travel Allowance                               532,270      523,369    1,085,377    1,128,510    3,269,526
Subtotal Supplies                                  1,256,537     820,710    1,944,135    1,459,324    5,480,707                         o
C. Incremental Staff                                239,940      197,402      259,933     271,125      968,400
D. Personnel                                       5,868,727    5,868,727    5,868,727    5,868,727   23,474,908
Total Recurrent Costs                               11,894,344    11,724,894   13,140,510   12,750,550   49,510,298
Total PROJECT COSTS                                 24,235,329    23,270,584   22,064,808   20,945,586   90,516,308



-23-                                                      ANNEX 1-C
GUINEA                                                      Page 6 of 9
Ntiono  Agrura Seices Prpc It (Filename: AGSERV2 (exd. Iaxesy'12-21-95)
ExpendNure Accounts by Components - Totri Including Contingencies
(SL)
IwInUT AL SUPPORT TO MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
Support to Regional
Dirdion       Directorates
Agricultural     Naidonalde     Prefectoral
Pokly         rAgriculture    Lel Rural
Coordiatin          PNAU        Deveiopment   Regional    National Level
Bureau         (Including     DIrectorabt    Inspectors    Conakry. HO
(BCPA)           INSA)         (DPDRE)       (IRAEF)       Extension         Kindba         Boke
1. Investment Costa
A. Civil Works                                            -                -       242,420            -          184,991         11,909         11.909
B. Vehicles                                          29,635           79,981        24,894      113,800          301,674        605,005       408,768
C. Equlpment and Suppies
1. Agricultural Equipment                               -               -              -            -                -              -             -
3. Office Suppiies
4. Office Equipment                                41,828          737,364        40,897       54,529          127,194         24,139        26,866
5. Office Fumiture                                      -               -              -            -           10,112          2,974         2,974
6. Other Equipment                                      -               -         10,707       14,276                              -              -
SubtotalEqulpment andSupplbs                         41,828          737,364        51,604       68,805          137,306         27.113        29,840
D. TRAINING
1. Training - Overseas                            169,992               -                           -          302,659         75,251        72,071
2. Training - Local                                57,015          146,278            -             -               -         182,665       161,773
Subtotal TRAINING                                   227,007          146,278             -            -          302,659        257,916       233,844
E. CONSULTANT SERVICES AND STUDIES
Consultant Services - Expatriale                  806,355          140,402             -            -          713,712              -             -
Consultant Services - Local                                             -              -            -          107,271
Stucies                                 _____
Subtotal CONSULTANT SERVICES AND STUD               806,355          140,402             -            -          820,982
F. Technical Assistance                                                                                                -
G. Incenlive Scheme
H. PPF_Refin                              _
Total lnvestment Costs                               1,104,825        1,104,026       318,918      182,605        1,747,613        901,944       684,360
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Operation and Maintenance
1. Buildngs/Roads Maintenance                                           -              -            -               -               -             -
2. VehicleandMotorcycle                            45,551           48,441        96,882      159,856          339,088        344,129       311,383
3. Office/Scientitic Equipment O&M                      -          290,647                          -                -              -             -
4. Misc. Operating Costs                                -               -             -             -          179,716         32,809        31,821
5. Technical Assist.-Related Operating Costs                                   -             -                      -               -             -
Subtotal Operatdon and MaIntenance                   45,551          339.088        96,882      159,856          518,804        376,937       343,203
B. Supplies
1. Agricultural liputs                                  -               -             -             -               -          18,629        14,746
2. Office Supplies                                 96,178          96,882        252,454       70,945           36,331         16,276        12,207
3. Other Supplies                                   9,793               -              -            -               -         181.719       145,383
4. Travel Allowance                                28,469          193,764       314,867      208,297         271,505         124,723       108,091
Subtotal Supplies                                   134,441          290,647       567.322      279,242          307,835        341,347       280,428
C. Incrementa Staff
D. Personnel                                        257,669          858,896             -            -       14,601,227
Total Recurrent Costs                                  437,661        1,488,630      664,204       439,097       15,427,867       718,284       623,631
Total PROJECT COSTS                                     1,542.486       2,592,656       983,121      621,702       17,175,479      1,620,228      1,307,992
Taxes
Foreign Exchange                                   1,079,873        1,143.835      400,445      308,426        1,740,624        927,703       707,321



- 24 -                                        ANNEX 1-C
Page 7 of 9
GUINEA
National Agricultural Services Project II (Filename: AGSERV2 (excl. taxes)t12-21-95)
Expenditure Accounts by Components . Totals Including Contingencies
(USS)
EXTENSION
Support to             RESEARCH
Farmers
Labe       Faranah       Kankan       Nzerekore    Organizations   Bareng    Seredou     Koba
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                               11,909        11,909        11,909         11,909                                   -         -
B. Vehicles                                 280,026       263,001       218,506        660,433             -    104,658    104,658    120.295
C. Equipment and Supplies
1. Agricultural Equipment               1-                                                                    II 23,750    135,882  66.383
3. Office Supplies
4. Office Equipment                        28,881       28,881        35,401         36,807              -    46,057     46,057     45,046
5. Office Fumilure                          2,974         2,974         2,974         2,974              -    15,017      15,517    11,012
6. Other Equipment                                           -                                                112,877    74,275     38,879
Subtotal Equlpmentand Supplies               31,855        31,855        38,375         39,781             -   297,699    271,731    161,320
D. TRAINING
1. Training -Overseas                     54,046        61,478        55,147         76,181        468,008     85,122    60,517     78,269
2. Training - Local                       145,483       154,395       135,864       197,847       1,950,374    50,877    53,421     28,533
SubtotalTRAINING                            199,530       215,872       191,011        274,028      2,418,382    135,999    113,938    106,802
E. CONSULTANT SERVICES AND STUDIES
Consultant Services - Expatnate                -             -             -              -              -    143,293     99.551    43,329
Consuhant Services - Local
Studies
Subtotal CONSULTANT SERVICES AND STUD             -             -             -             -              -   143,293      99,551     43,329
F. Technical Assistance                                         -             -             -        936,015  1,407,696  1,407,696  1,407,696
G. Incentive Scheme
H. PPF_Refin                            _      _       _       _       _       _      __               _       _       __               _
Total Investment Costs                        523,319       522,637       459,801        986,151      3,354,398  2,089,345  1,997,573  1,839,441
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Operation and Maintenance
1. Buildings/Roads Maintenance                 -             -             -              -              -    143,063    101,228    60,043
2. Vehicle and Motorcycle                 255,755       258,071       183,328       838,876              -   364,886    341,164    263,588
3. Office/Scienlific Equipment O&M             -             -             -              -              -      9,688     7,266      8,719
4. Misc. Operating Costs                   22,263        22,263        23,495        39,474       2,389,003    12,110    12,110     12,110
5. Technical Assist.-Related Operating Cosis                 -             -              -              -    484,411    484,411    484,411
Subtotal Operation and Maintenance          278,018       280,335       206,823        878,350      2,389,003   1,014,158    946,179    828,871
B. Supplies
1. Agricultural Inputs                    10,319         12,201        7,786         22,893              -    59,579     80,962     73,316
2. Office Supplies                         8,521         9,766          6,510        18,718                    14,048     15,501     8,235
3. Other Supplies                          95,998       122,532        82,276       221,178                         -
4. Travel Allowance                        71,386       72,582       961,413        145,644              -     48,926    39,237     23,736
Subtotal Supplies                           186,224       217,080      1,057.985       408,432             -    122,552    135,701    105,287
C. Incremental Staff                                            -             -             -                   143,870    196,186    148,230
D. Personnel
Total Recurrent Costs                         464,243       497,415      1,264,808      1,286,782     2,389,003  1,280,580  1,278,066  1,082,388
Total PROJECT COSTS                              987,562      1,020,053     1,724,609     2,272,933      5,743,401  3,369,925  3,275,639  2,921.829
Taxes
Foreign Exchange                            518,861       521,507       716,215      1,177,303      3,182,453  2,296,825  2,222,833  2,038,088



- 25 -                                                   ANNEX IC
Page 8 of 9
GUINEA
Nalional Agricultural Services Project II (Filename: AGSERV2 (excl. taxes)/12-21-95)
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(USS)
LIVESTOCK
Animal
Health and                  Subsector
RESEARCH (cont.                            Livestock    Slaughtering    Studis
Conakry - HO    Development  and Marketing     and
Foulaya   Bordo     KIlissI     Research       Programs    Infrastructure    Surveys
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                                          -          -          -          127,833            -       2,708,826          -
B. Vehides                                        109,870    104,658     19,095         246,386             -          35,562     59,271
C. Equipment and Supplies
1. Agricultural Equipment                      135,882    123,750         -               -
3. Office Supplies                                                                       -                              -          -
4. Office Equipment                             46,057    46,057     15,410               -       829,921          45,046     37,933
5. Office Furndure                              12,013    15,517          -           1,811             -               -      7,138
6. Other Equipment                             202,103    67,717          -          102,547            -               -          -
Subtotal Equipment and Supplies                   396,055    253,041     15,410         104,358       829,921          45,046     45,071
D. TRAINING
i. Training - Overseas                         90,265     75,550     29,268               -             -         189,162
2. Training - Local                             38,794    42,504     12,287         508,978      2,499,213         36,765
Subtotal TRAINING                                  129,059    118,055    41,556         508,978      2,499,213        225,926
E. CONSULTANT SERVICES AND STUDIES
Consultant Services - Expatriate               262,779    114,752    91,415          191,557            -          90,476
Consultant Sevces - Local
Studes                                              -          -         -                -             -               -    374,406
Subtotal CONSULTANT SERVICES AND STUDIES          262,779    114,752     91,415         191,557             -          90,476    374,406
F. Technical Assistance                          1,407,696  1,407,696        -         1,407,696      971,310               -
G. Incentive Scheme
H. PPF_Refin                               ___
Total Investment Costs                             2,305,459  1,998,200    167,476       2,586,808     4,300,445       3,105.836    478,748
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Operation and Maintenance
1. Buildings/Roads Maintenance                 227,600    107,934    64,340                             -              -           -
2. Vehicle and Motorcycle                      401,372    306,437    153,074        334,510             -         104,633     109,477
3. Office/Scientfic Equipment O&M               10,173     8,719     12,110          29,065       150,167               -          -
4. Misc. Operating Costs                        12,110    12,110      5,813          12,110      5,294,296        217,215
5. Technical Assist.-Related Operating Costs   484,411    484,411         -         242,205                            -           -
Subtotal Operation and Maainbnance               1,135,666    919,612    235,337        617,890     5,444,463         321,848    109,477
B. Supplies
1. Agricultural Inrputs                        139,157    36,668     25,432               -             -              -           -
2. Office Supplies                               9,204    12,595      4,844               -             -           9,688      9,688
3. Other Supplies                                   -          -          -               -             -              -       9,688
4. Travel Allowance                             45,535    51,832     19,071         242,205             -           7,266     58,129
Subtotal Supplies                                  193,895    101,094    49,346         242,205             -          16,954     77,506
C. Incremental Staff                               161,372    174,388        -          121,103             -              -      23,252
D. Personnel                                            -          -    27,055         2,576,687                           -           -
Total Recurrent Costs                              1,490,933  1,195,094    31 1,739      3,557,886     5,444,463        338,802    210,234
Total PROJECT COSTS                                      3,796,392  3,193,294    479,214       6,144,694     9,744,908      3,444,638    688.982
Taxes
Foreign Exchange                                 2,551,961   2,206,211    240,482      2,289,927    3,532,296       1,758,786    537,995



- 26 -
ANNEX IC
Page 9 of 9
GUINEA
National Agricultural Services Project II (Filename: AGSERV2 (excd. taxes)/12-21-95)
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(USS)
LIVESTOCK (cont.)
Support to    Training and                  INCENTIVE
Decentralized     Program      GENDER IN   SCHEME FOR          PPF
Services     Coordination  DEVELOPMENT        MAEF       Refinancing     Total
1. Investment Cost
A. Civil Works                                       422,778                             -             -                 3,770,212
B. Vehicles                                         922,250         136,322        194,805                          -   5,613,261
C. Equipment and Supplies
1. Agricultural Equipment                            -               -                                               585,646
3. Office Supplies                                   -          15,017             -                                  15,017
4. Office Equipment                             39,119          42,675         8,298              -            -   2,457,325
5. Office Fumiture                              44,019               -             -              -            -     152,977
6. Other Equipment                             101,719          17,845             -              -           -      742,947
Subtotal Equipment and Supplies                      184,857         75,537          8,298                          -   3,953,911
D. TRAINING
1. Training - Overseas                               -              -              -             -            -   2,004,579
2. Training - Local                            266,226         355,943      1,075,632             -            -   8,247,627
Subtotal TRAINING                                   266,226         355,943      1,075,632             -            -  10,252,206
E. CONSULTANT SERVICES AND STUDIES
Consultant Services - Expatriate                     -         140,402             -              -            -   2,838,023
Consultant Services - Local                          -               -       438,834              -            -     546,105
Studies                                              -               -       282,736              -            -     657,142
Subtobl CONSULTANT SERVICES AND STUDIES                   -         140,402        721,570             -            -   4,041,270
F. Technical Assislance                                   -               -              -             -            -  10,353,499
G. Incentive Scheme                                       -               -              -      2,021,651           -   2,021,651
H. PPF-Refin                                                              -        -            -            1000,000    1,000,000
Total Investment Costs                                   1,796,111        708,205      2,000,305     2,021,651     1,000,000   41,006,010
11. Recurrent Costs
A. Operation and Maintenance
1. Buildings/Roads Maintenance                       -               -             -              -           -      704,207
2. Vehicle and Motorcycle                    1,495,376         209,266       121,103              -            -   7,328,025
3. Office/Scientific Equipment O&M                   -               -             -              -            -     526,555
4. Misc. Operating Costs                        10,107               -             -              -            -   8,363,236
5. Technical Assist.-Related Operating Costs         -               -             -             -            -   2,664,260
Subtotal Operation and Maintenance                 1,505,483        209,266        121,103             -            -  19,586,283
B. Supplies
1. Agricultural Inputs                               -              -              -             -            -     512,938
2. Office Supplies                               1,938               -         1,453              -            -     721,748
3. Other Supplies                                    -               -             -              -            -     976,495
4. Travel Allowance                            138,057           7,266        16,954             -            -   3,269,526
Subtobl Supplies                                     139,995          7,266         18,408             -            -   5,480,707
C. Incremental Staff                                      -               -              -             -            -     968,400
D. Personnel                                              -        5,153,374             -             -            -  23,474,908
TotalRecurrnntCosts                                      1,645,478      5,369,906        139,510             -            -  49,510,298
3,441,588      6,078,111      2,139,815     2,021,651    1,000,000   90,516,308
Taxes
Foreign Exchange                                   1,786,030        457,215        810,462       790,869            -  36,657,678



- 27 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITING ARRANGEMENTS
A. Procurement
Estimated  project costs  by  disbursement category  and  procurement methods  are
summarized in Table I below.
Table 1: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent including contingencies, net of taxes and duties)
US$ million
Project Element                 ICB       NCB   f Other j N.B.F. a   j  Total
1. Civil Works
_         1.0                  2.8        3.8
_        (0.7)      (-         (-)        (0.7)
2. Goods
2. 1 Equipment, Supplies and Furnitutre      9.1        0.3       0.2        0.1        9.6
(9. 1)    (0.2)      (0.2)       ( )       (9.4)
3. Consultancies
3.1 Consultant Services                      --                   4.0                   4.0
(4.0)      (--)      (4.0)
3.2 Training                                 _                    4.9        5.3        10.2
(4 .9)     (-)        (4 .9)
3.3 Technical Assistance                                                     10.3       10.3
(--)       (-)
3.4 Entrepreneurship Capacity Building       _          _         2.0                   2.0
Scheme (b)                                                       (2.0)        --       (2.0)
4. Miscellaneous
4.1  Operating costs                          _                   15.1       10.0       25.1
(12.1)      (--)      (12.1)
4.2  Salaries (including incremiiental)                           1.0      23.5 (c)     24.5
-                  (0.8)       (--)      (0.8)
4.3 PPF refinancing                                                1.0                   1.0
(1.0)                 (1.0)
Total Costs                   9.1        1.3    j  28.2      51.9        90.5
Total Financed by the IDA credit*      (9.1)     (0.9)   | (25.0)             _  (35.0)
Note:      (a) N.B.F.: Not Bank-Financed.
(b) Listed under consultant services (disbursement category (4Xe)).
(c) Entirely financed by Govenunent.
* Figures in parentheses are the respective amounits financed by the IDA credit.
* Figures may not add up due to rouiding



- 28 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 6
2.            Procurement of works and goods financed by the IDA Credit will be carried out in
accordance with IDA Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995).
Consultant contracts will be undertaken in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants (August 1981). When National Competitive Bidding (NCB) will be permitted, it will be
carried out in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA with precautions such as: (a) any bidders are
given sufficient time to submit bids (about four weeks for contracts exceeding US$20,000 equivalent); (b)
bid evaluation and bidder qualification are clearly specified; (c) no margin of preference is granted to
domestic contractors or manufacturers; (d) eligible foreign firms are not precluded from participation; (e)
contracts provide for security in an amount sufficient to protect the Borrower in case of breach of contract
(without distinction or exception); (f) prior to issuing the first call for bids, draft standard bidding
documents are submitted to IDA and found acceptable; and (g) award will be made to the lowest evaluated
bidder.
3.            Procurement of civil works, goods and consulting services. Procurement arrangements
for works, goods and services to be financed by the IDA Credit will be as follows:
(a)    Civil works for small office facilities (totaling about US$1.0 million equivalent - IDA
financing US$0.7 million) with an average contract value of under US$250,000, will be
contracted into about 10 contracts and procured through NCB procedures acceptable to
IDA. Local firms can offer competitive prices, and due to the nature, size of works
(mainly minor renovation and small rural facilities) and their geographical dispersion, civil
works are unlikely to attract the interest of foreign bidders. However, any changes made
in the contract packaging which would result in civil works contracts exceeding US$0.5
million each would require procurement througlh ICB.
(b)    Goods including vehicles, agricultural materials, office furniture, equipment and supplies
(totaling US$9.1 million equivalent) will be procured through ICB in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995).
Goods costing more than US$25,000 equivalent but less than US$100,000 will be
procured through NCB procedures acceptable to IDA, provided the aggregate amount of
such procurement does not exceed US$0.3 million equivalent. Goods costing US$25,000
or less can be procured through international and national shopping, based on price
quotations obtained from at least three reliable suppliers, provided that the aggregate
amount of such procurement does not exceed US$200,000 equivalent (international
shopping - US$100,000 and national shopping - US$100,000).
(c)    Consulting services (totaling US$10.9 million equivalent) will be awarded in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants (August 1981). These services
include: (i) technical specialist services in support of extension and research, and financial
management and auditing (US$4.0 million), and (ii) training of project related staff in-
country and abroad (US$4.9 million) delivered by specialized training and research
institutions, individual trainers, and NGOs. The entrepreneurial capacity building scheme
would be handled by VITA/PRIDE for which selection will be on a sole source basis found
acceptable to both parties. Each executing agency will maintain a roster of consultants for
the establishment of short-lists.



- 29 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 6
(d)    Incremental Operating Costs (totaling US$16.1 million) financed by IDA include: (i)
operation and maintenance costs of office equipment, vehicles and motorcycles, spare
parts, office and laboratory supplies, building maintenance totaling US$11.9 million; (ii)
in-country travel allowance for supervision staff, instructors and trainees in the amount of
US$3.2 million; and (iii) salaries for incremental staff in the amount of US$1.0 million.
Items which cannot be grouped into packages of at least US$25,000 equivalent,
aggregating not more than US$100,000 equivalent, would be procured through
international and/or national shopping on the basis of quotations obtained from at least
three reliable suppliers or at official unit rates for items which are not subject to price
comparison.
4.            Review by IDA. For ICB, the Bank's Standard Bidding documents for goods and civil
works will be used. Draft standard bidding documents for NBC will be reviewed by and agreed upon with
IDA. IDA-financed contracts for works above a threshold value of US$250,000 equivalent, and for goods
above US$100,000 equivalent will be subject to IDA's prior review procedures which would cover about
88 percent of the total value of the arnount contracted. Documentation for contracts under this threshold
will be maintained for ex-post review by Bank staff and auditors. In addition, for all contracts for which
there are less than three bidders or for any decision not to select the lowest evaluated bid, the executing
agency will submit its proposal to IDA for approval prior to notifying the winning bidder. Prior IDA
review will not apply to consultant contracts with firms or individuals selected from a short list estimated to
cost less than US$50,000 equivalent for individuals and US$100,000 equivalent for firms. However, the
exception to prior review of consultant contracts will not apply to the terms of reference (or standard terms
of reference) for such contracts, to single-source hiring of firms and individuals, to assignment of a critical
nature (as determined by IDA), and to amendments to contracts raising their value above the US$50,000
and US$100,000 thresholds respectively.
5.            Procurement Arrangements. A detailed implementation schedule for works, goods and
services to be procured under the project was prepared and will be updated on a regular basis. During
implementation, all bid evaluation reports transmitted to IDA for review will contain an updated copy of
the procurement schedule. The Government will take the necessary measures to ensure that procurement
phases do not exceed the following target time periods:
Maximum number of weeks
* Preparation of bidding documents                     4
* Preparation of bids by bidders                       4 (6-8 for ICB)
* Bid evaluation and contract award                    3
* Signature of contracts                               2-4
* Payments                                             3
6.            Each implementing agency will be responsible for procurement with support for bulk
procurement from BCPA or ACGP on a case by case basis. Implementation staff have acquired experience
under the on-going operation and have be trained in IDA procurement procedures. They will receive
continued updating courses and guidance from the Departmental Implementation Unit and from
procurement analysts based in resident missions.



- 30 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 6
B. Disbursements
7.            Disbursements will be in accordance with procedures outlined in the World Bank
Disbursement handbook. The borrower possesses the ability to process and maintain Statements of
Expenditures (SOE) documentation in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. Appropriate accounting and
control systems are in place. Therefore, disbursements for expenditures related to contracts for goods of
less than US$ 100,000 would be made on the basis of SOEs. Disbursements for operating costs would also
be made on the basis of SOEs. The SOEs and all records such as contracts, orders, invoices and payroll
vouchers will be retained by BCPA, which will be responsible for maintaining this information in a manner
that would facilitate inspection by supervision missions and for review by the external audit.
Disbursements related to contracts above the SOE limit would be fully documented. The estimated
quarterly schedule of disbursements is shown below.
8.            Special Account and Project Account. To expedite disbursements and ensure that project
funds will be available when needed, the Government will open one Special Account for each executing
agency (total of 4 Special Accounts) in a conunercial bank acceptable to IDA. The authorized allocation of
Special Account "A" for BCPA, Special Account "B" for Extension, Special Account "C" for Research
and Special Account "D" for Livestock will be US$300,000 for each one, representing IDA's anticipated
share of eligible expenditures for 4 months. IDA would make an initial deposit of $150,000 in each special
account upon credit effectiveness and once SDR (-check figure-) is disbursed for each component, the
balance of the authorized allocation would be advanced to the Special Account. Replenishment of the
Special Accounts would be made on the basis of monthly applications supported by full documentation of
SOEs as required.
9.           Initially, all expenditures of less than US$30,000 would be financed directly from the
Special Accounts and for any expenditure above US$30,000, IDA would accept direct payments. Once the
full allocation is advanced, this threshold would rise to US$60,000. The Government will open in a
financial institution a Project Account to cover its counterpart contribution to the project, to be used
exclusively to meet expenditures under the Program. The Borrower will deposit into the Project Account:
(a) an initial amount of US$300,000 equivalent in Guinean Francs and (b) the remaining amount of its
counterpart contributions, US$2.9 million equivalent according to a schedule of payments agreed upon
between the Borrower and IDA (para. 15). The establishment of this Project Account with an initial
deposit of US$300,000 equivalent in Guinean Francs will be a condition of credit effectiveness (para. 23).
Table 2: Estimated IDA Disbursements
IBRD fiscal year
1996          1997          1998          1999          2000
------------------------------------- US $ million -------------------
Annual             3.5           7.0           7.0          10.5            7.0
Cumulative         3.5          10.5          17.5          28.0          35.0



- 31 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 6
Table 3: Disbursement Categories
Expenditure Category           Proposed IDA    % of Expenditures Financed
Allocation (US$           by IDA
.~milion),
1.   Civil Works                                                         70%
a. Institutional Capacity Building (MAEF/BCPA)    100,000
b. Agricultural Extension Services (SNPRV)        160,000
c. Livestock and Animal Husbandry (DNE)           250,000
d Agricultural Research (IRAG)                     90,000
2.    Materials, Equipment and Vehicles                        100% of foreign expenditures
a. Institutional Capacity Building (MAEF/BCPA)    900,000    95% of local expenditures
b. Agricultural Extension Services (SNPRV)       3,200,000
c. Livestock and Animal Husbandry (DNE)          2,200,000
d. Agricultural Research (IRAG)                  1,800,000
3.   Training                                                            100%
a. Institutional Capacity Building (MAEF/BCPA)    350,000
b. Agricultural Extension Services (SNPRV)       2,300,000
c. Livestock and Animal Husbandry (DNE)           850,000
d. Agricultural Research (IRAG)                  1,000,000
4.   Consultant Services and Studies                                     100%
a. Institutional Capacity Building (MAEF/BCPA)    800,000
b. Agricultural Extension Services (SNPRV)       1,100,000
c. Livestock and Animal Husbandry (DNE)           700,000
d. Agricultural Research (IRAG)                   900,000
e. Entrepreneurship Capacity Bldg.               1,800,000
(MAEF/BCPA)
5.   Operating Costs                                                     80%
a. Institutional Capacity Building (MAEF/BCPA)   2,000,000
b. Agricultural Extension Services (SNPRV)       4,500,000
c. Livestock and Animal Husbandry (DNE)          3,500,000
d. Agricultural Research (IRAG)                  2,000,000
6.   Refinancing of PPF                             1,000,000
7.   Unallocated                                    3,500,000
TOTAL                                        35,000,000



- 32 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 6
C. Accounts and Auditing
10.          Consolidated project accounts will be established and maintained by each of the executing
agencies, which have developed the required experience under on-going operations. As soon as possible
after the end of the financial year, but not later than nine months after its completion, the Government will
present audit reports of the special accounts and the project accounts with a special opinion on the use of
the special account and SOEs. The audits will be carried out by an independent auditing firm with
qualifications and under ternms of reference acceptable to IDA. The audit reports will furnish as part of the
management letter an opinion on the use of, and procurement methods for IDA-financed incremental
operating costs. The Government's performance in auditing project accounts has generally been acceptable
and the Government is in full compliance on other projects, and the quality of the audits has also been
satisfactory. The contracting of auditors, on multi-year contract, acceptable to IDA, and certification by
auditors that each project entity's accounting system is operational, is a condition of credit effectiveness.



- 33 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
MONITORING AND EVALUATION PLAN AND
PROJECT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
A. Monitoring and Evaluation Plan
1.           The M&E system would have three components: (a) management information systems
(MIS) by each executing agency, focusing on annual measurement of outputs in terms of physical
accomplishments; (b) impact evaluations and beneficiary assessment/feedback; and (c) agricultural sector
performance analyses. Type (b) and (c) evaluations would be carried out before the midterm review (March
1998) and at the end of the project, and would be done through technical assistance contracts with local
university-based or other qualified research groups, and supported under the agricultural policy and
institutional improvement component. BCPA, in consultation with the other executing agencies, would be
responsible for initiating and coordinating these evaluations.
2.            Management Information Systems (MIS).  The MIS would be established within
SNPRV, IRAG and DNE and would be the overall responsibility of the BCPA. These MIS would embody
data on financial, physical and personnel inputs, as well as on sub-program outputs, which would be
evaluated against pre-defined performance indicators. MIS reports would be provided regularly to the
BCPA, which would disseminate them to the NASP Steering Committee and participating donors, and
interpret their results for decision makers. The NASP Steering Committee will also be responsible for
identifying corrective actions required and ensuring that these are implemented by sub-program managers.
3.           Impact Evaluations and Feedback. The impact of extension and livestock services on
the intended beneficiaries would be assessed every two years. The main source of information will be from
a random samnple survey of about 3,000 farm households. The survey, which covers all districts, is
conducted annually by the Agricultural Statistics Office of MAEF (SNSA). The results of this survey
would provide the main source of data for quantitative evaluations. Additional questions would be added to
this survey's questionnaire to elicit mostly qualitative feedback from farmers on their satisfaction of NASP
services, and constraints they are facing. The data collected will be analyzed by gender and income
categories. Supplementary impact evaluation surveys will be conducted by experienced investigators to
verify and supplement the qualitative evaluations. The in-depth analysis of the quantitative survey and the
impact evaluation will be conducted by independent, local, university-based, qualified research groups
supported by international consultants. Results of both the quantitative and qualitative evaluations will be
used to identify improvements that would increase the impact of NASP activities.



- 34 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 5
4.            Sector Performance Analysis (see Section B below).  As NASP encompasses an
important part of the agricultural sector, its impact would be best evaluated though an analysis of the
overall performance of the sector (Table 1). Thus, a sector performance analysis would be undertaken
before the mid-term review and at the end of the first phase by the independent research group mentioned
above. This analysis would consider the impact on the sector of such factors as policy reforms,
international trade and inflation, besides conventional inputs and weather variables. Furthermore, it would
assess the relative contributions of different NASP sub-programs to overall sector performance (Tables 2
to 4). The BCPA and SNSA would be responsible for reviewing methodologies of both the above surveys
and the sector performance analysis to ensure that they conform with high international standards.
Special Studies
5.            Provision is being made for special M&E studies for which need may arise during the
course of implementation. Inasmuch as these studies may require special data collection efforts such as
rapid rural surveys, they can be undertaken by the enumerators of SNSA.
Bank Supervision Input
6.            Table 5 (Section B) summarizes field supervision needs. These inputs are in addition to
regular supervision needs for the review of progress reports, procurement actions, supervision report
preparation and correspondence (which are estimated at 20 staff weeks per year throughout project
implementation).
7.            Each Bank supervision mission would: (i) require at least two weeks in the field; (ii)
require the services of a specialist in project management and implementation and, at least once a year,
specialists in research, extension and livestock; and (iii) review progress of procurement and civil works,
financial statements and disbursements, loan covenants, and the implementation of technical assistance and
training activities. Specialized skill requirements would be added to the missions according to needs
identified by previous supervision missions and would concentrate on the following: specific technical
issues in research, extension and livestock; monitoring and evaluation; and agricultural policy analysis and
special needs of women farmers.
8.            BCPA would be responsible for coordinating arrangements for supervision missions by the
Bank and cofinanciers and providing information required by missions. Mission briefings upon arrival and
wrap-up meetings would be presided by the Secretary General of MAEF or a designated representative.



- 35 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 5
B. Project Performance Indicators
Table 1: Sector
-:  :::firdlallto:  - -   :   : -- zActual           Estimated                  NASP (Proected
-:--:191    j192    1993    1    1995    1996   1997    1998    ; 999    200
Agricultural GDP (1988
constant GNF billion)           303      317     333      350     366     384      403     423      447     471
Total Value of agricultural
exports (US$ million)            28       23      31      43       62      75       90      100     130      156
Food production index (1988 =
100                             113      121     127      134     142     151      160     170      180     192
Land productivity
(cereal yield index:             94      100      94       95      98      103     108      i13     119      125
1988=100)
Forest cover ('000 ha)        14520   14460   14400   14340   14279   14219   14159   14100   14041   13982
Fertilizer Use on Arable Land
(Kg/ba)                         3.17    0.82      2.5     3.0      3.0     3.5     4.0      4.0     4.5      5.0
Table 2: Agricultural Extension
Indicators                    1996        998        2000
(a) Project Inputs
1. No. of Agricultural Districts/Field
Extension Agents                          1080        1180       1300
2. No. of Contact Groups (CG)               10,800     14,000      20,000
3. No. of Demonstration Plots               15,000     22,000      34,000
(b) Project Outputs
1. No. of farmer families contacted through  100,000    120,000    160,000
CG (% of total)                          (15%)      (18%)       (24%)
2. % of farmers contacted who are women        5%        20%        40%
(c) Project Impact*
Adoption rate                             30%         35%        50%
* = Based on surveys



- 36 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 5
Table 3: Livestock
.:... ....:-. :::.:::re.................                                M id-T             it .:  u :ai D::: C   rre   M id r
:-:........................ . . ........ . . .....  : :  199                               20
1 . Serology analyses performed                          10,000/yr         15,000/yr      20,000/yr
2. Number of vaccinations:
(a)   CBPP                                          470,000/yr        700,000/yr    500,000/yr
(b)   PPR                                           200,000/yr        700,000/yr    300,000/yr
3. No. of private veterinary offices established                20                30             40
4. No. of vaccinations given by private                    _                300,000         500,000
veterinarians
5. Consumption of veterinary pharmaceuticals per               450              600             900
head of cattle in GNF
6. No. of herders associations in operation                    200               300            500
7. National census of livestoc;: by categories
8. Officially recorded slaughters, sales on the
hoof, im prts and expots ..
Table 4: Agricultural Research
I|l:0100:t ;: ; I -   ldicat-ors               ]  -: 71   :    1996   |:  1998j T:|   2000
Mo. of completed on-station trials per researcher        4           6_
|O. of completed on-farm trials per researcher            3          5           7
So. of joint field visits wvith extension per program     5         15          21
(No. of days)
L .     .. .I.. . . .   . .   . . . . . . .



- 37 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 5
Table 5: Bank Mission Schedule
Approximate               Activity                            Staff hiput
Dates                                                     (staffweeks)
05/96          Project launch/initial supervision                10
10/96          Annual review mission with donors                  8
05/97          Semi-annual review mission                         6
10/97          Annual review mission with donors                  8
03/98          Mid-term review with donors                       20
10/98          Semi-annual review mission                         6
05/99          Semi-annual review mission                         6
10/99          Annual review mission with donors                  8
05/00          Final supervision/ICR mission                     20
Note: ICR = Implementation Completion Report



- 38 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 13
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Background
1.           Guinea achieved one of the highest growth rates in agricultural GDP in Sub-Saharan
Africa during the past decade. This was essentially due to the liberalization of prices and markets, which
fbllowed three decades of excessive government control, and improved rural infrastructure. Several
indicators point to the fact that future growth would be less potent unless concerted efforts are taken now to
put enhanced agricultural knowledge in the hands of farmers. First, output growth was essentially the
result of expansion of cultivated area; crop yield remained, at best, constant. As more land is put into
cultivation at the extensive margin, crop yields will decline further, thereby requiring even more land to
sustain output growth and exacerbating deforestation concems. Second, the level of awareness and
adoption of improved cultural practices by Guinea farmers is low as a combined result of low productivity
of agronomic research and the limited coverage of the national agricultural extension system. (See Figure 1
for an illustration of the expected effect of the current project on the aggregate agricultural supply
response).
2.            Recent economic and sector reviews have highlighted the need for agricultural
intensification as the most desirable avenue for sustainable agricultural output growth and broad based
poverty alleviation in Guinea. This entails generation and diffusion of improved crop and animal
husbandry practices. Thus, the current Country Assistance Strategy (1994) recognizes the need for
rationalizing the considerable donor assistance to Guinea's agriculture, including restructuring of the IDA
financed project portfolio, and for a broad review of growth constraints and potentials. More specifically,
the Policy Framework Paper (1995) calls for support to agricultural services including agronomic research,
agricultural extension, and animal health services.
3.            The current project takes due account of the above and fits within the sectoral priorities
outlined in the Borrower's stated sectoral development strategy contained in the Letter of Agricultural
Development Policy (LPDA, 1991) and the Agricultural Development Note (NDA, 1995).
4.            A recent review of public expenditures highlighted the need for reducing the size of the
public investment program and the scope of the activities of MAEF. Generic problems related to
counterpart financing are being addressed.



- 39 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 13
Figure 1: Guinea Agricultural Supply Response'
Price                                               A = f(P)
Pi
P0
A,o  A,                          Area
X         ~A A~
Q*~~ Q       '.---------
0 -----____. ---_----\
*                                   w Q*  ithoutproject
QI ----------. -------------                                    Q =f(A)
Output ,"f
Outu    v    with project
AQ* > AQ
Intensification and general improvement in crop husbandry as a result of technology generation and its
diffusion to a large number of farmers under the current project would lead to a downward shift in the
aggregate supply schedule (Q=f(A)), from the solid to the dotted line. Under this circumstance, the price
elasticity of supply would be larger since the incremental output with project (AQ*) is larger that the one
without (AQ) for the same incremental area put to cultivation (AA). (See S. Ghatak and Ingersent:
Agriculture and Economic DeveloDment (1984), Johns Hopkins, p. 173, for a theoretical treatment). Net
actual gains from the project are larger than AQ* because the mitigation of environmental cost to the society of
moving along the "without project" aggregate supply schedule via area expansion alone, without the
mitigation activities included in the project, is not accounted for.



- 40 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 13
Alternative Provision of Agricultural Services
5.            None of the alternative channels through which agricultural services have been delivered in
Guinea in the past have yielded satisfactory results in terms of broad based productivity increase and
financial sUstainability. Agricultural extension and applied research undertaken within the context of
commodity development (filiere) projects traditionally have a high overhead, reach too few farmers, and are
mono-crop specific. When undertaken within the context of area development projects, the delivery of
these services loses in professionalism and creates parallel structures with conflicting approaches (a source
of confusion to farmers). In addition, area development projects, by internally undertaking activities that
could best be delivered by other (public or private) operators are often sources of inefficiencies due to
scope diseconomies. The shortcomings of area development projects have been highlighted by OED2; and
IDA has discontinued financing such projects in Guinea since completion of the Gueckedou Agricultural
Development Project in 1989. Private extension in Guinea currently does not seem feasible.
Economic Benefits and Rate of Return.
6.            Direct economic benefits from this project derive from increased productivity and
production of a wide range of crops and livestock products. The major food crops are rice (occupying
about 360,000 ha, or about 45 percent of cultivated land), groundnuts (15 percent) and maize (10 percent).
Given the large size and composite nature of the current project, the overall assessment of its economic
viability is based on several criteria: (a) traditional cost-benefit analysis for the livestock component, (b)
cost-benefit and cost-effectiveness for the extension and research components, and (c) fiscal impact
analysis of the whole project.
7.            Livestock Component. Beef and cow milk production make up about 60 percent of the
total quantifiable benefits of the livestock component. Under the assumption that: (a) the current cattle
population (1.8 million heads) would grow at a rate of about 1.0 percent in 1996 and 1.35 percent by 2009,
due to (i) a decline in adult mortality rate from 0.05 in 1996 to 0.04 in 2009, and (ii) an increase in fertility
rate from 0.55 in 1996 to 0.60 in 2009 based on experience with similar projects; and (b) cow milk
production would increase by 33 percent between 1996 and 2009; the ERR estimated by DNE would be
about 30 percent3. An ex-post estimate of the recently completed Livestock Services Rehabilitation Project
suggests 18 percent4.
8.            Research and Extension Component. Concerning extension, current crop yields are low
and over the past five years, 50 percent of farmners have adopted one or more technical messages extended
by SNPRV. The agricultural extension component will contribute to increasing the adoption of the stock of
2  Operations Evaluations Department Report No. 98003, September 1, 1993.
3  See Annex 7 - Documents available in the project file, item 3: "Ministere de I'Agrictilture, de I'Elevage et des
Forets : Projet de Services Agricoles II; Composante Elevage; Direction Nationale de l'Elevage; Juin 1995,
annex titled "Analyse Economique de la Composante Elevage du PSA2".
4  See Implementation Completion Report for Credit 1725-GUI -- Guinea: Livestock Services Rehabilitation
Project; 1996 (draft).



- 41 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 13
improved crop and animal husbandry practices and to developing and disseminating new agricultural
technology. Monitoring and evaluation surveys by SNPRV indicate that with existing technology crop
yields have increased by about 30 percent for farmers having direct contact with the national extension
service. Ex-post and independent measures of the economic impact of agricultural extension in countries
with lower agricultural potential than Guinea suggest returns ranging from 70 to 100 percent.
Fiscal Impact and Cost Recovery
9.            The key question to address is whether or not the Borrower can afford the incremental
costs generated by the current project. Our analysis indicates that: (i) the pattern of expenditures on
agricultural services in Guinea is adequate, and (ii) based on current projections of revenue collection and
overall GDP growth, the current project fits within the country's public expenditure program.  In
comparing the levels of annual expenditure for services covered under the project and their shares as a
percentage of the agricultural GDP, one finds that the expenditures pattern is adequate by intemational
standards.  Annual expenditures for the services covered under the project as a percentage of the
agricultural GDP in 1994 (US$750 million) are as follows: research - 0.7 percent; extension - 0.8 percent;
and livestock services - 0.9 percent. These percentages are well within international norms for these kinds
of public expenditures.  All three components were carefully tailored to the absorptive capacity of the
respective executing agencies, and the proposed investments constitute least-cost solutions. The project
support to institutional strengthening, including a much needed restructuring of MAEF and improved
public expenditure programming and monitoring, would have positive impact on public finances and can be
expected over time to lower the salary bill. The average annual budget of the agricultural ministry for the
period 1988-94, in constant 1989 prices, amount to GNF 40 billion, of which GNF 30 billion (75 percent)
are investment expenditures and GNF 10 billion are recurrent expenditures. Wages expenditures typically
make up the bulk (97 percent) of recurrent expenditures. In 1994, MAEF spent GNF 17 billion on wages
and only GNF 300 million for non-wage recurrent expenditures (at current prices). The counterpart
contribution from Government to the project amounts to about US$44 million, consisting of forgone taxes
and salaries (in US$ million equivalent) of IRAG (2.6), SNPRV (14.6), DNE (5.2), and BCPA (1.1).
Based on: (a) latest projections of overall GDP; (b) derived central government revenues and expenditure
patterns as projected in the recent public expenditure review; (c) constant inter-sectoral shares of public
expenditures; and (d) constant agricultural services share of total agricultural sector budget; the
government would have spent about US$92 million during the four-year period 1996-1999. This is slightly
higher than the cost of the current project over the same time span (see Table 1 for historical and projected
allocation of public expenditures in the agricultural sector). Thus, the expenditure pattern induced by the
proposed project not only compares favorably with international norms but its induced recurrent
expenditures are also likely to be sustained beyond project life.
10.           There is a downside risk of a shift in inter-sectoral allocation of public expenditures,
should another sector or civil service salaries receive a more than warranted share of total expenditures.
Under this scenario there is only a slight margin for decreasing the allocation to agricultural services
without sacrificing project activities. To mitigate this risk, the agreed annual reviews of the sectoral public
expenditures would result in rationalization of the PIP and limit waste. The number of projects on the PIP
has already been reduced by one-half from 133 projects in 1993 level to about 60 projects by end-1995.



- 42 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 13
With an increasing tendency to focus more on public services activities and selectively recovering the costs
of their provision, the sectoral demand for public funds would be reduced.
11.          Further cost savings would be obtained, in terms of unit cost of provision, by integrating
current and future investments in research, extension, and livestock services. The levels of anticipated
expenditures on these under the proposed project compare favorably by historical and international
standards. For agricultural extension, the average capital and current expenditure per-farm family under
the ongoing operation is estimated at US$18. Under the proposed project, it would be decreasing to US$9,
owing to extension of the geographical coverage and to the right-sizing of MAEF.
Assumptions for the Economic Analysis
12.          Yields:  Incremental yields due to the adoption of simple improved crop husbandry
methods by farmers in direct contact with the extension is about 30 percent higher than the average crop
yield obtained by farmers who are not in direct contact with the service. This result is fairly consistent with
the Burkina Faso extension impact studys.
12.          Extension coverage: The extension service is currently reaching about 30 percent of farm
families. It is expected to reach about 50 percent by the year 2000 under the current project.
5 Bindlish, Evenson & Gbetibouo: Evaluation of T&V-based Extension in Burkina Faso (1993), The World Bank.



Table 1: Central Government Revenues and Agricultural Sector Expenditures
(in GNF billions)
1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000 1996-99
1  Nominal GDP                      1860.5  2248.0  2682.7  3036.3  3315.6  3641.5  3965.2  4321.7  4714.8  5148.6  5622.3
2   Total Revenues                   293.9   330.0   361.1   351.4   343.3   389.1   419.9   461.2   493.1   560.3   603.6
3   Total Expenditures               458.4   515.2   571.2   579.6   580.6   637.0   735.4   829.5   917.2  1001.4  1091.0
3a   Current                         230.0   280.3   302.7   293.5   311.8   316.6   358.1   415.5   447.5   487.4   530.2
3a.1   Wages and salaries             74.7    98.8   127.6   134.2   148.0   154.9   172.6   198.1   216.2   236.3   258.2
3a.2  O&Mandothernon-salary          155.3   181.5   175.1   159.3   163.8    68.5    89.5   113.9   125.5   139.0   152.5
3b   Capital                         228.4   234.9   265.7   286.1   268.8   320.4   377.3   418.0   469.7   514.0   560.8
3b.1   Foreign financed              187.4   195.0   234.0   240.5   230.0   265.4   309.3   337.1   381.9   401.6   421.7
3b.2   Domesticcontribution           41.0    39.9    31.7    45.6    38.8    55.0    68.0    80.9    87.8   112.4   139.2
4   Nominal Agricultural GDP         626.0   770.0   639.0   725.0   761.0
5   Agriculture budget                46.3    53.0    92.2    88.7    90.0    98.8   114.0   128.6   142.2   155.3   169.2
5a   Current                           6.7    11.8    16.5    16.7    18.0    15.8    17.9    20.8    22.4    24.4    26.5
5a.1    Wagesandsalaries               5.7    10.9    15.1    15.7    17.3    18.6    20.7    23.8    25.9    28.4    31.0
5a.2   Operating and maintenance       1.0      1.0     1.3      1.0     0.8      0.3     0.4      0.5     0.6      0.6     0.7
5b   Capital                          39.6    41.2    75.7    72.0    72.0    83.3    98.1   108.7   122.1   133.6   145.8
5b.1   Foreignfinanced                36.8    37.3    68.7    62.9    64.1    71.7    83.5    91.0   103.1   108.4   113.9
5b.2   Domestic contribution           2.8      3.9     7.0      9.1     7.9    11.0    13.6    16.2    17.6    22.5    27.8
6   Agricultural services              8.6      9.5    10.9      7.8    11.5    16.6    19.4    21.7    24.1    26.4    28.8    91.6
expenditures
6a   Curmnt                            3.0      3.4     4.7      4.3     4.3      4.1     4.7      5.4     5.8      6.3     6.9    22.2
6a.1    Wages and salaries             2.4      2.8     3.7      3.7     3.8      4.3     4.8      5.5     6.0      6.5     7.1    29.8
6a.2    Operating and maintenance      0.6      0.6     1.0      0.6     0.5 -*                                -            -
6b   Capital                           5.6      6.1     6.2      3.5     7.2    12.5    14.7    16.3    18.3    20.0    21.9    69.4
6b.1   Foreign financed                5.0      5.5     5.2      2.9     6.7    10.7    12.5    13.7    15.5    16.3    17.1    57.9  
6b.2   Domestic contribution           0.6      0.6     1.0      0.6     0.5      0.8     1.0      1.1     1.2      1.6     1.9      4.9  
Source: Projected figures are from staff estimates: AF5CO for 1 to 3 and AF5AE for 5 and 6
Note: * =0 & M expenditures are under 6b.2.



- 44 -
ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 13
13.          Adoption rate: Overall awareness of simple messages is low, except for farmers who have
been exposed to the extension service. Within the latter group, it is estimated that about 50 percent have
fully adopted the technical messages extended by SNPRV. The adoption rate varies by theme and by crop,
ranging from more than 70 percent for such messages as setting up nurseries for low-land rice and
introduction of new maize varieties, to about 20 percent or less for plant spacing in oilseed cultivation. (See
Table 2 for the summary of adoption of extension messages by crops and messages.)
Table 2: Summary of Adoption of Extension Messages by Crop and Message
Crop      Message          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Number of Farm   A opti:n
Households:     Rate
No   Adopted    (%)
trained j   by
Groundnuts      Inter-row cultivation        5039      3062        61
Sowing in rows              11574     2980        26
Sowing after plowing        3112      1691        54
Plant spacing                 145       30        21
._____________ Ridge planting                  691       28       41
Maize           Sowing in rows               4589      2588        56
Introduction of new varieties  176      127       72
Use of manure               2956       1200       41
Plant density               3492      1702        49
Use of traction animal for  4540      2703        60
row sowing
Rainfed Rice    Weeding                      1631       767        47
Hill sowing                 3573      1144        32
Seed rate                    1253      543        43
Sowing date                  479       226        47
Lowland Rice    Transplanting               28247    14739         52
Setting up nurseries        15272    11575        76
Introducing new varieties     810      400        49
Leveling                     694       355        51
Water management              275      153        56
Weeding                     7017      3792        54
Cassava         Ridge planting               4586      2146        47
Introduction of new varieties  667     372        56
Vegetable Crops  Setting up nurseries        2159      1064        49
|Coffee         Pruning,                     8121      3921        48
IBananas/Plantain  Plant spacing              7951      255        32
Oil Palms       Plant spacing                  701        2         3
TOTAL                    | 111341    57566        52
Source: Monitoring and Evaluation Unit, SNPRV



- 45 -
ANNEX 4
Page 8 of 13
15.            Major crops: The area planted with rice, small millet, groundnut, maize, and cassava
accounts for nearly ninety percent of the total cultivated area of Guinea. Coffee cultivation is confined to
the forest region, Guinee Forestiere.
16.           Prices: Producer prices for all crops are converted into their import parity equivalents.
International prices are derived from Bank's projections by the Commodity Policy and Analysis Unit.
17.           Markets: All crops are assumed to be domestically consumed. The impact of the project
on export crops (in Guinee Maritime, for fruits and vegetable, and Guin6e Forestiere, for coffee) would be
relatively minor, given that most technical messages extended to farmers pertain to food crops.
18.           Net incremental margins: Under the assumptions made above, net incremental returns at
the end of PY4 are anticipated to amount to about US$38 million.
19.           Economic costs: The economic cost of transferring the technical messages to farners
under the current project includes not only extension but also agronomic research. The latter cost is lagged
by four years to account for the time it takes for a research result to translate into a technical message to be
extended. Project costs are net of taxes.
Economic Rate of Return
20.           Several ex-post and quantitative studies show that research and extension projects are
highly profitable, with economic rate of return (ERR) in excess of 40 percent. (Evenson). More recently,
two such studies found ex-post ERR, based on primary survey data, in excess of 100 percent for Kenya6
and 70 percent for Burkina Faso7.
21.           The estimated economic internal rate of return is 46 percent; it is in the range of similar
estimates found elsewhere for research and extension operations. Table 3 below summarizes the stream
and benefits and costs; detailed derivations of these streams are included in Annex Table 1.
6  Bindlish & Evenson: Evaluation of T & V-Based Extension in Kenya (1993), The World Bank.
7 Op. cit. 5.



- 46 -
ANNEX 4
Page 9 of 13
Table 3: Summary of Quantitative Economic Costs and Benefits
of Research and Extension Components
PYIO to
Unit   PYI  PY2  PY3  PY4  PY5  PY6  PY7   PY8   PY9    PY20
1. Incremental Costs  (GNF      9.0  18.0  17.0  17.0  16.0   8.0    8.0   11.0   10.0        10.0
millions)
2. Incremental       (GNF             5.0  10.0  25.0  38.3  38.3   38.3   38.3   38.3        38.3
Benefits          billions)
3. Net Benefits      (GNF      -9.0 -13.0  -7.0   8.0  30.3  30.3   30.3   27.3   28.3        28.3
billions)
4. Economic Internal   (/6)    46.0
Rate of Return
Sensitivity Analysis
22.           The economic rate of return is tested against several scenarios of variations in the levels of
key variables affecting benefits and costs. From the benefits side, crop yields and producers' prices were
made to increase and decrease from 10 to 50 percent. The same variations are applied to the cost stream.
The results included in Table 3b show that the ERR is fairly robust. In effect, the ERR would fall below
10 percent only in the event of a concomitant 50 percent decline in revenue and 20 percent increase in cost.
23.           Estimated switching values (at an opportunity cost of capital of 12 percent) suggest that to
break even, benefits would have to decrease by 53 percent or costs to increase by 115 percent. The
likelihood of each occurrence is small, based on experience with the recently completed predecessor
projects in Guinea and with similar projects in other Sub-Saharan African countries. The basket of
commodities on which the benefits are based is diversified and declines in prices of major magnitude for the
commodities concerned, during the past four decades were infrequent (see para 24).



- 47 -
ANNEX 4
Page 10 of 13
Table 4: Economic Return and Sensitivity Analysis
Table 4a: Switchin2 Values of Costs and Benefits at 12.0%
Appraisal     Switching     Percentage
Stream                         Value          Value         Change
Incremental Benefits             197              92            -53
Incremental Costs                 92             197           115
NPV 12.0%= 105.2
IRR= 46.3%
Table 4b: Internal Rates of Return of Net Streams
Incremental   UP    UP      UP   DOWN  DOWN  DOWN  LAG I  LAG 2    LAG 3
benefit    10%    20%    50%    1(%       20%     50%    YEAR  YEARS   YEARS
Incremental cost           46     52      58     74       41      35       15     32        25        20
UIP 10%                   41      46      51     66      36       30      11      29        22        18
UP 20%                     37     41      46     60       31      26       8      26        20        17
UP 50%                     26     30      35     46      22       17       -1     19        15        12
DOWN 10%                   53     59      65     82       46      40      19      36        27        22
DOWN 20%                   60     67      74     93       53      46      24      40        31        25
DOWN 50%                  100    110    120    150        89      79      46      60        44        35
LAG I YEAR                  -       -      -       -       -       -        -     46        32        25
LAG 2 YEARS                 -       -      -       -       -       -        -      -        46        32
LAG 3 YEARS                 -       -      -       -       -       -        -      -         -        46
24.           Probabilities of occurrence of each scenario are used to weigh the expected streams of
benefits. The same weighing is applied to the costs and delays in project start. Probabilities of occurrence
are based on the historical frequencies of major variations in benefit or cost factors. For instance, during
the period 1950-91, the price of rice declined, from one year to the next 21 times and increased 20 times.
Major yearly declines of at least 10 percent occurred nine times and those of at least 20 percent occurred
four times during the same period.  The maximum  year-to-year decline was 39 percent in 1982.
Probabilities for the delays in implementation are based on Africa-wide experience of Bank financed
projects and Guinea's recent experience in providing counterpart financing and timely fulfilling of
effectiveness conditions. From this experience, delays in counterpart funds are likely and will lead to lags
in implementation. Under this scenario, the ERR is still robust at 20 percent with a three-year lag in
project benefits.



- 48 -
ANNEX 4
Page 11 of 13
25.               Four commodities make up the bulk of the prospective benefits: rice, 35 percent; cassava,
31 percent; groundnut, 23 percent; and maize, 11 percent. Project benefits will depend on the projected
variations in the prices of these commnodities. According to the Bank's projections, there is a 70 percent
probability that the price of rice will fall within the range 40 percent to +30 percent around the baseline
forecast of US$255/t in 1997; for groundnut, the lower and upper bounds are -33 percent and +40 percent;
and for maize, -31 percent and +25 percent around the respective baseline forecasts. (There is no similar
probability forecast for cassava). Combining the benefit share and the price risks associated with each
commodity, one can conclude that there is a 70 percent probability that project total benefits would fall
within the range -14 percent (i.e, 0.40 times -0.33) to + 10.5 percent (i.e, 0.35 times 0.30) around the base
line total benefits as a result of rice price; 8 percent around the base line as a result of groundnut price and
only 3 percent as a result of maize price. Even under this conservative scenario (since, actually, the joint
probability of the simultaneous decrease in the price of all the commodities, is much less than 15 percent --
the lower tail of the 70 percent probability distribution) the ERR will be no less than 30 percent (in the
range 35 to 41 percent in Table 4b).
Yield and Incremental Net Return
Without Project
Region/Crop               Yield             Area  Production Area covered    Adoption rate     Price      GR       VPC        NR
Guinee Maritime
Rice                     1.23           129175     158937          0.30            0.05     160000 3.81 E+08 1.74E+08 2.07E+08
Small Millet             0.35            20385       7049          0.30            0.01     , 5000  3489321  1834650  1654671
Groundnut                0.88            43746      38514          0.30            0.02    3X000 69325689  7874340 61451349
Maize                    0.98             8908       8751          0.30            0.03     170000 13389365  2405160 10984205
Cassava                  6.12             9063      55469          0.30            0.02     110000 36609512  1631280 34978232
Movenne Guin6e
Rice                     1.11            33000      36650          0.30            0.05     160000 87959520 44550000 43409520
Small Millet             0.68            52000      35454          0.30            0.01     165000 17549532  4680000 12869532
Groundnut                0.84            23000      19223          0.30            0.02     300000 34602120  4140000 30462120
Maize                    1.26            32000      40243          0.30            0.03     170000 61572096  8640000 52932096
Cassava                  6.40            11000      70354          0.30            0.02     110000 46433508  1980000 44453508
Haute Guin6e
Rice                     1.35            83000     112266          0.30            0.05     160000 2.69E+08 1.12E+08 1.57E+08
Small Millet             0.64            45000      28827          0.30            0.01     165000 14269365  4050000 10219365
Groundnut                0.73            47000      34094          0.30            0.02     300000 61368840  8460000 52908840
Maize                    0.71            34000      24167          0.30            0.03     170000 36975816  9180000 27795816
Cassava                  7.34            27000     198164          0.30            0.02     110000 1.31 E+08  4860000 1.26E+08
Guinee Forestiere
Rice                     1.47           113923     167991          0.30            0.05    160000 4.03E+08 1.03E+08 3.01 E+08
Small Millet             0.88             7237       6357          0.30            0.01     165000  3146561   651300  2495261
Groundnut                0.95             6150       5820          0.30            0.02    300000 10476080  1106940  9369140
Maize                    1.34             3556       4760          0.30            0.03     170000  7282489   960210  6322279
Coffee                                                             0.30
Cassava                  9.42            12854     121110          0.30            0.02     110000 79932480  2313660 77618820
Note: GR - Gross Return; VPC - Variable Production Costs; NR - Net Return.



- 49 -
ANNEX 4
Page 12 of 13
GUINEA
Agriculural SMrvices PrOJcOt
Yield and ncrmental Net Return
Wih Projec
Potenti
R*gonlCrap               Yied      Amea PrAducbon Ae cmemd Adbon rt           Prie       NR
Gu4n" MAritrn
Rie                     2.07    129175  1.02E+14        0.6          0.9  160000 8.81E+18
nmeN WIk                0.95    20385 6.757E.10         0.6          0.4  165000 2.68E+15
Groundrns               1.35    43746 4.084E+12         0.6          0.7  300000 5.16E+17
Meke                    2.05     6OM  2.445E+.1         0.6          0.8  170000   2E+16
Cmeavn                  7.00     9063 2.322E+12         0.6          0.8  110000 1.23E+17
iovwm Quin" GU0.6
Rie                     2.18    33000 6.328E+12         0.6          0.6  10S0  4.86E+17
Omen wMo                0.92    52000 8.36E+.11         0.6          0.4  165000 3.32E+16
GroundrKb               1.35    23000 1.074E.12         0.8          0.7  300000 1.35E*17
LUIiz                   2.40    32000 4.729E*12         0.6          0.8  170000 3.86E+17
Cem                     7.00    11000 3.575E+12          0.6         0.5  110000 1.13E+17
HoutO Guh40                                               0.6
Rioe                     1.9    830   4.249E+13         0.6          0.8  160000 3.26E+18
SOme Mle                0.90     45000 5.779E11          0.6         0.4  16500o  2.2ME+16
Grundn#A                1.20    47000 3.461E+12          0.6         0.7  300000 4.36E*17
Mabe                    1.60     3400o  2.O1IE12         0.6         0.6  17o00  1.64E+17
Caaam                   9.80     27000 3.461E+13         0.6         0.5  11OD0  1.14E+1S
Guhi. Fgre l                                               0.6
Rioe                    1.77    113923  8.13E.13         0.6         0.6  1600  6.24E+18
Sma ll et               1.20      7237 2.732E+10         0.6         0.4  165000  106E+15
GkmuDUej                1.50      6150 9.064E+10         0.6         0.7  300000 1.22E+16
Mube                    2.00      3556  5.18E*10         0.6         0.6  170000 423E+15
Cofee                                                    0.e
Caaaa                     12     12854 1.233E013         0.6         0.5  110000  4.07E.17



GUINEA
Agricultural Services ProJect
Yield and Incremental Net Retum
With Projet
Tochnooy Development                                                 Incremetl_ NR
RegloeCrop              Yield     Are  Production Aree covered Adoption rat  Price      Gr   TPVC        NR      Yield     Area Production         Retur
Rice                   1.54   129175 198930.01         0.5         0.7   16OO 1.111E+10 6.78E+09 4.36E+09       0.31   129175    39903    4.151,312,854
Smell M"it             0.55    20385  11211.75         0.5        0.02   165000 18499388 10192500  8306888      0.20    20385      4163        6,652,217
Groundnut              1.15    43746 50308.283         0.5         0.6   300000 4.53E+09 6.56E+08 3.87E+09      0.27    43746    11794    3,810,099,151
Make                   1.04     8908   9264.32         0.5         0.7   170000 5.51 E+40  1.56E+06 3.95E+08    0.06     8908       513      384,352,835
Cmeeva                 6.15     9063   56735.4         0.5         0.6   1100oo   1.84E+00 1.36E+08  1.7E+09    0.03     9063       266    1,668,349,968
10,020,767,024
Movwl Guilnle
Rice                   1.74    33000    57420          0.5         0.7   160000 3.22E+09 1.73E+09 1.48E+09      0.63    33000    20770    1.439,610.480
Small Malt             0.63    52000    43160          0.5        0.02   165000 71214000 26000000 45214000      0.15    52000      7706       32,344.468
Gn>undniA              1.09    23000    25070          0.5         0.6   300000 2.26E+0  3.45E+08 1.91E+09     0.25    23000      5847    1,88.837880
Miae                   1.56    32000    49920          0.5         0.7   170000 2.97E+08  5.6E+08 2.41E+09      0.30    32000      9677    2,357.307,904
C   .va                7.40    11000    81400          0.5         0.6   110o00  2.69E+09 1.65E+08 2.52E+09     1.00    11ooo    11046    2.476.746,492
Haute G                                                                                                                                      8,186,847,224                 o
Rice                   1.83    83000   135290          0.5         0.7   160000 7.58E+09 4.36E+09 3.22E+09      0.28    83000    23024    3,061,352,O08
Snmll Mit              0.65    45000    29250          0.5        0.02   165000 48262500 22500000 25762500      0.01    45000       423       15,543,135
Gnourdnut              1.15    47000    54050          0.5         0.6   300000 4.86E+09 7.OSE+08 4.16E+09      0.42    47000    19956    4.106,591,160
Milke                  1.34    34000    45560          0.5         0.7   170000 2.71E+00 5.95E+08 2.12E+09      0.63    34000    21383    2,088,024.184
C*Aevn                 7.39    27000   199530          0.5         0.6   110000 6.58E+09 4.OSE+08 6.18E+09      0.05    27000      1366    6,053,561,892
Gubn Fonnt reir                                                                                                                             16,326,072,451
Rice                   1.75   113923 198366.83         0.5         0.7   160000 1.12E+10 3.59E+09 7.58E+09      0.28   113923    31374    7,275,253,433
Ell M4lt               1.03     7237 7453.7667         0.5        0.02   165000 12296715  2171000 10127715      0.15      7237     1097        7,632,454
Groundnmt              1.33     6150 8179.0567         0.5         0.6   300000 7.36E+08 55347000 6.81E+08      0.38      6150     2359      671,398,960
hhke                   1.47     3556   5227.81         0.5         0.7   170000 3.11E+0B 37341500 2.74E+05      0.13      3556      468      267,390,916
Cofee                                                  0.5
Ceenave                9.56    1284 122881.05          0.5         0.6   110000 4.06E+09 1.16E408 3.94E+*0      0.14     12854     1771    3,861,772,940
4,806,1s6,271
31,340,111,970
.i2



- 51 -
ANNEX 5
Page I of 9
UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
LIVESTOCK AND FORESTS
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR POLICY NOTE
The agricultural policy pursued by the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry constitutes
the sectoral application of the speech delivered on December 22, 1985 by the Chief of State, which laid out
the broad economic outlines of post-revolutionary Guinea. Guinea officially rallied at that time to the
cause of market-based economics and launched an economic and financial recovery program (the
Programme de Redressement Economique et Financier, or PREF) based on the State's withdrawal from
production and marketing activities and the promotion of private initiative.
These guidelines served as the basis for a policy document prepared in close collaboration with the
international commnunity and adopted in December 1991. The objective was to revitalize a sector affecting
80% of the Guinean population and to turn it into one of the motors of economic growth in a country whose
great productive potential was widely recognized. This document, the Policy Letter on Agricultural
Development (Lettre de politque de developpement agricole - LPDA) emphasized four priorities:
-- promotion of food security;
= rehabilitation of export crops;
= natural resource conservation in order to preserve the productive base;
-- creation of conditions conducive to the emergence of a private sector.
Four years after the adoption of this policy, it is time to take stock , to reflect on its application and
its weaknesses, and to develop some perspective.  Such an exercise is all the more opportune since the
global context has changed markedly, macroeconomic imbalances persist at the national level, and a certain
number of development operations initiated in the late 1980s are drawing to a close. Guinea needs to
redefine, vis-a-vis its development partners, the framework within which it intends to implement its public
investment program in support of sustainable development.
This exercise has caused the government to ask itself, in particular, whether its strategies are
relevant and whether its institutional set-up is geared to the goals that the country has set for itself.
Overall, the results of this first decade of rehabilitation of Guinean agriculture have been quite
positive. Since 1991, growth in the agricultural sector has exceeded that of the gross domestic product
(GDP): 2.9% in 1991; 4.7% in 1992, 5.0% in 1993 and 5.1% in 1994. This acceleration in the sector's
growth indicates the validity of the policy and investment program being pursued to support this growth.



- 52 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 9
These growth rates, which are higher than those of many African countries, were accentuated by the
previous lag accumulated by Guinea under the first republic. Henceforth, this growth will need to be
supported through a more systematic identification of pockets of growth, and producers and economic
actors will need to be mobilized around such pockets.
Redefining the role of the State
Tailoring the State's role to the demands of the LPDA is one of the primary concems of the
department in charge of agriculture. The task will be to transform the managerial administration of a
bloated public sector under the first republic into a development-oriented administration capable of defining
subsectoral priorities, defining and implementing support programs and keeping pace with the growing
power of a private sector that efficiently seizes upon development opportunities offered by the agricultural
sector, in domestic as well as export markets.
At the administrative level within the Ministry, a wide-ranging restructuring effort has been
undertaken with outside help, most notably from the World Bank. A certain number of national
directorates and their decentralized services are now operational, and have the appropriate mandates and
staffing levels. The directorates in question are the National Livestock Directorate (Direction Nationale de
1'elevage - DNE), the National Rural Promotion and Extension Services (Service national de promotion
rurale et de vulgarisation - SNPRV), the Guinean Agronomic Research Institute (Institut de recherche
agronomique de Guinge- INAG), the Bureau for Coordination of Agricultural Policy (Bureau de
coordination de la politique agricole - BCPA). The fact that these directorates have been restructured
does no preclude a quest for greater efficiency, through training efforts and eventual adjustments at the
managerial level.
The National Water Supply Service (Service national d 'amenagement des points d 'eau - SNAPE)
is considered one of the most effective village water supply entities in Africa. This assessment was recently
confirmed by a joint evaluation commissioned last June by the European Union and the French
Cooperation. Village water supply programs are ahead of schedule: the 1995 goal of 6,500 water points
was achieved in mid-1994. The SNAPE has gradually withdrawn from force account works and now
oversees, as implementing and executing ag-,ncy, works delegated to contractors. This divestiture will
continue through the creation of small and medium enterprises (SMEs) specialized in well-digging and the
improvement of springs, which should make it possible to reduce SNAPE's contractual staff by half.
The process is not as far along for other structures, which are, however, no less important for the
success of actions undertaken by the directorate. Indeed, the debate is ongoing regarding the organization
of our services in a number of areas. Our reflection will continue, especially in the following areas:
-- the direction our efforts should take to promote food security and revitalize exports. Experience
indicates that our teams need strengthening in this area in order to foster a more sustained production
dynamic;
-- coordination of field interventions (i.e., roles to be played by the prefecture-level directors for
rural development and environment (DPDRE) and by the regional inspection services) in a context of
greater decentralization of government intervention;



- 53 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 9
-- protection of food consumers (i.e., development and implementation of consumer fraud
regulations). This is an interministerial matter, since it concerns consumers' health as well as the trade
sector;
-- implementation of a policy on plant disease prevention geared to the demands of a liberal
economy through the creation of a network of private operators and specialized groups;
--management of protected forests and national parks, and protection and conservation of natural
resources that do not enjoy official protected status.  The results of pilot projects in village land
management, reforestation and brush fire prevention will be used to update our policy concerning the
rational management of our natural resources. We already know that the State and decentralized local
authorities will need to play a primary role in an area where individual initiative and the desire for
immediate gain are often at odds with medium and long-term environmental interests. The example of the
mangrove area, which is under strong demographic pressure, is one indication that excessive liberalization
of access to a resource can have irreversible consequences;
*- implementation of the land tenure code which recognizes land ownership and which will have to
make allowances for the traditional laws that still prevail on almost all rural lands. The development of a
rural land tenure plan, begun with the support of the World Bank, will be the MAEF's preferred tool in this
area;
-- development and implementation of a sustainable policy on rural roads maintenance, which can
be progressively transferred to local communities and user associations. In this connection, we intend to tie
the implementation of new investment tranches in a given region to the beneficiaries' capacity to assume
responsibility for all or part of the maintenance;
-- promotion of private operators in areas were investment opportunities exist: i.e., in modem
commercial agriculture and stockraising, input distribution, small and medium-sized contractors, service
provision (topography, consulting, training, accounting, etc.);
--training of managers in the department and in the private sector. Indeed, these structures are only
as good as the people staffing them and the programs that they implement.
In all these areas of government intervention, we will continue to weigh the best means of achieving
our objectives. The department is already planning to reassign some of the staff of the five directorates for
community rural development and environment for Conakry to the interior of the country, and particularly
those agents charged with livestock and agroprocessing.  The redeployments resulting from  this
restructuring will need to be accompanied by human resource training programs to enable staff to take on
the new tasks entrusted to them. However, the posts that will be subject to redefinition as regards their
location, mandates and skill requirements will not necessarily correspond to the profiles of the agents
already in post, nor will they necessarily be in line with their professional and personal objectives.
The management of the ministry's staff is inseparable from the national policy on the
management of administrative personnel, for which the Ministries of Reform, Plan and Finance and of the
department concerned are primarily responsible. MAEF's initiatives in this area will therefore be pursued
in close cooperation with these ministerial departments.



- 54 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 9
In this connection, the MAEF has drawn up an inventory and computerized roster of personnel..
The MAEF is practically the only ministry in the country to have such a high-tech tool. This mechanism
will make it possible to better know and evaluate the capacities of departmental personnel. It will also
improve the management of personnel assignments and ensure that positions are indeed filled.
In addition, given the concem with streamlining staff and minimizing the social consequences, the
ministry estimates that a certain proportion of the department's employees could be inclined to leave civil
service if the conditions of their departure and insertion into the private sector were sufficiently attractive.
For this reason, the MAEF will carry out a study, starting in early 1996, with the following objectives:
- identify, by means of a survey, the target population of candidates for voluntary departure;
- detem-ine how the administration can facilitate these departures;
- examine the financial feasibility of the operation;
- set up a two-year pilot project ( 1997-98) which, subject to an evaluation, could be extended.
In order the ensure the greatest chance of success and avoid the errors committed in the past,
operations carried out in support of privatization by the Bureau d'aide a la reconversion des
fonctionnaires (BARAF), the Projet integre de developpement des entreprises (PRIDE) and the OIC will
be analyzed in the framework of this study with a view to deriving the relevant lessons. The following
calendar is proposed for this operation:
-January 1996 : drafting of terms of reference (first draft to be presented at negotiations)
-February 1996: choice of survey team members and establishment of the team
- March-August 1996: implementation of the survey
- September 1996: drawing up dossier on feasibility
- October-December 1996: setting up logistics for implementation of pilot project and choice of
candidates for same
-January 1997: start-up of two-year project
-November-December 1998: evaluation of project with a view to its extension.
Improving project effectiveness
The quest for efficiency in the department's interventions is behind an important effort aimed at
reformulating and reorganizing regional development projects. This work began with the projects launched
towards the end of the first republic and at the beginning of the second republic. At issue were the Projet
Agricole de Gueckedou (PAG), the Projet d'amenagement de la plaine de Monchon, the Operation de
developpement rural integre de Kouroussa (ODRIK), the Projet de rehabilitation agricole dans le Foutah
Djallon (PRAFD), the Projet agricole de Kolente (PAK) and the Projet de developpement rural de Siguiri



- 55 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 9
2 (PSRS2). The project management units had been handling the following activities directly: extension,
infrastructure work, input supply and distribution, credit distribution, seed production, research, and
agricultural water supply. These units have been streamlined and the implementation of the various
components has been handed over to specialized operators (SNPRV for extension, IRAG for research,
SMEs and ONGs.) It was in this context that the SMEs were set up and staffed with managers and
employees who had previously been working within the projects. The SMEs include the following: la
Guineenne de maintenance et de travaux publics (GMTP), la Guin&enne de travaux et d 'entretien routier
(GUITER) and the Societe de production et de commercialisation d'intrants agricoles (SPCIA). Over
two hundred people were reassigned in the wake of these restructurings. As for the new rural development
projects, they are henceforth managed by streamlined structures that offer support to public, private or
professional operators (depending on the type of activity) who will then be able to ensure the sustainability
of results achieved under those projects.
Public expenditure in the agricultural sector
This issue was discussed extensively in a 1995 World Bank study of public expenditures in
Guinea's agricultural sector. The MAEF is grateful for the study's contribution to the Government's
reflections in this area.
The study notes that the portion of the investment budget devoted to the agricultural sector (13.0%
for the 1988-94 period) is one of the highest among developing countries undergoing an adjustment process
(the average being 7.0% for the 1984-88 period). This is in keeping with government priorities. The study
also notes the great weight (over 20% of expenditures) given in the budget to rural infrastructures and
especially to rural roads, whereas in other countries these activities often come under the heading of public
works. This situation is the result of a deliberate desire on the part of the Guinean government to closely
link the programming and implementation of rural roads to other agricultural development priorities.
According to our calculations, the impact of rural roads in terms of transport costs for goods and
passengers (a 30 to 70% drop in costs) and increased traffic (an increase of up to 1,000%) is considerable.
The MAEF shares certain concerns expressed in the study, especially regarding the need to boost
the performance of the public investment program, cost recovery and the inclusion of recurrent
expenditures.
Improving the guality of the Public Investment Program (PIP)
The improvement of the MAEF's project portfolio implies the continuation of efforts already begun
at the programming and evaluation level. The Bureau de coordination de la politique Agricole (BCPA)
now possesses a computerized data base on all the projects implemented under the Ministry's supervision.
Selection criteria will be progressively refined in order to ensure that action undertaken are in
keeping with agreed-upon sectoral objectives and priorities. The "tools" of evaluation will be progressively
refined. It should be noted in this regard that the BCPA has been involved with the SIRPAO program
(Simulation interregionale des politiques agricoles en Afrique de I 'Ouest), and that it should soon be able
to exploit the program's possibilities for its own use.
Special attention will need to be given to a realistic evaluation of recurrent costs engendered by
activities undertaken in the framework of the PIP, and to the assumption of those costs by beneficiaries, the



- 56 -
ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 9
State or local authorities. The constraints weighing on public finances are causing the departmnent to
concern itself more with this question. Interministerial cooperation would be required to deal with the issue.
Cost recovery and the financing of recurrent costs
Maintenance costs for watering holes are now entirely borne by the management committees
created and monitored by the SNAPE in conjunction with the implementation of investment programs.
A similar procedure will be used for rural roads programs. This will require that such roads first
be classified as "belonging" to the local authorities that will be entrusted with their maintenance. The
maintenance costs of the network, which are estimated at about US$ 10 million at full development, will be
assumed jointly by the State (in the form of a roads fund), prefecture budgets (for the regional network),
rural development communities (for community road networks) and residents' groups (in the case of
terminal roads.)
In subsectors that generate significant value-added (fruits and vegetables, industrial crops), we are
seeing a gradual increase in the degree of autonomous financing of the cost of services (such as supply,
collection and technical support) that are performed collectively by professional organizations (coffee,
onions and potatoes, cotton). In the case of industrial crops (cotton, rubber, palm oil), the objective
(already partially achieved) would be for operating costs to be completely supported by production and
processing activities.
Concerning agricultural and veterinary inputs, cost recovery has become the rule, and this has
allowed the emergence of private operators or associations. Subsidies are ad hoc and limited in time: they
consist either of investment incentives (agricultural water supply installations, storage facilities, animal
traction equipment, creation of permanent plantations), incentives to use certain inputs during the learning
phase (insecticides for cotton, fertilizers for vegetable crops), or subsidies linked to public health measures
(obligatory vaccinations against certain diseases).
Studies will be carried out with a view to broadening the range of MAEF services likely to generate
revenues. As an example, one can cite the implementation of the rural land tenure plan. Given the interest
manifested by land owners affected by the Pilot Rural Land Tenure Operation, we are inclined to give
favorable consideration to the possibility of helping to finance its expansion.  This assumes the
standardization of intervention costs (land tenure surveys, topographic mapping).  Other services
(meteorology, documentation) could also be offered on a charge-back basis, at least in part. The studies
will include negotiations with the Ministry of Finance to determine how to proceed in accordance with the
rules of public finance.
Conceming the State budget, one is forced to acknowledge that the MAEF's budget under Title II
(i.e., operations) is, at 533 million Guinean francs for 1996, abnorrnally small. Such a budgetary envelope
seems absurd considering the department's activities. One should note, however, that the operating costs of
certain services directly involved in the implementation of agricultural projects are incorporated into the
investment budget under the category of the State's contribution.  Tlis anomaly will need to be
progressively corrected once we have recovered a greater capacity for self-financing of our activities. This
issue is outside the purview of the MAEF, however, and will need to be examined in the context of the



- 57 -
ANNEX 5
Page 7 of 9
periodic consultations that Guinea has maintained with the international institutions since it has been
undergoing structural adjustment.
The department also noted with pleasure the World Bank's efforts to cover a substantial portion of
the operating costs of services considered essential for the rehabilitation of agricultural production (e.g.,
extension, livestock services and agronomic research.)
Distribution of inputs and seeds
The department aims to establish an efficient network of private and associative importers and
distributors of inputs who are capable of satisfying the growing demand on the part of producers.
However, since the demand among creditworthy takers (6,000 - 7,000 tons of fertilizers per year) is still
weak, it is difficult to develop a critical mass of activity that could interest the private sector.
Regarding food crop inputs (in this case 2,000 tons of fertilizer per year) financed by the Japanese
Cooperation under the GATT agreements (KR2) , the department (DNA) is currently in charge of their
distribution. DNA is concerned with the judicious use of these inputs for the benefit of small farmers. It
has progressively withdrawn from retail distribution because of the logistical problems that that created,
and now relies on such intermediaries as the cotton projects and the RC2 project (Coffee Rehabilitation),
professional organizations and, increasingly, on specialized private distributors who are willing to commit
themselves on a long term basis to the creation of a network of sales outlets. From now on, DNA will serve
as an interface between distributors and outside suppliers, seeking at the same time to ensure good
geographic coverage of input distribution and negotiating sales agreements so that retail prices remain
compatible with the objectives of agricultural intensification. DNA will centralize information on the input
market and its spatial distribution and will spearhead a pro-active policy of developing private and
associative operators.
In the area of seed production, the World Bank-supported National Seed Project did not achieve
the objective of creating a viable private sector for seed production and distribution. The use of improved
seed increased significantly, however, during the phase of preparation for privatization (1993-95) and now
stands at over 200 tons of cereal and groundnut seed. Studies will be pursued so that seed processing
centers can continue to develop and be progressively privatized, and so that seed producers can organize
themselves into cooperatives. We will endeavor to encourage synergy among the structures involved in
input distribution.
This reflection will be broadened to include livestock inputs, which are still largely dependent upon
public operators such as the Centrale d'approvisionnement vetc1rinaire (CAVET) and the Atelier de
pierres a lcher (APILEC).
Updating the Agricultural Development Policy Letter (LPDA)
An update of the LPDA is planned in the course of 1996 to take into account the desired changes in
development priorities that are required by the shifting national and international situation and the resulting
adjustments in policies and investment programns. This exercise will be based on a review of agricultural



- 58 -
ANNEX 5
Page 8 of 9
projects that will allow us to better evaluate their impact and contribution to sectoral objectives. It will be
conducted in close collaboration with Guinea's agricultural development partners.
The work thus undertaken will complement the reflection now underway on the previously
mentioned restructuring of the DNA.
It will also make it possible to consolidate achievements in the area of natural resource
management strategies. One aim, among others, will be to carry out complementary studies aimed at
evaluating the economic importance of certain resources, the cost of their degradation and the benefits
associated with investing in their management and conservation. The resources in question are essentially
forests (including mangrove swamps in the mangrove areas) and lands earmarked for agricultural and
pastoral activities.
The update of the LPDA will also be an opportunity for the Ministry to reflect on the role it must
play in managing the wood subsector: regulatory control of exploitation, issuance of cutting permits,
appropriateness of tax regimes, promotion of professionals, and evaluation of the impact on resources.
These studies will allow us to better identify the investments needed to ensure the sustainable
management of these resources and to define the mandate and organization of services entrusted with
implementing this policy. It will be necessary, in particular, to reexamine the respective mandates of the
DNFF, the Office Guineen du Bois (OGUIB), and of structures set up within the framework of natural
resource management projects ("watershed" and "village lands" projects). Any contribution that SNPRV
can make to the dissemination of technical messages linked to rational resource management (prevention of
brush fires, individual and collective tree planting, agroforestry) will be incorporated into this reflection.
Technical assistance
During the period from 1984 to 1994, the MAEF relied to a great extent on external technical
assistance for help with its own restructuring process and with implementing its investment plan.
Retrospective evaluations (by BSD, PAG, etc.) have shown that this technical assistance was not always
wisely recruited and utilized. Given the high cost of this technical assistance, the department will continue
efforts to streamline its use.
Technical assistance on a grant basis is the subject of periodic negotiations with the relevant
donors. As for technical assistance in the context of loans, it will gradually be cut back. Priority will be
given to short term consultancies, ad hoc missions or periodic support missions.
Support to the private sector
In i'mplementing its agricultural policy, the MAEF tries to rely as much as possible on private
initiative. This is, of course, the case with the promotion of traditional farms, which constitute the basis of
production. Even for industrial crops (cotton, rubber, oil palm), family farms play a preponderant role.
This policy orientation extends into the area of help to professional organizations established by producers.
As we have seen, such organizations can become veritable economic operators, especially in the area of
input supply and product marketing.



- 59 -
ANNEX 5
Page 9 of 9
This support to the private sector also manifests itself at the level of small and medium enterprises
in the rural works sector. The almost systematic execution of works by contractors has created a vein
opportunity for the private sector, which has translated into the creation of 115 SMEs that have received
training from MAEF through the UniIe Mobile Ecole de Mamou and that performed US$ 3 million worth
of work in 1994.
As regards livestock, fifteen private veterinarians have settled in as clinicians (running clinics
formerly belonging to the livestock service and that have been ceded to them), in addition to eight private
veterinarians who work alongside pharmacists to handle the supply of veterinary products in their zones.
The plan is to have them participate in the obligatory vaccination programs and to involve them in
programs promoting animal traction.
In the area of rural credit, the process initiated through the rural and mutual credit networks is
aimed at creating private-style federated structures. The process is already well underway with rural
credit. Legislative and regulatory texts were approved by the relevant authorities in mid-1995. The
structures (a foundation, a rural credit bank and local caisses) should be operational by mid-1996. The
process is also moving along for mutual credit, and should be finalized before the end of 1996.
The DNA also has a great stake in the promotion of modern agriculture. Tools are in place for this
purpose (e.g., lines of credit for stockraising, a USAID-financed Agricultural Investment and Marketing
Project and a World Bank-financed Agricultural Exports Promotion Project.) These interventions are
beginning to bear fruit.
Efforts made by the Guinean government and by the DNA to mobilize international investors are
beginning to yield promising results. The code of economic activity, issued in late 1992, the investment
code, the land tenure code published in April 1992, the liberalization of exchange rates, the democratization
process, etc., are all signs attesting to the desire to attract outside investment. Many investors have shown
an interest in Guinea and some have begun to undertake concrete operations. The MAEF will continue, in
collaboration with other departments, to improve the general business climate in order to foster private
foreign investment in agriculture.
In conclusion, and as a certain number of indicators prove, Guinean agriculture is on the road to
recovery. The results obtained are promising, but remain fragile. We must consolidate achievements by
strengthening field teams so that they can improve their performance. We are confident that the upgrading
of personnel through more appropriate training, the development of synergy between the department's
various interventions, improved collaboration between ministries and with our development partners will
make it possible for us to attain our objectives of food security, rehabilitation of exports and rational
resource management which are the cornerstones of our agricultural policy.
Signed by:
Mime. Makale Camara
Minister of Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry
and dated November 17, 1996



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
ISSUES CONCERNING AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION
(As discussed between IDA and donors in Switzerland in July 1995)
Perception/lssues                           Reality                                                  Approach Taken by Guinea
Extension "cannot do it     - Countries are implementing other programs, often  - Limited number of national programs Nvill be implemented under NASP to "catalyze"
alone".                        through fragmented Programs/Projects.              agriculture.
T&V "single provider" from    -  Central funding, multiple providers (NGOs, private    - Greater partnership wvith private sector, NGOs will be sought.
public sector.                 sector, etc.) integrated under the national program.
System imposed on           - Countries need improved services to farmers, product  - Government ownership and commitment has developed since 1 987.
Governments by World Bank      has shoxwn results, clients want it.
System is top-down, not     -  System works in an integrated structure xwith    - Guinea, xNitli support from CMD, seeks to strengthen farner organizations and interaction
demand-driven by               emphasis on diagnosis and meeting needs at the     \%ith research and extension.
beneficiaries.                 grassroots level.                                                                                                                      o
- Important to develop farmer organizations as a   - Surveys of farmers (beneficiary assessment) \sill be carried out.
vehicle for technology adoption.
Financial sustainability is  -  Recurrent costs wvill be large initially but with  - Sector public expenditure review to eliminate waste & inefficiency from existing
doubtful because of high       improvement of the system, decentralization and    programs was carried out.
recurrent costs supporting a   greater involvement of other stakeholders these costs
large cadre of staff.          should decline in the long term.                 - Strict cost criteria were applied to national programs.
- Transfer of responsibilities to private sector, NGOs, will be sought over time.
System presupposes existence  - There are existing technologies that can be adapted at  - Methodology to improve link between research/extension/farmers has been developed;
of suitable technology, not    the farm level, but additional improved technologies  and NASP focuses on research as a full partner and essential element of technology
always the case.               need to be developed through research.            transfer to farmers.
- Farmer demand for research through farmer organizations and extension.
Scarcity of human resources    - Training and human resources development are being  - Improve training system, especially SMS and place emphasis on human resources
and required skills makes      emphasized but need to be strengthened.            development.
system non-viable.
Bilateral agencies feel that  - Bilateral agencies involved, now supporting national   - Guinea has coordinated donor participation.
they are being left out.       programs.
- NASP has been developed in partnership wvith bilaterals and %vill be cofinanced.



- 61 -
ANNEX 7
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
1. Ministere de l'Agriculture, de l'Elevage et des Forkts: Preparation du Second Projet des Services
Agricoles (PSA Il); Rapport de Synthese; Bureau de Coordination de la Politique Agricole (BCPA);
Juin 1995.
2. Ministere de l'Agriculture, de 1'Elevage et des Forets Projet des Services Agricoles II; Composante
Vulgarisation; Service National de Promotion Rurale et de Vulgarisation (SNPRV); Juin 1995.
3. Ministere de I'Agriculture, de ['Elevage et des Forkts Projet des Services Agricoles II; Composante
Elevage; Direction Nationale de l'Elevage; Juin 1995.
4. Ministere de l'Agriculture, de I'Elevage et des Forets  Projet des Services Agricoles 11; Composante
Recherche Agronomique de Guinee (IRAG); Juin 1995.
5. Ministere de I'Agriculture, de l'Elevage et des Forets - Direction Nationale de l'Elevage: Programme
Quinquennal (1996-2000) de Developpement du Sous-secteur Elevage; Version definitive; 27/05/1995.
6. Rapport de la Mission de Programmation Strat&gique des Activites de Recherche de l'Institut de
Recherche Agronomique de Guinee (IRAG); document provisoire - P. Rondot, M. Roesch (CIRAD), S.
Beavogui, K. Camara, et B. Diallo (IRAG).
7. Bureau de Coordination de la Politique Agricole - Projet d'Appui a la Reforme Economique en Guinde
(PARE) / USAID/DAC 675-0218: Quelques Informnations sur les Investissements du Secteur de
Developpement Rural, Chan P. Nguyen, Amadou Oury Diallo. Camaro Backo; 26 Juin 1995.
8. La Politique Guineenne de D&veloppement Agricole: Jacques Brossier (IRAN), Amadou Oury Diallo
(BCPA), Octobre 1994.
9. Ministere de I'Agriculture, de l'Elevage et des For&s: Annuaire de Statistiques Agricoles 1983 - 1993;
Service Nationale des Statistiques Agricoles; Projet PNUD/FAO-GUI / 92/019; Fevrier 1995.
10. Summary and Detailed Project Cost Tables.






MAP SECTION






IBRD 27658
MAURITANIA                                                                             12                                                      1
'- >  r  .                                                        E N  E G  A  L                                                                                 GUINEA
SENEGALt t MALN                                                                    ALI                                                 NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
/ `MJRKINA
cut-  1   ~~~r FASO   _R                                            ~          ~         ~         ~         /        ///S                                                       (
SIERRA LNE$~   ~
,   WOIRE   GHANA
GUINEA-
BISSAU 
X C * j eN ; X 04                            Forsorh
NRtra  Rein                                                                  Prfctr  Buid r,i
.; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'iJ; CLONAKY'+)8                                                                          PPIE R   G  a0 ,t N 
Bush CtE A N 9- 9 ResrCon rre Sav!nU                                                                                                            EA
Fouta~~~ ~ ~ ~ D-lo  (hilly lotghtly foreted  -pan                                                                                  _7oeou         -   \____________f__'
Light Forest~i t~o Tre  Savntenahoc Au                    p     c n             20 % -0          607 
Mang~~~X2rove Sams  )                /       s ,                                ;4J 
Light Forest itohre Swvompy Area                                     -< z-                 20       40      60., :I,,                                         l/           g 
_ _G_UMo ngrove Swo r.,(a,. u.,.,vdoot..
__itoiSoyr   o 40 Kola
Ka                                                     @      <       endorsemsnt or occrotones or such &wnd7res                               e Sf      _           \          DKEI4ER OEE '









IMAGING
Report No:       15216 GUI
Type: SAR



