Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2839 GUI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(National Agricultural Services Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 9, 1996
CREDIT NUMBER 2839 GUI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 9, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF GUINEA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS : (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)   the Borrower has contracted from the European Union (EU) a grant (the EU 
Grant) in an amount equivalent to $11,000,000 to assist in financing the Project on 
the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the EU Grant Agreement) entered 
into between the Borrower and EU; 
(C)  the Borrower has contracted from the French Republic through the Fonds 
d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) a grant (the FAC Grant) in an amount equivalent to 
$11,100,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth 
in an agreement (the FAC Grant Agreement) entered into between the Borrower and FAC;
(D) the Borrower has contracted from the Caisse Francaise de Developpement (CFD) 
a Grant (the CFD Grant) in an amount equivalent to $5,700,000 to assist in financing 
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the CFD Grant 
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and CFD; and
Page  2
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto 
set forth (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from such territories; 
or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
 "MAEF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture; Livestock and 
Forestry;
(b)
 "DNA" means the Direction Nationale de l'Agriculture of MAEF;
(c)
 "DNE" means the Direction Nationale de l'Elevage of MAEF;
(d) 
"SNPRV" means the Service Nationale de la Promotion Rurale et de 
Vulgarisation of MAEF;
(e) 
"IRAG" means Institut de Recherche Agronomique de Guinée established by 
Ordonnance No. 030/89, dated April 13, 1989, and operating pursuant to Decree No. 
086/89, dated April 13, 1989, of the Borrower;
(f) 
“ECBS” means the Entrepreneurship Capacity Building Scheme referred to 
under Part E of the Project;
(g) 
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to exchange of letters dated  
October 3, 1995, and November 13, 1995, between the Borrower and the Association;
(h)
“Project Implementation Manual” or “PIM” means the manual outlining the 
procurement, disbursement and other implementation arrangements for the Project 
adopted by the Borrower pursuant to Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement;
(i) 
"Special Account" means any of the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 
(b) of this Agreement;
(j)
“Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and IRAG pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes any Schedules to the Grant 
Agreement;
(k)
“Work Program” means the work program to be prepared each year by MAEF 
and which comprises the activities to be carried out by MAEF in each fiscal year 
throughout the Project implementation period in the fields of research, extension and 
Page  3
livestock;
(l)
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year which runs from January 1 
through December 31 en each calendar year; and
(m)
“Credit No. 2407 GUI” means the Credit granted by the Association to the 
Borrower pursuant to an agreement, dated August 6,1992, concluded between the Borrower 
and the Association for the purposes of the National Agricultural Export Promotion 
Project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty-three million six hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR  23,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in  
dollars four separate special deposit accounts (Special Accounts A, B, C and D) in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of each relevant Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three\1efourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Page  4
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
April 15 and October 15 commencing April 15, 2006 and ending October 15, 2035. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on October 15, 2015, shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall: (i) 
carry out Parts A through E of the Project through MAEF with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, agricultural 
and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the said Parts of  the Project; 
(ii) cause IRAG to carry out Part F of the Project with due diligence and efficiency, 
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, and research practices, and 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for Part F of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the Credit, allocated 
from time to time to Categories (1) (d), (2) (d), (3) (d), (4) (d) and (5) (d) of the 
table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, available to IRAG as a 
grant, under a Grant Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and IRAG, under 
conditions which shall have been approved by the Association.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Grant Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Grant Agreement or 
any provision thereof.
(d)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
Page  5
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purpose of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, and 
without limitation thereto,  the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan, for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)
open and maintain an account (the Project Account) in a commercial bank 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
deposit into the Project Account an initial amount equivalent to 
$300,000;
(c)
thereafter, deposit into the Project Account by the first day of each 
calendar quarter, an amount equivalent to $200,000 or such other amount as shall have 
been agreed upon at the beginning of each fiscal year between the Borrower and the 
Association in light of the estimated expenditures to be incurred for the Project; and
(d)
ensure that funds deposited in the Project Account shall be used only for 
the purposes of defraying the cost of expenditures incurred for the execution of the 
Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1996, reorganize IRAG as 
required to increase its overall efficiency including inter alia by establishing 
personnel rules and adopting an operational manual, all satisfactory to the 
Association.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause IRAG to:
(a)
carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound 
administrative, financial and research practices under the supervision of qualified 
and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; 
(b)
(i)
carry out by December 31, 1996, a comprehensive assessment of the 
competency skills of its research staff; and (ii) by March 31, 1997, formulate and 
thereafter promptly implement a career development plan designed to attract and retain 
talented research staff within IRAG;
(c)
(i)  submit to the Association for its review and comments the draft 
competency skills assessment report and career development plan referred to in 
paragraph (a) above; and (ii) promptly finalize and implement them in accordance with 
the recommendations and timetable agreed upon with the Association; and
(d)
enhance its financial management system by not later than December 31, 
1997, by adopting appropriate procedures to record all of its expenditures through a 
cost accounting methodology acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.07.  The Borrower shall: (a) carry out and complete: (i) by September 
30, 1996,  the studies referred to under Part A.3 (a) and (b) of the Project; and (ii) 
by September 30, 1997, the studies referred to under Part A.3 (c) and (d) of the 
Project; (b) submit the results and recommendations of the said studies to the 
Association for its review and comments by not later than December 31, 1996 and 
December 31, 1997 for the studies referred to under Part A.3 (a), and (b), and under 
Part A.3 (c) and (d) respectively; and (c) promptly thereafter, implement the 
recommendations of the said studies as agreed upon between the Borrower and the 
Association and in accordance with a timetable satisfactory to the Association, and 
Page  6
taking into account all measures required to update the letter of sector policy 
submitted by the Borrower to the Association under Credit No. 2407 GUI.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
IRAG shall have failed to perform any of its obligation under the Grant 
Agreement;
(b)
the Borrower or any authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any 
action for the dissolution or disestablishment of  IRAG or for the suspension of its 
operations;
Page  7
(c)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this Section:
(i)
The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any grant 
made to the 
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been 
suspended, cancelled 
or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to 
the terms of the agreement 
providing therefor.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation 
or termination is not caused by the failure of 
the Borrower to perform any of 
its obligations under the agreement 
providing therefor; and (B) adequate funds 
for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this 
Agreement.
Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has adopted a Project Implementation Manual acceptable to 
the Association;
(b) 
the Borrower has deposited an initial amount equivalent to $300,000 in 
the Project Account; 
(c)
the Borrower has recruited independent auditors in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and
(d)
the Grant Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and IRAG.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister responsible for finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 579
Conakry, Guinea
Telex:
Page  8
22399 MINFIN
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
By /s/ Frederick Bangoura
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Stephen M. Denning
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
   Credit
   % of
  Allocated
Expenditures
(Expressed in
   to be 
Category
SDR Equivalent)
  Financed
(1)
Civil works:   
70% 
(a)
under Parts A
   70,000
and D of the Project
(b)
under Part B
  100,000
of the Project
(c)
under Part C
  170,000
of the Project
(d)
under Part F
   70,000
Page  9
of the Project
(2)
Materials, equipment 
 
100% of foreign
and vehicles
expenditures and 
95% of local 
expenditures
(a)
under Parts A 
  610,000
and D of the Project
(b)
under Part B
2,150,000
of the Project
(c)
under Part C
1,480,000
of the Project
(d)
under Part F of 
1,210,000
the Project
(3)
Training:
 100% 
(a)
under Parts A
  240,000
and D of the Project
(b)
under Part B
1,550,000
of the Project
(c)
under Part C
  570,000
of the Project
(d)
under Part F
  670,000
of the Project
(4)
Consultants' Services
 
100% 
 
 
(a)
under Parts A, and
  540,000
D of the Project
(b)
under Part B
  740,000
of the Project
(c)
under Part C
  470,000
of the Project
(d)
under Part F
  610,000
of the Project
(e)
under Part E of
1,210,000
the Project
(5)
Operating costs 
 
80% 
(a)
under Parts A and
1,350,000
D of the Project
(b)
under Part B
3,030,000
of the Project
(c)
under Part C
2,350,000
of the Project
(d)
under Part F 
1,350,000
of the Project
(6)
Refunding of
  710,000
Amounts due 
Project Preparation
pursuant to 
Advance
Section 2.02 (c)
Page  10
of this Agreement 
(7)
Unallocated
2,350,000
        TOTAL
      23,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "operating costs" means incremental recurrent expenditures 
incurred for the implementation of the Project, i.e. salaries to be paid to staff 
contracted under the Project, allowances and subsistence costs for travel related to 
the Project, and expenses incurred for insurance, fuel, lubricants, maintenance and 
repair for vehicles used under the Project, office equipment and supplies  (including 
expenses incurred for telephone communications, electricity and water consumption).
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) payments made for expenditures in respect of Category (4) (e) 
unless the Association has received a report and recommendations on implementation 
modalities and schedule satisfactory to it with respect to the ECBS pursuant to 
paragraph 5 of  Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods, works and services 
under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to strengthen the Borrower’s agricultural 
services delivery system with a view to increasing agricultural productivity and food 
security, thereby contributing to increasing farmers' revenues and standards of living 
throughout the Borrower's territory.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Institutional Capacity Building
1.
(a) 
Strengthening MAEF's capacity to formulate and implement appropriate 
policies required to sustain agricultural development inter alia through the provision 
of technical advisory services to MAEF and on-the-job training to MAEF's staff 
responsible for the carrying out of the Project.
(b)
Refurbishing of MAEF’s offices at the local level.
2.
Collection, analysis and compilation of agricultural statistics and 
dissemination of same to relevant users.
3.
Carrying out of: (a) a study aimed at reorganizing and streamlining DNA inter 
alia through a reformulation of its functions and redeployment of staff; (b) a study 
analyzing the Borrower’s current agricultural input distribution system with a view to 
increasing its efficiency and promoting the distribution of agricultural inputs 
through privately owned outlets; (c) a comprehensive review of MAEF’s current 
investment program for the agriculture sector to assess the full scope of its 
recurrent costs and to identify appropriate modalities to ensure partial cost recovery 
for certain services being rendered by MAEF’s agencies; and (d) a study aimed at 
Page  11
identifying appropriate means to promote private sector investments in agriculture, to 
improve agricultural marketing and to stimulate agricultural exports within the 
framework of the Borrower’s letter of sector policy referred to under Credit No. 2047 
GUI.
4.
Strengthening of DNE's capacity to formulate appropriate policies required to 
sustain the development of the Borrower’s livestock sub-sector and to monitor the 
implementation of the said policies.
5.
Improving the capacity of SNPRV unit responsible for providing technical and 
logistical support in the delivery of extension services aimed at women in the rural 
areas.
Part B:
Agricultural Extension Services
1.
Formulation and delivery of appropriate extension services to farmers and 
herders throughout the Borrower's territory.
2.
Improvement in delivery of extension services inter alia through: (a) further 
decentralization of SNPRV at the field level; (b) provision of adequate training to 
extension agents; (c) improvement of SNPRV’s monitoring and evaluation system; (d) 
design and implementation of an appropriate strategy for an effective use of the media 
to deliver extension messages in the rural areas; and (e) promotion of an active 
cooperation between the Borrower and relevant NGOs which are active in the field of 
extension.
3.
Promotion of the use of agricultural inputs including improved seed varieties.
4.
Rehabilitation of training facilities at Tindo.
Part C:
Livestock and Animal Husbandry
1.
Increasing the productivity of livestock inter alia through: (a) animal 
vaccina-tion; (b) acquisition and distribution of livestock inputs; and (c) 
construction of small infrastructure for improving livestock productivity and for the 
marketing of livestock products.
2.
Provision of adequate advisory services to herders as required to enhance their 
capacity to organize themselves to deliver routine services (such as the distribution 
of inputs) inter alia by promoting the establishment of herders associations. 
3.
Training of village paraveterinarian agents.
Part D:
Environment Protection
Formulation and execution of an action plan including measures aimed at 
promoting and disseminating agricultural practices compatible with environmentally 
sustainable development. 
Part E:
Entrepreneurship Capacity Building Scheme
Formulation and implementation of a pilot scheme aimed at providing  
entrepreneurship training to about 500 MAEF’s staff with a view to enabling them upon 
departure from the civil service to establish themselves as full time private 
entrepreneurs.
Part F:
Agricultural Research
1.
Reorganization of IRAG and strengthening of its managerial autonomy and capacity 
to formulate and carry out research programs aimed at increasing crop and livestock 
productivity and promoting environmentally sustainable development.
2.
Enhancing the professional standing of agricultural researchers inter alia 
through recruitment of new researchers and provision of on-the-job training and 
advanced training abroad to selected researchers.
3.
Streamlining IRAG's network of research stations and laboratories and 
Page  12
rehabilitation of the following research stations: Bareng, Bordo, Foulaya, Kilissi, 
Koba and Seredou.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods  shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
Grouping of  Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B shall be 
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, and up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent and goods estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent for contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 
equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Contracts for the acquisition of specialized items which are not readily 
available locally and estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
National Shopping
Contracts for office and training equipment estimated to cost less than $25,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D: 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
Page  13
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more and for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. 
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association.  Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts 
for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each.  
However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association, (d) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract 
value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent 
or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
implement the Project in accordance with the procedures set out in  the 
PIM, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
amend, abrogate or waive any provision thereof so as to  materially or adversely 
affect the execution of the Project; and
(b)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators included in the PIM, 
satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of  the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof.
2.
For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall establish by 
June 30, 1996, and thereafter maintain: (a) (i)  a Project Steering Committee; and 
(ii) a Project Technical Committee, all with membership and functions and 
responsibilities satis-factory to the Association; (b) a Project Monitoring and 
Evaluation System satisfactory to the Association; and (c) ensure that each technical 
department of MAEF responsible for carrying out any part of the Project is headed at 
all times by staff with experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Association.
3.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
by September 30 of each year, submit its draft annual work programs, 
investment proposals and related budgets for each Project component to the Association 
for its review and comments;
Page  14
(b)
by November 30 of each year, finalize the said work programs, investment 
proposals and related budgets by taking duly into account the comments and 
recommendations made by the Association; and
(c)
promptly thereafter, carry out the work programs referred to in paragraph 
(b) above as they shall have been finalized in agreement with the Association.
4.
The Borrower shall ensure that any new investments to be made for the purposes 
of fostering agricultural extension, research and livestock development activities: 
(a) are included in the MAEF’s work program; (b) meet criteria of economic return 
acceptable to IDA; and (c) have the funding required to cover their anticipated 
recurrent costs available through the Borrower’s budget.
5.
The Borrower shall: (a) by not later than December 31, 1996, carry out a 
detailed design study required to develop the ECBS referred to under Part E of the 
Project; (b) submit the results and recommendations of the said study to the 
Association for its review and comments; and (c) promptly thereafter, implement ECBS 
in accordance with the implementation modalities and schedule agreed upon with the 
Association.
6.
Not later than March 31, 1998, the Borrower shall carry out jointly with the 
Association, a comprehensive mid-term review to assess the progress achieved in the 
execution of the Project.
(a)
Without any limitation to the generality of the foregoing, the review 
shall cover the implementation and management aspects of the Project, including policy 
reforms, the performance and use of the technical assistance personnel, the role of 
national counterpart staff, the status and results of training, reporting accounting 
and audit performance, disbursement and procurement procedures, the functioning and 
the level of amounts deposited in the Project Account, the progress achieved in the 
formulation and execution of the pilot scheme referred to under Part E of the Project.
(b)
Not later than thirty days (30) days prior to the said mid-term review, 
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for its comments, a report in such 
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, including an evaluation of the 
progress achieved in implementing the various components of the Project, and a draft 
action plan containing proposals for remedying identified deficiencies.
(c) 
The Borrower shall, promptly thereafter: (i) prepare and adopt an action 
plan, acceptable to the Association, based on the recommendations stemming from the 
aforementioned review; and (ii) thereafter, carry out the said action plan for the 
remaining period of Project implementation.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) 
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) (a), (2) (a), (3) 
(a), (4) (a), (4) (e) and (5) (a) in respect of Special Account A: Categories (1) (b), 
(2) (b), (3) (b), (4) (b) and 5 (b) in respect of Special Account B; Categories (1) 
(c), (2) (c), (3) (c), (4) (c) and (5) (c) in respect of Special Account C; and 
Categories (1) (d), (2) (d), (3) (d), (4) (d) and (5) (d) in respect of Special 
Account D; set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in 
respect of the Project;
(b) 
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) 
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $300,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in each Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
Page  15
equivalent to $150,000 under each Special Account, until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,200,000.
2.
Payments out of each Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the relevant 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the relevant Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the relevant Special Account such amount or amounts as the 
Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of each Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the relevant 
Special Account at such 
intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower,  withdraw from the Credit 
Account and 
deposit into the relevant Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the relevant Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of each Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for each Special Account;
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocations.
Page  16
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the relevant Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of any relevant Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; 
or (B) deposit into the relevant Special Account (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the relevant Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in any Special Account.
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
