Document of
The World Bank
Report No.: 24430
PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
SECOND PETROLEUM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2408-EG)
July 1, 2002
Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department



Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (FCFA)
Exchange Rate at Project Appraisal (March 1992):  US$1= FCFA 275
Exchange Rate at Completion (January 1997):      US$1 = FCFA 520
Exchange Rate as of March 2002:                  USS1 = FCFA 710
Abbreviations and Acronyms
Bbl           Barrel
Bcf           Billion cubic feet
Bpd           Barrels per day
DH            Directorate of Hydrocarbons
ES            Evaluation Sunimary
FDI           Foreign direct investment
FPSO          Floating production, storage, and offloading
FPU           Floating production unit
FSO           Floating storage and offloading unit
GEPSA         Guinea-Espanola de Petroleo S.A.
GE-Total      Guinea Ecuatonal-Total
KgOE          Kilogram of oil equivalent
LPG           Liquefied petroleum gas
Mmb           Million barrels of oil
Mmcf          Million of cubic feet
Mmcfd         Million cubic feet per day
Mmcm          Million of cubic meters
MME           Ministry of Mines and Energy (formerly Ministry of Mines and Hydrocarbons)
MMH           Ministry of Mines and Hydrocarbons
MOP           Memorandum of the President
PSC           Production Sharing Contract
Tcf           Trillion cubic feet
Measures and Equivalents
One barrel           about 0.16 cubic meter
One cubic foot       0.028 cubic meter
One cubic meter      37.3 cubic feet
Fiscal Year
Government:          January 1 to December 31
Director-General. Operations Evaluation             Mr. Robert Picciotto
Director, Operations Evaluation Department       : Mr. Gregory Ingram
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation          : Mr. Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                     : Mr. Andres Liebenthal



The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation
July 1, 2002
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:      Performance Assessment Report on Equatorial Guinea
Second Petroleum Technical Assistance Project (Credit 2408 EG)
Attached is the Performance Assessment Report prepared by the Operations Evaluation
Department on the above project. The Credit of SDR 1.8 million was approved in FY93, closed in
FY97, and was fully disbursed.
The project objectives were to: (a) ensure that the Borrower received maximum and
sustainable revenues from the production of the Alba gas and condensate field; (b) identify the
most cost effective methods to utilize the associated gas from Alba; (c) minimize the risks for the
environment of Alba's operations; (d) improve the efficiency of energy sector institutions; and (e)
strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of Mines and Hydrocarbons to monitor the activities of oil
companies, and to evaluate the supply and pricing systems for petroleum products.
The project's outcome is rated as moderately satisfactory, on account of progress made
since project completion in 1997 towards meeting project objectives in a number of areas that
were and are still considered as highly relevant and were supported under the project: the 1981
Hydrocarbon Law was amended in 1998, subsequent contract renegotiations took place, which
improved the Government' s share; and imports and distribution of petroleum products were
privatized and liberalized. Although the changes differed on some points from the proposals
prepared under the project, Project efficacy is rated as modest. Furthermore, since 2000, associated
with the resumption of Government dialogue with the IMF and the Bank, there has also been
progress towards better accounting of oil revenues and systematic audits of oil companies
financial accounts, which were advocated under the project. Project efficiency has further
improved as there have been further considerable increases in oil revenues: objectives related to
the Alba field were met substantially beyond appraisal expectations, and considerable additional
revenues accrued from the much larger Zafiro field, the supervision and monitoring of which
received considerable attention from the project. Consequently, with relevance rated high,
efficiency substantial, and efficacy rated as modest the outcome is now rated as Moderately
Satisfactory. However, sector institutional capacity, albeit improved, remains weak.
Sustainability has been rated as Likely. The project contributed to the adoption of sound
long-term development plans in the development of the oil sector. Benefits from current oil
activities are expected to be sustained at least for the next fifteen years and further oil field
findings are likely. Equatorial Guinea is now an attractive FDI destination in Africa. There are,
however, still uncertainties regarding the Government's commitment or ability to manage oil
wealth well and ensure long-term institutional, environmental, economic and social sustainability
of oil development.
Both Bank and Borrower performances are rated as unsatisfactory. Despite the
moderately satisfactory outcome, Borrower performance during the project implementation
period is rated unsatisfactory (though marginally so) principally on account of poor project



2
management and lack of transparency. Bank performance was unsatisfactory because, while the
Bank insisted that existing exploration contracts were too favorable and should be re-negotiated,
it ignored the dilemna this posed to the Govemment and failed to engage in a more constructive
and balanced dialogue with the Government on this issue. Furthermore, supervision was very
limited and the Bank failed to react strongly to overdue audits, inadequate project accounting, and
failure by the Govemment to comply with the covenant requiring transparency in budgeting of oil
revenues. Institutional Development Impact is rated as modest.
The experience from this project confirms a number of OED lessons:
* As soon as significant discovenes are made, important issues arise associated with the impact
and distribution of oil wealth, which need to be addressed rapidly through the Bank-country
dialogue to ensure long-term sustainability. These include the fundamental issues of national
and sectoral environmental regulations and their enforcement capacity, budget transparency and
allocation, strategies for public expenditures, pace of new licensing and development, savings
mechanisms. and distribution of oil proceeds between the various levels of government. In the
case of Equatorial Guinea, the Bank raised these issues in 1998, but only after the project was
completed, and at a time of tense relations.
* If the country is facing strong macro-economic constraints in the early stages of oil
development, the Bank might consider supporting the adoption of policies and strategies
leading to the proper management of oil wealth through adjustment or sector loans.
* If the government must give especially favorable terms to attract the first investors to explore
new territory for oil and gas, negotiated contracts need to incorporate time and geographical
limits on those terms.
* Whenever the implementing agency does not have the capability to manage the project
(including accounting and reporting), efficient implementation requires that appropriate
provisions to contract outside expertise for that purpose be incorporated in project design
Attachment



OED Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and independence in evaluation.
About this Report
The Operations Evaluation Department assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two
purposes: first, to ensure the integrty of the Bank's self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank's work is
producing the expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through
the dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percent of
the Bank's lending operations. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that are
innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which
Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons. The projects, topics, and analytical approaches selected for assessment support larger evaluation
studies.
A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion
Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
the borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to
validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
OED studies.
Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally, the
PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.
About the OED Rating System
The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
Sustainability: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
Institutional Development Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these
institutional arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.






Contents
Principal Ratings ............................................................v
Key Staff Responsible ..............................................................v
Preface ............................................................ vii
Background .............................................................1
Objectives and Design ............................................................2
Implementation .............................................................3
Outcome .............................................................4
Ratings .............................................................4
Relevance: High ..............................................................4
Efficacy: Modest .............................................................           5
Efficiency: Substantial ..............................................................6
Institutional Development Impact: Modest .............................................................. 8
Sustainability: Likely .............................................................8
Bank Performance: Unsatisfactory .............................................................9
Borrower Performance: Unsatisfactory ............................................................  10
Lessons .............................................................                           11
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet ............................................................          12
Annex B. Historical Development of Gas and Oil Exploration and Production .................... 15
Annex C. Table of Objectives and Components ............................................................   19
This report was prepared under the supervision of Andres Liebenthal (task manager) by Dominique
Babelon and Charles Dahan (consultants), who assessed the project in March 2002. The report was edited
by William Hurlbut and Soon-Won Pak provided admrnistrative support.






Principal Ratings
ICR*                        ES*                        PPAR
Outcome                      Unsatisfactory         Marginally Unsatisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory
Sustainability                  Likely                    Uncertain                     Likely
Institubonal                    Partial                    Modest                      Modest
Development Impact
Bank Performance       Satisfactory for preparation,    Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory
otherwise Deficient
Borrower Performance   Satisfactory for preparation,    Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory
otherwise Deficient
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible
operational division of the Bank. The Evaluation Summary (ES) is an intermediate OED product
that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.
Key Staff Responsible
Project                           Country Director           Division Chiefl              Task
Sector Director        Manager/Leader
Appraisal                         Michael Gillette           lain T. Christie          Han Bhat
Completion                        Serge Michailof           Mark Tomlinson            Angel Baide






vii
Preface
This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) on the Equatorial Guinea Second
Petroleum Technical Assistance Project, for which IDA approved a credit (Credit 2408-EG) for
SDR 1.8 million, US$2.622 million equivalent, on July 2, 1992. The credit closed as scheduled
on June 30, 1997.
This report is based on the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) prepared by the Africa
Region (Report no. 17954, June 5, 1998), the Memorandum and Recommendation of the
President (Report no. P5808, June 10, 1992), the Credit Agreement, project files, economic
reports from the Region and other organizations, and discussion with Bank staff. An Operations
Evaluation Department (OED) mission visited Equatorial Guinea in March 2002 to review the
long-term impact of the project and discuss the project results and effectiveness of the Bank's
assistance with representatives of the govemment, oil companies, donors, and local authorities.
The cooperation and assistance of current and former govemment officials in the Ministries of
Planning and Economic Development, Mines and Energy, and Health, are gratefully
acknowledged.
Five years after project completion, this PPAR seeks to validate previous ratings of the project in
light of events since completion and to assess the longer-term economic, social, institutional, and
environmental sustainability and impact of the activities supported by the project. More
specifically, the PPAR seeks to assess whether the project (a) contributed to the efficient
development of the country's oil and gas resources and helped attract private sector investments;
(b) contributed to improved govemance and transparency in the accounting and distribution of oil
rents and in the management of the energy sector (including petroleum product imports); (c)
contributed to a fair distribution of oil benefits and costs between the govemment and oil
companies; (d) had significant environmental and social impacts; and (e) complied with the
Bank's safeguard policies.
Following standard OED procedures, this draft PPAR was sent to the borrower for comments
before the final version is sent to the Board. But, none were received.






BACKGROUND
1.    Equatorial Guinea is a small, sparsely populated country, spread over several islands (the
largest being Bioko island, with the capital city, Malabo) and mainland territories (Rio Muni)
located between Gabon and Cameroon. Total population in 2002 was estimated at about 475,000.
Equatorial Guinea gained its independence in 1968. During the following eleven years, until
1979, the country was ruled by a harsh military dictator who brought the country into substantial
decline. The educated elite fled the country or was killed. In 1980, EG was a very poor rural
economy having lost competitive advantage in export crop and in complete need for economic
rehabilitation. The generally poor educational level and training of the generation currently
accounting for most of the labor force is still a serious constraint to development. There is a
widespread lack of institutional capacity and competence in all sectors, and therefore high
dependency on outside technical assistance and on donors.
2.     The World Bank became involved in Equatorial Guinea's oil sector 12 years before the
signing of the project's Credit Agreement. In 1980, the government sought technical assistance
from UNDP and the Bank to attract the oil industry in the exploration for petroleum of the
country's sedimentary basins. In July 1981 and July 1983, UJNDP granted two technical
assistance credits, which were executed by the Bank, and which resulted in the preparation and
enacting of a Hydrocarbon Law and model Production Sharing Contract (PSC) in 1981. These
grants were complemented by an IDA credit for the first Petroleum Technical Assistance Project
(Credit 1304-EG, of SDR 2.3 million), which was approved on November 30, 1982. That project
aimed to promote petroleum exploration, strengthen the government's technical capability to
monitor exploration activities carried out by oil companies, help the government in its
negotiations with oil companies, and help prepare an energy database.
3.    In 1983, GEPSA (a joint venture company between Hispanoil, later-on renamed
REPSOL, and the Government), discovered the Alba gas and condensate field offshore from
Bioko, but the operator considered the field marginal and lost its rights to the field in February
1990. Other contractors had also drilled unsuccessfully in other areas. In an attempt to salvage the
development of the Alba field, IDA introduced representatives of the govemment to a few
independent oil companies. These contacts resulted in a new exploration/production contract in
May 1990 with an independent producer. It became apparent soon after that the terms of the
1981 Hydrocarbons Law, and the PSC were excessively generous to the operator and might lead
to inefficient development. Low-cost field development started in January 1992, aiming at
recovery of condensates only, with all associated natural gas being flared.
4.     The Second Petroleum Technical Assistance Project was approved shortly after, in July
1992. Given (a) disappointing results of past exploration efforts, (b) what was identified at
appraisal as wasteful use by the operator of Alba's limited resources, and (c) the resulting
negative impact on the environment, the second project focused on optimizing the use of Alba gas
and on domestic energy use. It also included some essential sector-wide technical assistance and
institution building components and conditions to ensure that the government would get its fair
share of production in future exploration findings and properly account for revenues.
5.     Major developments in the oil sector started three years later in 1995, well into project
implementation. UMC/Exxon-Mobil discovered the Zafiro-Topacio oil field in Block B under a
PSC signed in 1992 with terms similar to those of Alba. Developments further accelerated since
1999, with important new oil discoveries offshore from Rio Muni (Ceiba field) since 1999. More
is also expected elsewhere, as a number of other licenses have been granted since 1999. Total
production of oil and condensates in the country has increased, from 3,000 bpd in 1992, to 6,500



2
in 1996, and 221,000 in 2000,' and production is expected to further increase to over 270,000 bpd
in 2002, and be sustained at 300,000-400,000 bpd over the next 15 years. Proven oil reserve
estimates have gone up from less than 400 million barrels in 1997 to levels conservatively
estimated in 2001 at close to one billion barrels. Gas reserves at Alba have increased, from 535
billion cubic feet in 1992 to an estimated 8 trillion cubic feet in 2001. The historical development
of production and reserves is presented in Annex B.
6.     Developments since 1996 have had a major impact on Equatorial Guinea's economy.
GDP increased from US$ 152 million in 1993 to USS498 million in 1997 and to US$ 1.4 billion in
2000. GDP per capita has increased from US$407 in 1993 to US$950 in 1997 and an estimated
US$2,100 in 2000. The oil sector, which accounted for 11 percent of GDP in 1993, increased to
66 percent of GDP in 1997 and 86 percent of GDP in 2000. Oil revenues accruing to the
government grew from about US$3 million per year in 1993 to US$50 million in 1997 and an
estimated US$212 million in 2000 (they may reach US$725 million by 2003). This recent boom
has resulted in visible infrastructure improvements, increased migration to the capital city,
Malabo (straining available infrastructure and social services), and very fast growth of activities
related to oil activities. Given very serious capacity constraints, the challenge for the govemment
remains how to effectively collect its due share of oil revenues and manage these resources so
that they benefit the majority of the population as well as future generations.
OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN
7.     The project objectives were to: (a) ensure that the borrower received maximum and
sustainable revenues from the production of the Alba field; (b) identify the most cost-effective
methods to utilize the associated gas from Alba; (c) minimize the nsks for the environment of
Alba's operations; (d) improve the efficiency of energy sector institutions; and (e) strengthen the
capacity of the Ministry of Mines and Hydrocarbons (later the Ministry of Mines and Energy, or
MME) to monitor the activities of oil companies, and to evaluate the supply and pncing systems
for petroleum products.
8.     To achieve these objectives, the project included studies, technical assistance, training, and
rehabilitation of the ministry building and acquisition of field vehicles. Annex C presents the project
objectives, detailed associated components, together with achievements, outputs, and outcomes.
Technical assistance for the revision of the petroleum exploration and production framework, and
for negotiating new contracts or renewal of existing contracts with the oil industry, were among the
important components of the project.
9.     The project design included the following main actions as covenants in the Credit
Agreement:
*  The government would, starting 1993, enter all revenues derived from the exploitation of
the Alba field or other hydrocarbon accumulations into its annual budget.
*  By November 30, 1992, the government would agree with IDA on an action plan, based
on the recommendations of studies, to develop a program for the use of Alba gas.
*  The borrower would carry out an Environmental Impact Study for Alba operations and
agree with IDA on an action plan.
10.   The somewhat different formulation of the project objectives in the Memorandum of the
President (MOP), its Technical Annex, and the Credit Agreement, creates some confusion about
1. Excluding 19,000 bpd of methanol



3
the relative importance of the various objectives.2 Nevertheless, while in retrospect project
objectives appear to have a narrow focus on resolving Alba issues, project design also provided
means and opportunities to address wider sector issues, as well as those arising from exploration
and operation of additional fields. Therefore project design was satisfactory overall.
IMPLEMENTATION
11.    The project closed as scheduled on June 30, 1997. Project funds were fully utilized.
Technical assistance was provided to assist the Government to monitor activities of oil
companies, review development plans proposed by them, audit their financial accounts, review
the petroleum legislation and prepare detailed regulations, negotiate new contracts, renegotiate
existing contracts and establish a data filing and statistical system. Training was provided to
MME staff, mainly in technical aspects of petroleum exploration, drilling and production. A
number of studies were prepared (optimal depletion strategy for the Alba field reservoir; gas
utilization study for Alba; energy sector reorganization; petroleum products supply and
distribution; and rehabilitation and expansion of the electrical system). Finally, an environmental
impact assessment of Alba's facilities was carried out. Additional details on these activities is
provided in Annex B.
11.    Project implementation was affected by the following events:
*  The macroeconomic situation of the country during implementation was not good,
leading the government to default often on its debt payment obligations to the Bank. This
led to suspensions of disbursements. Furthermore, Bank-country relations were tense,
because of general poor performance of most ongoing Bank projects, perceived weak
governance, and lack of transparency.
*  Equivocal agreement on project objectives between the government and the Bank
resulted in misunderstanding and friction. According to the ICR, the Bank understood
that an implicit objective of the project was to renegotiate the Alba contract. This turned
out not to be an immediate priority for the government, which rightly viewed
renegotiation of signed contracts as legally difficult, untimely, and risky (it would
undermine investors' confidence and drive away potential new partners in the sector). In
need of immediate resources, the government preferred in the short term to negotiate
financial advances on future revenues with the operators of Alba and Zafiro.
*  The project emphasis shifted after 1995, owing to rapid increase in oil sector activities
following the discovery of oil in the Zafiro field, which considerably increased demands
on government institutions for review and negotiations of annual production plans and
supervision of exploration and production operations.
*  The Alba field operator changed in 1995, owing to pressure on the original operator to
implement measures recommended by the environmental impact assessment and the gas
utilization study. Walter International sold all its rights to CMS-NOMECO, which adopted
a much longer-term development strategy and invested heavily in field development,
minimization of gas flaring through downstream use of gas (processing into LPG,
methanol, and power generation), and re-injection. Early in 2002, CMS/NOMECO in turn
sold all its rights to Marathon, the main partner and operator of the methanol plant.
2. The PAR, like the ICR, adopted the objectives and components as stated in the Credit Agreement.



4
OUTCOME
13.    Project objectives related to the optimization of Alba's field development and gas
utilization were substantially achieved and efficiently so. The contract was eventually re-
negotiated to conform to the 1998 Amendment to the Hydrocarbon Law (referred to below), and
subsequent developments in the field and downstream (which were recommended under the
project) surpassed appraisal expectations, resulting in much higher absolute benefits to the
country. However, the objectives related to the Alba field became less relevant during
implementation (after discovery of the Zafiro field) and after completion, as other much larger
fields were discovered (Ceiba field, offshore Rio Muni).
14.    During implementation, as new licenses were granted and substantial discoveries were
made, the project's institutional and sector policy objectives gained considerable more
importance and urgency. Achieving these objectives required the Govemment to take a series of
actions in line with the recommendations of the studies and technical assistance financed under
the project. These actions included enacting changes to improve the legal and contractual
framework; issuing environmental and other detailed regulations; auditing oil companies
accounts and recoverable costs on a systematic basis; further building up MME's capacity to
effectively monitor a growing number of oil companies; reorganizing the energy sector; and
liberalizing petroleum product imports and distribution. By completion, however, most of these
objectives had not been achieved. Furthermore, the Government was not in compliance with the
budget transparency covenant. The project outcome was therefore rated unsatisfactory in the
ICR.
15.    Subsequently, there were advances in the institutional framework, in particular, the 1981
Hydrocarbon Law was amended in 1998; contract renegotiations took place, which improved the
govemment's share; and imports and distribution of petroleum products were privatized and
liberalized. Although the changes differed on some points from the proposals prepared under the
project, these actions justify an upgrading of the efficacy rating from negligible to modest. With
relevance still rated high, efficiency substantial, and efficacy now rated modest, outcome is now
rated moderately satisfactory, although the case for this upgrading is marginal.
RATINGS
Relevance: High
16.    Given the rapid development of the oil sector since 1995 and its overwhelming
importance in the economy and government revenues today, the project objectives were and are
still highly relevant and consistent with government priorities and Bank objectives.3 While the
various project objectives did not change during implementation, their relative importance did,
with those associated with the optimization of the Alba field losing importance when the Zafiro
field and other discoveries were made. Sector-wide objectives, including institutional
strengthening, policy framework, environment and safety, and transparency objectives become
more urgent to achieve. This change in prionties was recognized, and the project allocated funds
for additional technical assistance to negotiate and supervise annual exploration and production
3. Equatorial Guinea currently has no Country Assistance Strategy, but in 1998, the Bank prepared an economic
strategy note ("The Challenge of Sudden Wealth," Economic Strategy Note, February 6, 1999) that was discussed with
the authorities and incorporated their comments. This strategy, which is still valid, highlights the critical importance of
the oil sector to Equatorial Guinea's economy and emphasizes the need for the government to show a concrete
commitment to improved financial management, especially greater transparency in the accounting, recording, and
allocation of oil resources and their use for poverty alleviation



5
programs with the Zafiro contractor; prepare amendments to the Hydrocarbon law, model of
PSC's and detailed regulations; and for additional capacity building in MME.
Efficacy: Modest
17.    Five years after completion, it appears that, with respect to the Alba field, project objectives
were substantially achieved, but those for sector policy were only partially achieved.
18.    The objectives of improvement of operations in Alba field were substantially achieved: (i)
gas flaring from Alba was practically eliminated through conversion into LPG, methanol, and
power generation, and through reinjection; (ii) environmental objectives were substantially achieved
(see Box 1); (iii) the objective of ensuring maximum revenues from the field to the Govemment
was also substantially achieved as a result of increases in production of condensates much above
appraisal estimates; additional revenues generated from downstream processing of gas; and
readjustment of contractual terms after amendment of the Hydrocarbon Law in 1998. The project
contributed to the beneficial change of operator in 1995, leading to sound long-term field
development and to a considerable expansion of Alba gas reserves and production. These
achievements are expected to be further enhanced with another change of operator in 2002.
19.    The objectives of transparency and institutional development (i.e. capacity building and
sector institutional strengthening) were only partially achieved. During project implementation,
when, in 1996/97, the Zafiro-Topacio complex was developed in a record time, an important
achievement of the project was the provision of critical assistance for the Govemment to perform
its monitoring and control functions. Since completion, there have been positive developments,
which can be credited to the project, at least in part. Eventually, the technical assistance financed
under the project provided inputs into the govemment successful renegotiation of the PSC for
Zafiro-Topacio in March 1998, and subsequently of other contracts, including that of Alba, and to
the amendment of the Hydrocarbon Law and model PSC in November 1998. In fact, the
govemment chose to retain one of the technical assistance firms financed under the project as
official technical adviser to the MIME, to provide ongoing assistance m exploration and
production matters. In line with the recommendations of the study carried out under the project,
the framework for petroleum product import, storage, and distribution was liberalized after
project completion and the facilities were privatized. Draft environmental regulations prepared
on the basis of recommendations by the project consultants have been submitted by MME to the
Ministry of Environment.
20.    Despite these achievements, efficacy overall remains modest, particularly on the most
relevant objectives. First, the Hydrocarbon Law and model PSC were amended, but the improved
contractual framework still remains generous to operators compared to Equatorial Guinea's
neighbors4. Second, detailed regulations have still not been enacted. Third, draft environmental
regulations were submitted to the Ministry of the Environment, but these have yet to be reviewed
and enacted, and the ministry lacks capacity to enforce them when enacted. Fourth, the
transparency covenant, that all revenues derived from the exploitation of the Alba field or other
hydrocarbon accumulations should be entered into the annual budget, had not been met by the
closing date. Fifth, staff training and technical assistance did significantly improve MME's
capacity and efficiency in promoting and monitoring oil exploration and production activities, but
not to the extent required to keep up with the subsequent rapid increase in petroleum activities.
4. A Bank Economic Strategy Note for Natural Resource Management ("The Challenge of Sudden Wealth"), dated
February 26, 1999, reviewed the contractual framework and concluded that total govemment take was still substantially
below levels in neighboring countries.



6
Large salary differentials between the civil service and oil companies5 and the private sector,
combined with promotions of qualified staff to other positions in the government, have also
further exacerbated shortages of trained personnel. Sixth, the training program financed under the
project was not carried out on the basis of a systematic needs assessment: it tended to emphasize
immediate needs for training in technical aspects of exploration and production, but gave much
less attention to the equally important aspects of business negotiations, regulations, economics,
accounting, financial auditing of oil companies' accounts, and financial and strategic planning.
Despite the quality of consultants and financial auditors contracted under the project to address
these aspects, there is still limited capacity in the government to plan, supervise, and challenge
the findings and recommendations of outside consultants. The project thus failed to establish an
adequate institutional capacity in many of these areas.
Efficiency: Substantial
21.    At appraisal (1992), production at Alba was estimated to increase from 2,500-3,000
barrels per day (bpd) to 5,000-6,000 bpd by 1993, and production of gas was to increase from 35
million cubic feet per day (mmcfd) to 80 mnmcfd. By completion (end of 1997), these targets were
fully met (6,700 bpd of condensates and 80 mmcfd of gas), and, subsequently, were considerably
exceeded: by the end of 2001, production of condensates at Alba reached 10,000 bpd and they are
soon to increase to 30,000 bpd (five times the original estimate), and gas production increased to
over 195 mmcfd (more than twice original estimates). Gas reserves are now estimated at 8 tcf,
more than 15 times reserves at appraisal. In line with the recommendations of the gas utilization
and environmental impact studies financed under the project, practically all gas is processed
dovwnstream into LPG (2,300 bpd, soon to increase to 10,000 bpd), methanol (19,000 bpd), and
power (1OMW), or re-injected, almost eliminating gas flaring and associated pollution.
22.    It is not possible to quantify the extent to which the project contributed to collection of oil
revenues (through expertise provided to evaluate and approve production plans and monitor the
oil companies). At appraisal, the government share of oil revenues from Alba was projected to
increase from about US$3 million per year to US$ 10.5 million by 1995 and to about USS19.0
million by 1996/97. Actual government oil revenues from Alba are likely to be substantially
above these levels, as a result of production increases, downstream developments, increases in
international oil prices since appraisal, and revised contractual terms. Revenues from the Zafiro
field, on which much of the project technical assistance focussed, are considerably above those of
Alba. No data on the breakdown of oil revenues is available, but overall they increased very
substantially (to about US$200 million in year 2000).
23.    Although returns are likely to be considerably above appraisal estimates, efficiency is
rated only substantial, due to uncertainty regarding their level and the lack of transparency (it is
not clear that all revenues due were actually collected).
5. Salaries offered by oil companies are regulated by law and are a multiple of those in the government. The
establishment of a public company (GE-Petrol) able to offer competitive saiaries is viewed by some government
officials as a way to retain qualified staff without having to address the issue of civil service salaries.



7
Box 1. Environmental Aspects
Alba Gas and Condensate Field
The Alba gas and condensate field was developed in 1991 by an independent operator, Walter Intemational, at very low
investment cost. At appraisal, the field was flaring about 35 mmcfd of gas, for a production of 3,000 bpd of gas
condensate. In addition, safety and environmental control in offshore and inland facilities were very hlmited. Addressing
these issues was considered an important objective in project design.
Uses of associated gas - Studies to identify the most cost-effective method to use Alba's associated gas were carned
out during project preparation and early during project implementation, and their recommendations were implemented
In early 2002, the power plant was being operated by Marathon (with further plans to expand), the LPG plant was in
operation and its capacity was expected to increase from 2,300 bpd to 10,000 bpd before 2004, a 19,000 bpd methanol
plant had been operated since mid-2001, and most remaining gas was being re-injected, minimizing gas flaring. The
downstream methanol plant was built according to international environmental and safety standards and Environment
Monitoring, Emergency and Safety Plans were developed with the assistance of specialized international companies.
Also, the plant has an on-site environmental division and is implementing an Environmental Management System.
Recently, Marathon, the main owner and operator of the new methanol plant, acquired all CMS Energy interests in
Equatorial Guinea, including Alba. This acquisition should further contribute to optimize Alba production and
integrated use and commercialization of associated gas.
Environmental and Safety Risks - A 1994 environmental impact study identified a number of safety and environmental
risks due to deficiencies in production facilities and made recommendations for improvements. Government pressure to
implement the recommendations of this impact study as well as of the gas utilization study also carried out under the
project accelerated the change of operator in May 1995. The new operator gradually implemented the recommended
measures such as improved lighting of the production tower, installation of lightning protection and fire prevention
systems, and construction of new tanks (old storage tanks with leaks are now stopped).
Oil Production Fields
The Zafiro complex is equipped for the use of up to 90 mmcfd of associated gas for re-injection and gas lift, reducing
the amount of gas flared. However, the need to limit gas flaring will be a bottleneck to future production increase.
The Ceiba field, offshore from Rio Muni, does not have a problem of excess associated gas. In fact, the expansion plan
to 160,000 bpd includes facilities to inject water to maintain field pressure.
Petroleum Products Import, Storage, and Distribution Facilities
The issue of the poor environmental and safety conditions of the storage and distribution facilities was recognized
during appraisal but not directly addressed by the project. As expected at appraisal, the revamping of the petroleum
products storage and distnbution facilities was financed (USS3 million) by the French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
and implemented under the control of the technical department of Total (at that time these facilities were govemment
owned and operated by Total). Since 1998, after liberalization of petroleum product distribution, the government sold
the facilities to Total, which built new tanks and fire protection systems in Bata and Malabo.
Environmental Framework
The Alba environmental impact assessment also recommended that an environmental and safety law for the mining and
oil sectors be enacted. Instead, an environmental section was established within the Ministry of Mines and Energy
(MME) in 1995, and environmental provisions have been included in PSCs, but these arrangements remain insufficient.
The environmental provisions in the contracts are general obligations to protect the environment, but the MME
recognizes that new contracts should have environmental obligations spelled out, including mitigation measures.
Finally, the Ministry of Forest and Environment has already prepared a draft national environmental law, including
petroleum environmental regulations that were submitted by the MME. The national environmental law is expected to
be enacted in 2002 after having been discussed with the sector ministries. The objectives of transparency and
institutional development (i.e. capacity building and sector institutional strengthening) were only partially achieved. There
have been positive developments since, which can be credited to the project, at least in part. Technical assistance provided
under the project laid the basis for the govemment successful renegotiation of the PSC for Zafiro-Topacio in March 1998,
and subsequently of other contracts, including the one for Alba, and to the amendment of the Hydrocarbon Law and model
PSC in November 1998. In fact, the govemment has chosen to retain one of the technical assistance firms financed under
the project as official technical adviser to the MME, to provide ongoing assistance in exploration and production matters.
In line with the recommendation of the study carried out under the project, the framework for petroleum product import,
storage, and distribution was liberalized after project completion and the facilities were privatized. Draft environmental
regulations prepared on the basis of the regulations prepared by the project consultants have been submitted by MME to
the Ministry of Environment.



8
Institutional Development Impact: Modest
24.    The sector institutional capacity has improved but remains weak. Improvements came
from staff training and technical assistance, which built up MME's capacity and efficiency. Some
limited improvements in the energy sector organizational structure took place, including shifting
the responsibility for the power sector from the Ministry of Industry to the Ministry of Mines and
Hydrocarbons, which then became the MME. An environmental section was established within
MME. Petroleum product import and distribution were liberalized and facilities privatized.
Finally, the regulatory and contractual frameworks for exploration and production have
improved.
25.    However, the rapid increase in petroleum activities, the creation of GE-Petrol,
promotions with transfers of trained personnel to other agencies, and salary differentials with the
private sector, have again strained the available capacity. The regulatory and contractual
framework is still very favorable to oil companies. Environmental and other detailed regulations
have still not been enacted. Finally, lack of transparency with respect to the collection,
management, and disposition of oil revenues continues to be a senrous issue (although some
progress has been reported recently).
Sustainability: Likely
26.    Overall sustainability is rated as likely despite some serious uncertainties regarding the
government's commitment or ability to address long-term institutional, environmental, economic,
and social issues.
27.    Technical and financial resilience of project benefits is high. The project helped to ensure
the adoption of sound long-term development plans in the development of the oil sector. Benefits
from current oil activities are expected to be sustained at least for the next 15 years, and further
findings are likely. Equatorial Guinea is now a major FDI destination in Africa.
28.    Environmental sustainability of operations at Alba is likely. The operator has
implemented the recommendations of the environmental impact study and the study on
downstream use of gas. Gas flaring at Alba is now minimal. The downstream methanol plant was
constructed and is operated using intemational standards. In other areas, contractors also
endeavor to minimize gas flaring through reinjection and to deal with other environmental
concerns (including safe disposal of waste, muds, and chemicals), and all contractors have
environmental teams working in the country. With respect to import, storage, and distribution of
petroleum products, the issue of poor environmental and safety conditions in the govemment-
owned facilities identified at appraisal was resolved with financing from Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique in 1993. Since then, the facilities were sold to the concessionaire,
which has built new tanks and fire protection systems. General environmental protection
obligations are included in PSCs. Nevertheless, the lack of environmental regulations and of
institutional capacity to monitor environmental performance and impacts is an area of concern.
29.    Sustainability of institutional achievements will continue to depend on outside technical
assistance, until sufficient local capacity is developed. The ability to establish and maintain local
capacity within the Government, however, may be seriously eroded if the Government continues
to lose qualified personnel by paying them salaries much below those offered by oil companies.



9
30.    Given the dominance of the oil sector in the economy, the resilience of economic benefits
to the country, i.e., maintaining the level of overall economic development in the long termn after
the depletion of reserves, will depend on the ability of the government to manage the oil boom
well and to create the conditions for the pnvate sector to develop other sectors of the economy.
While direct employment creation in the oil sector is limited, indirect employment may be higher.
On the other hand, there is a danger that the oil boom will further depress the traditional sectors.
Avoiding adverse effects will depend on a firm govemment commitment to a development
strategy that ensures sustainable development after oil depletion (avoiding the so-called "Dutch
disease"effect). It will also require considerable institutional strengthening throughout the
government, much improved governance and transparency, and a clear development strategy .
There have been positive signs since 2002 that the government is committed to these goals. The
recent government request for FIAS assistance for investment promotion in the non-oil sectors is
an indicator of this positive change, as is renewed government interest in IMF and Bank
assistance after several years of absence.
31.    Resilience of economic benefits will also depend on social and political stability, which
in turn are subject to how the govemment ensures that the benefits of oil discovery and
exploitation benefit the mass of the population. If oil revenues are perceived to benefit only an
elite, and regional and income disparities are exacerbated, political and social turmoil may
jeopardize economic development. The country's social indicators in 1990-96, during project
implementation, were among the worst in Africa. There are no consistent, updated data showing
these indicators today, but they are unlikely to have changed significantly, as the major revenues
from the oil boom started flowing only after 1998. There have been some visible investments in
infrastructure (roads, ports), but investments in social services so far appear to have been very
limited. There are large capacity constraints in all sectors, for planning, project preparation,
procurement, implementation, and control.
Bank Performance: Unsatisfactory
32.   In general, project design was sufficiently broad and flexible to adapt to changed
priorities during implementation, except that objectives and components were not consistent in
their presentation the MOP, the Technical Annex, and the Credit Agreement, leading to confusion
about their relative importance and interpretation. In particular, Bank staff perceived that
renegotiation of the existing contract was important in achieving the project objective of
maximizing revenues from the Alba field. Yet, renegotiation is mentioned only in the MOP and
not in the Credit Agreement or in the Technical Annex to the MOP. Also, project design should
have from the start more clearly and comprehensively identified the need for capacity building to
monitor and control all aspects of the performance of oil companies, including skills required for
projecting accrued oil revenues, monitoring their effective collection, monitoring and auditing
companies financial accounts and reports, and to review eligibility of recovered operating costs
and investments. This should have required more attention to the establishment of appropriate
structures, systems, and procedures as well as the design of a training program based on a
comprehensive needs assessment.
33.    Throughout design and implementation, up to project completion, there was a
fundamental difference of perception between the Bank and the Government with respect to the
need and timing for renegotiation of signed contracts. Both the Alba and Zafiro contracts, which
were signed, respectively, in April 1990 and June 1992, were in line with the 1981 Hydrocarbon
Law and PSC model prepared under an earlier Bank/UNDP technical assistance operation. Both
contracts were negotiated and signed without Bank assistance (the Zafiro contract was signed
shortly before the project's Board approval, without Bank knowledge). During appraisal,
however, Bank missions assessed that contract terms were excessively favorable to operators,



10
especially with respect to income tax provisions, and, dunng supervision, came to view
renegotiation of both contracts as critical and an implicit objective of the project. Bank
supervision missions interpreted govemment reluctance to renegotiate as lack of commitment to
the fundamental objectives of the project, and as preference for immediate cash over long-term
financial optimization (giving priority to negotiating advances on future oil revenues). The
govemment thought that renegotiation of the contracts so soon after their signing would
undermnine investor confidence in the country, unless other advantages could be offered to the
contractors in retum, such as expansion of granted areas. Until Zafiro was discovered in 1995, oil
companies were not exactly rushing to explore and develop available blocks, so in retrospect the
government position was valid. Yet, the Bank missions seem to have ignored the dilemma this
posed to the Govemment. Failure to engage in a more constructive and balanced dialogue on this
question undermined trust between the govemment and the Bank, and reinforced the
government's tendency toward secrecy.
34.    Project supervision was usually limited to an annual mission by one person. Although
missions identified the most important issues and reported on them, they would have benefited
from including lawyers and financial experts familiar with financial planning and auditing aspects
of the oil industry, as well as project financial management specialists. Lirmited supervision
resources also explain why some issues were not followed up, including the bad environmental
performance in the import, storage, and distribution of petroleum product facilities, and, more
important, the verification of compliance by the govemment of the oil budget transparency
covenant. Finally, the Bank did not strongly react to overdue project audits, inadequate project
accounting, and failure to meet the covenant of explicitly accounting all oil revenues through the
budget.
35.    Although discussions for a follow up operation were initiated during supervision and the
need for such an operation was recorded in the ICR, the Bank decided not to proceed. Although
there were clear reasons (unsatisfactory Bank portfolio overall, arrears on debt service payments,
lack of transparency), this was unfortunate. As a result, the Bank was absent in the cntical years
that followed major oil discoveries, and the govemment was left on its own to deal with
outstanding legal and contractual issues, when the level and range of skills required to monitor all
phases of activities and accounts of a much larger number of oil companies became substantially
more complex and demanding.6
36.    Overall, Bank performance is rated as unsatisfactory.
Borrower Performance: Unsatisfactory
37.    During implementation, the Govemment was able to effectively use project assistance to
promote and develop the country's oil potential, and to improve the development of the Alba field
and resolve environmental and gas utilization issues arising from its operations. After completion,
the Govemment took a number of pending institutional strengthening measures, which were part
of the project objectives and for which technical support had been provided under the project.
These included amending the Hydrocarbon Law and the PSCs, liberalizing and privatizing
petroleum product imports and distribution, and initiating a regular auditing program of oil
companies accounts.
38.    However, during implementation, Government performance was deficient on a number of
accounts: first, the above-mentioned institutional measures were taken with considerable delays.
6. The former and current Ministers of Mines and Energy and the Minister of Planning have stated to the assessment
mission their regrets that the Bank abandoned the government at the time it was most critically needed



I1
Second, pressing cash needs led the govemment to negotiate off-the-budget cash advances
against future oil revenues with operators of both Alba and Zafiro, contributing to lack of
transparency. Third, project management, accounting, and auditing were very deficient. Fourth,
the government's unwillingness to share critical contractual information and overall tendency
toward secrecy hindered the effectiveness of the Bank and of one of its main consultant. Fifth,
most importantly, the government defaulted and is still in default on its obligation under the
project to account for all oil revenues through the budget.
39.    Despite the upgrading of the outcome rating to Moderately satisfactory and Govemment
achievements in recent years, Borrower performance is still rated Unsatisfactory (though
marginally so), principally on account of poor project management and lack of transparency.
LESSONS
*  As soon as significant discoveries are made, important issues arise associated with the impact
and distribution of oil wealth, which need to be addressed rapidly through the Bank-country
dialogue to ensure long-term sustainability. These include the fundamental issues of national
and sectoral environmental regulations and their enforcement capacity, budget transparency and
allocation, strategies for public expenditures, pace of new licensing and development, savings
mechanisms, and distribution of oil proceeds between the various levels of government. In the
case of Equatorial Guinea, the Bank raised these issues in 1998, but only after the project was
completed, and at a time of tense relations.
*  If the country is facing strong macro-economic constraints in the early stages of oil
development, the Bank might consider supporting the adoption of policies and strategies
leading to the proper management of oil wealth through adjustment or sector loans.
*  In countries with low levels of institutional development and capacity, continuity of IDA or
Bank support in sectors critical to the country's development is very important, in particular
when sector development has already started to accelerate.
*  When institutional strengthening is essential to project success, a review of the civil service
salary structure during preparation is necessary to identify major issues that may affect the
sustainability of institutional strengthening efforts, and to establish alternative institutional
arrangements if needed.
*  If the government must give especially favorable terms to attract the first investors to explore
new territory for oil and gas, negotiated contracts need to incorporate time and geographical
limits on those terms.
*  Whenever the implementing agency does not have the capability to manage the project
(including accounting and reporting), efficient implementation requires that appropriate
provisions to contract outside expertise for that purpose be incorporated in project design
*  Consistency on objectives and their ranking between Bank documents and unequivocal
understanding and commitment of the borrower to those objectives are prerequisites for
sound project execution.






13
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet
SECOND PETROLEUM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (CR. 2408-EG)
Key Project Data (amounts in USS million)
Appraisal estimate    Actual or current   Actual as percent of
estimate         appraisal estimate
Total project costs                          2.70                 2.92                  108.1
Credit amount                         2.43 (SDR 1.8 million)      2.47                  101.6
Cofinancing                                    0                    0
Cancellation (SDR)                             0                    0
Date physical components completed     December 31, 1996      June 30,1997
Economic rate of retum                   Not Applicable       Not Applicable
Project Dates
Original                        Actual
Identification                                                                   February 1991
Preparation                                                                February 1991to March 1992
Appraisal                                                                         March 1992
Negotiations                                                                       May 1992
Board Presentation                                  June 1992                     July 2, 1992
Signing                                            July 10, 1992                 July 22, 1992
Effectiveness                                    September 1992               November 20, 1997
Project Completion                              December 31, 1996                June 30, 1997
Project Closing                                   June 30, 1997                  June 30, 1997
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Total
Up to Appraisal                  14.9
Appraisal to Board                2.0
Supervision                      69.6



14
Mission Data
Stage of Project Cycle           No. of Persons and Specialty          Performance  Rating
Month/Year               Number                Specialty             Implementation Development
Progress    Objective
IdentificationlPreparation:
2/92                       2                    PS, FA
Appraisal/Negotiations:
3/92                       2                    PS, FA
Supervision
8/92                        1                    PS                     No rating     No rating
1/93                       1                     PS                        2             2
2/94                        1                    PS                        2             2
10/94                      1                     PS                        S             S
2/95                       2                    PE, PS                     S             S
12/95 (in Washington)      3                  PE, ES, EE                   U             S
5/96                       2                    PE, ES                     S             S
ICR
12/97                   3 (2 cons.)        PE (Task Manager)               U             U
FA= Financial Analyst
PS= Petroleum Specialist
ES= Energy Specialist
PE= Power Engineer
EE= Energy Economist



15                                                                    Annex B
Annex B. Historical Development of Gas and Oil Exploration and Production
15' Petroleum TA    2Id Petroleum TA Project
Project
Field                             Completion          Appraisal            Completion          End 1997'                    March 2002
(December 1989)     (March 1992)        (June 1997)
Alba - offshore northwest Bioko   Gas and condensate  Operated by Walter  In May 1995, Walter  Operated by CMS-NOMECO       Operated by Marathon, which bought
field discovered by  International (PSC  International sold all                           CMS rights in EG for about
GEPSA (joint        signed on April 1990  its rights to CMS Oil                          US$lbillion.
venture Hispanoil-  and production       and Gas /NOMECO,
Government) in      started on December  which became Alba's
1983.               1991).               operator.
Occupied by other
major oil
developments,
Hispanoil (now
REPSOL) reduced
exploration activities
in EG, leading to the
relinquishment of
exploration and
production rights in
March 1990.
Reserves:                                Reserves:                   Reserves:
Proven reserves:                         Estimated.                  Reported at 4.5 TCF. But drilling since
Nat. Gas: 535 bcf       Gas 1,500 bcf              ~~~~1999 increased estimated reserves to
Condensates:                             Condensates 120 mmb         close to 8 TCF, with possibility to
28mmbo                                   Poe                          obe
28mmbo  Proven              In 2001, CMS discovered gas
Gas 537 bcf                 condensate 6 km north of the Alba
Condensates: 53 mmb         field, emphasizing the large potential
Of which extracted:         of the Alba block.
Gas 180 bcf
Condensates: 13 mmb
7. From "The Challenge of Sudden Wealth" - World Bank Report dated February 26, 1999.



16                                                                 Annex B
1"' Petroleum TA    2Id Petroleum TA Project
Project
Field                            Completlon         Appraisal           Completion          End 19977                  March 2002
(December 1989)    (March 1992)        (June 1997)
Production:         Production:        Production:                Production:
Gas condensates     . Gas condensates:  . Gas condensates: 6,700 bpd  . Gas: production increased to over
.2,500 to 3,000 bpd  6,000 bpd         . LPG: a 2,000 bpd plant was  195mmcfd of gas.
.Expected peak      . LPG: 2,000 bpd   started at the end of 1997.  . Gas condensates: 14,000 bpd
production: 5-6,000  Gas flared.       Methanol: a 2,500 tpd plant  . LPG: 2,300 bpd.
bpd by 1993         80 mmcfpd          was under construction and
Gas flared:                            expected to start at the end of
2000.                      Further expansion could increase
35 mmfd                                 oe    ln-patbig           liquids production to 30,000 bpd of
expected to increase                    or     tplant being       condensates and 10,000 bpd of LPG.
to 80 mmcfpd
Gas flared' 80 mmcfpd.
Use of Gas:
Power: 10 MW (using 3-3.5 mmcfd of
gas)
Gas reinjected 35 mmcfd
Methanol: the 19,000 bpd plant built
by AMPCO (a consortium of
Marathon, Samedan and the Gov of
EG) was completed and is operating
satisfactorily since May 2001, using
125 mmcfd of gas.
Gas flared is currently minimal at the
gas processing plant but will increase
when expansion is implemented.
Zafiro -Topacio - Block B offshore                   By mid-1992, PSC   Oil found in 1995.                             Operated by Exxon/Mobil and miriority
Bioko                                               signed with Mobil   Mobil invested US$1                            stake partner Ocean Energy
and UMC for Block B  billion in 18 months.                        (previously UMC).
Reserves:                  Reserves:
Estimated: 300 mmb.        Proven: over 400 mmb of oil.
Proven: 100 mmb.
Of which extracted: 25 mmb.
Production:                                    Production:
80,000 bpd,                                    155,000 bpd and 70mmcfpd of



17                                                               Annex B
1" Petroleum TA    2Id Petroleum TA Project
Project
Field                           Completion        Appraisal           Completion         End 1997'                 March 2002
(December 1989)    (March 1992)       (June 1997)
expected to increase                          associated gas are produced via the
to 120,000 bpd by                             Zafiro FPU/FSO floating units (storage
end 1999                                      capacity of 1.8 bbis) and a 60,000 bpd
fixed production platform. Gas is
separated from oil on board and oil
transported via pipeline to the FSO. In
addition to 2.1 mmcfpd of gas used for
onboard power and steam generation,
part of gas is used for reinjection and
lift, reducing amount of gas flared.
Installations have a total capability of
utilizing 90 to 95 mmcfd for reinjection
and gas lift.
Ceiba - offshore Rio Muni - Block F                                   In September 1997,                           Ceiba field discovered in October
and G                                                                 the Government                               1999, and first production achieved in
granted a license for                         November 2000.
the 2 blocks to                               Operated by Amerada Hess
Triton. 3 D seismic                          (previously TRITON) and minority
completed and                                 partner Energy Africa.
exploration drilling
was expected to
begin in 2002.
Reserves:
300 mmb of oil, expected to increase
dramatically.
Amerada has announced a new oil
find (Ebano in block F) similar to
Okume and Oveng in block G
discoveries announced in June 2001.
In February 27, 2002, Amerada also
reported another oil discovery (Akom)
in block G, similar in quality to Ceiba,
and to the above recent three
discoveries (Ebano, Okume, and
Oveng).
Production:
In May 2001, production was 48,000
bpd and 24mmscfd of gas using a



18                                                                Annex II
1" Petroleum TA    2nd Petroleum TA Project
Field                           Completion          Appralsal          Completion         End 1997'                  March 2002
(December 1989)    (March 1992)        (June 1997)
60,000 bpd production capacity and 2
million bbls storage capacity FPSO
vessels Expansion to 160,000 bpd is
expected to be completed during 2002
and includes facilities to inject 135,000
bpd of water to maintain field pressure
and optimize oil recovery. Ceiba field
output is being doubled to 100,000
bpd, leaving 60,000 bpd of the vessel
capacity for other fields
Rio Muni                        Hamilton Oil
acquired a malority
equity in the
exploration/productio
n rights detained by
Clarion
Bioko Block C                                                                             License granted to MOBIL,
UMC, and YUKONG in 1994 -
no discovery yet. 1 exploration
well to be drilled.
Bioko Block A                                                                             License granted to UMC in  Was relinquished
1992 - no discovery yet. 1
exploration well to be drilled.
Bioko Block D                                                                             License granted to UMC-    Currently held by Marathon, Ocean
YUCONG in 1995- discovery  Energy, and SK corporation.
in 1997. 3 exploration wells to
be drilled.
Bioko Block E                                                                             Awarded in 1999 to Elf in
partnership with Petrobras. 3
D seismic completed and
exploration drilling to begin in
2002.
Rio Muni Block H, I, J, K, and L                                                          Licenses awarded separately
to Atlas, Vanco, and Chevron
in 1999. 3 D seismic
completed and exploration
drilling to begin in 2002



19                                                                 Annex C
Annex C. Table of Objectives and Components
This table was prepared using to the Loan Agreement; the objectives are stated somewhat differently in the appraisal report and Memorandum of the
President.
Objectives               Components                Related Activities      Targets Achieved         Output                 Outcome
Main Obiectives
a- Ensure that the Borrower receives the maximum and sustainable revenue from the  Efficacy Rating: Substantial
production of the Alba field.                                              Field development and downstream use of gas optimized and sustainable - most gas Is
used in downstream processing (into LPG, methanol and power generation) and re-
injection. Furthermore, recent acquisition of CMS interests In EG by Marathon, which
also controls and operates the new methanol plant, should further contribute to ---
optimize Alba field development and the integrated use and commercialization of the
gas.
Environment concems were dealt with - gas flaring was practically eliminated, safety
and environmental risks were minimized through implementation of the environment
impact assessment recommendations; and the new methanol plant was built and is
operated according to international standards.
Revenues from Alba field were improved, but still not optimized - the PSC contract was
renegotiated after an amendment to the hydrocarbon law was enacted in November
1998, audits of Alba and other operators accounts are now done on a regular basis and
downstream developments should bring further tax returns to the government.
However, contracts are still too favorable to producers and producers' audits are still
delayed.
a-1 - Maximum revenues   Part B (1)- Technical    - Recruitment of a       - QUAD consulting firm  - In addition to monitoring  Achieved- Monitoring contributed
from Alba field          assistance for monitoring the  production engineer and a  recruited in 1993 to monitor  Alba's production as well  to improvements in operations
production of Alba field  reservoir specialist.   Alba production activities.  as exploration in the  and, together with government
block, the consultant  pressure to implement the
carried out a          recommendations of the gas
development study and  utilization study and of the
made recommendations   Environmental Impact
regarding the condensate  Assessment, accelerated the
plant, production, and  change of operator. The new
reservoir and gas      operator (CMS Energy) operated
utilization.           the field in an optimal manner. At
- Training of MME staff  completion, production of gas
condensates had reached 6,000
bpd, as expected at appraisal for
peak production in 1993. By the
end of 2001, production of gas



20                                                                  Annex C
Objectives                Components                Related Activities       Targets Achieved         Output                 Outcome
condensates reached 14,000 bpd
and further expansion is expected
to 30,000 bpd. Early in 2002,
Marathon, which operates the
new methanol plant, acquired all
CMS interests in EG. This
acquisition should further
contribute to optimize Alba
production and the integrated use
and commercialization gas.
Part B (2) - Technical    Recruitment of a         BEICIP, a consulting firm  - Monitoring of      Achieved- Proper monitoring of
assistance for monitoring the  geophysicist and a well site  was contracted in October  exploration in the Alba  field together with government
exploration activities carried  geologist          1993 for monitoring of   field (operated by Walter  pressure for the implementation of
out in the country.                                exploration in the Alba and  International and, after  the gas utilization study and
B blocks. However, these  May 1995,             environmental impact assessment
services were interrupted at  CMS/NOMECO) and of  recommendations contributed to
the end of 1994, due to  Mobil in Block B       accelerate the change in operator
suspension of            - Assistance in analyzing  of Alba field. The new operator
disbursements by the Bank,  the development plans  dramatically increased estimated
and MME decided to entrust  proposed by the     reserves through intensive
QUAD with the task of    oprtr.exploration: Alba proven reserves
assisting in supervising all  oprtr.were about 535 bcf and 28 mmb
exploration activities in the  - Training of MME staff  of condensates at appraisal. By
country.                                        the end of 2001, reserves were
reported at 4.5 tcf of gas and
operator's drilling effort since
1999 increased estimated
reserves close to 8 tcf.
Part B (3)- Technical     Financial auditing of    A consulting contract was  At the end of 1997, only  Partially achieved - It is only by
assistance for reviewing audit  operator's accounts.  signed with BEICIP to audit  the accounts for  the end of 2001, that the
reports on Contractors                             Alba's financial operation,  recoverable exploration  Government completed the audit
expenditures.                                      and assist MME in        and production costs of  of companies operating in the oil
calculating and negotiating  Walter International for  sector for the period 1997-1999
income tax payable by    the period 1991-94 had  The audit identified some major
Albas's operator after tax  been audited        revenue shortfalls that are being
holiday ends In 1996.                           discussed with oil companies. The
government is currently
completing the review of the 2000
audit.
Part B (4)- Technical     Valuation of Alba's      This valuation was to be part Was not possible due to  Not achieved
assistance for evaluating the  investments for the  of the audit contract of  inadequate accounting
Contractor's development  calculation of depreciation  BEICIP.              data provided by Alba's
assets.                   and taxable income                                operator.



21                                                                 Annex C
Objectives               Components                Related Activities      Targets Achieved         Output                 Outcome
Part B (5) Technical                                                                             Not achieved - commented under
assistance in negotiating                                                                        objective (d)
renewal of existing contracts
with the oil Industry
a-2 - Sustainable revenues  Part A (1) Study to design the  The purpose of the study  Under its above-mentioned  The study analyzed the  Achieved- the operator appears to
from Alba                most efficient way to develop  was to independently  contract, early in 1995,  reservoir life and total  be developing the field in an
the Alba field            determine the optimal   QUAD completed an       recovered volume under  optimal manner. At the end of
depletion strategy for the  evaluation of the field and of  different depletion  2001, most unused associated
reservoir and have the  Alba's production        scenarios and          gas was being re-injected to
operator implement that  operations.             recommended a          maintain pressure. Further
strategy.                                        feasibility study of gas re-  improvement is expected since
injection.             the recent field acquisition by
Marathon.
b- Identify the most cost effective methods to utilize the associated gas from Alba  Efficacy Rating: High - All study recommendations were implemented. The LPG,
field.                                                                     methanol and power plants are in operation and all remaining associated gas is re-
injected to maintain pressure.
Part A (2) Identify the most  Feasibility study of Alba gas  A preliminary study was  The QUAD study  At completion, most
cost effective method to  utilization             completed in 1992 under  recommended an LPG    recommendations about the use
utilize the Alba gas and assist                   Cr.1489. The question was  plant, a methanol plant  of flared gas were being
the Govemment In carrying                         also dealt with by QUAD,  and a power plant. It also  implemented: a 2000 bpd of LPG
out the adopted                                   under the study of Alba  recommended a         started operations at the end of
recommendations                                   operations.             feasibility study o gas  1997, a 10 MW gas power plant
reinjection to maintain  was under construction and a
pressure.              2,500 tpd methanol plant had
been contracted. Expansion plans
also contemplated gas re-
injection.
In early 2002, the power plant was
being operated by Marathon (with
further plans to expand), the LPG
plant was in operation and its
capacity was expected to increase
to 10,000 bpd before 2004, and a
19,000 bpd methanol plant had
been in operation since mid-2001.
In addition, most remaining gas
(about 35 mmcfd) was being re-
injected and gas flaring was
minimal.
A study on the rehabilitation  The report confirmed the  A new Bank operation for the
and expansion of the     recommendation of the  power sector proved to be
electrical system (not   gas utilization study  impossible mainly on account of



22                                                                  Annex C
Objectives                Components                Related Activities       Targets Achieved         Output                 Outcome
originally included) was  regarding the economic  overall poor Bank-EG relations.
carried out under the    use of gas for electricity  However, as already commented,
project. This report was  production and identified  a 10 MW power plant has been
intended to serve as the  rehabilitation works  built, with plans for further
basis for the preparation of a  needed in Malabo and  expansion, since it is already
new project in the electrical  Bata networks.   insufficient to meet demand.
I                  ~~~~~~~~sector.II
c- Minimize risks for the marine and land environment during the production of the  Efficacy Rating: Substantial - The Alba operator gradually implemented the
field                                                                       recommendations of the environmental impact study. The methanol plant was built and
is operated according to international environmental and safety standards. Zafrro field is
equipped for reinjection and gas lift to reduce the amount of gas flared. However,
arrangements such as the environmental section created in MME and the environmental
provisions included in the PSC contracts will remain insufficient until a national
environmental law is enacted and the environmental entity is substantially
strengthened.
Part A (3) Study of the   Consulting services to   An environimlental Imiipact  The study identified a  The operator has been gradually
environmental impact of   study the environmental  assessment wvas carned out in  number of safety and  implementing the recommended
production of the Alba field  impact               1994                     environmental risks due  measures: improvement of
and the processing of its                                                   to deficiencies in the  lighting of the production tower,
effluent.                                                                   production facilities and  installation of lightning protection
made a series of       and fire prevention systems, and
recommendations for    construction of new tanks (old
improvements.          storage tanks with leaks are now
- three MME engineers  stopped). Also, downstream
were trained by the    power, LPG, and methanol
consultant             facilities were built and most dry
gas is used or re-injected, as
- the study also       already commented.
recommended that an    Marathon states that the methanol
environmental and safety  patwsbitacrigt       P
law for the mining and oil  and WB guideltnes and
sector be encted. Environment Monitoring,
Emergency and Safety Plans
were developed with the
assistance of specialized
international companies. Also, the
plant has an on-site
environmental division and is
implementing an Environmental
Management System.
d- Improve the efficiency of energy sector institutions                      Efficacy Ratina: Modest - the sector reorganization and the data filing system
components were partially implemented. The hydrocarbon law was amended after
I project completion, somewhat improving the government position and its ability to



23                                                                  Annex C
Objectives                Components               Related Activities       Targets Achieved         Output                 Outcome
supervise oil companies, but environmental and detailed sector regulations have still
not been enacted, and the contractual framework remains overly generous to operators.
Part A (5) Study for improving  - Consulting services to  - An energy sector  - The study          Partially achieved-one of the
the institutional organization  carry out the organization  reorganization study was  recommendations were  study's recommendatons aiming
of the energy sector, and  study;                 carried out under the project  of a general nature and  at the development of a coherent
Part B (6) Technical                              in 1994.                  did not propose an     energy policy was adopted:
Assistance for applying the                                                 adequate organizational  transfer of electricity from Ministry
recommendations of the                                                      structure and systems  of Industry to Ministry of Mines
study.                                                                      needed to efficiently  and Hydrocarbons (MMH, which
manage the sector.     subsequently became MME).
Part B (10) Technical     - Establishment of a sector  - The consultant helped  - A complete data  - Partially achieved - At
assistance to establish a data  data filing and statistical  MME organize the available  organization and storage  completion, MME was considering
file and statistical system  data recording system.  technical data routinely  system was not     the construction of an information
within the MMH.                                    supplied by operators and  implemented. The bulk of  center in Malabo. However, as of
provided training in its use  sector technical and  March 2002, the bulk of the
and maintenance.         financial existing data is  technical and financial data was
kept under safekeeping  still being kept by Exploration
in London and Geneva.  Consultant Ltd. (ECL) in England.
Part A (4) revision of the  Consulting services in legal  This assistance was part of  - A proposed amendment  Partially achieved - In November
petroleum exploration and  areas to review the    the BEICIP's contract.   to the hydrocarbons law,  1998, an amendment to the
production framework, and  petroleum legislation and                        its regulations, and a  hydrocarbon law was enacted.
assist Government in                              revised PSC model were  The revised framework led to
negotiating contracts.                            prepared. At project  improvements in the government
completion, the        position and simplification in
documents had still not  contract supervision, although not
been finalized and the  to the extent adopted by
Government was seeking  neighbors. Revisions include the
further advice from    following improvements: (i)
consultants and        royalties increased from 10% to
operators before enacting  12-16% depending on daily
the new hydrocarbons   production rate; (ii) recoverable
legal framework.       exploration and production costs
are now limited to 80% of
revenues less royalties; (iii) Gov.
oil share which was previously
related to ROR (30% to 80%
depending on ROR as long as
ROR is in excess of 30%), is now
easier to monitor, being set at 0%
to 50% based on cumulative
production; and (iv) an equity
share of 5%. However, the
revised framework is still



24                                                                   Annex C
Objectives                Components                 Refated Activities       Targets Achieved         Output                  Outcome
considered generous compared to
neighbors, mainly due the
permanence of income tax of only
25% Sector regulations are still
considered ambiguous, leading to
confusion and compliance issues.
and environmental regulations
have yet to be issued
An environmental section was
established within MME in 1995
and environimilenital provisions are
included in PSC contracts, but
these arrangements remain
insufficient. However, the Ministry
of Forest and Environment has
prepared a draft national
environmental law, including
petroleum environmental
regulations, which is expected to
be enacted in 2002 after
discussion with the sector
ministries.
- Under the project, in  Partially achieved - By
Part B (5) Technical                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~preparation for re-  completion, the Government had
Passitanc in Tcneicatin nwnegotiations with                                                         preferred to independently re-
conitrancts or rnewotalin of wNOMECO, BEICIP                                                        negotiate the contracts for Alba
Eis contracts,o     newi oil                                                 prepared written       and Zafiro to obtain financial
existing contracts with oil                              ~~~~~~~~recommendations and  advances on future revenues, but
industry                                                                     prepared cash flow     the outcome remained at best
simulations,           financially neutral due to interest
charges However, subsequently,
in March 1998, the Government
successfully re-negotiated the
PSC for the much bigger Zafiro oil
reservoir. Later in November
1998, after the amendment to the
hydrocarbons law was enacted,
the PSC of Alba was also
adjusted.
e- Strengthen the capacity of the MMH in monitoring the activities of oil companies  e (1) - Efficacy Rating: Modest- Staff training improved MME capacity and efficiency in
(el), and in evaluating the supply and pricing system for petroleum products (e2).  monitoring the oil exploration and production companies' activities, but, the rapid
increase in petroleum activities since, has again strained available capacity. However,
more emphasis should have been given to management and financial control



25                                                                   Annex C
Objectives                Components                Related Activities       Targets Achieved          Output               TOutcome
techniques and project management.
e (2) - Efficacy Rating: Modest- Petroleum products import and distribution are now
liberalized and Government facilities were sold to Total. Mobil has entered distribution,
but has chosen not to import for the moment, due the size of the market and existing
storage capacity, until market develops further. Thus, Total remains with a de-facto
import monopoly. The price structure and level and fiscal regime for petroleum products
have remained practically the same since appraisal. Domestic prices to private
consumers are currently subsidized by the Government out of the budget.
e (1)- Greater capacity to  Part C - Implementation of a  - training by expatriates in  Most of the training of  Except for some training  Partially achieved -Increased
monitor oil companies.    training program presented  Malabo;                MME's staff was carried out  in business accounting  knowledge of MME's staff and
by the Govemment before   - cooperation with the   within the scope of two   and auditing, training was  improved MME's capacity and
Board presentation        operations of oil companies  major consultant contracts.  mainly on technical  efficiency in monitoring oil
in the country;          Training included seminars  aspects of seismic   companies' exploration and
in EG, courses at         processing and         production activities. However, the
- the project would finance  consultants' headquarters,  interpretation, geology  rapid increase in petroleum
scholarships, tuition fees  and on the Job training.  and geophysics, drilling  activities and the resulting need
and travel expenses.                               and production; and    for more supervision again
English. Also some     created urgent and critical training
training was given in  needs. Also, the training program
environmental and safety  should have given substantially
aspects.               more emphasis to management
and financial supervision and
accounting and auditing
techniques such as investment,
exploration and production costs
control, project management, and
international and national bidding
and procurement of concession
contracts.
A substantial number of staff
trained under the project has left
MME. Some of them are now
working with petroleum
companies with much higher
salaries, and many were
promoted to higher positions in
other Government agencies.
Recently, staff from MME was
transferred to the recently created
national petroleum company-
GEPETROL, including MME's
environmental division chief, who
was appointed president of
GEPETROL. Finally, One of the_G



26                                                                   Annex C
Objectives                Components                 Related Activities        Targets Achieved          Output                 Outcome
two main consulting companies
was retained to provide
assistance and training on an on-
going basis.
Part D - Office and Field  - rehabilitation of the MMH  The project financed the                      Achieved.
Equipment                  building; and            rehabilitation of MME
- cars for MMH to carry out  building and the acquisition
the monitoring of the    of two field cars.
petroleum downstream sub
sector.
e- (2) Greater capacity to  Part B (10)- TA for the control  Consultant to assist in  Consultants' services were  A study completed in  Partially achieved -. At completion
evaluate supply and pricing  of the supply, conservation,  reviewing the products'  contracted.          1989 under the first TA  the original situation remained
systems for petroleum      transport and distribution  price structure and fiscal                       identified lack of      unchanged as the Government
products.                 activities of petroleum     regime for petroleum                              transparency in product  position was then weakened by
products.                  import/export                                      procurement and high    substantial arrears with the
CIF prices. Under the   concessionaire However,
project, the consultants  subsequently in 1998, the
prepared a draft        Government sold the petroleum
agreement with the      product storage and distribution
import and distribution  facilities to the concessionaire.
company, revising the   Petroleum product import and
terms of supply, but, by  distribution are now liberalized.
completion, the matter  While Mobil is also developing a
had not been taken any  distribution network, it is selling
further.                products currently purchased from
As expected at appraisal,  Total Elf Fina (Total), which
the revamping of the   therefore currently remains with a
petroleum products      de-facto import monopoly, due to
storage and distribution  the size of the market and
facilities, which were in  ownership of the storage facilities.
poor environmental and  The domestic price structure of
safety conditions, was  petroleum products has remained
financed by the French  practically the same since 1992,
Caisse Centrate de      when the project was appraised.
Cooperation and         The few changes include: (i)
implemented under the   cancellation of sale, municipal and
control of the technical  import taxes on jet fuel; and (ii)
department of Total (at  increased storage and equipment
that time these facilities  fees and distribution expenses to
were government owned  take into account inflation and the
and operated by Total).  cost of revamping facilities and of
Since, after privatization,  the new storage and safety
Total has built new tanks  investments



27                                                                  Annex C
Objectives                Components               Related Activities       Targets Achieved         Output                 Outcome
and fire protection    The Reference Price (CIF landed
systems in Bata and    price, used as basis for deriving
Malabo.                controlled domestic prices) has
not been adjusted since 1994,
when it was based on US$15-
17/blo. Since the international
price of oil is now higher, the
government periodically
reimburses Total the difference
between the actual price and the
reference price, in order not to
increase domestic prices, which
are controlled and are the same
all over the country. The selling
price to oil companies is freely
negotiated.
lb(iii)- setting a fiscal regime                                                                  The fiscal regime on petroleum
for petroleum product imports                                                                      products has essentially remained
and exports.                                                                                      the same since 1992.



