Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 17954
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR THE PETROLEUM SECTOR
(Credit No. 2408 - EG)
June 5, 1998
Energy Unit
Infrastructure
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of January 20, 1997)
Currency Unit      =     CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00       =      CFAF 520
CFAF 1 million      =     US$1,923
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1    -     December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Bcpd        Barrels of Condensate Per Day
Bopd        Barrels of Oil Per Day
Bpd         Barrels Per Day
LPG         Liquefied Petroleum Gas
MMcf        Million Cubic Feet
MME         Ministry of Mines and Energy (formerly Ministry of Mines and
Hydrocarbons)
MMH         Ministry of Mines and Hydrocarbons
PSC         Production Sharing Contract
Vice President           .     Jean Louis Sarbib
Technical Manager              Mark Tomlinson
Country Director         :     Serge Michailof
Task Manager             :     Angel Baide



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR THE PETROLEUM
SECTOR
(Credit No. 2408 - EG)
Table of Contents
Page
Preface
Evaluation Summary                                     i-iii
PART I.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT             1
I.  PROJECT BACKGROUND                                  1
II.  STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES             3
III.  ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES                         4
IV.  MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT                7
V.  PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY                              8
VI.  BANK PERFORMANCE                                   9
VII. BORROWER PERFORMANCE                               9
VIII. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME                            10
IX.  FUTURE OPERATION                                  10
X.  KEY LESSONS LEARNED                                10
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of utheir ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
PART II.    STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Page
Table 1:    Summary of Assessments                                      12
Table 2:    Related Bank Credits                                        13
Table 3:    Project Timetable                                           14
Table 4:    Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimates and Actuals      14
Table 5:    Key Project Implementation Indicators                       15
Table 6:    Project Operation Indicators                                15
Table 7:    Studies in the Project                                      16
Table 8:    Project Costs and Financing                                 17
Table 9:    Economic Costs and Benefits                                 17
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants                                  18
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements              19
Table 12:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                               19
Table 13:    Bank Resources: Missions                                  20
PART III.   OTHER ANNEXES
A.           Aide Memoire of ICR Mission.                              21
B.           Borrower's final evaluation report.                        32
Map: IBRD 29416



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR THE PETROLEUM SECTOR
(Credit No. 2408 - EG)
Preface
1.          This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second
Technical Assistance Project for the Petroleum Sector in Equatorial Guinea, for which a
Credit 2408 EG in the amount of SDR 1.8 million was approved on July 2, 1992, and
made effective on November 20, 1992.
2.          The Credit was closed on the original closing date, June 30, 1997, and the
last disbursement took place on December 9, 1997. No cofinancing was involved.
3.          The ICR was prepared by Angel Baide (AFTG1) of the Africa Region, and
reviewed by Noureddine Bouzaher (AFTG1), Eric Daffem (IENOG), Harald Burmeister
(AFTS2), Renganaden Soopramanien (LEGAF), and Iain T. Christie (AFTP 1). The
Borrower reviewed the draft ICR and informed the Bank it had no comments on it.
4.          Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final mission from
November 30 to December 14, 1997. It is based on the mission's findings and on
material in the project file. The Borrower contributed by writing its own evaluation of
the project's execution and initial preparation. A translation of the Borrower's report is
included as an annex to the ICR.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR THE PETROLEUM SECTOR
(Credit No. 2408 - EG)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
i.    The World Bank has assisted oil sector development in Equatorial Guinea since
1981. First, the Bank was executing agency for two UNDP grants to promote exploration,
and then it financed with the same objective a First TA Project which closed in December
1989. The Second TA Project for Petroleum was declared effective in November 1992,
three years after the first had closed. In between those two dates, the Government signed
Production Sharing Contracts (PSCs) in April 1990 and in June 1992, respectively for the
Alba and the B Blocks, which would result in the current production of about 90,000
barrels per day (Bpd). The country's first hydrocarbon production began in December
1991, when Alba was put in operation with a production level of 3000 Bpd of condensate
(later increased to 8000 Bpd). This event triggered the identification and preparation of
the Second TA project.
ii.   The project focused on the Alba field operations, and was conceived as an
instrument to redress a perceived imbalance between the Operator, Walter International,
and the Government, and to correct deficiencies in the field's development plan, and in
safety and environmental aspects of operations. The Government had negotiated Alba's
PSC without any expert assistance, and the Government's share of field revenue was very
low. The Government had later approved the field's development plan proposed by the
operator without the benefit of an environmental impact assessment, and again without
expert assistance to review the proposed reservoir depletion strategy and the use of the
gas. The project would provide assistance to the Government in determining what the
optimal development plan should be, and what improvements were needed in the
operations, particularly concerning utilization of the gas, which was being flared, as well
as safety improvements and environmental mitigation. This would provide the basis for
negotiating the implementation of actions required with the operator during the
discussion of the annual work programs the operator has to submit to the Ministry for
review and approval.
Project Objectives
iii.   The project objectives were to: (a) ensure that the Borrower received maximum
and sustainable revenue from the production of the Alba field; (b) identify the most cost
effective methods to utilize the associated gas from Alba; (c) minimize the risks for the
environment of Alba's operations; (d) improve the efficiency of energy sector



- ii -
institutions; and (e) strengthen the capacity of the MMH to monitor the activities of oil
companies, and to evaluate the supply and pricing systems for petroleum products.
iv.   To achieve these objectives, the project included studies on: Alba's operations; a
revision of the oil exploration and production contractual framework; and improving
energy sector organization. The project also included technical assistance to: monitor oil
exploration and production activities; audit oil companies' financial operations; negotiate
contracts with the oil industry; and implement the recommendations of the studies. The
project also included training, rehabilitation of MME's building and provision of cars.
Implementation experience and results
v.    Project objectives were partially achieved. The project financed technical
assistance to monitor Alba's production and to audit financial operations, to set up
reporting and filing systems, and to train MME's staff. In 1995, the Government
requested a renegotiation of the Alba PSC, and consultants financed by the project helped
in justifying the request and in preparing renegotiations. However, in 1996 the operator
refused all changes and the Government decided not to insist for the time being'.
vi.   The project financed two studies of Alba's operations and an environmental
impact assessment as well. NOMECO, the current field operator, which took over from
developer Walter International in May 1995, is gradually implementing recommendations
for safety and environmental protection improvements, and for full utilization of the gas
that is currently being flared. By end 2000, all the gas will be used: an LPG production
plant was put in operation end-1997; a 10-MW power plant to supply Bioco's grid is
under construction; and a turn-key contract has just been signed for construction of a
methanol plant to be commissioned end-2000. NOMECO has announced plans for gas re-
injection, to maintain reservoir pressure, in connection with a planned expansion of
operations.
vii.  In early 1995, oil was discovered in Block B by Mobil. The Zafiro-Topacio
complex was developed and put in operation in only 18 months. Production began in
September 1996 at 40,000 Bpd, and increased to 80,000 Bpd one year later. The project
provided key assistance for the Government to maintain informed discussions on long-
term development plans and on annual work programs with the oil companies during this
period of very fast expansion. The project also financed assistance for the Government to
monitor exploration and production activities in the country during this dynamic period,
and to improve reporting and monitoring procedures.
viii.  The project financed a study on energy sector reorganization. One
recommendation was adopted, aiming to allow coherent policy-making from within one
single Ministry: to transfer electricity, formerly under the Ministry of Industry, to the
After project closing, in March 1998, the Government successfully renegotiated the PSC for the B block,
which was originally similar to Alba's PSC. The production of Block B is ten times that of Alba.



- iii -
Ministry of Mines and Hydrocarbons, which then became Ministry of Mines and Energy
(MME). The Ministry did not implement recommendations to improve control of
petroleum product distribution, for which assistance was foreseen under the project, or to
improve commercial operations in electricity. In the case of electricity, implementation
would have been supported by a follow on project that did not materialize.
ix.   A draft revised legal framework for hydrocarbons was prepared, but not finalized
nor enacted. The Government continues to discuss the draft texts and is seeking further
expert assistance. The project increased MME's technical capacity through training. The
project also financed rehabilitation of the Ministry's building and acquisition of cars.
x.    One factor that interfered with smooth project implementation was the Borrower's
reluctance to share information on oil sector operations because of confidentiality
concerns. The Ministry was wary of the possibility that international consultants would
leak sensitive information to oil companies with whom they might have ties, particularly
those companies drilling across the disputed maritime borders with Nigeria and Gabon.
As a result, consultants were not always given sufficient information to do their job
properly. However, a relationship of trust gradually developed with one of the consultants
financed by the project, which continues to be the Government's main advisor in the oil
sector even after the project closed. This was beneficial for the project and for the
country.
xi.   Another problem was the fact that the Borrower continuously fell behind in its
payments to the Bank for previous credits, which resulted in frequent suspension of
disbursements, disrupting project execution. The Borrower did not provide timely
information to the Bank on implementation progress. Project management and project
accounting were deficient. During project execution, only the accounts for the first year
were audited. The rest of the accounts were audited only after project completion.
Summary of findings, future TA and training, and key lessons learned
xii.   There was lack of commitment by the Borrower to some objectives, particularly,
the improvement of petroleum product importation and distribution. The first TA project
had identified problems, notably excessive import prices charged by the concessionnaire,
that the second TA project was supposed to help correct. The Bank appears not to have
correctly assessed Borrower commitment to certain objectives. Bank supervision was not
fully effective. In particular it failed to react to the problem of overdue audit reports.
xiii. The main lessons learned are: (a) the need for an unequivocal understanding of,
and agreement on, project objectives; (b) the need for openness on the part of the
Borrower in sharing sector information with the Bank and with consultants for assistance
to be effective; (c) the need, when project management capacity is limited, to include
assistance for this purpose in the project; and (d) the recognition that the modernization of
MIvME's structures and systems should have been given a higher priority.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
Second TA Project for the Petroleum Sector
Credit 2408-EG
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
I. PROJECT BACKGROUND
1.    The World Bank has assisted oil sector development in Equatorial Guinea since
1981. Between 1981 and 1983, the Bank was executing agency for two UNDP grants to
promote exploration; then, from 1983 to December 31, 1989, it financed the First TA
Project for the Petroleum Sector (Cr. 1304 EG). The Second TA Project for the Petroleum
Sector became effective on November 20, 1992, almost three years after the First TA
Project had closed. In the period between those two dates, the Government signed two
production sharing contracts (PSCs), one for the "Alba" Block and one for Block "B",
that would result in the current hydrocarbon production of about 90,000 Bpd. These two
PSCs determined the manner in which the Second TA Project was conceived and also the
project's contribution to Equatorial Guinea's oil sector development.
2.    The first PSC was signed with Walter International, an independent oil developer
from Texas, in April 1990, and the start of production from Alba, in December 1991, was
the event that triggered the identification of a second TA project. The project focused on
ensuring sustainable development of the field and on maximizing revenue from Alba for
the Government. The other PSC was signed with United Meridian Corporation (UMC) in
June 1992, just as the Second TA Project was being sent to the Board. Because of that,
the project documents do not mention the Block B contract. However, when in 1996-97
the Zafiro-Topacio complex in Block B was developed in record time by Mobil, the
project provided critical assistance for the Govermnent to keep on top of events. This was
one of the major benefits the project delivered for the country.
3.   It seems clear in retrospect that the Bank saw the project as an instrument to
redress the imbalance between Walter International and the Government in the Alba
operation. First of all, the Government's share was well below the minimum practiced in
neighboring countries, so there was a basis for the Government to try to negotiate a larger
share. Secondly, the field had been shown to be marginal, and there were reasons to
believe Walter International would try to minimize all costs, and favor a quick recovery
of its investment. This might result in less than optimum field-development operations,
shortening the field's useful life, reducing the total volume ultimately recovered from the
reservoir, and increasing environmental risks. It was important, therefore, that the
Government be able to determine independently the optimal development plan, and any
environmental mitigation measures needed. Finally, to ensure it received the share it was
due based on the PSC, the Government would need to exert close supervision of both
physical and financial operations. The World Bank wanted to help the Government
obtain adequate assistance and training for these tasks.



-2 -
4.    The Government, on the other hand, was very keen to ensure the success of the
country's first production operation after almost two decades of otherwise fruitless
exploration. Also, being aware of the marginal quality of the field, the Government may
have been under the impression that the investment carried considerable risk . With the
neighboring countries being already established oil producers, the Government probably
felt it needed to offer contractual terms that would make Equatorial Guinea competitive.
Furthermore, from the Government's point of view, the possibility the contract offers for
the contractor to divert the potential Government share of oil revenue to reinvestment
may not have been much of a problem, as it was consistent with the Government's desire
to encourage further exploration.
5.    Oil exploration in Equatorial Guinea increased considerably after 1980. In 1984,
REPSOL (Spain) discovered the Alba gas-and-condensate field offshore the island of
Bioco. A thorough feasibility study of Alba field development, completed in 1986,
showed the field to be of marginal interest. REPSOL then lost interest in Alba, and the
PSC was rescinded in February 1990. The feasibility study had estimated the investment
needed for the simplest development scheme, with production only of condensate and
flaring of all associated gas, to be of the order of US$350 million . It also had considered
different possible uses for the gas after separation of the condensate, including production
of liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), production of either methanol or ammonia, and
reinjection to maintain reservoir pressure. The estimated rates of return were low, so the
study concluded that, if the field was ever developed, the operator should try to minimize
investment and operation costs and aim for fast product recovery.
6.    In April 1990, the Government signed a new PSC for the Alba Block with Walter
International which proceeded to develop on a shoe-string. According to the MOP, its
investment was only US$36 million. Walter installed a 38-km long submarine pipeline,
and built a condensate separation plant onshore Bioco. Production started in December
1991, initially at a level of 3,000 barrels of condensate per day (Bcpd), with flaring of the
associated gas after separation of the condensate. In May 1995, Walter International sold
all its rights to a consortium led by Houston-based CMS-NOMECO, which then became
Alba's operator. Current production is about 6000 Bcpd and 2000 Bpd of LPG. About 80
million cubic feet (MMcf) of gas are flared every day.
7.    Based on the PSC, the Government's take from Alba includes an off-the-top
royalty of 10 percent of sales, and a share in the production increasing in steps as a
function of the operator's rate of return. The contract allows the operator to recover a
series of "oil costs", both investment and operation. When these costs cannot be
compensated in a given year, they can be carried forward. After the first five years, the
2
Experience has shown the field to be larger than originally estimated. Walter International may have done
a more exact assessment of the field's potential from the available data than the previous licensee.
3
The project's MOP gives the estimated development cost as US$150 million. This may be a revised
estimate by REPSOL after the consultants delivered their final report.



- 3 -
Contractor pays income tax at a rate of 25 percent. The contract, which the Government
negotiated without the benefit of any expert assistance, is very favorable to the Operator.
8.    The key features of the PSC are that: (a) after royalty payment, all of the
remaining revenue can be applied to recover oil costs; and (b) as long as the operator's
rate of return does not exceed 30 percent, the Government's share in production is zero.
Given that no boundaries are specified for the producing field within the licensed block,
and the fact that blocks are huge, the operator, by re-investing enough oil revenue in new
exploration, is able to keep its rate of return below the 30 percent threshold ensuring not
only that the Government's share in production will remain at zero, but also that less
income tax will be paid. The Bank thought the Government had a case to try to redress
the imbalance with the project's help, and believed this also to be the Government's idea.
9.    However, just as the project was being sent to the Board, the Government signed
the PSC for Block B, again without the benefit of any expert assistance for negotiations.
The terms of the contract were similar to those for Alba. This shows a disconnect
between the Bank's and the Government's understanding of the project objectives. The
activities in Block B, where oil was found in 1995, would result in a change of focus for
the project from 1996 on. Investment by Mobil-UMC for the development of the Zafiro-
Topacio complex was of the order of US$1 billion in only 18 months. The field was
developed using cutting-edge technology. Current production is 80,000 barrels of oil per
day (Bopd) with an increase to 120,000 Bopd projected in one to two years.
II. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
10.   The project objectives were to: (a) ensure that the Borrower received maximum
and sustainable revenue from the production of the Alba field; (b) identify the most cost
effective methods to utilize the associated gas from Alba; (c) minimize the risks for the
environment of Alba's operations; (d) improve the efficiency of energy sector
institutions; and (e) strengthen the capacity of the MMH to monitor the activities of oil
companies, and to evaluate the supply and pricing systems for petroleum products.
11.   To achieve these objectives, the project included the following components:
Part A Studies covering the following: (1) designing the most efficient way to develop
the Alba field; (2) identifying the most cost-effective methods to utilize the products
separated from the Alba flare; (3) assessing the environmental impact of Alba's
operations and identifying appropriate measures to address problems detected; (4)
revising the petroleum exploration and production contractual framework; and (5)
improving the organization of the institutions involved in the energy sector.
Part B Technical assistance for the following: (1) monitoring the production of Alba;
(2) monitoring exploration activities carried out in the country; (3) reviewing audit
reports on Contractor's expenditures; (4) evaluating the Contractor's development assets;
(5) negotiating new contracts, or renewal of existing contracts with oil companies; (6)
applying the recommendations of the Alba gas-utilization study; (7) applying the



-4-
recommendations of Alba's environmental-impact assessment; (8) applying the
recommendations of the study on improving the energy sector's institutional framework;
(9) establishing a data-filing and statistical system within the MMH; and (10) improving
control of petroleum product supply, conservation, transport and distribution.
Part C Training of MMH personnel, including scholarships, tuition, travel and
subsistence for MMH Engineers.
Part D Rehabilitation of the MMH building, and acquisition of two field vehicles.
12.   The objectives were clear, and important for the country. They also were in
agreement with the World Bank's implicit country assistance strategy. In view of the
great increase in oil sector activities that later materialized, they now appear as too
narrow, focusing as they did on the small Alba field. For the same reason, the project
documents now appear as too ambitious when stating the objective of the project was to
create capacity so that by the closing date the Government would not need any more
external assistance. However, despite the narrow statement of project objectives, the
project did respond to the actual needs as activities accelerated with the development and
coming in line of the Zafiro-Topacio complex. The project financed key assistance for the
Government to deal with Mobil-UMC concerning this important field, which now
accounts for 90 percent of the country's oil production.
III. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
13.   The objectives of the project were achieved partially. In some cases, it is not
possible to say how much the project contributed to the attainment of the desired results,
because implementation was done by Alba's operator, NOMECO, which has taken the
initiative to upgrade its installations and operations to international oil-industry standards.
However, the Government has used the studies and recommendations result of project-
financed assistance in discussing with the operator the annual work programs. These
work programs have been the vehicle for implementation of the recommended measures.
(a. 1)  Maximum revenue from the production of Alba   Partially achieved
The project financed technical assistance to monitor Alba's production as well as
exploration in the Block, and to audit Alba's financial operations. Also, to set up
reporting and data-filing systems, as well as related training for MME personnel. The
project also financed assistance for discussions with oil companies on the application of
tax provisions included in the PSC and in the tax code, when Alba's income tax holiday
ended in 1996. In 1995, the Government requested NOMECO to renegotiate the financial
and other clauses of Alba's PSC. The project had financed assistance to justify this
request, including cash-flow simulations under different scenarios, and to prepare
renegotiation. In May 1996, the Government informed the Bank that NOMECO had



-5-
refused all changes, and that the Government had decided not to insist, preferring to wait
for a better moment . The Bank accepted the Government's decision when informed of it.
(a.2)  Sustainable revenue from Alba  Partially achieved
The purpose was to determine independently the optimal depletion strategy for the
Alba reservoir, and to have the Operator implement that strategy in developing the field.
The project financed two studies, one very brief, the other more extensive, to assess
Alba's operations and to identify possible improvements. Both studies analyzed briefly
the issues of reservoir life and total recovered volume under different depletion scenarios.
The second study recommended a feasibility study of gas reinjection to maintain reservoir
pressure. The operator has studied this, and has announced plans for gas reinjection (see
next paragraph). NOMECO appears to be developing the field in an optimal manner.
(b)   Most cost-effective utilization of Alba's gas  Partially achieved
The studies mentioned in the preceding paragraph also dealt with possible uses of
gas. Except for gas reinjection, most of the studies' recommendations have been
implemented, or are being implemented by the Operator. By the end of year 2000, all gas
presently being flared will be utilized: (i) an LPG production plant (2000 Bpd) was
commissioned end-1997; (ii) a gas-turbine power plant (10 MW) to supply Bioco's grid
is under construction; and (iii) a contract has been signed for construction of a methanol
plant (2500 tons/day) to be commissioned by end-2000. Expansion plans, based on a
reassessment of reservoir size, include gas reinjection to maintain reservoir pressure.
(c)   Mitigation of Alba's environmental risks   Partially achieved
The study financed an environmental impact assessment that identified
deficiencies of the installations, and environmental risks, and made a series of
recommendations for improvements. NOMECO has been gradually implementing those
recommendations.
(d)   More efficient energy sector institutions   Partially achieved
The project financed a study on energy sector reorganization. The study was done
in only three months, and its recommendations are of a general nature. It did not make
any detailed recommendations on the proper organizational structure and systems needed
to efficiently manage oil sector development based on the tasks to be accomplished. One
of the study's recommendations, aiming to allow development of a coherent energy
policy from within one single Ministry, was adopted: the transfer of electricity, until then
under the Ministry of Industry, to the Ministry of Mines and Hydrocarbons, which after
that became known as the Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME).
4
In March 1998, the Government successfully renegotiated the PSC for Block B, with a substantial
improvement of conditions on all the same aspects it wants to correct in the case of Alba.



-6 -
The study also recommended improvements in commercial operations of
electricity and petroleum-product distribution, and the dissolution of state-owned
enterprises in both sectors. These recommendations were not implemented. Assistance to
improve petroleum product distribution, but not to dissolve the state-owned company,
was part of the project (see below). For electricity, implementation would have been
supported by a follow on project identified in 1993. Preparation included a study on the
rehabilitation and expansion of the country's power systems, financed by the petroleum
project. This study included recommendations to improve power sector organization and
institutionality. However, preparation of the new project was suspended in 1995, after
suffering many interruptions.
The project also financed assistance to revise and complete the legal and
regulatory framework for hydrocarbons. MME, with consultant assistance, prepared a
draft legal package, but the documents were not finalized. This work, including a revision
of the model PSC, continues to be discussed by the Government, which is seeking further
expert assistance to finalize the legal texts, and intends then to enact the revised legal
framework. MME sought the advice and comments on this matter not only of the
consultants hired for this specific purpose, but also of consultants working on other
components. MME also consulted the oil companies, which responded by submitting a
complete proposal for hydrocarbon regulations, with a strong engineering emphasis.
Training provided by the project increased MME's capacity and efficiency.
Rehabilitation of MME's building, and provision of cars also contributed to the objective.
(e. 1) Greater capacity to monitor the activities of oil companies Achieved
The project financed technical assistance for monitoring production and
exploration activities. This assistance included on-the-job training. The project also
provided other training seminars and courses, mostly within the framework of consulting
contracts. These actions had a major impact on MME's capacity to monitor oil companies
activities. The TA and training the project financed also enhanced the learning effects of
the practical experience gained in recent years.
(e.2) Greater capacity to evaluate supply and pricing systems for petroleum products
Not achieved
The project financed consultant services to help the Government correct problems
in petroleum product distribution. A study financed under the First TA Project had found
less than transparent procurement, and excessive CIF prices of petroleum products
imported by the sole distributor, GE Total. However, the Government did not accept the
consultants' recommendations, and activities under this component were suspended at the
end of 1994. The most likely explanation is that the Government was not in a strong
position due to its accumulated debt vis-a-vis GE Total. The Government has large
arrears with GE Total, which is a joint venture of Total Afrique and the Government.



-7 -
IV. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
14.   The major factors affecting project execution were: (a) the important oil
discoveries and the rapid increase of exploration and production activities; (b) the
professionalism and technical competence of the operators; (c) the inadequacy of
Government and MME's bureaucracy to deal with a dynamic sector; (d) the Borrower's
reluctance to share information with consultants and with the Bank because of
confidentiality concerns; and (e) the equivocal agreement on objectives between the
Government and the World Bank.
15.   The rapid increase in oil sector activities put great stress on the Government's
capacity to fulfill its responsibilities in terms of informed discussion of development
plans, and close supervision of operations. This pressure contributed to the gradual
development of a close working relationship with one of MME's consultants financed by
the project. Once trust was established, this assistance was key in allowing MME to
manage adequately a very dynamic period of sector development.
16.   On the other hand, discussion with oil companies and supervision of their
activities has been less difficult for the Government and its consultants on account of the
professionalism and technical competence of both operators currently producing oil in the
country. Since mid 1995, when NOMECO took over the Alba field, operations have
been evolving towards international standards. NOMECO has gradually improved
reporting procedures, safety, and environmental protection. As for Zafiro-Topacio, Mobil
has developed the field with extraordinary attention to data gathering and analysis,
seeking to determine the most efficient rate of production. Another factor deserving
mention is the training of local technicians by the oil companies, which is an obligation in
the respective PSCs but also is being undertaken with genuine interest by Mobil, UMC
and NOMECO.
17.   The Government's bureaucracy, including MME, is less than modem, and this
interfered with project execution. MME's structure is top heavy, and tends to repress
initiative and the flow of information. Even simple decisions are referred to higher
management which find themselves overloaded, and information is compartmentalized,
limiting effectiveness of the technicians that are in charge of supervising oil sector
activities. This environment limited the effectiveness of consultants' work, as well as that
of Bank supervision missions. The project also was affected by frequent and prolonged
suspension of disbursements because the country fell behind in its payments to the Bank
for previous credits . This, in particular, caused the interruption of preparation activities
for the follow on project that was being considered in 1994-95.
18.   Dealings with oil companies and information on oil operations were kept
confidential, which means on the one hand that the Bank was not informed, but also that
S
During the 30-month period from January 1995 to the closing of the credit on June 30, 1997, the Bank
suspended disbursements on five occasions, for a total accumulated duration of 1714 months.



- 8-
some consultants were not given sufficient information to do their job properly. This
limited the effectiveness of the technical assistance the project financed. MME seems to
have been wary of the possibility that international consultants would share sensitive
information with oil companies with whom they might have ties, particularly those
companies drilling across the disputed maritime borders with Nigeria and Gabon. In the
area of work-program analysis and monitoring of physical activities, as already
explained, the circumstances led to the gradual development of a relationship of trust with
one of the consultants, which was beneficial for MME and for the project.
19.   Another important factor affecting project implementation was the equivocal
agreement on project objectives between the Bank and the Government which was a
source of misunderstandings and friction. At the time of project preparation, the Ministry
had agreed that one of the main uses of the TA provided by the project would be to seek
increased revenue from Alba. Events showed the Government was actually ambivalent
about following this strategy at a time when oil production was only beginning, and also
that, given the country's circumstances at the time, the ability of obtaining up front cash
had a higher value for the government than the promise of greater benefits in the future.
V. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
20.   Sustainability of the project achievements is likely. Only political instability
could seriously threaten project sustainability.
21.   The project helped the Government maintain control of oil sector development
during a major expansion of operations, contributing to ensure the adoption of optimal
long-term development plans. It helped organize data and establish monitoring and
reporting procedures enabling MME to adequately monitor oil-sector activities. It built up
capacity through training. These are all elements contributing to sustainability.
22.  It is reasonable to expect that with increasing revenues, Government will
gradually modernize, leading to more efficient management of oil-sector development. In
this respect, a new program of technical assistance and training would contribute to
sustainability. In view of the greatly increased oil revenue, such future assistance and
training can be financed by the country itself. It is not clear at this point whether the Bank
will have a role in assisting future oil sector development.
23.   There is a clear incentive to improve sector management, and the Government
appears committed to this goal. Indeed, better sector management means a greater share
of oil revenue for the country over a longer period of time. However, sustainability will
be threatened if oil revenue is perceived to benefit only an elite. In this sense,
transparency in the flow of oil revenue from production to the treasury, and its use for
increasing the general welfare, are essential to long-term sustainability of what the
country has achieved with the help of external assistance under this and previous projects.



-9-
VI. BANK PERFORMANCE
24.   The World Bank's performance was unsatisfactory.
25.   The project was identified, prepared, appraised and negotiated in only four
months, from February to May, 1992. This entailed some costs. The Bank appears to
have underestimated the impact of the Borrower's uncertain commitment to objectives.
The objective of increasing the Government's share of Alba's revenue seems to have
been at odds with the Government's implicit sector development strategy and priorities.
The Bank either ignored the dilemma this posed for the Government, or failed to
correctly gauge the Government's lack of commitment. The Bank also ignored or failed
to realize the pressures the Government would be facing to use the PSCs as a means to
obtain immediate funds.
26.   The successful exploration and development of new production, which gradually
changed the focus from Alba, delayed detection of problems with achievement of project
objectives as originally defined. This explains in part the disconnect between project
ratings during execution and at project completion. Also, negotiation of an increased
share from Alba could have been done in a relatively short time, as was the case for
Zafiro-Topacio, after project closing, where the whole process took only four months.
Time in the field suffered in part because of the disruption created by the Bank's
reorganization in 1996, and the difficulties it brought about in organizing trips, combined
with the implicit lower priority this project had on account of the small credit amount.
Project supervision did not react in time to the problem of overdue audits and inadequate
project accounting. The project would have benefited from assistance for project
management which could have been financed by the Credit, but this possibility was never
raised by supervision missions.
VII. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
27.   Borrower performance was unsatisfactory.
28.   The Borrower needed and wanted the technical assistance and training the Bank's
credit would finance, as well as the possibility it offered to promote the country's oil
potential abroad, but was not committed to objectives aimed at redressing anomalies with
the Alba operation and with petroleum product import and distribution.
29.   The rigid hierarchical structures and procedures, the lack of incentives for
individual initiative, the restrictions on the flow of information, interfered with efficient
project execution. These problems were reflected in the arrangements (or lack thereof) for
management of project finances. Project accounting was deficient. The accountant was
never given all of the information on the project operations. Incomplete records were
kept, making it impossible to determine the local contribution to project financing at
project completion. The project's Special Account was opened in CFA Francs, which
resulted in an exchange loss of close to US$24,000 when the Franc CFA was devalued.
During the period of project execution, the project accounts were audited only for year



- 10-
1993. Audit of project accounts was completed for the rest of the years only after the
closing date.
30.   The Borrower negotiated amendments to the PSCs for Alba and for Block B to
get cash advances against future oil revenue. This seems to have had a higher priority
than the long-term objective of maximizing revenue for the country. Because the deals
struck for this purpose with the oil companies were at odds with the project objectives as
agreed with the Bank, the Government chose to keep the Bank in the dark. The
Government also limited information to its consultants. Progress reports were submitted
only on a couple of occasions. In general, communication of information to the Bank
was very deficient. MME did not authorize the consultants to send their reports to the
Bank, because data on oil operations was considered confidential. One of the legal
covenants in the Credit Agreement required that all oil revenue be entered into the
Government's annual budget (into the treasury). It was not possible during project
supervision to verify compliance with this covenant.
VIH. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
31.   The project outcome is unsatisfactory. Although the project achieved important
physical objectives during a critical period in oil sector development, it failed to achieve
other important objectives: increased revenue from Alba, modernization of the legal
framework, and improvements in petroleum product distribution. On the other hand, it is
fair to say that the project was most probably a factor in allowing the Government to
successfully renegotiate the PSC for Zafiro-Topacio in March, 1998.
IX. FUTURE OPERATION
32.   Oil activities in Equatorial Guinea are still growing. The type of support this
project provided is even more important now, with the substantial increase in oil
exploration and production taking place in the country. The experience gained and the
know-how contributed by the project will be required and put to good use in the future.
X. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
33.   The following lessons can be learned from this project. (a) An unequivocal
understanding of, and agreement on, project objectives are necessary for achieving those
objectives. The Bank should not overestimate its leverage to get the Borrower later to go
along with objectives the Bank considers desirable, but the Borrower is not committed to.
(b) Openness on the part of the Borrower in sharing sector information with the Bank and
with consultants is indispensable for technical assistance to be fully effective. (c) Proper
arrangements for project management, including external assistance should have been a
condition for effectiveness in view of limited local capacity. (d) The modernization of
MME's structures and systems should have been given a higher priority during project
design and execution.



- 11 -
PART HI: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:  Summary of Assessment
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:  Project Timetable
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions



- 12-
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial       Partial        Negligible      Not applicable
(e              (V)              (e              (V)
Macro Policies                      El              El               Cl
Sector Policies                    E]                                a                E
Financial Objectives                Q               5                3                 E
Institutional Development           0               x                E                 E
Physical Objectives                I                E                E                 E
Environmental Objectives            0                                  l               E l
Public Sector Management           E]               x                E                 E
B. Project Sustainability              Likely                  Unlikely                 Uncertain
(1)                      (/)                        (/)
Highly
C. Bank Performance                     satisfactory          Satisfactory               Deficient
Identification                      El                                                 x
Preparation Assistance               m                                                  1 E
Appraisal                           E                        El
Supervision                         E                        El
D. Borrower Performance                       satisfactory    Satisfactory    Deficient
V)             (V (/)
Preparation                                  El                              El
Implementation                                 l             El                l
Covenant Compliance                          El              E 
E. Assessment of Outcome               satisfactory    Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
El)             El)                                 El)



- 13-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title      Purpose             Year of approval      Status
Preceding operafions
1. Petroleum Sector   To assist the Govemment    FY83              Closed
Technical Assistance  in developing the
Project (Cr. 1304-EG) hydrocarbon resources of
the country and to
strengthen the technical
capability of MMH staff.
2. Bank-executed    To train the Ministry of     FY83              Closed
UNDP Grant          Mines and Hydrocarbon
(MMH) staff.
3. Bank-executed    To attract oil industry in   FY81              Closed
UNDP Grant          the exploration for
petroleum of the country's
sedimnentary basins.
Following operations
1.
2.
3.



- 14-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps- in Project Cycle        Date Planned          Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (FEPS)                                      February 1992
Preparation                            1991                February 1991 to
March 1992
Appraisal                                                  March 1992
Negotiations                                               May 1992
Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)
Board Presentation                     June 1992           July 2, 1992
Signing                                July 10, 1992       July 22, 1992
Effectiveness                          September 1992      November 20, 1992
First Tranche Release (if applicable)                                         l
Midterm review (if applicable)                             Not applicable
Second (and Third) Tranche Release (if
applicable)
Project Completion                     December 31, 1996   June 30, 1997
Credit Closing                         June 30, 1997       June 30, 1997
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY92      FY93       FY94      FY95       FY96       FY97
Appraisal        0.10       1.05       1.75      2.20       2.43       2.43
Estimate
Actual             0        0.15      0.40       1.43       1.93       2.47
Actual as % of     0        14.3      22.9       65.0       79.4      101.6
Estimate
Date of Final   December 9, 1997
Disbursement



- 15-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation       _
Indicators in President's  Estimated               Actual
Report
1. Increase of long-term       .       .           Oil revenue increased from
government oil revenues.    No estnates given,     about US$3M/yr to about
US$40M/yr.
2. Increased government    No estimates given.     From about US$3M/yr to
revenue from Alba                                  about 5 US$M/yr.
production.
3. Oil companies operating   No estimates given.   Alba (NOMECO): improved
according to international                         situation.
industry standards.                                Block B (Mobil-UMC): yes
4. Government savings in    No estimates given.    No improvement.
petroleum product
procurement.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
1. Key Operating
Indicators in President's     Estimated                  Actual
Report
1. MME carrying out its  By 1995.                  Not yet achieved due to
tasks by themselves.                            greatly increased exploration
and production.
II. Modified Indicators (if
Applicable)                                                             l
1 .
2.
3.
III. Modified Indicators for
Future Operation (if
applicable)
2.
3.



- 16-
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study               Purpose             Status             Impact
1. Designing most    Give MME basis for    Done.         Has contributed to improved
efficient way to    discussing annual work               operations.
develop Alba field.    programs with field
operator. 
2. Identifying the  Give MME basis for     Canceled, as   Studies on use of gas
most cost effective  discussing annual work   subject was    contributed to projects for (a)
methods to utilize the  programs with field  covered by    LPG production (actual);
products separated  operator.              (1), and also   (b) electricity generation
from Alba's flare.                         by previous   (1999); (c) methanol
studies.     production (2000).
3. Assessment of    Give MME basis for     Done.         Some measures have been
Alba's environmental  discussing annual work             implemented. Others being
impact. Identification  programs with field              gradually included in annual
of mitigation plan.    operator.                         work programs.
4. Revision of legal   Modernize legal     Draft legal    Has served as basis for
framework for       framework for          framework    discussion both within
petroleum exploration  hydrocarbons.       completed.    government and with oil
and production.                                          companies. MME seeking
further TA to finalize texts.
Government intends to enact
revised framework in 1998.
5. Energy sector    Improve energy sector    Done.       Oversight of all of energy
reorganization.     organization.                        sector consolidated under
MME.
6. Power sector     To draft plan for power   Done.      Recommended gas-fueled
rehabilitation and  sector improvements.                 power plant for Bioco under
development.                                             construction.
7. Evaluation of    To promote exploration   Done.       Two blocks offshore
hydrocarbons        onshore and offshore Rio             Rio Muni recently licensed
potential of Rio Muni  Muni.                             to Triton.
area.



- 17-
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Esfimate (US$M)            Actual (US$M)
(including contingencies)
Local   Foreign    Total    Local    Foreign     Total
Item                Costs    Costs              Costs      Costs
1. Consulting Services    0.40  1.60      2.00     N.A.       N.A.      2.17
2. Training                     0.55      0.55                0.25      0.25 1'
3. Building                     0.11      0.11                0.12      0.12
Rehabilitation
4. Field Vehicles       -        0.04     0.04                0.06      0.06
TOTAL COST            0.40     2.30      2.70     N.A.       N.A.      2.62
1/ Part of the training was included in the consulting contracts.
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)           Actual (US$M)
Local   Foreign   Total    Local    Foreign      Total
Source               Costs    Costs              Costs     Costs
IBRD/IDA               0.13      2.30     2.43     N.A.       N.A.      2.62
Government             0.27       --      0.27    0.3 (est)             0.30
TOTAL                 0.40      2.30     2.70     N.A.       N.A.      2.92
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not ApplicableI



-18-
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section  Covenant Present  Original   Revised           Description of             Comments
type    status  fulfillment fulfillment      covenant
date      date
DCA      2.02 (b)     I        C                           Opening of Special      Account was opened in CFA
Account in US dollars.    francs. Devaluation caused a
loss of US$24,000.
DCA      3.02         10       C                           Procurement governed by
Schedule 3.
DCA      3.03 (a)     4        C                          Open counterpart funding.
DCA      3.03 (b)     11    Unknown                        From FY93 on, enter all oil No evidence of compliance
revenues into annual    could be obtained.
budget.
DCA      3.05         6        CP                          Alba field environment  Study completed. No global
assessment. Agreement on  action plan and timetable.
action plan and timetable. Recommendations are being
gradually implemented within
annual work programs.
DCA      3.06 (a)     10       CP                          Submit a training plan.  An incomplete program was
submitted.
DCA      3.06 (b)     10       CP                          Trained staff to remain in   Because of rapid growth in
assigned job.           sector activity many trained
staff had to be reassigned.
DCA      3.07         9        CP                          Carry out in-depth review.  In depth review carried out
Submit report to Bank.    jointly 5/96. Results in Aide-
memoire. No borrower
report
DCA      4.01 (a)     I       NC                           Maintain records and    Records are incomplete.
accounts in accordance with Accounting information is
sound accounting practices. dispersed.
DCA      4.01 (b)     I        CP                         Audit accounts and furnish  Only audit report for 1993
report to the Bank.     was submitted.
DCA      4.01 (c)     I       NC                          Maintain records for     Records are incomplete.
expenditures covered by
SOEs. Enable Bank to
examine records.
Covenant types:
1. =  Accounts/audits                              8. = Indigenous people
2. =  Financial perfornance/revenue generation from  9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                10. = Project inplementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds        11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4. =  Counterpart funding                                allocation
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing  12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
agency                                             regulatory/institutional action
6. =  Environmental covenants                      13. = Other
7. =  Involuntary resettlement
8. Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with



-19-
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title       Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1. OD 10.60                             Only one audit report submitted during project
Accounting, Financial Reporting and  execution.
Auditing
2. OD 12.20                              Special account opened in CFA francs, not in
Special Accounts                     US$, as established in DCA, which could
exchange less of US$24,000. - when CFA franc
was devalued.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                    Planned       Revised         Actual
Project Cycle                 Pla med       RveAtl
Weeks US$  Weeks US$  Weeks            US$
(thousands)
Preparation to Appraisal                                    14.9     36.1
Appraisal-Board
Negotiations through Board                                  2.0       4.8
Approval
Supervision                                                69.6    198.2
Completion                                                           13.1
TOTAL



- 20 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Perfomnance Rating
Number                      Specilized       Implemen-        Develop-
Stage of         Month/         of         Days in        Staff Skills       tation          ment          Types of
Projet Cycle         Year       Persons       Field         Represented        Status        Objectives      Problems
Through Appraisal       2/92            2           20             E, EG
Appraisal through       3/92            2           20             E, EG              _
Board Approval
Supervision             8/92            1            3              PS
1/93          1             5              PS                2               2
2/94           1            7               PS               2               2
10/94          1             7              PS                S               S
2/95          2             10            PE, PS             S               S
12/95          3            5*           PE, ES, EE           U               S
5/96          2            10            PE, ES              S               S
Completion              12/97           1           14              PE                U               U             U
(cons 2)
* Meetings held in Washington with a delegation from MME, and with consultants from
two consulting firns working in the project.



- 21 -
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
SECOND PETROLEUM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PART III: Aide Memoire
(World Bank mission of November 30 - December 14, 1997)
1.    A World Bank mission composed of Angel Baide, Power Engineer and Task Manager,
and of Karen Marie Pagh Nielsen and Fleming Ole Rasmussen, experts of the Danish
company RAMBOLL, visited Equatorial Guinea between November 30 and December
14, 1997, to carry out the Implementation Completion mission for the Second
Petroleum Technical Assistance Project. The project was closed on June 30, 1997, as
specified in the Credit Agreement. The mission wishes to thank the authorities of the
Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME) for their collaboration.
2.    This mission had two main purposes:  (a) to review with MME the most recent
assistance provided under the project, especially by QUAD Engineering in connection
with the development of the Zafiro-Topacio complex by Mobil; and (b) to make a joint
analysis of Project execution and benefits, and to draw the lessons that can be derived
for the future, as a basis for preparing the project's implementation completion report.
In preparation for this analysis, MME had produced a draft version of its own report
on project execution, which was discussed with the World Bank during the mission.
3.    Using a Danish Trust Fund, the World Bank hired the Danish consulting company
RAMBOLL to help in the supervision mission and to perform three specific tasks: (a)
to make an independent evaluation of the execution and impact of the project; (b) to
evaluate the present situation and needs of the hydrocarbon sector; and (c) to propose a
new program of technical assistance and training.
Recent developments in the sector
4.    Since the last supervision mission in May 1996, sector activities have continued
expanding at a rapid pace. At the end of 1996, the production of the Zafiro-Topacio
complex (Block B), which Mobil had brought into production the previous September,
reached 40,000 barrels/day. In September 1997, Mobil increased production to 80,000
b/d, the present level. By the end of November 1997, two drilling platforms, which
are operating continuously in the block, had drilled a total of 15 exploration wells,
eight of which had resulted in oil discoveries. The work program for 1998 submitted
by Mobil includes installation of a new production platform that will make it possible
to increase the Zafiro-Topacio output by a further 40 to 70,000 b/d. In addition, Mobil
proposes to start water injection. An initial well for water injection was spudded
during the mission.



- 22 -
5.    NOMECO has drilled three exploration wells in the Alba Block. One of them, Luba
East, discovered gas and condensate, and another, Riaba (April 1977) struck oil. The
LPG plant at Punta Europa, with a capacity of 2,000 b/d, came on stream in November
1997. With this operation, the volume of gas being flared was reduced by 10%.
MME has entered into an agreement with NOMECO to build a gas-turbine power plant
(2x5 .2 MW) at Punta Europa. The plant will be government-owned and its cost,
estimated at US$11 million, will be classified as an operating cost for contract purposes
(PSC). This plant will be brought into operation in 1999 and, at full capacity, will use
approximately 2 % of the gas available. It will be operated by a private operator (which
could be CMS, NOMECO's parent) and the electricity generated will be delivered for
distribution to the system operator, SEGESA. The conditions of this sale have not yet
been negotiated. Finally, after Government's approval, CMS formed a new company
for methanol production. The 2,500 tons/day plant will be built at Punta Europa under
a turnkey contract and will start operations at the end of the year 2000. The plant will
use all of the gas still available.
6.    UMC has drilled two exploration wells, one of which, Tsavorita (Block D), struck oil.
MME, with assistance from QUAD Engineering, carried out various promotion
activities. To this end QUAD updated on two different occasions in 1997 a
promotional brochure it had first prepared in 1995. The promotion has produced
positive results: in September 1997 the Government granted Triton, an American
company, the first two blocks offshore Rio Muni. MME has also received applications
from at least three companies for blocks to the southwest of Bioko, a zone where no
exploration has taken place so far.
Finalization of the project
7.    The project closed on June 30, 1997, the date originally specified in the Credit
Agreement. In accordance with the general conditions applicable to IDA credit
agreements, the period up to October 31, 1997, was the grace period for requesting
disbursements for services rendered prior to the closing date. MME submitted the last
disbursement requests at the end of October and the respective payments were made in
December 1997, after MME provided supplementary data requested by the Bank
regarding the Special Account. As of the final closing of the credit, all the funds had
been disbursed. Table 1 shows the breakdown by disbursement category of the original
amounts and of actual disbursements under the credit.



- 23 -
Table 1. Disbursements by Category
Cat.         Description                         Original,         Actual,
SDR               SDR
1      Consulting services                      1,000,000       1,490,136.58
2      Training                                  400,000          172,750.98
3      Building rehabilitation                    70,000           81,039.33
4      Vehicles                                   30,000           40,165.52
5      PPF refinancing                            110,000               0.00
6      Unallocated                                190,000               0.00
Exchange loss on Special Account               0.00         15,907.59
TOTAL                                   1,800,000.00     1,800,000.00
8.    Since the beginning of 1995, QUAD Engineering's assistance, originally contracted for
monitoring Alba Block activities, was increasingly oriented toward monitoring of
Mobil's activities in Block B. From mid-1996 onward, QUAD Engineering's work
was concentrated entirely on the monitoring of Block B's development. To formalize
this situation, in October 1996 MME signed an extension of its contract with QUAD to
cover inspection services for production and exploration in that block. Under this
contract extension, QUAD assisted MME in the analysis of the work programs
proposed by Mobil, in discussions with the operator, in the supervision of exploration
and production activities, in the establishment of the pertinent monitoring systems,
including reporting and data-recording systems, and in training of Ministry's staff.
9.    This assistance, covering the development and startup of Zafiro-Topacio, was critical
in enabling MME to conduct adequate negotiations with Mobil on field development
plans and to monitor the intense operations. Following credit closing, MME is
continuing to use QUAD Engineering's services for assistance in monitoring
production and exploration activities. The relationship with QUAD has developed into
a fruitful collaboration of great value for MME. The Ministry now relies on QUAD
for advice on all aspects of petroleum activity.
10.   For its part, Beicip-Franlab completed the report on the potential of the Rio Muni area
after taking into account MME's comments and the discussion of the report in Malabo
in May 1996.   This report compiles the existing information and presents
interpretations of the data. The report also recommends additional work (conversion of



- 24 -
seismic lines, detailed mapping of special areas, horizontal mapping, geochemical
studies, modeling of the basin, etc.) that is needed to be able to make new
interpretations of this zone's potential.
Evaluation of the execution of the project
11.   MME and the mission reviewed the project's design and execution. The project's
objectives, as set forth in the Credit Agreement, are: (a) to ensure that Equatorial
Guinea derives maximum and sustainable revenues from the Alba field's production;
(b) to identify the most cost-effective methods for utilizing the gas from the Alba field;
(c) to minimize hazards for the marine and land environment during the field's
production; (d) to improve the efficiency of energy sector institutions; and (e) to
strengthen MME's capacity to monitor oil companies' activities, and to evaluate the
supply and price systems for petroleum products.
12.   The project's components were classified in four parts, as follows: Part A: Studies;
Part B: Technical Assistance; Part C: Training; and Part D: Rehabilitation of MME's
building and procurement of two field vehicles. The way in which the different project
components were executed is described below.
Part A: Studies
13.   Design of the most cost-effective method for developing the Alba field. BEICIP had
completed a preliminary analysis on this topic at the beginning of 1993, financed by the
World Bank under a public sector technical assistance project. BEICIP's work
included preparation of terms of reference for technical assistance to MME in the
analysis of the initial development program submitted by Walter International, the
analysis and discussion of the work program submitted annually by the contractor, the
supervision of development program implementation, and the monitoring of field
production operations. QUAD Engineering then won the contract for the assistance
specified in the BEICIP report when it was put out to bid.
14.   Within the framework of that contract, QUAD made an evaluation of the field and of
Alba production operations and submitted a report in February 1995. The study
describes and makes recommendations concerning: (a) the Punta Europa condensate
plant; (b) the production platform and the wells; and (c) the reservoir. Regarding the
plant at Punta Europa the main recommendations are that an LPG plant be installed,
together with a methanol plant, and use of the gas for electricity generation. As is
detailed in the next paragraph, these recommendations are in process of
implementation. As regards the reservoir, the study projects its useful life based on the
rate of production and examines the effect of reinjection of the dry gas to maintain
pressure. However, the study does not reach a firm conclusion on this important
matter, and limits itself to recommending a feasibility study on reinjection.



- 25 -
15.   Most cost-effective methods for using the products stripped from the Alba gas. In view
of the importance the Government attached to this study, it had intended to finance it
before credit effectiveness, using a project preparation facility (PPF) for the purpose.
Finally, however, the study, which was completed by Houston Associates in 1992, was
financed under a Public Sector Technical Assistance project (Cr. 1489). The question
of the use of the gas was also dealt with under the QUAD study of Alba operations
referred to in paragraph 12. In light of these facts, no new study on utilization of the
gas was financed under the Second Petroleum Technical Assistance Project.
16.   Environmental impact of Alba production. In 1994, the Greater Caribbean Energy &
Environment Foundation carried out a study on the environmental impact of Alba's
operations.  The report identifies a number of risks, for safety of persons and
installations, and for the environment, due to deficiencies in the production platform,
the condensate extraction plant, and the product loading platform, and recommends a
package of preventive measures and corrective actions. The measures recommended
are gradually being put into practice. So far, Alba's operator has improved the lighting
on the production tower, built containment dikes around the condensate storage tanks,
reduced leaks in the storage tanks, and installed lightning protection. The work
program submitted to MME by NOMECO for 1998 includes installation of a fire
prevention system. Some suggested measures, such as relocation of the loading
platform to a less sensitive area, will have to be analyzed jointly with NOMECO.
17.  In the course of their work in Equatorial Guinea, the Greater Caribbean consultants
gave training in environmental questions and safety to three MME engineers. The
report recommends fuller training for one or two persons.  The report also
recommends that the country enact a special law on emissions caused by mining and
hydrocarbon operations. In this respect, within the component described in the next
paragraph, the Hydrocarbons Regulations include a chapter on environmental
questions, while in the institutional sphere, MME in 1995 established within its
organization a section with specific responsibility for environmental matters.
18.   Review of the legal framework for petroleum exploration and production. At the
beginning of 1996, MME, with technical advice from BEICIP, completed a draft set of
texts defining a revised legal framework for hydrocarbons in Equatorial Guinea. These
texts consist of an amendment to the Hydrocarbons Law, Hydrocarbons Regulations,
and a new model Production Sharing Contract as an annex to the Regulations. In April
1996, MME submitted the draft Hydrocarbon Regulations to the oil companies
operating in Equatorial Guinea for review and comments. After incorporation of
comments and harmonization of the component parts, MME was to submit the set of
texts to the World Bank for comments by mid-1996. The intention was that the
Government would subsequently submit the amendment to the Law to Parliament for
its approval. The other documents would be issued as a decree by the Council of
Ministers. In the end, this work was not completed within the framework of the
project. The Government, however, is continuing with the analysis and discussion of
the drafts and is seeking new technical assistance to complete the work. The mission



- 26 -
was informed by MME of the Government's intention to bring the new legal
framework into effect and then to proceed to renegotiate the PSCs with NOMECO and
UMC. In response to MME's request for comments, the oil companies proposed an
exhaustive new set of hydrocarbon regulations.
19.  Improvement for sector institution organization. In 1994, consultant Helmut Merklein
carried out an energy-sector reorganization study.  One of his recommendations,
transfer of the Directorate General for Electricity to the Ministry of Mines and
Hydrocarbons, was implemented at the end of 1994 on the basis of the preliminary
report of August 1994 (the final report was delivered in January 1995).  The
Directorate General for Electricity was under the Ministry of Industry at that time.
After the change, the Ministry of Mines and Hydrocarbons was renamed Ministry of
Mines and Energy. More recently, MME established an Environmental Section.
However, other changes are needed to enable MME to handle the growing volume of
work efficiently and to reflect the greater relative importance that supervision of
production and exploration activities is acquiring.
20.   Evaluation of the potential of the Rio Muni region. This is a study not originally
included in the project which MME asked BEICIP to do under the contract for
monitoring of exploration activities. The study analyzed available maps and seismic
data and constitutes an independent assessment of the zone's potential. It identifies
geological structures particularly in the promising offshore areas, and was intended to
be used as a tool for distribution of blocks, and for adjusting the respective contracts to
area potential. The study recommends additional seismic exploration that could be
carried out under a technical working agreement. MME declared itself dissatisfied
with the results, because in its opinion the study did not contribute anything new.
BEICIP, on the other hand, insists that although the study was done in a bare three
months, it contains original interpretations of the available information.
21.   Study on rehabilitation and expansion of the electrical systems. This study, also not
originally included in the project, was assigned to consultant Alfonso Posada who
submitted his report in September 1994.  It shows that the least-cost option for
expansion of electricity generation capacity on Bioko is utilization of a part of the Alba
gas, and also identifies rehabilitation works needed in Malabo and Bata distribution
networks. The report was intended to serve as a basis for the preparation of a new
project in the electricity sector.  However, it proved impossible to proceed with
preparation of that new operation, mainly on account of the continuous suspension of
disbursements by the World Bank in response to the country's payment arrears. As
noted in paragraph 13, construction of a gas-fired power station is in progress.



- 27 -
Part B: Technical Assistance
22.   Supervision of Alba field production. In August 1993, MME signed a contract with
QUAD Engineering for monitoring of Alba field production activities. QUAD
provided geologists and reservoir engineers for this work. To ensure technology
transfer, monitoring was done jointly by QUAD experts and national technicians.
During their time in Equatorial Guinea at the beginning of 1995, QUAD's experts
organized a training seminar for MME's technical staff. At the beginning of 1995,
MME asked QUAD to assist, under the Alba production monitoring contract, with the
supervision of Mobil's exploration operations in Block B, as explained in the next
section.
23.   Monitoring of exploration activities. In October 1993, MME signed a contact with
Beicip-Franlab for monitoring of exploration activities in the country. Under this
contract, BEICIP provided experts in 1994 for the monitoring of exploration performed
by Walter International in the Alba Block, and by UMC in Block B. The services were
interrupted at the end of 1994 due to a suspension of disbursements by the World Bank
because the country had fallen into arrears with payments owed to the Bank. As a
result of this situation, MME asked QUAD to assist with the supervision of Mobil's
exploration activities in Block B, which were beginning to intensify. Indeed, BEICIP
had decided that it could not provide the necessary services without a guarantee of
timely payment.
24.   Between February and July 1995, while the suspension of disbursements remained in
effect, QUAD provided technical specialists for monitoring Mobil-UMC exploration
that resulted in the discovery of the Zafiro-Topacio complex. MME then decided to
entrust QUAD with the task of assisting it henceforth in supervising all exploration
activities in the country. This decision was formalized in 1996 by means of an
extension to QUAD's contract. After the replacement of BEICIP by QUAD in the
supervision of exploration activities, MME asked BEICIP to carry out under its
contract for monitoring exploration activities, the study on the potential of Rio Muni
mentioned in paragraph 19. The intensity of Mobil's exploration and production
operations in Block B imposed an exceptional burden on MME's technical staff
responsible for analyzing the development plans proposed by Mobil and responding to
those plans, together with monitoring of operations. In these tasks, MME relied
primarily on QUAD's technical support, as explained above.
25.   Auditing of Alba's financial operations. For this purpose, MME also signed a contract
with Beicip-Franlab, which has audited, together with Equato-guinean personnel, the
accounts of Walter International and those of UMC.  The contract centers on
identifying "oil costs" and classifying them into recoverable and nonrecoverable.
Under the same contract, the consultant assisted MME in calculating income tax
payable by Alba's operator beginning in 1996. The contract also required BEICIP to
audit the project accounts and prepare the respective audit reports. As of December



- 28 -
1997, however, only the accounts of the first year of execution of the project -- 1993 --
have been audited.
26.   Valuation of Alba's investments. MME did not contract specific consultancy services
for this purpose, which is important for the calculation of depreciation and taxable
income. Beicip-Franlab has done some work in this field under the contract mentioned
in the preceding paragraph. However, unambiguous determination of the amounts
invested seems to have always been difficult, owing to inadequate accounting data
provided by Alba's contractor.
27.   Advisory services in contractual matters and negotiations.  Beicip-Franlab was to
provide these advisory services under the same contract of February 1994 that includes
review of the legal framework. The main objective was to increase the Government's
share of Alba's revenues, by means of an amendment to the financial clauses in the
production sharing contract. This objective could not be achieved. The plan was to
hold preparatory sessions in BEICIP's offices in Paris, followed by the renegotiation
that was also to take place in Paris as a neutral venue. However, the plan was not put
into practice. The date of the negotiations was postponed many times. BEICIP was
only invited to provide written comments, and did not receive all the information it had
requested for preparing the renegotiation.
28.   MME initiated discussions with NOMECO, the new operator of Alba, in July 1995 in
the United States, without its consultant being present. Although these negotiations
were supposed to be conducted within the framework of the project, MME did not
inform the World Bank either. Subsequently, in part at the Bank's insistence, MME
invited BEICIP to participate in talks at NOMECO's headquarters in Houston in
December 1995 and January 1996, but those talks were not conclusive.  Later
NOMECO rejected all proposed amendments suggested by MME. In May 1996 MME
informed the Bank that it had decided to temporarily suspend its efforts to negotiate
with NOMECO, since it believed its position would be strengthened once Mobil started
production of the Zafiro and Topacio fields.
29.   However, the Government has, in fact, renegotiated its contracts with both UMC and
NOMECO, but in terms that appear to be financially neutral, and which are equivalent
to advancing revenues to the Government in exchange for a reduction of future
revenues.  In other words, these renegotiations have still not resolved the basic
problem in the terms of the contracts.
30.   During the mission, MME informed the Bank that the Government had officially
notified Mobil-UMC of its intention to renegotiate the contracts for Blocks B and C.
According to MME, before undertaking the renegotiation, the Government wants to
finalize and enact the revised legal framework for hydrocarbons. The RAMBOLL
experts gave MME advice concerning the legal framework, particularly as regards the
financial clauses of the model production sharing contract, as well as on block sizes
and organization of bidding rounds.



- 29 -
31.  Implementation of the recommendations of various studies. The project envisaged
technical assistance to implement recommendations of the following studies: (a) use of
the Alba field gas; (b) environmental impact of the Alba operations; and (c)
improvement of the institutional framework of the energy sector. However, no
technical assistance was contracted for those purposes.  As noted earlier, the
recommendations on use of the gas and mitigation of the environmental impact are
being gradually implemented within the framework of the work plans discussed each
year by Alba's operator with MME.
32.   Establishment of filing and statistical system in MME. QUAD helped MME catalogue
and organize the technical information available on hydrocarbons.  QUAD also
organized for MME a system for recording technical data routinely supplied by
contractors and provided training for Ministry technical staff in its use and
maintenance. BEICIP also did some work in this field. However, a complete data
organization and storage system will require greater resources. For a number of years
now MME has entrusted the safekeeping of the bulk of existing data to QUAD, which
keeps it in a rented storage facility in London. Another portion of data is kept in
Geneva, Switzerland, under safekeeping by the consulting firm Petroconsultants.
MME informed the mission about a project currently under preparation, with UMC
assistance, to build an information center in Malabo.  The center would store
information in digital form, and on paper, and would also have a section to store
drilling cores.
33.   Control of supply and distribution of petroleum products.  The intention of this
component was to improve the Government's control of the supply and distribution of
petroleum products in Equatorial Guinea, but the original situation remains practically
unchanged.  A 1989 study by consultant William G. Matthews, under the First
Petroleum Technical Assistance Project, identified a lack of transparency in product
procurement by the concessionnaire GE Total. Product CIF prices are considerably
higher than the average for the region. In 1994 MME contracted consultants Purvin
and Gertz, and also again W. G. Matthews.  Both consultants participated in
discussions with TOTAL in Paris. Purvin and Gertz prepared a draft agreement
revising the terms of supply, but the matter was not taken any further.  The
Government's position is weakened by its substantial arrears with GE Total.
Part C: Training
34.   The project financed training for the Ministry's personnel, including technical aspects
and English. Most of this training was carried out within the framework of the
contracts with QUAD and Beicip-Franlab. This at least partially explains the cost
overrun in the "Consulting Services" disbursement category. The training provided
took the form  of seminars in Equatorial Guinea, courses in the consultants'
headquarters, and on-the-job training. The main actions in this respect were provision



- 30 -
by BEICIP of training in acquisition, processing and interpretation of seismic data;
exploration techniques and exploration records; field geology and geophysics; and
drilling and production engineering. BEICIP also provided training in business
accounting and auditing.
35.   QUAD provided training in exploration geology and geophysics, and in seismic
correlation, structural mapping and seismic stratigraphy. The overall effect of training,
together with the joint work with the consultants, has been an increase in the
knowledge and experience of MME's personnel. However, the rapid increase of
petroleum activity in the country, combined with the growing importance of
supervision of production and exploration, is creating new training needs.
Part D: Rehabilitation of the MME building and procurement of vehicles
36.   The project financed the rehabilitation of the MME's building in Malabo and
acquisitioning of two field vehicles.
Final Report prepared by the Ministry
37.   MME and the mission discussed a draft final project report prepared by the Ministry.
The Ministry subsequently sent the final version of the report to Washington, where it
was received on December 28, 1997. The report describes the goods and services
financed by the project, with special emphasis on QUAD's assistance in the
development of the Zafiro-Topacio complex and in staff training. MME considers the
project had positive results for the country, especially by providing technical assistance
and training at a decisive juncture for the development of the national petroleum
industry. The report also notes that relations with the World Bank deteriorated after
the change of Task Manager at the beginning of 1995, but then returned to normal in
the final stage of project execution.
38.   From the Bank's standpoint, project execution revealed that there had been no clear
agreement on its objectives. This led to misunderstandings, which were complicated
by inadequate communications. The Bank feels it did not receive sufficient information
from MME and its consultants for proper monitoring of the project and for effective
collaboration in the sector. The effectiveness of technical assistance provided to MME
was sometimes limited by MME's reluctance, due to confidentiality concerns, to share
with its consultants information on the petroleum sector and on its dealings with oil
companies. This attitude is inconsistent with the country's need to obtain adequate
technical assistance for oil sector development.



- 31 -
Compliance with Credit Covenants
39.  In accordance with Section 3.03(b) of the Credit Agreement, the Government was to
enter into its annual budget, starting with fiscal year 1993, all revenues derived from
the exploitation of the Alba field and other hydrocarbon accumulations. The Bank was
unable to obtain data that would confirm compliance with this covenant.
40.   Project accounts and audit reports.  The project accounts were deficient, mainly
because the accountant did not receive all the necessary information. Only the accounts
for fiscal 1993, when the activity was very limited, were audited by BEICIP and the
relevant report was not received by the Bank until May 20, 1996.
January 31, 1998



- 32 -
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
Ministry of Mines and Energy
PART III
Final Report
of the
SECOND PETROLEUM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 2408-EG)
December 1997



-33 -
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PART I
1.       BACKGROUND
2.       PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
3.       PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
4.       PROJECT UNIT IN THE MINISTRY OF MINES AND ENERGY
5.       PROJECT EXECUTION
5.1      CONSULTING SERVICES
5.2      TRAINING
5.3      REHABILITATION OF MME BUILDING
5.4      VEHICLES
6.       SERVICES COMPANIES
PART II
7.       EVALUATION OF PROJECT FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE



-34-
PART I
1.       BACKGROUND
Once the First Petroleum Technical Assistance Project financed with Credit 1304-EG was
completed and in view of the increase in the exploration activities of the operating oil companies and
concession-holders, together with the startup of production from the Alba field by Walter
International Guinea Ecuatorial, Inc. in December 1991, a new project was immediately identified, its
objectives being focused almost entirely on development of the Alba field.
The new Credit Agreement in respect of the Second Petroleum Technical Assistance
Project between the Republic of Equatorial Guinea and the International Development Association
(IDA) was signed on July 2, 1992, and became effective on November 20 of the same year following
its ratification by the Office of the President of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea and the pertinent
Legal Opinion.
For the implementation of the new project, the World Bank granted the Republic of
Equatorial Guinea Credit 2408-EG in the amount of SDR 1,800,000; this amount was used in full
during the execution of the project, which was closed on October 31, 1997.
2.       PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
2.1      OBJECTIVES
The purpose of implementing the Second Petroleum Technical Assistance Project was:
a) To ensure that the Government obtains maximum revenues on a sustainable basis from
exploitation of the Alba field;
b) To identify the most cost-efficient methods for utilizing the gas from the Alba field;
c) To reduce the hazards to the marine environment to a minimum;
d) To improve the efficiency of the energy sector institutions, strengthen the capacity of the
Ministry to supervise the activities of the oil companies and to evaluate the pricing system
for oil products.
2.2      PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The project in itself comprised four important parts:
A.       Carrying out studies on the following aspects:
A. 1     Design of the most effective way of exploiting the Alba field.
A.2      Identification of the most cost-effective methods in terms of the products that are stipped
and not flared in the Alba field.



-35-
A.3       Environmental assessment.
A.4       Review of the contractual framework regarding petroleum exploration and production.
A.5      Improvement of the organization of the institutions involved in the energy sector.
B.        Technical assistance in the following areas:
B..1      Supervision of the Alba field production operations.
B.2       Supervision of the exploration activities carried out in the country.
B.3       Negotiation of new contracts.
B.4       Creation of a statistical and data-recording system in the Ministry of Mines and Energy.
B.5       Supervision of petroleum product supply, storage, transportation and distribution
activities.
B.6       Other.
C.        Training of Ministry of Mines and Energy staff, including scholarships and
enrollment fees.
3.        PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
The total cost of the project was estimated at SDR 1,800,000, equivalent to
US$2,622,200, broken down over six categories as described below:
3.1       BREAKDOWN BY CATEGORIES
The following table shows the categories that were financed with the Credit to which this
report relates, the allocation of the funds and the percentages of expenditures authorized.
ALLOCATION
CATEGORY   DESCRIPTION            IN SDR    PERCENTAGE OF EXPENDITURES
1      CONSULTING SERVICES   1,000,000   100% OF FOREIGN EXCHANGE EXPENDITURES
AND 26% OF LOCAL CURRENCY
2      TRAINING               400,000   100% OF FOREIGN EXCHANGE EXPENDITURES
3      BUILDING               70,000    100% OF FOREIGN EXCHANGE EXPENDITURES
4      VEHICLES AND PARTS     30,000
5      P.P.F.                 110,000
6      UNALLOCATED            190,000
7      TOTAL                 1,800,000



-36-
3.2        UTILIZATION OF CREDIT FUNDS AS OF OCTOBER 31, 1997
3.2.1      CONSOLIDATED FIGURES
USS              %
Amount disbursed                          2,622,200        100%/O
Requests under consideration                 0              0
Balance to be disbursed                      0              0
TOTAL                                     2,622,200        100%
3.2.2      BREAKDOWN BY CATEGORIES; POSITION AS OF OCTOBER 31, 1997
CATEGORY    DESCRIPTION        AMOUNT         AMOUNT         BALANCE AS OF
|_________  |____________  ALLOCATED   WITHDRAWN    Oct. 31, 1997
1       Consulting Services   1,494,665.98    2,172,709.12  -678,043.14
2       Training            564,956.09    241,945.45      323,010.64
3       Building            103,304.06    106,516.50       -3,212.44
4       Vehicles            43,014.86      57,077.64      -14,062.78
5       P.P.F.              152,171.80        0.00        152,171.80
6       Special Account      1,247.00      43,952.02      -42,704.28
7       Unallocated         262,842.20        0.00        262,842.20
TOTAL   j                    2,622,200.00   2,622,200.00         0.00
VERY IMPORTANT NOTE: THIS TABLE WILL BE VALID ONCE THE FINAL AUDIT
OF THE CREDIT IS COMPLETED.
4.         PROJECT UNIT IN THE MINISTRY OF MINES AND ENERGY
In order to implement one of the recommendations of the consultant Helmut A. Merklein,
who carried out a study on energy sector organization within the framework of the component aimed
at improvement of the organization of sector institutions, on August 8, 1994, the Government of the
Republic of Equatorial Guinea issued Decree No. 100/1994 which removed responsibilities
concerning electricity from the Ministry of Industry and Small and Medium Enterprises and
transferred them to the Ministry of Mines and Energy. From that moment considerable changes were
implemented in the project unit, as a result of which, combined with the return to the country of a
significant number of technical specialists following their graduation from foreign universities, the
Department of Mines and Energy is now staffed as follows:
H.E. Juan Olo Mba Nseng
Minister of Mines and Energy and Authorized Government Representative
H.E. Miguel Abia Biteo Boriko
Secretary of State for Mines and Project Coordinator
H.E. Francisco Mabale Nseng
Secretary of State for Energy



- 37 -
M.I. Crist6bal Mafana Ela
General Secretary for Mines and Energy
M.I. Miguel Angel Ondo Angue
Director General for Mines and Hydrocarbons, and Project Manager
M.I. Marcos Mba Ondo
Director General for Energy
M.I. Atanasio Ela Ntugu Nsa
Regional Delegate for Mines and Energy in Bata
Mr. Fidel Obama Asumu
Section Chief for Exploration and Reserves
Mr. Jose Luis Alfaro Musa
Section Chief for Production and Marketing
Mr. Domingo Mba Esono
Section Chief for Planning and Statistics
Mr. Jose Mba Abeso
Section Chief for Mines and Quarries
Mr. Manuel Mbana Ngua
Chief of Technical Office, Regional Delegation
Mr. Santiago Mba Ebana
Section Chief for Environment
Mr. Pelayo Nguema Sima
Section Chief for Administration;
etc. (the original report includes another 39 names).
5.        PROJECT EXECUTION
5.1       CONSULTING SERVICES AND STUDIES
5.1.1     BEICIP-FRANLAB
After Credit 2408-EG became effective, the first consulting company to sign a contract
for provision of technical services with the Ministry of Mines and Energy was the French company
"BEICIP-FRANLAB". This company signed a total of three contracts for the purposes and on the
dates listed below:



-38 -
(1) October 1993. Contract for services re monitoring of exploration and development activities.
(2) February 23, 1994. Contract for provision of consulting services re:
a) negotiation with oil companies;
b) oil and gas contract matters;
c) tax matters.
(3) July 23, 1994. Contract for provision of consulting and audit services. These services
included:
a) the accounting aspects of the exploration and production activities, exploration
contracts, production audit and financial notification of the oil companies operating
in Equatorial Guinea;
b) training for accounting and financial matters;
c) audit of project accounts and of the accounts of the oil companies and
recommendations concerning an accounting system and preparation of the pertinent
implementation program.
Although it was not originally included among the studies to be made in the context of Credit 2408-
EG, at the request of the Ministry of Mines and Energy BEICIP-FRANLAB made an evaluation of
the hydrocarbon potential of the Rio Muni sedimentary basin in the mainland region.
All the tasks assigned in accordance with the terms of reference were performed by the consulting
company, with the exception of what could not be covered by the Credit because the funds budgeted
had been exhausted.
5.1.2    QUAD CONSULTING LTD.
On August 23, 1994, the Ministry of Mines and Energy signed a contract for provision of
services for supervision of petroleum exploration operations with Quad Consulting Ltd. of the United
Kingdom. However, in view of the importance of the question of technical information coupled with
the rapid development and production of the Zafiro field, the Ministry expanded the technical
services to be provided by Quad to include the cataloguing and organization of the technical
information on hydrocarbons owned by the Government of Equatorial Guinea, together with the
monitoring and supervision of exploration for and production and marketing of hydrocarbons, for
which purpose Amendments 1 and 2, respectively, were signed.
It should be noted that the cataloguing and organizing of technical information has been
completed as regards the information available in the companies' headquarters and from the preceding
project; the same work now remains to be done in the Ministry's headquarters, where a project has
already been designed, with assistance from UMC, for a small information facility.



-39-
It is also important to note that Quad assisted the Ministry in decisionmaking concerning
production from the Zafiro field; in this specific case special mention should be made of:
a) the assistance furnished to the Ministry as regards the presentation made by Mobil
on August 14, 1996, concerning the proposed activities for Zafiro production, and
its comments on the position the Ministry should adopt in that connection;
b) summaries of the geological reports on the Zafiro 1 and 2 wells, etc.;
c) proposal for the production studies and the Bioko offshore reservoir.
Although Credit funds have been exhausted, the consulting work is being continued at the
Ministry's request pending a new technical assistance project.
5.1.3    Dr. Helmut A. MERKLEIN
The consultant engaged for the study on organization of the energy sector signed a
contract for provision of services with the Ministry of Mines and Energy. Following intensive work
in Equatorial Guinea in January 1995 he submitted a technical report with the recommendations that
culminated in the promulgation of Decree 100/94 already mentioned in paragraph 4. The report in
question is still being used as a reference by the Ministry in discussions for the purpose of making a
detailed analysis of how best to implement the other recommendations.
5.1.4    Mr. Alfonso POSADA
This consultant was hired to make the study on the rehabilitation and expansion of the
electrical systems and submitted a report in September 1994.
The Ministry of Mines and Energy is currently in the final phase of implementing the
consultant's recommendations to the effect that the least-cost option for expansion of electricity-
generating capacity on the island of Bioko is to use part of the gas from the Alba field now being
flared at Punta Europa (see paragraph 7.1).
5.1.5    GREATER CARIBBEAN ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT FOUNDATION, INC.
In 1993 two consultants from this foundation made a study of the environmental impact
of production of gas and condensate from the Alba field. The Ministry took good note of the content
of their report on the possible hazards for the safety of persons and of installations, especially in light
of possible deficiencies in the production platform, and for the environment, and the
recommendations submitted to mitigate those hazards. In addition to studying these
recommendations, the Ministry made a proposal for improvements to CMS-Nomeco, which presently
has a project underway to install a fire-prevention system and improve the situation of the condensate
storage tanks. The other recommendations are still under detailed study.



-40 -
5.2      TRAINING OF MINISTRY OF MINES AND ENERGY STAFF
One of the main objectives of the Second Petroleum Technical Assistance Project was to
increase the Ministry of Mines and Energy's technical capacity so as to enable it to supervise the
exploration and production activities. The transfer of technology from the consulting companies to
the Ministry's technical staff designated as counterparts during the execution of the project was one of
its most important achievements. Certain technical specialists participated actively in courses and
seminars, as detailed below:
TRAINING UNDER THE DIRECTION OF BEICIP-FRANLAB
a)    Training in seismic data acquisition and processing by Charles Peyssonneaux between
April 4 and 9, 1994, in Malabo and Bata.
b)    Training in oil exploration by Laurent Sage in Malabo between May 18 and 28, 1994.
c)    Training of three technicians in drilling and production. This training was conducted at
Beicip-Franlab headquarters and was tied in with the project to evaluate the
hydrocarbon potential of the Rio Muni sedimentary basin in the mainland region.
d)    Two economist-accountants, Messrs. Marcelino Owono and Jose Ela Oyana, were
trained at Beicip in business accounting and auditing.
e)    Technology transfer and training in geology and drilling engineering were provided to
the Ministry staff present in the platform through the entire work period of the
Beicip-Franlab engineers between September 6 and October 9, 1994, during the drilling
of the Dorado 1 well.
f)    Exploration courses in Paris with emphasis on record-keeping, adapted to the
requirements of the Ministry of Mines and Energy, between October 24 and 28 and
seismic data courses between November 7 and 9, 1994.
g)    Courses in hydrocarbon deposit geology and geophysics on November 14 - 18, 1994.
h)    Technology transfer in interpretation of seismic data from the periods between courses;
and
i)    The Ministry engineers Maximo Mba Obiang, Pastor Adjaba, Domingo Mba Esono
and Leoncio Abeso were trained from October to November, 1994.
UNDER THE DIRECTION OF QUAD CONSULTING
j)    From February 22 to June 26, 1995, three technicians from the Ministry--Domingo
Mba Esono, Jose Mba Abeso and Maximo Mba Obiang-- attended training courses in
English and also in the preparation of some seismic data interpretation projects and
document preparation for area promotion in the offices of Quad Consulting Ltd.



- 41 -
k)    Petroleum negotiating skills, finance, accounting and management: Mr. Miguel Abia
Biteo Boriko and Fidel Obama Asumu, April 17-30, 1995.
1)    English course, February 5 through March 28, 1996, in England, for seven staff
members of the Ministry of Mines and Energy.
m)   Marketing course, in Quad, for Jose Luis Alfaro Musa, July 1996.
5.3      REHABILITATION OF HEADQUARTERS BUILDING
On September 17, 1993, the "Carlano" construction company signed a contract with the
Ministry of Mines and Energy for rehabilitation of the Ministry's headquarters building, which was
constructed under the First Petroleum Technical Assistance Project funded with Credit 1304-EG.
The contract included installation of air conditioning and fan systems and rehabilitation of the
furnishings in general and of the conference room in particular. The work was done in 1993-94.
5.4      VEHICLES
In accordance with the budget assigned to this category by the World Bank, the Ministry
purchased two Toyota vehicles to cover project needs. These vehicles were used by the Ministry staff
during the project under review.
6.       OIL COMPANIES
Once Alba field production started, and in accordance with the general plan drawn up by
the Ministry of Mines and Energy, a campaign was immediately launched to promote unallocated
areas for continuous hydrocarbon exploration, which attracted the interest of a number of
internationally known companies such as CMS-Nomeco, Mobil, United Meridian International
Corporation and Triton, which has acquired concessions in Equatorial Guinea, and others that are still
seeking more deep-water concessions. It should be noted that the Credit was useful in this respect for
financing the support services furnished by the consultants.
6.1      CMS NOMECO
As noted in the introduction, the design of the Second Petroleum Technical Assistance
Project focused largely on supervising production of the Alba field, which has been producing gas
and condensate ever since Walter International Equatorial Guinea, Inc. started exploitation of the
field at an initial rate of 3,500 b/d. The present operator of the block is CMS Nomeco Guinea
Ecuatorial, Inc., an American oil company based in Houston, Texas, which has acquired all of Walter
International's rights and obligations. Over the past few years, CMS Nomeco Guinea Ecuatorial, Inc.
has expanded the capacity of the plant at Punta Europa up to an average daily output of 6,500 b/d of
condensate. In addition to the production of condensate and as a result of the studies made on use of
the Alba gas flared at Punta Europa, some of this gas is now being used for local consumption.



-42 -
The plant to produce LPG for export, with a 2,000 b/d capacity, under construction since
1995 has now been completed. The methanol plant is in the design phase. The rest of the gas will be
used for electricity generation in a 2 x 5.2 MW plant. Financing for this project is in process of being
arranged.
6.2       MOBIL GUINEA ECUATORIAL
This Dallas-based American oil company owns a 75% share and UMC 25%. It is the
present operator of Block B. With its aggressive exploration work and the discovery of the Zafiro
field it has put itself in first place among the oil companies operating in Equatorial Guinea, with a
current average production of some 80,000 b/d of crude oil. It is also pressing ahead with further
exploration and posting promising results. For supervision of the production operations the Ministry
has received consistent support from the Quad consultants under the Credit forming the subject of
this report.
6.3       UMC GUINEA ECUATORIAL
An American company headquartered in Houston, UMC Guinea Ecuatorial is the present
holder of Blocks C and D and is currently continuing exploration in this areas.
6.4       TRITON GUINEA ECUATORIAL
This company recently signed a production-sharing agreement with the Ministry of Mines
and Energy covering Blocks F and G in the Rio Muni sedimentary basin in the mainland region. In
the second half of 1997 and in accordance with the work program submitted to and approved by the
Ministry it has been carrying out a seismic campaign in the above-mentioned blocks.
PART II
7.        EVALUATION OF THE SECOND PETROLEUM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
PROJECT FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
This part of the final report describes the respective roles performed by the Ministry of
Mines and Energy and the World Bank during the execution period of the Second Petroleum
Technical Assistance Project, the impact of the relations between the two institutions and the opinion
of the Ministry concerning the results achieved thanks to said project.
7.1       THE ROLE OF THE MINISTRY OF MINES AND ENERGY
During the execution of the Second Petroleum Technical Assistance Project within the
framework of Credit 2804-EG, which becamne effective on November 20, 1992 and was completed on
October 30, 1997, the end of the grace period allowed by the Bank, the role played by the Ministry of
Mines and Energy was a particularly important one and can be summarized as comprising three
separate components:



-43 -
a) executing agency of the project for the borrower;
b) coordinator of all the studies made by the consultants;
c) source and supplier of data.
As regards the design of the project and the preparation of the preliminary reports, the
Ministry's technical staff participated actively by providing every type of information needed for the
successful performance of these tasks.
In its capacity as beneficiary, the Ministry took pains throughout the project to provide
the moral, material and technical support required by the consultants involved in the project for the
successful performance of their work. On various occasions the Ministry facilitated entry into and
departure from the Republic of Equatorial Guinea for all who needed assistance in that respect.
Utilizing the advice received from the different consulting firms, the Ministry took
advantage of various international fora devoted to the oil industry to promote the areas still available
for concessions. This has served to prompt interest on the part of major oil companies in applying for
areas that are still open, including those in deep water, with the result that production-sharing
contracts have been signed with some individual companies.
With respect to the World Bank's supervision missions, the Ministry believes it has
performed its assigned role by always providing the customary full support as regards the furnishing
of information on the progress of the project. However, despite the efficient performance of its
function during the execution of the project in terms of the achievement of the present objectives, it is
acknowledged that there were delays in sending the quarterly and annual progress reports because the
increase in exploration and production activities took up the entire time of the technical staff
concerned. These complications have since been resolved and operations are progressing normally.
7.2      EVALUATION OF THE ROLE PERFORMED BY THE WORLD BANK
In the opinion of the Ministry of Mines and energy, the part played by the World Bank in
ensuring correct execution of the Second Petroleum Technical Assistance Project was DECISIVE.
'The Ministry accordingly commends the entire leadership and management of the World Bank in
general for their readiness to support the Ministry at so decisive a juncture for the development of the
petroleum industry by approving implementation of a new project that has produced, within the
bounds of the possible, some impressive results. The Ministry further recognizes the support it has
received from the Bank staff with responsibility for Equatorial Guinea in the design of the new
project and the selection of consultants possessing appropriate experience and expertise. The unity of
views between the Ministry and the Bank regarding the importance of basic and continuous training
of the Ministry staff to equip them to accomplish the project's objectives served to further promote
the understanding between the two institutions, and the interest, diligence and thoroughness with
which the Bank approached this topic was appreciated and praised by the Ministry authorities.
Special mention should be made in this connection of the Bank's initiative in incorporating into the
project certain studies the conclusions and recommendations of which were adopted by the
Government of Equatorial Guinea, a specific instance being the concentration of all energy-related
questions and responsibilities in one single ministerial department, namely the Ministry of Mines and



-44 -
Energy. Finally, the Ministry wishes to express its appreciation of the grace period allowed by the
Bank to facilitate a more transparent conclusion of the project.
7.3      RELATIONS BETWEEN MINISTRY OF MINES AND ENERGY AND WORLD
BANK DURING THE PROJECT EXECUTION PERIOD
In general, the relations between the Ministry of Mines and Energy and the World Bank
during the execution of the Second Petroleum Technical Assistance Project were excellent, although
it should be noted here that those relations passed through three important stages:
a)   Initial stage of project
This stage was characterized by outstandingly good relations during the design process of
the new project. The officials designated by the Bank at that time worked hard to create a climate of
understanding and cooperation that enabled the preparation of the first studies. In addition to their
energetic approach to the project itself, they evidenced a concern for and dedication to the interests of
the Republic of Equatorial Guinea in general and of the Ministry of Mines and Energy in particular.
b)   Intermediate stage
In this stage the relations between the Ministry and the Bank underwent a significant
crisis, with a total absence of the elements which had contributed to the previously prevailing climate
of understanding. It is important to note two specific occurrences which, in the Ministry's opinion,
could have brought about the deterioration in relations, namely:
1. The replacement of the previous task manager, whose gifts had been major factors in
the previous stage, by a new official with responsibility for petroleum matters who displayed little
interest in and support for the project, leading to a situation of isolation and lack of information
between the Ministry and the Bank.
2. The Ministry, with the aim of improving the impaired relations and in light of the
urgent situation regarding production of the Zafiro field, sent a high-level delegation to visit the
World Bank headquarters. This delegation, which was headed by the Minister himself, was not
received by the Bank authorities concerned, which was perceived as a slight to the Ministry.
c)    Final stage
A stage characterized by normalization of Ministry-Bank relations, which lasted through
completion of the project.
This report recommends scrupulous observance of the two institutions' administrative
hierarchies in the future.



-45 -
7.4      ACHIEVEMENTS DURING THE EXECUTION OF THE SECOND PETROLEUM
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
It can be affirmed without fear of contradiction that the project amply covered the main
objectives proposed in its identification phase and set forth in the credit agreement. Although not all
of these objectives were met, this was not due to lack of interest on the Ministry's part but rather to
prudence and budget cutbacks. The following accomplishments are deserving of mention:
a)    Thanks to the study made by the consultant Helmut Merklein on improvement of
the organization of the sector institutions, the recommendations of which underscored, inter alia, the
need for transfer of all energy-related responsibilities to the present Ministry of Mines and Energy,
the Government promulgated Decree No. 100/1994 already referred to in paragraph 4.
b)    The studies made to determine the most cost-effective method of developing the
Alba field and the environmental impact of production of the field, served as basic background
documentation for the Ministry in formulating and presenting measures for improvement in the field's
production.
c)    The evaluation made of the potential of the Rio Muni sedimentary basin, together
with the advice provided by the consultants on exploration, led to our presence at major petroleum
industry events to promote areas open for concessions, as a result of which various production-
sharing agreements have been signed and current production has been stepped up.
d)    Regarding training of technical staff, the Ministry is most satisfied with the
positive effect of the project. The staffs knowledge and experience in the sphere of petroleum have
been considerably broadened as a result of project-financed training activities; however, it must be
noted that there has been a rapid surge in sector activities giving rise to an increased requirement for
technical personnel (engineers and inspectors), thereby creating some urgent training needs that will
be analyzed in a separate document.
e)    All existing petroleum and mining data were identified with a view to organizing
a computerized records system in the very near future.
f)    With technical assistance from legal specialists draft versions have been prepared
of an amendment to the Hydrocarbons Law and of its implementing regulations and have been
submitted to the Ministry's senior authorities for study and approval prior to submission to the
Government in 1998.
g)    Despite the fact that the study of the most cost-effective methods of utilizing the
products stripped from the Alba gas was not made, the Ministry was able to use the studies made
during the first project, as a result of which the gas flared at Punta Europa will now be used:
(1)   As gas for household use for local consumption
(2)   For conversion into LPG for export (plant completed)
(3)   For generating electricity (project underway and in an advanced stage)
(4)   For conversion into methanol for export (project in an advanced stage).



-46 -
Notwithstanding all these achievements, we want the Bank to understand that it would be
a mistake to think the Ministry has no interest in renegotiating the contracts already in existence and
signed with the companies. In the specific case of the production-sharing contract between the
Government of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea and Walter International, now CMS-Nomeco, top-
level meetings have been held on two occasions at which the Ministry put forward concrete
proposals; however, the company's reaction has always been negative, so the Ministry has concluded
it would be preferable first to complete the legal framework and then to open the relevant
negotiations.
CONCLUSIONS
It is important to recognize that the design and implementation of the Second Petroleum
Technical Assistance Project was 80% centered around exploitation of the Alba field. The field's
initial production averaged 3,000 b/d, but petroleum activity in Equatorial Guinea has greatly
intensified over the past two years, reaching very high levels according to available data, and the
demand for deep-water areas is growing steadily.
Moreover, the number of technical personnel has increased considerably and appropriate
skills and expertise are now required to supervise all this activity. Consequently:
1.    Technical assistance is immediately needed to advise the Ministry in all aspects
connected with the industry.
2.    Also urgently needed is a program of basic and advanced training concentrating
on:
(a)   knowledge of English for all, as the industry language;
(b)   exploration, production, marketing and environmental questions;
(c)   administration and management.
The above are all needed to ensure the sustainability of the positive impact of the Second
Petroleum Technical Assistance Project.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 29416
1 O,
CLSOWSE                                                                             SECOND PETROLEU
PRODUCING OIL FIELDS  Tsavarila 1A-~~~~~  *                              Oouala.o
C ICENSED ARESlAS14  I
AMEROON
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*3
R I 
// ;*,,M                 N 
--~~~~~~~i *:              >          >.o:: to:*oL* /: /:t                                        (7/::2X f:0  :l::tr    70:t::'-= AI:, 
CHAD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
FASO ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~I
j8i~~!      /    '-"~~~CENTRAL
/   /  ,/   ~AFRICAN                               i/          ROMMA
DEM. REP.            '~~'                                       4              G   A   BON
ONO  OF CONGO   0~ 
100
*ANGOLA-      I                             oodr
MAY 1998



