Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. 5146
PROJECT PERFICRMANCE AUDIT REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPr: UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE I PROJECT
(CREDIT 393-UAR)
June 27, 1984
Operations Evaluation Department
This document has a resticted distributn and may be used by recipients ouly in the performance of
their offlic  dutie  Its contents may not odrwise be disclosed withot World Bank authortion.



CONVERSION FACTORS
1 Feddan = 1.04 acres/0.42 hectares
ABBREVIATIONS
DRI    -      Drainage Research Institute
EGAD   -      Egyptian General Authority for Drainage Project
EPADP  -      Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage
FAO    -      Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
GOE     -     Government of Egypt
GRI    -      Groundwater Research Institute
HAD     -     High Aswan Dam
HOA    -      Ministry of Agriculture
mOI    -      Ministry of Irrigation
NDDA   -      Nile Delta Authority for Drainage Projects
O&M    -      Operation and Maintenance
SWI    -      Soil and Water Research Institute



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT: UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE I PROJECT
(CREDIT 39 3-BAR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface ...........................................i
Basic Data Sheet ...................................................  iii
Highlights .iv
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT NEMORANDUM
I. SUMKARY.                                                            1
II. MAIN ISSUES.                                                        4
A. Technical Specifications.                                       4
B. Quality of Design and Construction.                             5
C. Maintenance.                                                    6
D. Shortage of Qualified Staff.                                    7
E.  The Bank's Performance ................................    7
Annex 1: Comments from EPADP .......................................        9
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT    -
I. Introduction .15
II. Background .17
III. Project Formulation .19
IV. Implementation .22
V. Operating Performance .26
VI. Institutional Performance .31
VII. Benefits and Economic Evaluation .32
VIII. Bank Performance .34
IX- Lessons Learned .36
Map IBRD No. 3890
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT PERFORMANCE AliDIT REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT: UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE I PROJECT
(CREDIT 393-UAR)
PREFACE
This is a Performance Audit of the Upper Egypt Drainage I Project
in the Arab Republic of Egypt for which a Credit 393-UAR was approved by IDA
and which becnme effective on November 28, 1973. The amount of the Credit
was US$36 million.   The closing date was July 31, 1981.   Disbursements
amounted to US$34.9 million; US$1.1 million were cancelled.
The audit report consists of an Audit Memorandum (PPAM), prepared
by the Operations Evaluation Department and a Project Completion Report
{PCR), dated June 28, 1983 prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North
Africa Regional Office.  The Audit Memorandum is based on a review of the
App=aisal Report (No. 80a-UAR), dated May 23, 1973, the President's Report
(No. 1199a-UAR of May 23, 1973), the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) dated
June 8, 1973 and the PCR. The Project Performance Audit Report for the first
Nile Delta Drainage Project (Credit 181-UAR), dated June 21, 1982 was also
reviewed.  Internal Bank memoranda on project issues, as contained in Bank
files, have been consulted and Bank staff associated with the project inter-
viewed.
An OED mission visited Egypt in August 1983.  The mission held
extensive discussions with the staff of the project executing agency, the
Egyptian  Public Authority  for Drainage  Projects  (EPADP), the  Drainage
Research institute (DRI) and the Water Research Center (WRC).  Field trips
were made to project areas in the Beni Suef and Qena Governorates, during
which the mission discussed construction and maintenance operations with
field personnel. The mission observed on-going construction work in project
areas of the follow-on Upper Egypt Drainage II Project, as well as routine
maintenance work on areas where drainage systems were constructed under this
project. The information obtained during the mission was used to test the
validity of the conclusions of the PCR.
The audit mission did not review the Bilharzia control program
which covered an area of 900,000 feddans and which was extensively reviewed
in the PCR.
The audit f'nds that the PCR covers the salient features of the
project. In additior to summarizing the objectives and results of the proj-
ect, the audit memotandum examines the implications of the professional staff
shortages in EPADP and with the contractors on the quality of project design
and construction and on the maintenance of the drained areas. It also dis-
cusses the effects of inadequate performance feedback from the field to the
design department and a controversial design issue which was under continuous
review by the Bank during the implementation of the project.



- il -
The draft report was sent to the Borrower for comment on Februr
ary 8, 1984.  Comments received from EPADP have been taken Into account in
the final report and are attached as Annex 1.
The valuable assistance provided by the EPADP, the DRI and the WRC
in the preparation of this report is gratefully acknowledged.
l



- lJit -
PROJECT PERFORMAICt AUDIT BASIC DATA SHEET
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT: tIPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE I PROJECT
(CREDIT 393-UAR)
KEY PROJECT DATA
Apprainal                    Actual or                Actual as Z of
Eatimate                 Estinated Actual           Appraisal Etimate
Project Coets (USS million)                      123.8                         119.6                        97
Credit Amount                                     36.0                          34.9                        97
Date Board Approval                            06/08/73                      06108/73
Date Effectiveness                             09/06/73                      11/28173
Date Physical Components Completed             06/30/79                      06130/13
Proportion then completed (2)                                                 91                         166
Closing Date                                   12/31/79                      07131181*                     112
Economic rate of return (Z)                       20                            NA
Financial Rate of Retorn X()                      NA                            NA
bnmtitutional Performance                                      Fair
Agronomic Perfornce                                             od
Number of Direct Benefticaries (year 15)               88,000 far. famdlies
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
FY74    FY75   FY76   FY77    FY78    FY79    FY8O   1Y18         FY82
Appraisal etimate CUSS mdllion)                        1.0      7.4   17.0    25.0    31.0    35.3    36.0        -       -
Actual CUSS million)                                    -       1.1    12.4   17.4    20.4    29.5    33.0    33.9    34.9
Actual as 2 of estimte                                  2        15      73      70      66      84       92      94      97
Date of Final Disbur.eeent:  May 21, 1982
MISSION DATA
Month/     No. of      Hsndaym    Specializations   Performance                Types of
Mission           Year      Persons      in Field   Represented /a      Rating  /b   Trend /c   Problems /d
Identification       12/70         3           14
Preparation       02-10/72         4           26
Appraisal            03/72         8           na
Supervision   I 1e   07/73         2           16          a,c                2           1            n
Supervision  1I      04/74         3           tO           *,c               2           1            X*P
Supervision III      10/74         3            8          *.c,b              3           2            M,T
Supervliion  nV   03-04/75         3           tO          b.c.e              2           1            M.F
Supervision   V      12/75         2           12          c,b                2           2            M
Supervision  VI      04/76         3            7          b.c                2           1            M
Supervlsion  VII    1/76          3            7          a.b.c              2           1            N.F
Supervision  VIII  03-04/77        1            7          b                  2           1            M,F
Supervision  IX      11/77         1            8          b                  2           3            M
Supervision  X       03/78         1            8          a                  2           1            T
Supervision  XI      10178         2            8          S.b.c              2           1            T
Supervision  XII   02-03/79        3            5          a.c                2           2            M.O
SupervitSon  XIII   09/79          2            4          A,c                2           I            M
Supervision  XIV     05/80         1            5          c                  2           I            M.0
Supervision  XV      09/80         3            4          A.c.c              2           2            M,O
Supervision  XVI     04/81         1            3          c                  2           2            M.O
Supervision  XVII    11/81         1            4          c                  2           2           M.0
Supervision  XVIII   04/82         1            4          c                  2           2            0
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrover                               Arab Republic of Egypt
Executing Agency                       Egyptian Public Autbority for Drainage Projects
Fiscal Year of Borrower                From July 1972-June 1979         Calendar Year
Since July 1979                 July- June
Name of Currency (abbreviation)        LE (Egyptian pound)
Currency Exchange Rates:
Appraisal Year Average              USS1.00 - EE 0.39
Intervening Years Average           USS1.00 - EE 0.39 (1973-78); US51.00 - EE 0.70 (1979-82)
Completion Year Average             US$1.00 - Lt  0.70
Previous and Follow-on Projects:
Name:                                    Nile Delta Drainage I    Upper Egypt Drainage II        Nile Delta Drainage 11
Loan/Credit Number                       Cr.181-UAR                Ln.1285/Cr.637-ECT            La.1439/Cr.719-ECT
Loan/Credit Amount (USS  2llton)             26                       10       40                   39       27
Date Board Approval                      03/24/70                  06/11/76                      07/15/77
*    The Credit accounts vere kept open for making disburseents against commitments mde before this date.
/a   a - agriculturalist; b - economist; c - engineer; d - Division aCief; e - financial advisor; f - procurement specialist.
7ii 1 - problem-free or uinor problem; 2 - moderate problems; and 3 - major problems.
717  1 - improving; 2 - stationary; and 3 - deteriorating.
71- F - financial; M - ma*ngerial; T - technical; P - political; and 0 - other.
7;  Time spent supervisnug previous  nd follow-on projects is recorded separately.



- iv -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT: UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE I PROJECT
(CREDIT 393-UAR)
HIGHLIGHTS
The need to provide drainage in the irrigated areas of Upper Egypt,
to control waterlogging and soil salinity, has been recognized since con-
trolled perennial irrigation started in the 19th century. The problem became
urgent when the decision was taken to construct the High Aswan Dam, which
would enable doublecropping and consequently much higher yearly water appli-
cations. The way selected to drain the irrigated :areas was by buried pipes,
an expensive and demanding operation. Drainage would eventually be needed on
some 5 million feddans (2.0 m ha) in the Delta and in Upper Egypt.   The
Government of Egypt approached the Bank Group in 1968 to assist with the
first tranche of their draining program in the Delta, extending to 950,000
feddans (400,000 ha).   Subsequently a second phase program was started In
Upper Egypt on an area of some 300,000 feddans.
The primary objective of this project was to improve drainage in
Upper Egypt at a total cost of US$123.8 million equivalent. The project in-
cluded buried drainage, remodeling of existing and excavation of new open
drains, and construction of pumping stations.  A Bilharzia control program,
covering an area of 900,000 feddans, was also included as was the provision
of technical assistance for training the staff of the Egyptian Public
Authority for Drainage Projects (EPADP). The IDA financing was to be used
primarily for the import of construction machinery and pumping equipment
including its installation and spare parts.
Due to implementation problems, it took 3-1/2 years longer to
complete the principal objectives of the project than the originally agreed
period of about 6 years. Of the three main components, viz pumping stations,
open drains and buried drains, it was the third which delayed completion of
the project. In general, the delays were due to weaknesses in EPADP's conr-
struction planning and management organization as well as the poor implemen-
tation capacity of the public sector contractors. While EPADP was unable to
manage the program rigorously enough, the delays related largely to the
management weakness of the contracting organizations. They lacked, and still
lack, normal commercial incentives to meet construction schedules and EPADP
has no effective means of enforcing the conditions of contracts.
During the course of the project, no changes were made in the proj-
ect scope, its objectives or basic design. However, the original selection
of the areas had to be amended from time to time, excluding or reducing some
areas and substituting equivalent new areas.   It seems clear that these
changes were beneficial by allowing areas where more serious drainage prob-
lems were emerging to be given priority.   On the other hand the lack of
systematic water table depth recording raises doubts whether drainage was



necessary in all the areas that have been drained, as supervision missions
have commented on the relative dryness of some formations in which tiles were
being laid.
While the Bank was undoubtedly right to support drainage, once the
priority in the Egyptian agricultural sector, the project success remains
uncertain and depends on whether the drains are properly maintained and con-
tinue to operate.   No analysis of the project's ERR has been carried out
because of insufficient data on yield increases in the areas drained, the
wide variability of the results recorded and the relatively few years through
which data have been collected.   The Drainage Authority is continuing to
monitor the results of drainage and a more comprehensive picture should
emerge during the next few years.
The audit notes that while continuing such a large drainage program
in the country, the Government must organize, in parallel, an adequate main-
tenance operation which would safeguard the investments made on such large
areas in the Nile Delta and Upper Egypt.
The need for systematic collection of groundwater and soil salinity
data has been highlighted in the PCR. Also the monitoring of groundwater and
soil salinity conditions outside the presently drained areas should be incor-
porated in any future loan agreement, as a means of identifying future areas
to be drained.   The Borrower's new drainage evaluation program (agreed in
1983) is a major step in the right direction.
Effective monitoring of maintenance has to be addressed by future
supervision missions of the other two ongoing drainage projects.   It is
crucial to the success of the program.
Other points of interest and lessons learned are:
-    The effectiveness of project consultants to advise on technical
issues is questionable, where the Borrower is resisting their
employment. This is particularly true in this case, in view of the
existence of the Dutch Bi-Lateral Assistance Program and Panel,
which is accepted by the Borrower as the highest technical
authority in drainage matters (PCR, paras. 4.07, 9.02, 9.09);
-    EPADP is short of technical personnel in relation to the scope of
its  operations.    This  is  true  also  for  the  Public  Sector
Contracting Organizations.   It is the view of the audit that
without a solution to this staff shortage the two Bank-assisted
follow-on drainage projects in the Delta and in rpper Egypt are
likely to be delayed and their technical standards cannot be
assured (PPAM, paras. 23-25; PCR, para. 6.02);
-    The flexibility shown by the Government and the Bank in accommo-
dating drainage needs, as they were identified during implementa-
tion, and not rigidly keeping to the areas defined in the project
documents is highly commendable (PCR, para. 4.13); and



-VI-
The maintenance of farm drainage works needs the cooperation of the
farmer beneficiaries.   More efforts should be made by the field
staff of EPADP to educate and motivate the farmers to cooperate
(PPAM, para. 21).



PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT: UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE I PROJECT
(CREDIT 393-UAR)
I. SUMKARY
1.        The Upper Egypt Drainage Project was the second large-scale tile
drainage project undertaken in Egypt.  It covered an area of about 300,000
feddans south of Beni Suef in Upper Egypt.   The need for drainage in the
project areas became obvious soon after perennial irrigation had replaced
free flooding in parts of the project area. A system of open main and branch
drains was constructed first in many places with pumping stations that lifted
the effluent into the main irrigation canals or back into the Nile.   This
trunk drainage network was never expected to solve the problem of water-
logging once full perennial irrigation had started. In the late 1930s inves-
tigations started into field drainage, using buried tiles.  In anticipation
of the perennial irrigation and near 200% cropping intensities of all
cultivable lands, that the High Aswan Dam would make possible, a program was
launched in 1956 to provide the whole Nile valley with tile drains within 30
years. Progress, however, was exceedingly slow. To speed up implementation,
a UNDP pilot project was launched in 1963 to establish the criteria and
feasibility of mechanized tile laying. Machine operation was not only ex-
pected to speed up execution, but also to allow pipes to be laid where the
watertable was less than 1 m below the surface and manual excavation of the
trenches would cause sloughing before the pipes are laid. Based on the UNDP
study, the first Bank supported drainage project was identified and appraised
in December 1968.
2.        The present project is the second drainage project supported by the
Bank and the first in Upper Egypt. The project supports the Government of
Egypt's (GOE) policy of providing improved drainage throughout most of the
nearly 5 million feddans (2.0 million ha) of the historically irrigated area
("the old lands") in the Nile Valley below the dam at Aswan.  The project
aimed to provide field drainage to some 6% of this area.   Following the
pattern set by the previous project, the Bank extended its participation in
the drainage program by financing this and two further projects involving
three credits and three loans totalling US$153 million.  The four projects
together cover improvements of surface drains in about 2.56 million feddans
and installation of tile drains on 2.16 million feddans (about 40% of the old
lands). The project and its successors have attracted significant amounts of
aid from other donors including USAID, KfW, the Netherlands Government and
the World Food Program.
3.        Credit 393-UAR, the second in the agriculture sector, represented a
continuation of Bank Group lending operations in Egypt.   The Credit for
US$36.0 million was approved by the Bank Board on May 17, 1973, signed on
June 8, 1973 and became effective on November 28, 1973. The project was to
improve drainage on 300,000 feddans and included remodeling of 775 km of



-2 -
existing open drains and the excavation of about 865 km of new open drains,
the construction of four pumping stations and the expansion of an existing
station,  provision of  transmission  lines and  power  substations for the
pumping stations, the reclauation of about 22,400 feddans of saline land, a
Bilharzia  control program  covering  an  area  of 900,000  feddans  In  the
Governorates of Beni Suef, El Minya and Assiut, provision of necessary
vehicles and equipment for the Authority and extension services and the
provision of technical assistance for training the staff of the Authority.
The IDA financing was to be used primarily for the import of construction
machinery and pumping equipment including its installation and spare parts as
well as for consulting services.
4.        The agreed implementation  schedule projected completion of the
project by June 1979.   The credit closing date was set for December 31,
1979. While the project objectives remained unchanged, many events conspired
to cause delay. The closing date was revised once, to accommodate slippages
in implementation. The credit was closed on July 31, 1981, but its accounts
were kept open for making disbursements against commitments made before this
date.
5.        In general, progress in implementing the project was slow since it
took almost 3-1/2 years longer to complete the principal objectives than the
originally agreed period of about 6 years. The project was the first large-
scale drainage effort in Upper Egypt and the time needed for contractors to
train manpower in manufacturing and installing cement tiles was longer than
anticipated. Non-cooperation by farmers in the first few years due to sugar
cane occupying more than 50X of the project area was another reason for proj-
ect start-up delay. Of the three main components viz pumping stations, open
drains and buried drains, it was the third which delayed full completion of
the project.
6.        In general, implementation delays were due to weaknesses in EPADP's
construction planning and management organization as well as the low imple-
mentation capacity of the public sector contractors. While EPADP failed to
manage the program rigorously enough, the delays largely related to the
management weakness of the contracting organizations. They lacked, and still
lack, normal commercial incentives to meet construction schedules and EPADP
has no effective means of enforcing the conditions of contracts.-/
7.        The final disbursement from the credit was made on May 21, 1982,
bringing the total amount disbursed to US$34.9 million.  On this date, the
installation of field drainage, an activity critical to full completion of
the project, was accomplished in 255,000 feddans out of the 300,000 feddans
originally planned. The remaining area was completed by March 1983.
1/   The Drainage Authority adds the following reasons for implementation
delays: (i) abnormal conditions prevailing in the area; (ii) time taken
by contractors to train manpower for manufacturing and installing cement
tiles; and (iii) lack of cooperation by farmers in the first few years.



- 3 -
8.         During execution of the Project, yields of the main crops--namely
wheat, cotton and maize--have been assessed on some sample areas before and
after drainage and in similar undrained areas outside the project area. The
results indicate that yields have increased due to field drainage in almost
all tile drained areas, but the magnitude of the increase varied greatly with
the crop, location, yield levels before drainage and other factors affecting
crop production.   Using the available data, the results show the average
increases over 4 years (1977-1980) after drainage to be 9% for wheat, 9X for
cotton and 15% for maize. Although these results indicate that tile drainage
has a positive effect on crop yields, the values given can only be considered
indicative.
9.        Some of the completed drainage areas are not maintained adequately,
and it is difficult to estimate the size of such 'inadequately-performing"
areas. Any quantitative estimate of overall project benefits is difficult to
make at this time.   Data available  on yield  increases  from  the areas
monitored by DRI in the Delta cannot be extrapolated to the whole project
area without allowing for differences in production factors and in the
performance of the drainage systems. This is particularly true for the large
sugar cane areas south of Nag Hammadi, where maintenance of the systems
appears inadequate and drainage performance seems to be poor.
10.       The PCR did not directly estimate the rate of return of the project
because of insufficient data on yield increases in the areas drained.   It
states, however, that an increase in yields as low as 5% over the whole area
of the project would provide a rate of return in excess of 121. The audit is
reluctant to accept these conclusions, for the reasons stated above. At the
same time the Audit contends that drainage is absolutely essential in most of
the irrigated areas in Egypt; the main issue is how to make the projects
perform adequately.2/
11.       There can be no doubt that the Bank made the right choice in
selecting drainage for its priority lending activity in the agricultural
sector. Investment in drainage in the Egyptian context is a sound long-term
investment  and  a  necessary  condition  for  attaining  high  levels  of
agricultural production. Over the long term, the success or failure of the
drainage projects will, however, depend on whether the drains are properly
maintained and continue to operate.
2/   The Drainage Authority comments that (i) yield response to drainage is
now available for about 37% of the project area; and (il) on the basis
of these yield increases, the project ERR could be estimated at about
20%. The Region, however, points out that the project ERR cannot be
adequately estimated due to the relatively few years through which data
have been collected and the wide variability of the results recorded.



-4      -
II. MAIN -ISSUES
:A.  Technical Sperifications
12.       The drainage design procedure adopted in this project was the same
as that used in the first Nile Delta Drainage Project.  Two main features
were controversial viz the use of envelope material around the field drains
and the spacing of laterals.  Regarding the use of envelope material, all
tile lines constructed during the initial years of project implementation
were covered with a gravel layer.   However, due to some difficulty in
obtaining properly graded envelope material at a reasonable cost and due to
the somewhat increased construction time, EPADP, supported by the joint
Egyptian-Dutch Panel, decided to stop the use of gravel filters in all
drainage contracts awarded after 1978, for areas whose soils had a clay
content exceeding 40Z.  This raised the implementation rate slightly and
reduced somewhat construction costs. However, several Bank experts have conr-
tinued to advocate the use of a gravel envelope around subsurface field
drains in all types of soil. The issue was not resolved during the imple-
mentation of the project and results are now awaited from a program of field
investigations and trials carried out by the Drainage Research Institute
(DRI) in a pilot area in the eastern part of the Delta. To date results of
these studies are inconclusive and it is doubtful whether reliable data will
become available from this program in the foreseeable future.3/
13.       In the audit's view, this technical controversy, which continued
over most of the implementation period of the project, -was not properly
handled by the Bank's supervision missions. After the establishment of the
EgyptianrDutch Drainage Panel in 1976, and specially after their ruling in
1978 to stop the use of gravel filters in soils with a clay content ln excess
of 4GZ, the Bank should either have accepted this ruling, at least on a tew-
porary basis, until evidence from the field or from DRI studies would have
indicated otherwise, or declared the Borrower in default of the specifica-
tions agreed at appraisal and during negotiations.
14.       Discussions with the Borrower by various Bank staff who argued
against the Panel' s findings were ineffective. The Panel was established by
the Borrower to guide this large-scale drainage program on just such tech-
nical matters and the Bank should have tried to work through the Panel.
15.      With regard to lateral pipe spacings, an issue which was resolved,
EPADP used design tables (steady state approach) which are based on the for-
mula of Hooghoudt.  However, drain spacings, calculated according to this
formula, were sometimes disregarded when tile drains were laid. A spacing
3/  OPS staff point out that (i) the most important question-the depth at
which the tile drains are installed-also remains unresolved and (ii) if
an envelope is required, it must be of suitably graded material and not
of small stones and boulders which proved so unsatisfactory that it
would have made little difference whether it was used or not.



narrower than 40 n was considered economically unjustified by EPADP.  The
Bank experts objected to this arbitrary spacing decision. Over the period of
project implementation, several consultants and Bank engineers have visited
the project arguing against the decision.  There has been a consensus of
opinion by- all visiting experts that the steady state approach to drain
spacing was suitable and that EPADP are -correct to use it. - There was also
full agreement that spacing calculated in the design office should be adopted
in the field even if the calculated spacing was narrower than 40 m.  The
audit has been -told that this approach to drain spacing has now been adopted
by EPADP.
B.  Quality of Design and Construction
16.        The design of the drainage systems is the responsibility of the
Field Investigation and Design Department of EPADP. In calendar year 1982
the design output of the Department was some 230,000 feddans. The technical
workforce of the Department was 56 out of which 22 were engineers (12 civil
engineers, 6 agricultural engineers and 4 mechanical engineers).  The areas
for which designs were required were divided into subprojects of 3,000-5,000
feddans each, and were entrusted to one of the engineers who was responsible
for all field investigations and the preparation of the design album. Prede-
sign investigations were carried out at gridpoints of 500 m spacing.4/  The
design album contains topographical surveys, the drainage layouts, longi-
tudinal sections, structural designs and a list of quantities.
17.        Once the design album is handed over to the construction depart-
ments, the design engineer has no further involvement in the construction and
operation of the works which he has designed. Thus, no systematic perfor-
-mnce feedback reaches him from the field.  The design office has recently
carried out a series of studies on the efficiency of their drainage design
which has provided some feedback. The audit contends that without continuous
feedback no improvements in project design can be expected. This could be
possible if the design engineer would remain in touch with the construction
and operational phases of the project.
18.       Construction quality seen during the field visits, in the more
southern part of the project area, was poor. (All mission observations con-
cern areas implemented under the second stage project. The mission can only
deduce from these observations that similar practices were used in the imple-
mentation of the project under audit.)  Ungraded and contaminated filter
material (chunks of concrete and earth) was used around the PVC pipes, pre-
cast and cast-in-place concrete in manholes was of very poor quality, con-
struction procedures were inefficient and insufficiently supervised.   The
mission was told by EPADP officials that the reason for the use of upgraded
filter material by the contractors was the low price allowed to them for
4/   In the past, field investigations were carried out at gridpoints at 100
and subsequently 300 m spacing.  The present 500 m spacing is apparently
the result of a severe staff shortage, mainly of well trained techni-
cians.



-6-
grading.  The audit considers this explanati6n unsatisfactory.  If the price
allowed for proper grading was considered too low by the contractors, they
should have refused to accept the work. As a result, the price paid would
have had to be raised. The audit considers that an additional and not less
important reason for poor quality material was the lack of adequate supervi-
sion by EPADP staff in the quarries where the grading was carried out by the
contractors.
19.       The operational performance of badly constructed drainage systems
is usually poor and the useful life of the works short.  This, together with
inadequate maintenance (see following issues) observed by the audit in the
areas visited, could lead to serious trouble in the future.  The audit was
given estimates, by various officials, of unsatisfactorily performing systems
which ranged from a low 15% of the Project area to over 30%. The Drainage
Authority, however, does not agree with these estimates.5/
C.   Maintenance
20.       The quality of maintenance is dependent on budgetary allocations;
it is also affected by the shortage of properly trained and motivated tech-
nicians. Budgetary constraints affect primarily the periodic cleaning of the
open drains by draglines.  At present such work is performed once every two
years, on the average. With the very clear water flowing in the drains in
the southern part of the project area, this schedule seems insufficient.
Weed growth is very rapid, requiring cleaning at much shorter intervals. Unr
satisfactory performance of the open drains is compounded by the great length
of some of the gravity drains (Komir and El Hatana drains in the Isna
drainage area), which cause water levels to rise over long distances, when
the drains are clogged with weeds. The resulting backwater drowns the col-
lectors and laterals, making routine flushing difficult.  It is clear that
(a) the upstream portions of the long gravity drains should have had pumps
installed to increase the flow rate and thereby make the conveyance more
effective; and (b) all drains must be cleared of weeds at least once a year.
21.       Inadequate maintenance, resulting in poorly performing drainage
systems, makes it difficult to convince farmers that drainage systems are
beneficial to them. Only if farmers can be convinced that the works benefit
their land is there hope that the present tampering with manholes and pipes
flowing into them can be reduced. The maintenance of farm drainage works
needs the cooperation of the farmer beneficiaries.   Without their active
help, the maintenance task becomes unmanageable. More efforts should be made
5/   See comments at pages 2 and 3 of Annex I.  Also, according to para. 5.06
of the PCR, the standard of operation and maintenance has considerably
improved after EPADP took over this responsibility in 1979.



-7-
by the field staff of EPADP to educate and motivate the farmers to co-
operate. This requires specially trained personnel and a lot of time.6/
D.  Shortage of Qualified Staff
22.       Some of the  quanlty' problem-  mentioned above could probably be
alleviated by employing well trained and motivated technical personmel.
Unfortunately these are in short supply_   Graduate Civil and Hydraulic
Engineers are reluctant to join Government Service and some of those who are
working in the Service are looking for a way out to better paid positions in
private industry or abroad. Qualified technicians are also in short supply
and the two technical schools do not produce sufficient numbers of trained
surveyors, soil technicians, draftsmen, etc.
23.       The mission does not believe that the present shortage of graduate
engineers can be alleviated in the short term. The solution therefore must
come from a well trained workforce of tecbnicians.  The Region may wish to
review the applicability to Egypt of the approach successfully taken by the
Bank in India to a similar problem, i.e., to organize the in-service training
of all grades of supervisory and design staff. These recruits would be put
through a specially designed one-year basic training course, followed by per-
iodic refresher- courses to enhance their knowledge and motivation.   The
course would narrowly focus on the requirements of their tasks, whether topo-
graphical surveys, soil investigations, engineering drawing, maintenance work
or construction supervision. The training will be field oriented with lots
of practical work to prepare the trainee to carry out his tasks in the field
wlth Little supervision. Based on Bank experience with similar training ope-
rations in India, the chances for success in Egypt are promising.
24.        The audit apprised the Chairman of EPADP of the Indian Programs.
The Chairman has shown great interest and wished to have further informa-
tion. The audit considers that without the necessary number of well-trained
and motivated technical personnel in the Authority and with the Contracting
Companies the ambitious drainage program of the Borrower may have to be
slowed down, with increasing priority given to maintenance and rehabilitation
over new construction.
E.   The Bank's Performance
25.       Supervision of the project should have been improved by giving more
emphasis to design parameters and to the quality of designs, construction and
maintenance. This would have focussed the Borrower's attention, early in the
project implementation period, on the very serious shortage of professionals
at all levels in EPADP and with the contractors and on the urgency to do
something about it.
6/  The Drainage Authority points out that the malfunctioning of a collector
is invariably due to roots invading the pipe through the joints or to
human factors. However, the system of handling complaints at centers
covering 5,000 feddans each permits prompt action to remedy the situa-
tion.



-8-
26.        In evaluating the Bank's performance, it is now obvious that too
much confidence was placed on the construction administration capabilities of
the EPADP and on the capacity of the public sector contractors. Supervision
of the project was intensive in the start-up phase and, later on, timely and
satisfactory.  However, a lot of time was spent by the Bank on technical
arguments with the Borrower, with regard to specifications which were
originslly agreed with the Borrower at appraisal and during negotiations.
Some of these specifications were changed unilaterally by the Borrower on
recommendation of the Egyptiatr-Dutch Drainage Panel,7/ as established by the
Ministry of Irrigation in 1976, to provide the technical guidance for the
country's large drainage program. A resolution of differences between the
Bank and Borrower would have been clearly preferable to unilateral action.
27.       There can be no doubt that the Bank made the right choice in
selecting drainage for its priority lending activity in the agricultural
sector. Investment in drainage is a sound long-term investment and a neces-
sary condition for attaining high levels of agricultural production. Over
the long term, the success or failure of the drainage projects will, however,
depend on whether the drains are properly maintained and continue to operate.
7/   The Panel is composed of Egyptian and Dutch drainage experts.  It meets
twice a year and discusses technical and economic issues.  A meeting
scheduled for early September 1983 was attended by over 15 Dutch experts
and 10 Egyptian officials.   The World Bank sent two observers.   The
Panel, in this session, focussed its discussions inter alia on the
economic evaluation techniques for drainage projects.



___._ -    - -  -  -   -  -  t_ --  Annex   1
1A3 R    lEPUBLIC OF EGYPT                         _ 9  _ A t!  j           Page 1
-'PTIAN  PUBLIC AUTHORITY
FOR DRAINAGE PROJECTS
5 a Elgoheiny St Doki Giza
Cable Address: Deltatile Cairo.
: Chairman's Office
Mr. Shiv S. Kapur,
-Director,
Operations Evaluation Department,
1818 Street, N.W.,
Washington D.C.. 20433,
U.S.A.
Dear Mr Kapur,
Re: Arab Republic of Egypt
Project performance Audit Report (PPAR)
Upper Egypt Drainage I Project(Cr.393-UAR)
Thank you very much for your letter dated February 8,1984 with which we
received the draft PPAR on Upper Egypt Drainage I Project together with   its
Completion Report.
We have reviewed the PPAR and would like to make the following comments
on: main points.  These comments apply equally to the issues brought out   in
" Audit Memorandum"  and their summary presented under "High lights".    We
believe you will give careful consideration to our comments while finalizing
the PPAR.
(a) Selection of Tile Drainage.  There is no doubt that installation  of
buried drains is a " demanding operation".  Studies carried out   in
Egypt, however, indicate that the annualized cost of horizontal drainage
compares favourably with vertical drainage.  Therefore, it will   be
incorrect to assume that under Egyptian conditions, subsurface drainge
by buried drains is expensive compared to the alternative of achieving
drainage by tubewells
(b)  Project Implementation. It is true that it took about 3 years longer
to complete in paticular tile drains. This delay, however, can only
'partially be attributed to aspects related to construction management
The project received a serious initial setback due to abnormal condit-
ions prevailing in the region at the time of its effectiveners.   It
also comprised our first large-scale drainage effort in Upper   Egypt
and the contractors took time to train man power for   manufacturing



::: : :-- 'Annex I
-10-                               Page 2
and installing and installing cement tiles.  Besides the time spent  in
importing custom made tile 'laying mrschines, several other factors influ--
enced the output . The most important amongst these are severe summer
weather, sugar cane occupying in the cropping pattern more than 50%  of
the project area and non-cooperation by the farmers in the first   few
years. In view of these factors, you will agree with us that bbservat-
-ions made in para 6 of the summary do not present the matter in a proper
perspective.
Cc) Yield Response to Drainage . By our letter dated 3 rd February 1983 to
the agriculture division , we furnished the Bank with  our post   -
evaluation results covering 110,000 feddans provided with tile drains
under this project.  These results indicate average increases over   4
years after drainage to be 9Z for both wheat and cotton and 15X    for
maize. We believe economic rate of return (ERR) if assessed onthese
increases would be arround 20%, which for agricultural projects   is
highly attractive . While similar data provided by us for about 50 Z
of the area covered by Nile Delta I Project was accepted and incorpor-
ated in its Completion report, we fail to understand why data covering
about 37% of Upper Egypt 1 Project has been ignored. We would, there-
fore, suggest to reassessERR of this project based on above data and
incorporate the same in its completion report and PPAR or reasons for
not evaluating this data be communicated to us. Further we may emphasize
that our data tends to under estimate the benefits due to drainage as
our results are based on the averages of adequately and possibly some
inadequately functioning areas. In view of the above , we will suggest
to modify paras 8 and 10 of the summary and related parts in other sect-
ions . Post -evaulation of the results covering37% of the area cannot
and should not be treated as sample areas.
Cd) Design and Construction . We may inform that over the last few years,
our design office has investigated several previously installed systems.
Based on these investigations and feed back provided by our construction
directorates, we have already taken step to modify designs as necessary.
Our pre drainage surveys have been considered satis factory by a recent
FAO/CP mission . We have also taken several steps including training
of our and contractors engineers and technigians to further   improve
construction management and quality control. We can assure you that the
quality of work is by and large satisfactory.
Ce) Poorly Performing Systems and Maintenance.  We do not agree with    the -
contents of paras 19 and 22 and would suggest that these should not be
included in the final PPAR . It is incorrect to assure that 15-30Z of
the project area may be poorly performing.  Our system of having compl-
aints in centers each covering 5,000 feddan's records every poorly perfor-
ming collector. Prompt action is invariably taken to remedy the situation.
The malfunctioning of a collector is invariably due to roots invading the
pipe through the joints or due human factors and generally not because of
factors-implied in para 19 and under subsection C " Maintenance ".



Annex 1
-11-        --                      page 3
We would draw your attention to para 5.06 of the completion Reports which
rightly commends the action taken by EPADP since taking over of maintenance in
1979. While your Credit Agreement did not stipulate such on arrangement, the
Ministry of Irrigation considered it necessary to unify maintenance of open and
field drains . We would have liked the completion and Audit missions to comment
on the system of maintenance districts and centers established by us, with local
financing.
The profuse growth of weeds in Egyptian water-ways is a serious problem-
We cannot afford to increase frequency of excavation by draglines and hydraulic
excavators because that enlarges the cross sections , reduces velocities, and
aggrevatec the problem. We would , therefore, welcome the Bank's assistance in
finding a solution to this problems.
(f) Bank Assistance . We appreciate the technical assistance provided by the Bank
staff which resulted in improvement in design standards.
With best regards.
Sincerely
-Eng.M.A.   Makhlouf
=   Chairman
./9//lrr



-2 1;



- 13 -
,ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PROJECT COIMPLETION REPORT
UPPER EGYPT DRINAGE I PROJECT
(CREDIT 393-lAR)
June 28, 1983
Agriculture Division I
EMNA Projects Department



,* l L



-            ~~~- 15 -
ARAB 'REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE I PROJECT
(CREDIT 393-UAR)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      This completion report for Upper Egypt Drainage I Project, the
second phase of a multi-stage drainage program in Egypt gives a further
opportunity to record and evaluate the performance on the second project in
the largest single tile drainage program ever undertaken in the world. The
project provided the second substantive financial assistance to the Government
of Egypt's (GOE) policy of providing improved drainage throughout most of the
nearly 6 million feddans 1/ of the historically irrigated area ("the old
lands") in the Nile Valley below the newly completed dam at Aswan. The
project aimed to provide field drainage to some 5% of this area, and,
following the pattern set by the previous project, the Bank extended its
participation in the drainage program by financing this and two further
projects involving three credits and three loans totalling US$152 million.
The four projects together cover improvement of surface drains in about
2.56 million feddans and installation of tile drains in 2.16 million feddans
(about 40X of the old lands irrigated areas). Anne% 1 presents salient
features and status of each of the repeater projects. The project and its
successors has also attracted significant amounts of aid from other donors
including USAID, KfW, the Netherlands Government and the World Food Program.
1.02      This credit, the second in the vital agriculture sector, represented
a continuation of Bank Group lending operations in Egypt. Credit 393-UhAR_/
for US$36.0 million was signed on June 8, 1973 and became effective on
November 28, 1973. The Closing Date, originally December 31, 1979, was
extended to July 31, 1981. The final disbursement from the credit was made on
May 21, 1982 bringing the total amount disbursed to US034,905,539.46. On this
date, the installation of field drainage, an activity critical to full
completion of the project, was accomplished in 255,000 feddans out of the
300,000 feddans originally planned.
Agriculture Sector Setting
1.03      AgricuLture continues to be the principal sector of the Egyptian
economy, although it has been declining in relative terms with the growth of
industry. Between the 1973 appraisal and the date of project completion,
agriculture's share of total employment has fallen to 39Z, its share of GDP
has fallen from 27% to about 21%. The agricultural sector has faltered in the
last decade, as evidenced by the fall in the average annual growth rate of
around 3X in the 1960s to below 2% in the 1980s. Population (currently
estimated to be 43 million) has continued to increase at an annual rate of
2.1%, and rural to urban migration has accelerated. This population increase,
together with massive infusions of money repatriated by Egyptians working
1/ Or 2.4 million ha (1 feddan = 0.42 ha).
21 At the time that the Credit was agreed the Arab Republic of Egypt was the
United Arab Republic, hence Credit 393-UAR. More recent loans and credits
are numbered EGT.



- 16 -
abroad, has increased consumer desands for more and better foods far beyond
the ability of agriculture to supply. The production of controlled crops,
mainly wheat, beans, lentils and cotton has been depressed by GOE controls
over input distribution and output marketing and associated pricing policies.
Imports of key foodstuffs have increasingly been required to complement
domestic supplies. During the same period the value of agricultural exports
(mainly cotton) stagnated, leading to a widening trade deficit in agricultural
comzodities. Therefore, the fundamental underlying challenge facing the
Government is to bring about changes in technology, institutions, policies
and, of necessity, improving drainage for increasing the rate of growth in
agricultural production.
Land Constraints and Importance of Improved Drainage
1.04      Good land for crop production is scarce in Egypt and development of
desert/saline marshy lands identified by GOE for reclamation is cost intensive
with lengthy gestation periods. Therefore, the main source of increases in
agricultural production in the short run must be the old lands in the Nile
Valley. On these lands productivity is still constrained even today by
inadequate drainage in about 3 million feddans. The priority thus lies in
continuing drainage program under which some 1.6 million feddans will have
been equipped with tile drains by the end of 1984. This is readily justified
since no input package to increase production will be fully successful until
the drainage constraint has been removed. While there is little evidence that
Land is going out of production as a result of salinization caused by high
groundwater levels, it is clear that rising soil salinity in some areas is
causing yields to decline.
1.05      Fully aware of this stark reality, the Government has given high
priority to the tile drainage program in recent years. During the 5 years
ending 1979, the capital expenditures on all irrigation and land recl-amtion
activities in Egypt totalled E 400 million (US$ 580 million). Out of this,
drainage alone accounted for LE 184 million (US$ 267 million) or 46Z. Annex
7, which shows the Ministry of Irrigation's (f0I) budget, indicates that over
the same period the drainage projects consumed 53Z on average of HOI's capital
funds.  The MOI current planning is to complete all on-going projects covering
about 1.6 million feddans by 1983/84. Draining the remaining 2 million
feddans is likely to take until 1990.
Bank's Agricultural Lending
1.06      Since 1970, the Bank has financed 12 projects in the agricultural
sector in Egypt. Initially the Bank's policy was to encourage the Government
to maintain and increase production levels in' the old lands. This was done
through the series of four drainage projects, of which 393-UAR was the second,
and through the Agricultural Development Project (Credit 830-UAR). This is a
pilot attempt to raise productivity in two governorates by increasing the
level of farm mechanization and strengthening agricultural credit,
cooperatives and extension services. Over time there has been further
diversification. The Fruit and Vegetables Project (Loan 1276-EGT) of FY76
included financing for a vegetable seed farm, completion of the West Nubariya
Drain, credit to fruit and vegetable processors/exporters, and associated
activities. The Agroindustries Project 'Credit 988-EGT) of FY80 includes
financing for small and medium-sized agroindustries and replacement of
municipal slaughterhouses in Cairo and Alexandria. The Fish Farming



- 17 -
Development Project (Credit llll-EGT) of FY81 includes financing for the
development of a large commercial fish farziug venture in Lake Ma-yut and
credit for smaller fish farms in other parts of the delta. The New Lands
Development Project (Credit 1083-EGT) of FY81 marked the beginning of a
further shift in lending to agriculture, being the first project primarily
aimed at helping the Goverment'sa land reclamation program. It is financing
the development of 24,000 feddans of desert into incensive smallholder farms
of 6 feddans each. A Technical Assistance Credit in FY81 finances the
establishment and training of two units for project preparation, one in the
Ministry of Irrigation and one in the Ministry of Land Reclamation. A second
Agroindustries Project (Lu 2243) was signed in FY83 together with an
Irrigation Pumping Stations Rehabilitation Project (Lu 2270) which is the
first pf a series of proposed projects to modernize the irrigation
infrastructure of the Old Lands.
II. BACKGROUND
2.01      Egyptian agriculture has historically been blessed with Nile waters,
which both contained very low concentration of salts and annually flooded the
Nile Valley thus flushing salts from the soils. Salinity was thus never a
problem. With the gradual introduction of large-scale perennial irrigation
from the beginning of this century, the natural system of dr.inage was lost.
Today, as a result of several decades of perennial irrigation, a rather high
water table has gradually developed with consequent rise in soil salinity and
reduction in plant production.
2.02      In order to prevent deterioration of the soil, an open drainage
systom was constructed, beginning in the northern part of the Delta around the
turn of the century and, over the years, being extended to other parts of the
country. By 1965, nearly 5 million feddans were covered with open drains.
However, farmers did not fulfill their responsibility to connect each plot
with drainage channels, mainly because they could not afford to lose the
10-15% of area that would have been occupied by these ditches. Accordingly,
the drainage system was neither complete nor effective enough to have any
significant control on the water table in clay soils. The efficiency of the
system was further constrained by inadequate maintenance. Therefore,
inadequate drainage of the soils increasingly became the single most important
limiting factor in crop production.
2.03      As the land slopes only slightly, the operation of the drainage
system required the installation of pumping stations. The number of such
stations increased steadily, from 18 in 1934-35 to 52 in 1964-65, of which 35
were located in the Delta.
2.04      Recognizing the inadequacy of the conventional methods, research was
initiated in 1938 at 15 experimental stations to try out covered tile drainage
systema in different parts of the country. By 1952, pilot projects were
extended to an area of approximately 50,000 feddans. Also in the same year,
_/ Set up in 1973 by merging the Nile Delta Drainage Authority and the
Egyptian Authority for Drainage Projects.



- 18 -
MOI organized the "Drainage Research Bureau" for carrying out research on
groundwater flow problems and on technical cum economic studies related to
tile drainage. This bureau Was later renamed the Drainage Research
Institute (DRI).
2.05      Encouraged by the result.' obtained with tile drainage, a law was
passed in 1956 giving the responsibility for the execution of field
drainage to the Government. An ambitious 30-year program to cover all the
areas under perennial irrigation with tile drains was also drawn up.
However by 1965, as a result of resource constraints, including scarcity of
foreign exchange, only about 300,000 feddans had been tile drained.
2.06      Between 1961 and 1965 modern techniques of tile drainage were
studied and tested through a pilot project covering five areas, each up to
2,000 feddans implemented under the auspices of the United Nations Special
Fund with FAD as the executing agency and ILACO from Netherlands employed
as consultants. Ihe purposes of this project, determining the technical
and economic viability of tile drainage under conditions prevailing in the
irrigated lands of Egypt and identifying issues on which further research
was needed, were largely achieved.
2.07      The final report 1/ on the UNDP Project defined the task of the
DRI as "to try out new methods of investigation, construction aud
maintenance." However, DRI's research on many of the important technical
issues recommended in the FAO report has been limited. Reliable or
conclusive answers to many of these aspects are still lacking, and
constitute a weakness of the drainage program. Of particular significance
is the apparent lack of any monitoring of groundwater fluctuations and
groundwater movement in irrigated areas, the lack of weasurements of water
table and piezometric levels in drained areas or of discharges from
collectors.
2.08      In 1964 a joint committee of M0I and the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA,) studied the effect of tile drainage on crop yields in an
18,500-feddan area in the Delta where buried drains had been installed
between 1940 and 1942. A statistical analysis showed that maize and cotton
recorded yield increases of about 32% and 35% respectively, mainly because
of field drainage. Similar analysis carried out regarding wheat in another
area, also located in the Delta, showed average yield increase of about
27%. These results strengthened the views of the MI0 to provide tile
drainage in much of the irrigated lands.
2.09      The commissioning of the High Aswan Dam (HAD) in 1968 brought
both development opportunities as well as challenges. Relevant to
irrigated agriculture, the HAD potential opened the possibility for large
scale expansion of perennial irrigation area. As regards drainage, the
large additions to irrigation water supplies deriving from the HAD were to
aggravate the problem thus forcing GOE to take accelerated measures for
counteracting extensive deleterious effects on groundwater levels.
1/ Pilot Project for Drainage of Irrigated Land-UAR-Final Report,
FAD/SF:30/UAR-1967.



- 19 -
i.1o      Although the priirity attached to the drainage program greatly
inczeased after 1966 and plans for draining over L million feddans in the
Delta over the next 5 years were drawn up, progress on the drainage program
continued to be slow, hampered mainly by budgetary constraints and lack of
equipment. By the time the Upper Egypt I Project was appraised in 1973, the
total area provided with tile drainage was about 500,000 feddans and was
proceeding at the rate of about 40,000 feddans per yeAr. It was explained to
the various Bank missions that visited Egypt during the period that MOI
intended to undertake an accelerated program for drainage provided foreign
exchange was available for the import of machinery.
2.11      Bilharzia.  Bilharzia has been a major health problem in Egypt since
ancient times. Two types of Bilharzia are present, Schistosoma haematobium
occuring throughout the irrigated area and S. mansoni which at present is
essentially confined to the Nile Delta. The disease organism passes part of
its life cycle in a water snail host. Transmission occurs through human
exereta coming in contact with water inhabited by the snail hosts and by human
contact with infested water. Infection is highest among children in the 10-15
year age group. The degree of infection varies locally, depending on the
availability and suitability of canals and other bodies of water in which the
snail host may live and breed and on the habits of the local population.
Persons infected suffer debilitating symptoms and bilharzia can predispose the
individual to serious complications such as cancer of the bladder and
exacerbate the effects of malnutrition and diseases such as viral hepatitis.
III. PROJECr FORMULATION
Project Origin
3.01      The initiation of Bank-financed drainage projects followed the Bank
economic mission to Egypt in 1966 when two of its members from the FAO/IBRD
Cooperative Program recommended Bank consideration of a project that would
include tile drains as well as the expansion of open drains and pumping
stations.
3.02      The idea of a drainage project was further advanced late in 1967 by
a bank mission in early 1968 by an economic mission and in July 1968 by a
visit of the President. These contacts culminated in a Bank agricultural
mission which visited Egypt in September 1968. This reviewed a number of
project possibilities from which a drainage project for part of the Nile Delta
was chosen as first priority (Credit 181-UAR), completed December 1980.
Subsequently, the Upper Egypt Drainage I Project was proposed, and MOI
undertook a feasibility study.
3.03      Several technical and other questions/issues raised by the
agricultural mission deserve special mention because of their validity and the
fact that, even today, reliable information on many of them is still lacking.
The prominent issues included: Lack of basic information on vertical
drainage; inadequacy of experimental evidence to quantify the increase in the
yields of cotton, maize and wheat and GOE inability to assign benefits to
berseem that covered the largest winter crop area in the Delta; and the fact
that insufficient data was made available on water-logged and saline soils and
the rate at which the affected area was spreading; inadequate information on
the pumping need; and lack of water charges. The agricultural mission did not



- 20-
provide a comprehensive diagnosis of moils implementation capability and the
need or otherwise for consultants, both of which became crucial at appraisal
and during negotiations.
Feasibility Report
3.04      In 1972, the Minister of Irrigation forwarded a feasibility report
to the Bank for a US$113.0 million project to be completed in 6 yeare as a
part of the larger 15-year Government program. In the letter of transmittal,
a request was made for financing by MDA of foreign currency costs estimated at
US$20.0 million. The main components of the project were the same as proposed
by the Bank agricultural mission (para 3.02). Based on yield increases of 32%
with cotton, 37Z with maize, and 34Z with wheat, the ERR. was assessed at 20Z.
3.05      The feasibility report was reasonably comprehensive but was short on
some es-encial data, details and justificatian. In particular, there was an
absence of a satisfactory and complete justification for selection of the
project area. Information on soils, groundwater levels and salinity status
was fragmentaxy and needed to be completed and enlarged. In view of the
implication contained in the report that drainage conditions in Middle and
Upper Egypt are less uniform than in the delta, it was felt, and camented
upon, that detailed field studies were necessary to finalize selection of each
individual area. The cost estimates for foreign exchange items of the project
were considered to be realistic, but the local costs were considered to be
questionable, particularly in respect to construction costs of lateral and
collector drains. l/
Appraisal
3.06      The appraisal of the project was carried out in March 1972.  The
appraisal mission reviewed the basic assumptions made in the feasibility
report, giving special attention to the mamagerial capacity of 10I, to thc-
rate of implementation, and to the increases in crop yields anticipated with
the project. The major issue revolved around the mission's opinion that all
construction should go to ICB against the insistence by NDI that the bidding
for construction of open and buried drains be restricted to quasi independent,
government owned contracting firms. In the end, the mission accepted the MDI
arguments but insisted that ICB be followed for the procurement of all items
of equipment and construction machinery, financed by IDA, including
maxntenance and training of Egyptian operators and mechanics by technicians
supplied by the equipment manufacturers.
3.07      Following the appraisal mission, the scope of the project and its
period of implementation were debated in the Bank. As a result, it was
finally decided that the project would consist of five pumping stations and a
tile drained area of 300,000 feddans, the pumping stations were designed to
pump surface water drainage from 232,000 feddans outside the project area and
water from 89,000 feddans of tile drained area within the project area. The
period of implementation was 6 years. Both these decisions were taken in
order to reduce the risk as well as to learn more about possible increases in
the rate of implementation before preparing further phases of the drainage
1/ "Some Engineering Aspects in the Project Report Submitted by the Executive
Authority," EMWEA Files-Egypt, Cr. 393-UAR, I, 1972-74, "Negotiation."



:  21 -
program. Limiting the size of the project caused no problems with GOE,
possibly because the curtailment in the period of implementation did not
affect the program of MOT or the amount of financing by IDA.
3.08      Some nonrtechnical potential problems were identified; these
included the need for a strong unified organization to run the project.
Assurances were obtained from GOE that at all times a qualified and
experienced Chairman for EPADP and a qualified and experienced Vice-Chairman
for Operations in Upper Egypt would be appointed. Consulting services, as in
Delta D-raimage I, were a thorny issue. Although GOE accepted the need for
consulting services, and these were included in the appraisal report, it was
evident that appointment of expatriate consultants in the manner envisaged by
IDA was likely to be resisted or considerably altered.
Negotiations
3.09      Negotiations took place in the period April 2-6, 1973.  The two
principal issues were how to give the project organization adequate authority
and the employment of consultants. The first was resolved with the
presentation by the Egyptian delegation of a Presidertial Decree for
establishing of the Egyptian Public Authority for Dr-inage Projects (EPADP) as
a semiautonomous body within the MOI_ As regards hiring of consultants, the
Borrower came to negotiations prepared to resist on this issue but ultimately
agreed. However, during negotiations, the Borrower made it plain that he
wished to retain individual consultants, not a consulting firm. It was agreed
that the input of consulting services should be reduced to 15 man-years, and
that this should form a side letter to the DCA.
3.10      Satisfactory arrangements existed for the recovery of field drainage
costs. These had been agreed during the implementation of the Nile Delta I
Project.
3.l1    Procedural matters discussed and agreed during negotiations included
amendments to local construction contracts to meet the conditions of the
Development Credit Agreement including utilization and maintenance of the
equipment to be financed out of the proceeds of the credit and training of
contractors' mechanics and operators at the Authority's training centers.
Auditing of the Authority's accounts and financial statements by GOE's Central
Organization for Accounts and Audit was considered satisfactory.
The Project
3.12      The primary objective of the project approved by the Bank Board on
May 17, 1973 was to improve drainage in 300,000 feddans in the Upper Egypt at
a total cost of US$123.8 million equivalent with an IDA credit of USg36.0
million. The project description incorporated in the Development Credit
Agreement is given in Annex 4. The project included remodeling of 775 kma of
existing open drains and the excavation of about 865 km of new open drains,
the construction of four pumping stations and the expansion of an existing
station, provision of transmission lines and power substation for the pumping
stations, the reclamation of about 22,400 feddans of saline land, a Bilharzia
control program covering an area of 900,000 feddans in the Governorates of
Beni Suef, El Minya and Assiut, provision of necessary vehicles and equipment
for the Authority and extension services and the provision of technical



- 22 -
assistance for training the staff of the Authority.  The IDA financing was to
be used primarily for the importation of construction machinery and pumping
equipment including its installation and spare parts as well as for consulting
services.
IV. IMPLEMENTATION
Development Credit Agreement and Side Letters
4.01      The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was signed on June 8, 1973 as
were the five side letters.  The five side letters were as follows:
(a) IDA Certificate of Secretary Relating to Resolution No. IDA 73-55.
(b) Resolution No. IDA 73-55.
(c) External Debt Statement of ARE.
(d) Project Area Statement of ARE.
(e) Agreement by EPADP to Employ Consultants for Part A.
An Overview of Project History
4.02      The agreed implementation schedule projected completion of the
project by June 1979. The credit closing date was set as December 31, 1979.
While the project objectives remained unchanged, many events conspired to
cause delay. The closing date was revised once, generally to accommodate
slippages in implementarion. The credit was finaLly closed on July 31, 1981,
but its accounts were kept open for making disbursements against commitments
made before this date.
Effectiveness and Start-up
4.03      No other than the standard conditions of effectiveness were
required. The credit was declared effective on November 28, 1973, 5-1/2
months after signature. -
Construction of Project Works
4.04      In general, progress in implementing the project can only be viewed
as poor since it took almost 3-1/2 years longer to complete the principal
objectives than the originally agreed period of about 6 years. Of the three
main components viz pumping stations, open drains and buried drains, it was
the third which delayed fuLl completion of the project. On the original
credit closing date of December 31, 1979, the completion achieved was 97% on
open drains, 80X on civil works of pumping stations and some 60% on field
drainage. Aside from the time factor, there was noticeable deficiency in
coordinating supporting activities. The three tile-making factories only
partially served the project because they became operational only during 1980.
4.05      In general, the delays were due to weaknesses in EPADP's
construction planning and management organization as well as the low
implementation capacity of the public sector contractors. While EPADP failed
to manage the program rigorously enough, the delays largely related to the
management weakness of the contracting organizations. They lacked, and still
lack, normal commercial incentives to meeting construction schedules and EPADP



- 23 -
has no effective means os. enforcing the conditions of contracts. Project
progress was also affected by events not directly related to these
organizations. The October 1973 war, its impact on skilled manpower,
resulting shortage of local funds, scarcity of cement supplies and the overall
variable quality of staff available to the project were factors not directly
under the control of the project management or of the public sector
contractors. Nor could some of these problems be solved in the short run. To
some extent, the farmers' resistance to destroying partially matured crops as
well as heavy watering of the fields disrupted smooth operations by the
contractors.
4.06      The problems faced by the project during the first few years were
considerable, and required painstaking effort and persistence on the part of
the Bank staff to get them resolved at Government/Authority level. Eighteen
supervision missions were mounted between July 1973 and April 1982.
4.07      A possible and partiaL solution to the situation prevailing during
the early 1970s could have been for EPADP to make more extensive use of the
consultants. Houever, efforts made by the supervision missions to persuade
EPADP to do this had no success, mainly because the Authority was unwilling to
share any maagement responsibility. Thus when the consultant's contract
expired it was not renewed.
4.08      The work on amelioration of land having saline soils has been
completed. Some 11,700 feddans were completed in 1980/81 and a total of 9,000
feddans in 1981/82. This total of 20,700 feddans is less than the area
anticipated in the Appraisal of the 22,400 feddans. The reclamation process
involved subsoiling in combination with the application of gypsum. The
quantity of gypsum applied varied with the degree of soil problems being
encountered. On average about 3 tons of gypsum per feddan was applied in the
reclaimed areas. The short time available between harvesting and sowing crops
was the major difficulty in carrying out the soil amelioration progrmime, The
implementation agency2! promised to prepare a brief report on monitoring the
effect of soil amelioration on crop yields, but did not deliver. Field
supervision missions noted poor quality of subsoiling operations and
applications of gypsum.
4.09      As a result of the October 1973 war, there was relatively slow
progress during L974. As of September 1974, roughly 2Z of the originally
estimated disbursements had taken place, and none of the tile drainage had
been completed. The project by them had fallen nine months behind schedule.
4.10      Annex 5 presents the construction schedule agreed during
negotiations for the three major components, and as actually implemented.
This presentation shows that most slippage occured on the tile laying
schedule.  While EPADP construction planning and control continued to be
lacking in certain respects, a greater part of the responsibility must be
apportioned to the inadequate construction management by che contracting
agencies.
4.11      The options available to the Bank staff to de anything about this
situation were, however, limited, because IDA had limited leverage for
1/ The Executive Agency for Land Improvement Works, Ministry of Agriculture.



- 24 -
influencing the working of the public sector contractors. In spite of
constant follow-up from Washington, project progress remAined disappointing.
One supervision mission even suggested posting a Resident Mission in Cairo.
However, it was realized that the distinction between providing technical
assistance on a day-to-day basis and taking de-facto charge of project
management would be difficult to maintain and could even increase Egyptian
resistance to outside interference. It became clear that direct control over
project activities and decisions had to be the prerogative and the
responsibility of the local EPADP staff, and that Bank staff influence could
at best be indirect.  Few new alternative courses of action were therefore
available to the Bank to bring about a faster rate of implementation. When
opportunities presented themselves, however, action was taken. For instance,
when shortages of local funds continued to rpmAin a significant delaying
factor, the Bank, apart from constantly stressing the need for adequate
funding to the Minister, inserted a covenant into the next drainage project
(Nile Delta Drainage II) requiring the Government to establish a Special Fund
from which EPADP could draw, without restriction, for implementing all
7DA/Bank-financed drainage projects.
Bilharzia Control
4.12      The integrated bilharzia control program initiated in 900,000
feddans of Middle Egypt, under the project, began in 1976. This was
supplemented by control work in a further 153,730 feddans under the Upper
Egypt Drainage Project II. The total area now contains a population of some
4.3 million people. The control strategy applied in this project (described
in detail in Annex 13, Appeadix 1) has involved a three year period of
intensive snail control measures - by mollusciciding on an area-wide basis
three times annually - together with chemotherapy of the infected population
in rural and urban areas. This has been followed by a three-year
'consolidation' phase (1979 onwards), during which the integrated control
strategy was continued, but with a reduced number of molluscicide applicatious
annually, together with continuing treatment of infected people based upon
annual re-examinations.
Revisions
4.13      During the course of the project, no changes were made in the
project scope, its objectives and basic design. However, the original
selection of the areas, as a result of changes in the behavior of groundwater
over a period of about 9 years, had to be amended from time to time, excluding
or reducing some and substituting equivalent new areas. It seems clear that
these changes were beneficial by allowing areas where the more serious
drainage problems were emerging to be given priority. Annex 5 presents by
catchment unit the areas at appraisal, those revised during execution of the
project and the final areas in which drainage was ultimately improved. As
compared to appraisal, the area in the Beni Suef decreased by 29% those in El
Fayoum and El Minya by 24% and in Aswan by 17X whilst the areas drained in
Asyut, Sohag and Qena increased by 216, 14 and 1% respectively.
4.14      Whilst it is believed that the revisions helped to ensure that the
drains were laid in high priority areas there is some lack of confidence that
this has always been the case. Two drainage consultants, independently, have
commented upon the relative dryness of the formation in which they inspected
tiles being laid. Both consultants acknowledged that they visited the



- 25 -
construction sites when irrigation was at a minimnm and hence the water table
could be lower than during the periods of high irrigation applications.
However, the lack of water table depth recording causes some doubt as to
whether the drains are really needed in all the areas that have been provided
with tiLem. This leads to the question - are all the drains installed
necessary? Whilot investigation and experience show that benefits accrue if
tiles are installed this is only true if the area suffers from a high water
table. This doubt reinforces the views expressed in paragraph 5.07 of the
necessity for better investigation, monitoring and also for more area-specific
data to be provided by EPADP for ongoing and future projects.
4.15      The original allocations for most items proved inaccurate (Annex
4).  Allocations ior equipment for the tile drainage construction and main
drainage remodeling (Categories I and II) were originally UStl6.1 million.
Final disbursements on these two accounts were USS23.9 million, an increase of
48%. Allocations for machinery, equipment and civil works for pumping
stations (Category III) were originally US$7.6 million while final
disbursements were US$3.12 million, a decrease of 59%. Allocations for
training and consultants (Category IV) were US$1.0 million but no money was
expended under this head. A large increase occurred in connection with
bilharzia control (Category IV) where US$4.7 million were allocated against
US$7.9 million disbursed, an overrun of 68Z. It was agreed that up to a
US$4.2 million overrun on the Bilharzia Control Program could be covered by
Upper Egypt Drainage Is Project (Cr.637/Ln.1285-EGT)_ Given these relatively
major changes, it was necessary that the original allocation of the proceeds
of the credit were amended several times. In the end, an amount of just over
US$l.0 million still remained undisbursed and was cancelled.
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
4.16      In view of difficulties encountered in the Nile Delta Drainage I
Project, it was realized that there was a need for setting up an adequate cost
accounting system to determine the relevant costs of the works performed. As
a result, special covenants were made in the Project Agreements for
succeeding drainage projects.  These required that EPADP would establish a new
cost accounting system satisfactory to IDA. In accordance with terms of
reference prepared by the World Bank staff, a new accounting system was
designed in 1980 by an Egyptian firm of chartered accountants. This system is
now operational. Auditing of the Authority's accounts and financial
statements is carried out by the Central Organization for Accounts and Audit.
Audit reports for each financial year were generally submitted to the Bank,
although somewhat later than the date stipulated in the relevant covenant of
the Project Agreement. However, problems causing delays in preparing these
reports were recently overcome and the audits are now submitted to the Bank
almost on time.
4.17      The Drainage Authority furnished, on a regular basis, quarterly
progress reports. Based on suggestions by the Bank Staff, the initial
reporting requirements included many unneeded details which caused
considerable delays in preparing these reports. After the reporting format
had been improved in 1977, by eliminating unnecessary details and by
substituting simplified summary tables, these progress reports could be
prepared and forwarded to the Bank almost on time. These reports were
oriented to progress on implementation of works. For future projects it will
be desirable that this reporting system is modified so that achievements are



- 26 -
compared with planned targets, together with comments on major difficulties
encountered and actions taken or proposed to overcome such problems. This
would increase the usefulness of the quarterly reports.
Procurement
4.18      Procurement of imported vehicles, equipment, spares for the project
and steel for drainage and reclamation works were arranged in accordance with
IDA procedures for international competitive bidding. Remodelling of open
drains including structures, installation of tile drainage, land reclamation
and buildings were carried out through contracts awarded in accordance with
the normal procedures of the Government.
Final Cost Versus Appraisal Estimate
4.19-     Total project costs amounted to about USt 119.7 million including
IDA disbursements of US$ 34.9. They are shown in Annex 10. Project costs by
year are given in Annex 11. Since the final project local currency
disbursementa are not expected to be completed until June 30, 1983, the total
project expenditures will not be available before September 30, 1983.
However, a clear picture could be obtained from the comparison of the average
local cost of drainage works per feddan of the actual completed area under the
project with that estimated at appraisal. The total expenditures as of June
30, 1982, for local costs of tile drainage works covering about 274,000
feddans were LE 18.273 million i.e. LE 66.66/feddan. The total expenditures
for local costs of open drainage covering some 300,000 were LE 11.35 million
i.e. LB 37.63/feddan. Thus the actual local cost of construction of drainage
facilities was about LE 104.3 per feddan, of which nearly 10% represents the
cost of compensation for crops and land lost as a result of the project works,
compared with LE 86.7 at appraisal, an overrun of 20%. The entire local cost
overrun was financed by the Government. The increase in local cost was due
mainly to inflation in the post-1973 period.
Disbursements
4.20      Actual disbursements on a quarter yearly basis for the full term of
the project are presented in Annex 6.  Some three years delay in completion of
the project is reflected in the extended disbursement period. As shown in
this Annex, only about 87% of the Credit was disbursed by the original target
date of December 31, 1979. The credit was closed finally on May 25, 1982,
cancelling the unutilized amount of some US$1.0 million.
V. OPERATING PERFORMANCE
5.01      The drainage design procedure adopted in this project is the same as
that used in the Nile Delta Drainage I Project. Two main features are of
vital importance viz the use of envelope material around field drains and the
spacing of laterals.
5.02      Regarding the use of envelope material, all tile lines constructed
during the initial years of project implementation were covered with a gravel
layer. However, due to the difficulty of obtaining the proper envelope
material at a reasonable cost and due to increased construction cime, EPADP



- 27 -
supported by the joint Egyptian-Dutch Panel, decided to stop the use of gravel
filter in all drainage contracts awarded from 1978 for areas whose soils had a
clay content exceeding 40%. This raised the implementation rate slightly and
reduced construction costs. However several engineers have advocated the use
of a gravel envelope around subsurface field drains in all types of soil. As
a result of this, top priority is now given to the ongoing investigations
carried out by the Drainage Research Institute (DRI) on this subject. In the
light of DRI's findings and also the recommendations contained in Annex 8,
EPADP will see whether changes are needed. Any such changes will of course
only be reflected in later projects.
5.03      With regard to the lateral spacings, EPADP used the steady state
concept for obtaining the spacing between field drains. These spacings were
determined using hydraulic conductivity data collected in the field, but the
laterals were actually constructed at standard spacings of 40, 50 and 60
meters. Being aware of the fact that the construction of field drainage
should be based upon proved technical investigations and design criteria to
provide the necessary levels of groundwater and salinity control, EPADP should
revise its current standards for field drainage investigations and designs.
An expert in tile drainage design visited Egypt in April, 1983 for this
purpose. His recommendations should be carefully studied and followed as far
as practicable, taking into account the need for a scientific and practical
approach to the design procedures.
5.04      Over the period of the project implementation several consultants
and Bank engineers have visited the project. There has been a consensus of
opinion by all visiting experts that the steady state approach to drain
spacing is suitable and that EPADP are correct to use it. There has also been
a consensus that drain spacing calculated in the design office should be
adopted in the field. Adopting drain spacings on grounds other than
scientific and practical is bound to lead to problems, waste of money and in
places underdraining. EPADP should forthwith instruct their staff working on
Upper Egypt Drainage II Project to design and build tile drain systems with
-he design drain spacing being built to the nearest 10 meter multiple, not to
the current 40, 50 or 60 meter spacing (Annex 8, paras 3-10).
Operation and Maintenance
5.05      It was agreed during negotiations that the operation and maintenance
(O&M) of completed drainage systems would remain the responsibility of the
irrigation departments of the Ministry of Irrigation. Under this arrangement,
the O&M left much to be desired due mainly to inadequate allocation of funds,
lack of equipment and organizational problems.
5.06      In order to improve this situation, the GOE transferred the
responsibility for O&M of surface and sub-surface drains in tiled areas to
EPADP. This took effect from 1979. Since then, EPADP has established a well
structured organization to take this responsibility, and through annual
maintenance programs for open and field drains the standard of maintenance has
considerably improved. Also, with better allocation of funds and more
effective control of field work, the standard of O&M has considerably improved.
5.07      For the maintenance of open drains, mechanical means were used
extensively and successfully. However, maintenance of field drains is still
done manually. In view of the continuous shortage in hand labour and, to



- 28 -
upkeep the efficiency of subsurface drains, six flushing machines have been
purchased very recently. The number of machines will be increased to 24
machines by the end of 1983 all to be uped in the maintenance of tile drains.
If the use of these machines proves to be successful, EPADP is expected to
shift the maintenance of all field drains from manual to mechanical.
Monitoring
5.08      Monitoring of drain performauce has been carried out on the basis of
observing crop response. Such an approach to monitoring tile drainage
projects has advantages and disadvantages. It enables sound economic
predictions to be made but does not measure tile drainage performance
direotly. It is also very difficult to isolate those crop responses
attributable to drainage. The results of this method of monitoring are still
being analyzed and hence all projections of yields attributable to drainage
are provisional. It is most desirable that direct monitoring of tile drain
performance should be implemented as soon as possible. Such monitoring will
assist to:
(a) Identify areas where the drains are inefficient.
(b) Provide data on drain performance that can be used to provide
more efficient design of future projects.
(c) Provide a guide to how well the whole drained area is performing.
5.09      The need for direct monitoring of tile drain performance should be
stressed in future projects at project preparation, appraisal and negotiation
stages. Monitoring should be carried out on a number of representative
areas. It will be better to have small area coverage with good recording of
data, than to attempt to obtain records for the whole area. Direct monitoring
on representative areas should include the following data collection:
Ca) recording date and duration of irrigation for each plot in the
area;
(b) record amount of water applied;
gc) monitor water table depth at selected places;
Cd) monitor depth to water in all manholes;
(e) establish consumptive use of crops within the area on a
continuous basis; and
(f) carry out the same measurements, where possible, on an
underdrained control area.
5.10      In addition to monitoring drained areas, it is important that EPADP
appreciate the need to keep records of water table movement in presently
undrained areas. If this is properly carried out EPADP will be able to prove
which areas need drainage and also to prioritize individual areas.
5.11      This work should be done by installing a grid of sub-surface water
level pipes in the areas that are presently undrained. Such pipes should be 5
meters long, 125 mm in diameter and have fine holes pierced in their sides for
the bottom 2.5m. They should be inserted in augered holes with a sand screen
placed around their circumference. The top of every pile should be related to
survey datum. The sub-surface water level pipes should be installed as a grid
giving 10 5-10 km sides north and south and 3-km sides east and west.



- 29 -
5.12      The water level in the pipes should be read once each month and the
results tabulated and plotted as a map to give water table contour maps and
depth to water table maps. Such maps should be drawn for the maximum and
minimum. situations each year. In addition trends should be examined by
analysing the behavior of the water table in individual and groups of pipes.
5.13      It is evident that in past studies not nearly enough attention has
been -paid to identifying areas most needing drainage. This has not only led
to smny revisions of areas to drained in the history of this project but has
also resulted in money being wasted when drainage has been provided to areas
of relatively low water table. Even at this stage, when so much land drainage
work has been done in Egypt, it is virtually impossible to obtain good,
consistent and well presented data and maps showing the position and trends of
the water table. It will make it very difficult to justify further money
being spent on further projects unless EPADP provide the data and analyses
briefly described above.
Evaluation
5.14      To evaluate the effect of drainage projects, an Evaluation Division
was established within EPADP in 1970. An evaluation program was set up by
EPADP in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture, for the assessment of
the overall effect of tile drainage - as it is presently designed and
constructed - on crop production in all tile drained areas covered by the Nile
Delta Drainage I Project. Later on, the same methodology was followed for the
evaluation of the effect of drainage works completed under the Upper Egypt
Drainage I Project and succeeding Bank financed projects, and an Evaluation
Committee for the drainage projects including representatives of the Ministry
of Agriculture was formed in 1973. According to the above mentioned program
(EPADP's Ex-Post Evaluation Program), yields of the main crops were assessed
by the Ministry of Agriculture using the method of random sampling. From the
individual crop cutting results, yield data were recorded as averages per
subarea of the project before and after drainage. These yields were compared
with yield data collected in similar adjacent undrained areas outside the
project over the same time period. Reports on cropped area, production and
yields including other agricultural information were submitted to the Bank
annually.
5.15      Due to the scatter in yield records, a study was carried out by
EPADP in cooperation with DRI in 1978 to provide a statistical analysis of the
data collected in some drained areas under the Nile Delta Drainage I Project.
At the same time, a new evaluation program was instituted with aid from the
Netherlands Government to examine the impact of drainage taking into account
also the effect of other factors. The data collection of this so-called
"crash" program covering few representative areas (6 villages) in the Delta,
was completed in December 1981. Some interesting results have emerged from
this program, and have been published in a series of reports and notes. The
final report on this program was published recently in December 1982. In
addition, EPADP has continued ex-post evaluation using data collected per
subarea of the project. The data collected in some drained areas under the
Nile Delta Drainage I Project have been analysed to give the best estimates
for the effect of tile drainage on crop production in different years
foLlowing execution. The results of all these studies were reported to the
Bank in 1978, 1980, 1981 and 1982.



- 30 -
5.16      Fully aware of the problems associated with yield measurements, and
that yield records need to be supported by some more direct physical measures
of the project's effectiveness such as groundwater levels and soil salinity, a
Supreme Committee was established in 1979 to look into setting up a plan for a
broad approach to the study of drainage effects on crop production, soil and
water parameters. With the Chairman of EPADP as its president, its members
are representatives of EPADP, Universities, Academy of Science, Ministry of
Irrigation, Water Research Center, Ministry of Agriculture and other research
institutes belonging to them.
5.17      in addition to data collection activities of EPADP's ex-post
evaluation program covering drained areas under the Upper Egypt Drainage I
Project, a study had been conducted in 1979 by EPAPD in cooperation with the
Soil and Water Research Institute (SWI), Ministry of Agriculture, on the
influence of tile drainage on soil salinity in some drained areas of the
project. Ihe results showed field drains to be very effective in the
reduction of soil salinity. EPADP intends to continue these investigations
through a long-term program that will be able to monitor and evaluate the
drainage effects on the improvement of soil characteristics in different
representative areas of the drainage Drojects. Ihis program will be
implemented by the SWI in cooperation with EPADP which will finance the costs
involved. The results of these studies will be correlated with the results of
the crop yield measurements to reach definite conclusions.
Cost Recovery
5.18      Section 3.06 of the Credit Agreement required the Government to make
suitable arrangements to ensure the recovery from users of irrigated land
drained under the project of: (a) the maintenance costs of field drainage,
and (b) the capital invested in tile drainage over a period of 20 years
without interest. The principal legal basis for recovering such costs is
provided by the Irrigation and Drainage Law No. 74/1971. The process for the
recovery of field drainage costs is time consuming. Although no specific data
is available regarding the project area alone, a total of LE 4,087,968 had
been recovered from the beneficiaries of drainage works as of December 31,
1982 of which some LE 2,936,197 had been recovered as of February, 1981. As
the cost recovered so far is only a fraction of the amount due, positive steps
must be taken in the near future to improve collections and to recover the
accumulated arrears.
Achievements of Integrated Bilharzia Control Program
5.19      A large measure of 'transmission' and 'disease' control was achieved
in the project area during the initial intensive phase of intervention, as
shown by the sharp fall in overall prevalence of infection which occurred
(29.4% to 16.6% in two years). This rapid downward trend was not subsequently
maintained, however, and the overall prevalence rate of 13.42 estimated in
1982 is still close to the rate of 13.9% observed in 1981. The results of the
fixed sample surveys show a lower overall rate (11.9%), which should be
compared with 11.6Z in 1981 and 11% in 1980. Thus available crude data show
that overall prevalence of S. haematobium in the project area now lies between
12% and 14Z, representing a fall greater than 50X since control operations
were first applied.



- 31 -
5.20      Available data on 'intensity' of infection, indicate that marked
changes are occurring, with reductions in levels of intensity in many parts of
the project area, and that a large measure of disease control has been
achieved.
5.21      Incidence data for 1982 show that an overall increase in
transmission occursed compared vich the 1980/81 period, which it is considered
is attributable to the failure to complete the agreed mollusciciding regi'en
during 1982. The results of special treatments of school-age children show
the reductioas in prevalence of infection achieved, but highlight the rapid
rates of re-infection which are taking place (within sa  months) owing to
inadequate transmission control. ;he continued identification of cases of S.
mansoni in Beni Suef is a matter of concern, and the potential spread of its
transmission, unless adequate snail control measures and epidemiological
surveillance are undertaken, must be recognized.
VI. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORKANCE
Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage Projects
6.01      In order to unify the organizations working on drainage in Egypt,
IDA agreed in late 1972 to the GOE proposal, to merge the Nile Delta Drainage
Authority the organization responsible for drainage in the Delta, with the
Egyptian General Authority for Drainage Projects which was responsible for
drainage in Upper Egypt. Accordingly, the Egyptian Public Authority for
Drainage Projects(EPADP) was established by a Presidential Decree issued in
February 1973 with responsibility for executing all drainage works in Egypt-
EPADP is empowered to carry out all field investigations, planning, design,
evaluation, procurement, construction, budgeting and operation of projects
accounts. The Association's agreement was influenced by the fact that the
second IDA Credit for drainage, Upper Egypt Drainage I, was under
consideration and IDA did not want to deal with two organizations. Secondly,
it seemed that such a unified organization would best meet the need to more
fully utilize the top management and allow more efficient use of construction
equipment and repair facilities. The present organization structure of EPADP
is shown in Annex 12.
6.02      During the course of the project, the numbe- of engineers employed
for implementation was considerably below the strengtk needed. It was
difficult to make up this shortage. This was because of the low wage
structure of EPADP, and the persistent outflow of quaL2fied Egyptian engineers
to foreign countries. This affected both the quality of staff as well as the
intensity of construction supervision. However, the payment of incentives for
technical 3taff at all levels could enable EPADP, to some extent, to face this
problem.
6.03      The IDA/Bank drainage projects have made some positive impact in
shaping EPADP organizational structure as well as bringing about some gradual
improvements in its operational character. The Egyptian staff associated with
the project received valuable on the job training in planning, design and
construction of drainage works as well as in procurement. However, the
Authority's performance in construction planning, scheduling, management and
supervision still needs improvement. Aware of this reality, some positive



;  32 -
steps have been takea by EPADP in 1982 by arranging periodic meetings with the
chairmen of the contracting companies to improve the progress of
implementation.- FurChermore, the recommendations made by the two Dutch
;.expertss-- who visited Egypt for the first time in January 1982 - for improving
the productivity of equipment, will be carefully considered. Also, a one week
trasni2g course in construction planning and management had been conducted
very recently by the Dutch experts to train some 18 engineers from EPADP, DRI
-and the contractors.  All these measures will hopefully lead to substantial
xmprovement iLn future projects progress and quality control.
Ministry of Health
6.04      OveraLl management control by the Ministry of Health has been
inadequate.  There should be much greater motivation and Lnvolvement of senior
personnel in project activities within the respective Governorates. Far too
many technical procedures, data collection, recording etc. are performed by
subordinate personnel with only cursory professional supervision.
6.05      It must be emphasized that this control program is a very
large-scale public health exercise, and not a research-oriented pilot
project.  7he Ministry of Health has always resisted any proposal that a
larger and more effective project staff be superimposed upon the general
infrastructure of health services in the Governorates, and believes that
overall evaluation must be obtained through the available system. Limited
evaluation teams are now operating in the Governorate centers, but more direct
supervision of these is necessary. The enormous volime of raw data are now
proving extremely difficult to handle in the absence of automated data banking
and computer analysis which has been constantly urged during the past six
years.
VII. BENEFITS ADD ECONOMIC EVALUATION
Estimated Crop Yield Benefits from the Project
7.01      During execution of the Project, yields of the main crops namely
wheat, cotton and maize have been assessed by random sampling, within each
subarea of the project before and after drainage. Yields in similar undrained
areas outside the project area over the same time period have also been
recorded. By comparing variations in yield levels for each crop and year
inside and outside the project areas, the net yield increases due to drainage
as apart from other factors could be estimated. Ihe results indicate that
yields have increased due to field drainage in almost all tile drained areas,
but the magnitude of the increase varied greatly with the crop, location,
yield levels before drainage and other factors that affect crop production.
Areas provided with tile drainage systems under this-project during the
initial years of project implementation were relatively small areas scattered
over six Governorates. Consequently, areas cultivated with each of the above
mentioned crops in the evaluated areas were also relatively small areas.
Collection of yield data will have to be continued over a long period and
analyzed before producing definite conclusions. However, a study was
completed by EPADP in January 1983 using the available data to provide a
statistical analysis of the net yield increases due to drainage in each of the
years through 1979/1980 following installation of tile drainage systems in 17



33-
subareas coverIng some 110,000 feddans of the project.  The results showed the
average increases over 4 years (L)77-19&0i after-drainage to be 9X for wheat,
9Z for cotton and 15Z-for maize. Although these results indicate that tile
drainage has a considerable positive -effect on crop yields, the values given
are considered preliminary results because the survey results have not been
rigorously analysed. As the data collection activities continue, further
informtion will be available and better estimates of the impact of tile
drainage on crop yields could be achiev-ad. This will be valuable for
analysing the benefits of later projeccs.
Project Economic Rate of Return
7.02      No attempt has been made to estimate the project's economic rate of
return, partly because of lack of a sufficiently long time series and the
limited number of records to give meaningful estimates of yield increases
resulting from the project, but also in order to emphasise the danger of
continuing such a large drainage program without sufficieat monitoring to
provide reasonable estimates of the benefits. It would clearly be
irresponsible to base the continuation of the massive Egyptian drainage
program, of which the Upper Egypt Drainage I project is a time slice, on a
favorable but unreliable estimate of the economic rate of return. In the case
of the completion report of the Nile Delta Drainage I project (CR181-UAR)
dated July 18,1981 an economic rate of return of 17% was calculated based on a
larger data base and longer time series. When estimated future losses in
production in undrained areas were taken into account that would occur from
increasing salinity and water logging, the economic rate of return increased
to 25%. Happily, two additional years of yield data available since the
completion report was prepared confirm that the areas drained by the Delta
Drainage i project continue to yield about 15Z more than the undrained control
areas. This confirms the observation made in the completion report of 1981
that yields seem to increase 10-15% during the initial year after installation
of tile drains, and thereafter maintain the same differential over undrained
areas.
7.03      In the case of the Upper Egypt Drainage I project, the subject of
this completion report, it is probable that the worst drained areas have been
included (para 4.13) and th4t satisfactory economic rates of return have
resulted. But it is also possible that drains have been installed in some
areas which do not yet require buried pipes such as in some of the more free
draining soils adjacent to the Nile River. In this case an unsatisfactory
rate of return will result from making the investment before it is needed.
However, since an increase in yields as low as 5% would provide an economic
rate of return of about 12Z, it is probable that the economic rate of return
is satisfactory in the Egyptian agricultural context. Ihus, to conclude, the
economic rate of return has not been estimated, not because it is likely to be
unsatisfactory, but to highlight the need for supplementary physical measures
of the benefits of drainage to add confidence to the yield data. These are
principally the effects on the superficial ground water level and on soil
saliniry, as has already been discussed (paras. 5.08-5.13).
Physical Benefits of Drainage
7.04      Ihe PCR for the Nile Delta Drainage I project emphasised the need
for physical monitoring of depth to water table and salinity to supplement the
collection of yield data, as did also the Irrigation sub-sector review of May



-34-
1982, but little systematic monitoring has resulted.  However, the study
carried out in 1979 by EPADP in cooperation with the Soil. and Water Research
lnstitute (SWI) of the Ministry of Agriculture on the influence of tile
drainage in soil salinity, indicates that tile drainage has a strong positive
effect on soil improvement and productivity (para 5.17). It is encouraging
that SWI carried out such a study. Similar work now needs to be carried out
on a systematic basis, and adequate funding provided from the ongoing and
future planned drainage projects.
Farmers Benefits
7.05      Calculations were made in the completion report for the Nile Delta
Drainage I project to show the level of farm benefits. Ihese indicated a net
increase of LE 40/feddan, comprising LE 25/feddan inside the project area and
losses averted of LE 15/feddan compared with undrained areas outside the area
over four years of implementation. Farmers are liable to pay a drainage tax
of LE 7/feddan following drainage. This is less than the full economic rent
but the present pricing structure results in such a high level of agricultural
taxation that any discussion of increasing recovery from farmers can only be
looked at in the wider context of agricultural pricing policies as a whole.
These pricing policies during the project period resulted in a substantial net
taxation of agriculture, estimated at some 30X in the mid-seventies. They
acted as a disincentive to the increased use of farm inputs and to that extent
must have acted as a brake on the full attainment of the benefits of drainage
by farmer beneficiaries. The last three years or so, however, have seen a
diminution of this burden of taxation as a proportion of value added and an
increased use of fertilizers, though to what extent this can be correlated
with drainage is impossible to say. While drainage is a necessary condition
for the intensification of agriculture, it is not sufficient by itself. As
policies and services to farming improve, so will the potential benefits from
drainage increase.
Benefits from Bilharzia Control
7.06      As already notad (paras 5.19-5.21) the overall prevalence of S.
haematobium fell dramatically from 29.4% to 16.61 in two years during the
initial intensive phase of intervention. The fact that the overall prevalence
has not fallen below 12-14% and that rapid rates of re-infection remain after
three subsequent years is some cause for concern. The presently applied
strategy may be regarded as cost-effective in terms of an annual per capita
cost at circa US$1.0 compared with other programs, because of the high
population density in the area under control, although relati-ely expensive if
the total health expenditure of about US$4.50 per capita is considered. It
may be, however that the increased costs of intensive mollusciding would be
more cost effective in reducing overall prevalence than the present policy of
seasonal focal mollusciding.
VIII. BANK PERFORMANCE
8.01      In evaluating the Bank's performance consideration must be given to
the fact that this was the second TDA-assisted project in the agricultural
sector. It was an ambitious attempt to continue implementation of the largest
single tile drainage operation ever undertaken in the world by a newly
established agency of the Government. Looking back, it is apparent that in



35 -
managing the massive-task of implementing the project, both the Bank and the
Governmeut placed too much confidence on the construction administration
capability of the NOI personnel and on the capacity of the public sector
contractors.
8.02      Supervision of the project was intensive in the start-up phase and
later-on timely and s.tisfactory. During the initial-stages, the Bank
provided extensive assistance to the Authority in preparing bid documents for
procurement of equipment under ICB procedures. Although the use of
consultants by the Authority had become a contentious matter during the Nile
Delta Drainage I project, the Bank staff succeeded in maintaining a continued
good rapport with the Egyptian officials. Because of the the problems and
delays faced by the project, the Bank had to maintain a heavy supervision load
during project implementation. Dhe well-timed supervision missions were
instrumental in drawing attention to potential difficulties and generally
eliciting appropriate actions.
8.03      Although with a delay of three years, the achievement of the project
appraisal cbjectives shows that the flexible position taken by the Bank was
correct in the given circumstances. However, since the Bank is likely to be
involved in the drainage program for some time to come it is critical that
ways be found to assist Egyptian contractors engaged in installing the drains
to devise ways and means for upgrading their construction mn-agement
capability and capacity. Further effort is also needed to upgrade
implementation planning, control and reporting systems. Efforts made during
the course of the project towards achieving these objectives have been
relatively unsuccessful but, since they are the keys to accelerating the
drainage program, it is important that the pressure for improvement be
mantained.
8.04      In three important aspects - provision of gravel envelopes, drain
spacing and monitoring - the Bank's counsel has not been heeded by the
Government in spite of frequent reminders from Bank supervision missions.
This completion report provides an appropriate moment to consider, first,
whether remedial action should have been taken during project imsplementation,
and second, whether action should be taken in ongoing and future projects.
8.05      Gravel envelopes have been discussed throughout project
implementation by the Bank, EPADP and the joint Egyptian-Dutch Drainage Panel
DRI has also carried out a considerable amount of pilot work (para 5.02).
Although drainage specialists participating in Bank supervision missions have
argued in favor of greater use of gravel envelopes, the Government's position
is also tenable, and Bank and Government may fairly agree to differ. As to
rhe future, a number of specific recommendations are made in Annex 8, paras
12-17.
8.06      Ihe second issue, spacing of lateral tile drains, also concerns
design, and has been reviewed frequently. Iiiere is no argument between
Government and Bank concerning the design studies carried out and the steady
state design methodology adopted. The problem is that irrespective of the
calculated spacing of the laterals, they are constructed with the maxim=m and
minimum spacing of 60 and 40 meters respectively (para 5.03).  In the case of
the Upper Egypt Drainage I project an area of maybe about 40,000 feddans is
likely to have been underdrained. In the Delta where the incidence of heavier



- 36 -
soils is much greater the problem is likely to be much more extensive and
severe, leading to ineffective drainage, and enormous costs to rectify the
situation later on. Thus, although in Upper Egypt only a limited amount of
underdraining has probably occurred, the Bank should now take a firm stand on
spacing of laterals, if Bank financing is to be continued.
8.07      The third issue frequently raised by the Bank concerns monitoring
and evaluation. EPADP agreed with the Bank in July 1977 to evaluate the
effects of drainage works on crop yields and soil in the Upper Egypt I and II,
and Nile Delta I and II Drainage projects (Section 2.06 of the Nile Delta
Drainage II Project Agreement. In addition to EPADP's ex-post evaluation
program, a monitoring program was established in 1978 in DRI, with Dutch
bilateral assistance, and an interministerial Supreme Committee in 1979 (paras
5.14-5.16). Ihe joint DRI-Dutch "crash" program was discontinued in 1982 and
DRI staff reassigned to other duties, partly for lack of active support from
the Bank. It should now be reestablished, and if necessary, funded from the
ongoing Bank drainage projects. It also needs to be supplemented with
collection of groundwater data from outside the drained areas to be used in
selecting future priority areas to be drained.
Bilharzia Component
8.08      Bank supervision missions have been extremely valuable in
stimulating the necessary organization of control inputs, data collection and
evaluation. Indeed it is most unlikely that the present level of control
would have been achieved without them. Consideration should however be given
to greater direct involvement of Bank staff for supervision in any future
program of this kind and scale, since the main supervision effort was carried
out by a consultant in tropical diseases working for the concerned EMENA
agricultural division, and little specialist support was provided by the
Population, Health and Nutrition Department.
IX- LESSONS LEARNED
Drainage
9.01      Dhere can be no doubt that the Bank made an appropriate choice in
selecting drainage for its first lending activity in the agricultural sector
and for staying with drainage for three subsequent projects. Investment in
drainage is a sound long term investment and a necessary condition for
attaining high levels of agricultural production.
9.02      The consultants recruited under the Nile Delta Drainage I project
were not used effectively. and although 15 man-years of consultancy was
included in the Upper Egypt Drainage I project, when the consultant contract
under the Nile Delta I project terminated, the consultant's contract was not
renewed. This put a much greater burden for technical supervision into the
Bank supervision missions, and although the Bank has spent considerable sums
recruiting top drainage specialists to participate in supervision, the
duration of supervision missions is normally too short to be able to make very
firm technical recommendations. As a result, although Bank staff and
consultants often argued in favor of proper technical standards, the
supervision missions have lacked the confidence to recommend sanctions. Since
in the long run it is the Egyptians themselves who are the losers, when say,



- 37 -
draiu spacing is determined politically rather than on the basis of design
calculations, the Bank should now insist on periodic visits by-short-term
consultants to be paid for out of project funds. They would be used to assist
EPADP in resolving those technical design issues such as drain spacing, drain
depth envelope material or drainage facility all of which are discussed in
Annex 8. By staying in the country for a longer duration than is possible
during Bank supervision missions, say 4-5 weeks they could also usefully
address the construction issues such as concrete and PVC pipe manufacturing
and installatiGn, trenchless drain laying machines, etc. discussed in Annex
9. Mhere are a number of precedents in which short-term consultants have been
used successfully where full time consultants have not been acceptable. The
reports of these consultants should also provide a basis for firmer action by
the Bank leading to improved implementation and reduced Bank supervision costs.
9.03      The need for systematic collection of groundwater and soil salinity
data to supplement crop yield data has been highlighted in this report. In
addition, simple physical monitoring of groundwater and soil salinity
conditions outside the presently drained areas should be incorporated in any
future loan agreement as a means of identifying future areas to be drained.
9.04      Over the longer term, the success or failure of the drainage
projects will depend on whether the drains which have been installed are
properly maintained and continue to operate properly. Effective monitoring of
maintenance has yet to be established and should be addressed by future
supervision missious of the other two ongoing drainage projects.
Bilharzia Control
9.05      The infrastructure of health units and centres has enabled the
chemotherapy delivery system to operate, but it is very variable in quality
and could be improved by the creation of special case-finding treatment teams.
-9.06     The multiple-dose drug regimen required for metrifonate impOses a
ponderous treatment schedule, but more direct supervision of medical personnel
wouLd ensure higher compliance rates and improved results.  The cost
effectiveness of chemo-therapy per se may be increased by using a 'single'
dose drug, but this is not a panacea and should not be adopted without careful
consideration of the cost implications and examination of the weaknesses
inherent in the infrastructure of the health units, which are believed to be
largely responsible for the apparent failure to achieve better and more
consistent progress.
9.07      The results to date show that overall prevalence of S. haemotobium
in the project area is greater than 11%, and that difficulty is being
experienced in reducing it, although intensity of infection has apparently
dropped. Adoption of snail surveillance and focal mollusciciding during the
summer phases of operations, at the beginning of the consolidation phase,
played a significant role in the partial breakdown of transmission control.
Ihis is now compounded by other technical difficulties, e.g. fish farming,
resulting in failure to achieve adequate coverage of the irrigation and
drainage areas during the spring and autumn operational periods.



- 38 -
9.08      Control strategies involving continuation of mollusciciding activity
must represent a significant drain on Ministry of Health resources, since both
foreign and locally procured molluscicides involve relatively large foreign
exchange outlays. It is unlikely that snail surveillance and focal
mollusciciding can ever be effectively carried out in large-scale irrigation
systems with high population density and almost universal human water
contact. In the absence of much more efficient organization, however, it is
most unlikely that a control program, based upon chemotherapy only, would be
more cost-effective than an integrated approach involving molluscicides.
9.09      The proposed extension of control activities in Giza and East Delta,
Beheira, etc. will pose many problems for the meagre Cairo-based headquarters
staff, since there is a shortfall of adequately trained technical staff and
support personnel. The inconsistent payment of adequate incentives for
special duties, is a contributory factor at Governorate level.
9.10      There is now a need to prepare a revised strategy for the next few
years, to agree on both intensity of mollusciciding operations and type of
chemotherapy.  The Bank could provide a leading role in organizing such a
meeting which should include representatives of WHO as well as senior Egyptian
Ministry of Health personnel.



- 39 -
ANNEX-1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE I PROJECT
(CREDIT 393-UAR)
Principal Features of Nile Delta II and Upper Egypt I and IL Drainage Projects
Description              Upper Egypt I      Nile Delta I1 11    Up/er  ypt SS /2
Loan/Credit No.                               -              Ln. 1439-40/         La. 1285
Cr. 393-ECS       Cr. 719-ECT           Cr.637-ECT
Signing Date                               06108/73           07/15177             06/11/76
Effective Date                             11128/73           04/17/78             01131/77
Estimated Project
Completion at Appraisal                    06179              12/82                12/81
Expected Project
Completiou Date                            06/83             06/87                 06/86
Original Loan/Credit
CLosing Date                              12131/79           12/31/83             12/31/83
Extended/Expecred Loan/Credit
CLosing Date                              07131/81          06/30/87 13           06/30/86 /3
Appraisal Cost Estimate
(Us$ million)                              123.8             207.0                 282.0
Revised Estimated as Per
Latest Supervision (USt Milliou)           119.6              207.0                221.4 /4
Loan/Credit (USt Million)                    36.0               66.0 /5              50.0 73
- Disbursement as of L2/31/82 (US$ Million)   34.9L6             27.9                  33.6
Project Area (feddans)                     532,000           810,000               500,000
- Major Project Works
A. Remodelling/Construction of Open Drains
Ci) Area (feddans)                      532.000           810,000               500,000
(ii) Remodelling Drains-Km                    775             1,565                 1,226
(iii) New Drains-XK                            865              _                      345
(iv) Completion 09/30/82                   100l               711                   78Z
B. Field Drains (feddani)                  300,000           400,000               500,000
Completed 09/30i/82                       85               20Z                   171
C. Pumping Stations                          5                  6                    1
Completed                                 95Z               281                   91Z
Reclamation of Saline Land (feddans)        22,400                                  12,300
Bilharzia Control Program (feddans)        900,000            Extension to 1.2     120,000
million feddans    (Extension)
including Upper
Egypt I & 1I areas
/1 KfW financing by an additional DM 100 million loan.
/2 Additional USS30.0 million financing provided by USAID for procurement of equipment for three
RVC pipe making factories as well as of 6,000 tons granulate materiaL.
/3 Loan CLosing Date expected according to latest schedule of EPADP.
/4 Applying parallel uarket exchange rate.
/5  Bilharzia Control Component included in various Credits/Loans is:
Upper Egypt I       USt7.9 million
Upper Egypt It      US$S.1 million
Hile Delta II       USS10.4 million
/6 May 28, 1982.



--  f  ~  40 -                  ANNEX 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE I PROJECT
(CREDIT 393-UAR)
Project Description From the Credit Agreement
Tke Project consists of:
Part A
A drainage and reclamation program including:
(i)      drainage of areas totalling 300,000 feddans by the installation of
30,000 km of buried field tile drains and 4,000 km of collector
drains, and the provision of vehicles and construction and
maintenance equipment required therefor;
(ii)     the improvement of about 775 km of existing open drains and the
excavation of about 865 km of new open drains and the provision of
vehicles and equipment required therefor;
(iii)    the construction of four pumping stations and the expansion of an
existing station;
Uiv)     provision of transmission lines and power substations for the pumping
station;
(v)      the reclamation of about 22,400 feddans of severely saline land by
gypsum treatment and leaching, and the provision of the equipment
required therefor;
(vi)    the provision of equipmaat and vehicles for the Authority and for
extension services; and
(vii)   the provision of technical assistance for the training of the staff
of the Authority in drainage works.
Part B
A bilharzia control program including:
(i)      snail control through a program of regular area-wide applications of
molluscicides in an area of about 900,000 feddans in Beni Suef and El
Minya governorates



dl    I
~~   L I~~If  4  I  IT
UPPER ECYPi DRAINAUE I PROJECT
(CREDIT 393-UAR)
lhe Drainage Areas - Apprelued and Revised
Project Area          Final Are&c
(fed)                  (fed)
Covernorate    Name of the Catchuent Unit            Appraised       Tile Drained   I of AppraNi`l Area                    lemarke
Beni Suef
Ehnnasy                            33,000            8,000              242            25,000 fed. shifted to Upper Egypt 11 project
D.ini Suelh                         2,000            2,000             100S
Bani Suef Charb-North               6,000               -                 0            Area excluded
EUlmIana                               -             13000               -             Area increased
lohakno A  Beni Bikheet                -             8, 000                            Area shifted from Upper Egypt 11 Protect
Hosa-Aref                        -                     00                -             Area shifted from Upper ESypt 11 Project
SUBTOTAL                           W8.000           34,000              71Z
91-layouM           Tsgen ItS                               -            3,400                -            New area included in the project
8l Minya
lani Saleh                          8,000            6,000              752            Adjusted area
Abo Rahob                          25,000           15,500              621            9500 fed-shifted to Upper Egypt 11 Project
beni Hagar                          4.000               -                 0            Area excluded
E1 Minya Charb-North               18,000           13,000              722            Adjusted area
El Hlnya Gharb-South                4.000            9,500             2371            Adjusted area
Kshkab                             25,000           10,030              402            14,970 fed. shifted to Upper E4ypt It Project
Beni Nazer                             -            10.000               -             Area shifted from Upper Egypt 11 Project
SUBTOTAL                           84.000           64.030              762
Asyut
Asyut                              12,000           14,000             1172            Adjusted erea                                              .
West El Koala                          -             4,500               -             Nev eree included In the project
'Abu Cabal & Moheet, Tatalia            -            16,400               _             Area shifted from Upper Egypt 1I Project
Biblaw & NMalet Farg&                                3.000               -             Area shifted from Upper Egypt 1I Project
SUBTOTAL                           121000           37,900             3162
Sobag
SolIng                            '50,000           S0,000             lout
Sohia  II                              -             5,000               -             Area shifted from Upper Egypt I1 Project
Tahts                                                2,000               -            Area shifted from Upper Egypt 11 Project
SUBTOTAL                           50.000           57.000             1142
Nag Ilamzacdi                      15,000            7,100              472           Area reduced
Dislins (CIaimud)                  24,000               -                 0            Area shifted to Upper Egypt 11 Projeet
quna (Keft)                         5,000            3,000              602            Area reduced
qua (lHegaza)                      13,000           15,950             1232            Adjusted area
Isn                               .6,000            6,000             100S
el Fotohiya 4 El laysyna               -            15,000               -             New area Included in the project
Danfeek                                              1,100               -             tlew erea included In the projct
Komer (EI-Zinega)                      -             3,000               -             Area shifted from Upper Egypt It Project
Nag Ilammadi III                                     3,050               -             New area Included in the project
Keft 11                                -             2,850               -             Area shifted from Upper Egypt 1I Project
El Aeshy                               -             5,000               -             New area  included in the project
Ilunsliat El Ahmry                     -             1 500               _             New area included in the project                           w
SUBTOTAL                           63,000           63.550             1012
Aswan
ldfu                                8,000            &,nno              so0           Area reduced
Kam Embo                           35,000           34,520              992            Adjusted area
Kl or El Sail                          -             1b600               -             New area included in the project
SUBTOTAL                          413.000           40,120              932
TOTAL                            lmn.fnnn         lnn .Onnn            I nns



-42-
-42-                         ~~~~~~~ANNEX 4
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE I PROJECT
(CREDIT 393-UAR)
Allocation of Proceeds of Credit
Credit        Final
Category                              Agreement    Disbursement
1.   Cost of tile drainage construction and           9,400,000    22,059,132.28
maintenance equipment, vehicles & materials
IT.  Cost of equipment, vehicles and materials        6,700,000     1,816,945.13
for open drainage construction and
agricultural extension service
III. Cost of pumping stations-transmission lines,   7,600,000       3,124,934.74
materials, equipment & installation- and
reclamation of saline land equipment
IV. Cost of Bilharzia control equipment,              4,700,000     7,904,527.31
vehicles and materials
V.   Consultants and training of drainage             1,000,000
personnel
VI.  Consultants for the Bilharzia control              600,000
program
VII. Unallocated                                      6,000,000
Total Allocation/Disbursement       36,000,000    34,905,539.46
Cancellation,                           -           1,094,460.54
Total Credit Amount                 36,000,000    36,000,000



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PROJECT COMPLET1ON REPORT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE I PROJECT
(CREDIT 393-UAR)
Construction Schedule Actual vs. Scheduled
Item No.     Description                 1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
I          Pumping Stations
Appraisal                                   -
Actual                                            -- -------------------------- -------- ----------- _.
II     ~Open Drains
Appraisal                   ---                                   -
Actual                           --- ---- - -- -- --- -- -- - -- ---
III        Tile Drains
Appraisal-                                  ---
Actual                    .g =                   ------     ------  -------- ______  ------- r------  ----I



AaNNEX n
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE I PROJECT - CREDIT 393-ECT
Appraisal Estimate & Actual Coamulative- Disburseaments
Accumulated Disbursement
US S million
MDA Fiscal Years       Appraisal                          Actual as Z of
and Quarters          Estimate          Actual        Appraisal Estimate
1973/74
March 31, 1974             0.4                                   2
June 30, 1974              1.0                -                  2
1974/75
September 30, 1974         2.0               0.04                2
December 31, 1974          3.5               0.05                2
March 31, 1975             5.2               0.70               13
June 30, 1975  *           7.4               1.10               15
1975/76
September 30, 1975         9.7               3.00               31
December 31, 1975         12.0               3.90               32
March 31, 1976            14.0               7.70               55
June 30, 1976             17.0              12.40               73
1976/77
September 30, 1976        19.0              15.55               81
December 31, 1976         20.5              16.46               80
March 31, 1977            22.5              17.16               76
June 30, 1977             25.0              17.43               70
1977/78
September 30, 1977        27.1              17.50               65
December 31, 1977         29.6              20.21               68
March 31, 1978            31.0              20.42               66
June 30, 1975
1978/79
September 30, 1978        33.1              24.54               74
December 31, 1978         34.1              27.20               80
March 31, 1979            34.6              28.70               80
June 30, 1979             35.3              29.50               84
1979/80
September 30, 1979        35.6              30.20               84
December 31, 1979         36.0              31.17               87
March 31, 1980              -               31.98               89
June 30, 1980               -               33.0                92
1980/81
September 30, 1980          -               33.2                92
December 31, 1980           -               33.3                93
March 31, 1981              -               33.6                93
June 30, 1981               -               33.9                94
1981/82
September 30, 1981          -               34.0               95
December 31, 1981           -               34.1                95
March 31, 1982              -               34.1                95
(May 28, 1982)              -              34.9 /              97
Closing Date           12/31/79          5f25/82
U Actual amunt disbursed as of Hay 28, 1982 was $34,905,539.46 equivalent.
Ihe amount of $1,094,460.54 was cancelled.



AhRA  UPeILIC OF EGYPT
tGJ3CT COHIrI.551-11 UP0RT
UPPIR EGYPT DRAINAGE I PROJECT
(CKREIT 393-UA)
Recurrent and Capital Exzenditures 1975-80
1975                   116                  12X                   1978                  1979                  1980(6 no.
Hinietry of Irruiation             Recurrent  Capital   Recurtent  Cepital   Recurrent               Lej3jrent  Captal   Recurrent  Capital  3Icurent  Capital
---------------------------------------------------_<'000 L81---------          -' - -----_------------------_-
Central Administration                  324          -        339          -         210         -         192        72         267          -        122
Irrigatlon Department                15.,2l    14,000      16,253    10,924      22,073    15,804      31.977    30,106       34,629    27,3S4      23,673    23,296
HNehanical and Electrical Dept.       9,606      1,064     13,100      1,082      10,492     1,440      12,343    10,344      15,231    IS,S2S       6,375      6,130
Dralnage Authority                    3,504    21,435       2,112    20,035       2,964    34,318       4,277    41,257        6,032    66,568       3,285    23,787
Water Research Canter                     -          -        3"5         95         656       607         S07     1,208         941     2,312         505        505
Survey Authority                      4,143        233      4,996        200      5,195        260       6,066       362       7,115       313       3,766      1376
Aevan                                 1,536        394      1.559        620       1,741     1.952       1.321    12.424       1,926    14.640        n.e.
IUTAL                       34,341    37,126       383,04    32,956      43,331    54,441      56083    95,775       66,218   126,777      32.731    59,0i94
lxrainage as tocrentalie of                                                                                                
"0i-CaDital Funds                               57.71                 60.71                 64X                    43X                  52.52                  4871
Sources Niniatry of Irrigation.



i
'''1



*   -        -~~~47-
ANNEX 8
,*-  -  ,PROJECT COMPLETION REPORTZ.
*--     - --   --   - f  -~   UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE I PROJECT'.
= -; X  -  -  ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Design Issues
Introduction
1.        All four tile drainage projects constructed or in the course of
construction in Egypt have generated intense discussion regarding the correct
approach to design of-the drainage system. This Annex concentrates upon four
aspects-of the drainage design, three of which relate to design at lateral
level and the fourth to conceptual design of the whole system. These aspects
are:
Drain spacing
Drain Depth
Envelope Material
Drainage Facility
2.        It is too late to alter the design of the drainage system for this
project. The preparation of this Project Completion Report provides the
opportunity to review the more important aspects as implemented and discuss
how these may need alteration in future projects.
Drain Spacing-
3.        At appraisal drain spacings were provisionally calculated upon
sparse data. The spacings, related to percentage of area requiring a
particular spacing was as shown below, from waich it can be seen that 40.9Z of
the area would be occupied by tile spacings of less than 40m.
spacing {m)        20        30        40        50         60        60+Y/
Z Project Area     22.6      18.3      16.2      25.0       12.8       5.1
4.        Project areas both in size and location were changed during
implementation. Later more detailed soil permeability tests for Upper Egypt
II Tile Drainage Project, carried out over an area of 250,000 feddans showed
that onLy 16Z of the area required drains at less than 40 m spacing. It is
thought that the soils of both projects are likely to be similar. The tile
lines in this project have been installed at 40, 50 and 60 m spacing. There
is little doubt that a substantial area of the project has been "underdrained"
in the sense that lateral spacings are in some cases too wide - possibly
48,000 feddans or more. The decision of EPADP to install at standard spacing
of 40, 50 and 60 m appears to have been dictated by political rather than
technical considerations.
5..       There is general agreement that the steady state analyses used by
EPADP for tile spacing is suitable for the conditions likely to be
encountered. Spacing tile lines too widely apart will mean that the water
table will not be kept as low as postulated in the Appraisal Report (0.7 to
0.8m below ground level at a point midway between upper end of tile laterals
immediately after irrigation). Thus the prime reason for installing tile
drainage is being lost.



-48:-
ANNEX 8
Page 2
6.-       It is recommended that for any future project GOE assurance should
be-obtained that tile,spacing should be entirely based upon technical
considerations.: It is further recommended that the Bank should be provided
with sample calculations written in English for each area designed showing how
EPADP arrived at the drain spacing.
Drain Depth.
7.        The depth of drain below ground level, accepted in the Appraisal
Repqrt was 1 .4m below ground level at the upper end of the lateral tile line
and about 1.8 m below groundlevel where it joins the collector drain. This
has been done during construction. Drain depth has a very definite
relationship with drain spacing - in most instances the deeper tiles are
placed below ground level the wider apart they may be spaced to obtain the
same drainage effect. The limitation upon the depth a tile is placed is
dependent upon;
Ca) Construction Restraints
Cb) Economics (depth versus spacing)
5c) Tile diameter and likely discharge rate
Cd) Depth below ground level of water surface in open drain
8.        The last of the above restraints is of particular relevance to
projects in Egypt. The tile drainage projects to a great extent make use of
the alignment of the existing open drainage system. This existing system was
designed many years ago to cater for surface drainage. At that time the
drains were designed to have their water surface level 1.5m below ground
level. For the tile drainage projects this depth was increased to 2.5m by
excavating the original drains, rebuilding structures upon them, etc.
9.        In some cases the open drains discharge by gravity and in other
cases have to be pumped. The discharge capacity of the six pump stations used
in this project varies between a maximm. of 16 n3/sec at Ihnasya (4 units
each of 5.4 m3/sec - which allos one idle unit) to a minimum of 7 m3fsec
at Beni Saleh (4 units of 2.4 m/sec). The heads pumped (static) range from
6.1 to 3.1 m. None of the pump stations is particularly large.
10.       It is recommended that consideration be given in future projects to
providing deeper surface drainage so as to provide the opportunity of
increasing the installation depth of tile lines.
Drainage Facility
11.       Drainage Facility is a term used to define the ability of a drainage
system to work efficiently, it thus implies a free, unimpeded flow of drainage
water throughout the system. Such free flow relates back to the installed
depth of tile lines and the level to which the open drain water surface is
below ground level. It would appear that in the design of the open drain
disposed system the number of pump stations was kept to a minimum. It is
believed this was done in order to reduce reliance upon machinery, and the
operational cost of the project. Whiist the force of these reasons is
acknowledged it would be interesting to know if the economics and efficiency
of the project could have been -improved if more pumping stations had been
provided. The reason this point is queried is because it has been argued that



, ' r, .   . -  :   '  :  ~-   A
ANNEX 8
Page 3
to take the open drain water level down to greater than 2.5m-below ground
level would result in prohibitively expensive drains occupying a great deal of
land area. However it is thought that if pump stations were provided
frequently enough the extra expense and loss of land might not be all that
great, especially if the 'high level outfall drain' concept was used for the
main arterial drain. Additional-pump -stations would be a nuisance to maintain
but would certainly not be impractical. There are large numbers of very small
electric pumps being installed in Upper Egypt replacing saqias for
irrigation. A few larger properly designed pump stations should not pose
nearly so many problems.
Envelope Material
12.       The Appraisal report assumed the provision of a gravel envelope to
all tile drain laterals. This gravel envelope was stated to be of two kinds.
For soils with a clay content of less than 45Z, a well graded gravel with a
size between 0.4 and 1.2 cm. diameter was to be used. For heavier soils
larger size gravels up to 3 or 4 cm were considered permissable.
13.       The Egyptian-Dutch Advisory Panel for Land Drainage in Egypt decided
that gravel envelope could be omitted for tile lines which were laid in soils
which had a clay content greater than 40% to the drain depth. The gravel
used, judging from reports and from the Completion Report Mission's visit to
Upper Egypt, did not meet either of the criteria laid down by the Appraisal
Report. The gravel used was very variable in grade but _._; general seemed to
range from sand through to 10 cm stones with, occasionally, half bricks being
observed in the envelope being laid. The effect of the Advisory Panel's
decision and the lack of quality control on gravel grading has resulted in
most of the tile lines not being enveloped in gravel and those that are seem
usually to be enveloped in gravel of a different grading to that specified.
14.       The necessity for a gravel envelope in the solls being drained in
Egypt does not appear to have been established. Whilst gravel envelopes are
usually specified by drainage engineers working in arid zones this appears to
be normally done because a large amount of arid zone soils are unstable. So
far as can be established the soils in Upper Egypt I and II project areas do
not seem to have been judged on the basis of stability. Appendix 4 of the
Appraisal report does give a guide however. It would appear from this
appendix that Soil Profile Unit Types VII and VIII are likely to be unstable.
There are a total of 6050 feddans of Unit Types VII and VIII in the originally
proposed project area.
15.       raxperiments have been carried out in Lower Egypt by the Advisory
Panel on Land Drainage in Egypt (Technical Report No. 18, "Mashtul Pilot Area"
January 1983) to determine the effect of ground envelope on lateral drain
efficiency. These tests were carried out comparing the performance of tiles
laid with gravel envelope against those laid without envelope. The results
were inconclusive, the headloss fraction (h4o-ho/hmr-ho) in both envelope and
non envelope cases being in the 0.5 to 0.6 range (poor) with the results
slightly favouring the drains with no envelope. These tests are being
repeated. It is most desirable to see if either case deteriorates markedly
with time. The tiles and envelopes currently being tested at Mashtul were
laid sometime between 1978 and 1980. The tests were carried out in the Winter
Season 1981/82.



-     50-                             ANNEX 8
Page 4
16.       During the Project Completion Report Mission's visit the opportunity
was taken to inspect the performance of tile drains laid many years ago (near
Mohammed Noor Drain, Bekinsha Area) and also similar drains in Upper Egypt
(Near Komer Drain, Eana Area). The drains in the Bekinsha Area which had been
-built 30 years ago were constructed of cement tile with no envelope. The
collectors and outfalls inspected were flowing freely with clear non-turbid
water.  There was little sediment in the manholes. The drains inspected in
Upper Egypt also were flowing freely and contained some, but not a lot, of
sediment in the manholes. This contrasted considerably with inspection of
some of the Upper Egypt I and II areas where a relatively large number of
manholes were observed to have debris and sediment in them.
17.       In view of the large area that is still to be drained in Egypt it is
important that the subject of gravel envelopes should be clarified as soon as
possible. The following recomendations are made;
(a) The work being carried out by the Advisory Panel on Land Drainage
should be continued in an enlarged and more rigorous manner.
(b) Monitoring of field drainage performance should be carried out.
This will have to be a qualitative exercise aimed at identifying
any significant difference between areas which were built with
gravel envelope and those which were not.
Cc) Where gravel envelope is installed in the future it should be in
the grade range of 2 to 12 m diameter. If none can be located
then arrangements should be made for suitable screening plant,
and if necessary, crushing plant to provide the correct grade of
gravel.
(d) In the Upper Egypt Drainage II Project or others still to be
funded an investigation should be carried out by installing areas
of tile drain with very strict supervision, and then observing
stability of soils by observation over a number of years.
Conclusions'
18.      The recommendations contained in this annex should be considered when
dealing with ongoing and future projects for tile drainage in Egypt. It would
be appropriate to agree the details of the following subjects with GOE at
Appraisal/negotiation stage:
(a) Drain Spacing and Drain Depth
(b) Surface Drainage Design and Concepts
(c) Gravel Envelopes



ANNEX g
-51
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE I PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Construction Issues
Introduction
1.       During the visit of the Project Completion Report Mission to Egypt
some time was spent observing construction of the Upper Egypt Drainage II
Project.  The form of construction was the same as used in Upper Egypt I but
because the project started later the contractors and EPADP had more
experience of the work. Observations of the standard of construction on Upper
Egypt Drainage II project lead to the belief that a short Annex dealing with
some construction issues migbt be timely.
PVC Pipe Manufacturing and Installation.
2.       Two of the three PVC pipe making plants in Upper Egypt were visited
and also one in the Delta area. The extruding and perforating procedures were
examined. The description of the lack of quality control in the manufacture
of this type of pipe has been clearly discussed in another report (Peters and
winger, October 1982). Many of the same faults in manufacture were occuring:
i) Perforating knives not always cutting the tube.
ii) Ragged perforations.
iii)  Perforation not always in the valley of the corrugation.
iv) Crushed pipe included in stored material.
3.       In the field it was noticed that very little pipe was being rejected
and in many cases pipe with far less than the opti-um number of slots per unit
length was being installed. Connections between pipe ends were joined in
three different ways:
i?  With a purpose made "click' coupler.
-         ii)  By slitting the end of one pipe and inserting the end of the
other in relying upon the elasticity of the pipe and the
mechanical grip of the corrugation to make the joint.
Sometimes the joint was bound with wire or string.
iii)  By using a short slit length of the pipe as a sleeve.
Sometimes thejoint was bound with wire or string.
The purpose made "click" coupler is by far the best joint and because an
adequate supply of these joints were said to be available their use is
recommended for all jointing.
4.       The use of the best quality PVC properly slotted pipe is absolutely
fundemental to the successful implementation of a tile drainage project. If
quality control is not maintained for this item it is certain that much of the
benefit from tile drainage will be lost and much money uselessly expended.



ANNIEX 9
.-  ~  0  - 52 -                     Page 2
5 .      It is recormended that the following measures be implemented both now
and on future projects:,
i) Proper Quality Control at the Factory with a full range of
testing equipment available at each factory.
ii) Contractors to be instructed to refuse all substandard pipe when
collecting from the factory.
iii) EPADP site engineers to inspect all pipe brought to contractor's
stores and to reject and have sent back to the factory all sub
standard pipe. (The pipe should be damaged before return to
prevent attempts at reuse.)
iv) EPADP site engineers at construction sites to examine all pipe
-  *     brought on to site and have it destroyed.
v) The pipe plant man-facturers to send technicians to each factory
to:
(a) Instruct pipe factory staff on the proper operation,
maintenance and adjustment of the pipe making equipment.
(b) To consider whether modifications can be made to the pipe
making equipment to ensure more consistent results.
6.       Connection of PVC pipes to concrete pipe has been improved by the use
of a modified salt glazed eArthware joint.  However, a problem exists in
failntaining grade of the PVC pipe near the joint. On several occasions it was
noted that the pipe trench was not carried right through to the collector
joint, with the result that PVC pipe was arched upwards just prior to entering
the collector joint. This is a defect in construction which will impede flow
into the collector and will also encourage deposition of sediment in the PVC
pipe. Supervision of construction should be made much stricter to avoid
proolem of this nature.
Concrete Pipe-Manufacture.
7.       Concrete pipe is made by the hand, packer-head and spun process.
Smaller diameter pipe is always made by the hand, packer head process. These
pipes in general appeared to be well made and reasonabLy well cured, however
insufficient attention was being paid to making the ends of the pipe smooth so
that they would fit snugly together when laid. The pipes should always be
finished smooth. This is an easy operation if finishing operations are
carried out whilst the pipe is still green.
Concrete Pipe-Installation.
8.       A problem exists in jointing collector pipes.  The joint is either
made with a bitumen impregnated felt wrapped around the pipe-joint or by a
cement collar fashioned by hand around the pipe joint. In one case the pipe
joint was being wrapped with the bitumen felt and then having a cement joint
applied. The problem with the jointing is that in many cases the joint did
not go completely around the pipe joint - the invert at times not being
covered by the joint. If the iuvert part of the joint is not properly sealed
there is a risk of flow from the collector creating an area of scour and
settlement under the joint. This is a detail that proper site supervision
should easily put right.



-53                                  ANNEX 9
Page 3
Backfill in Trenches.
9.       When the drain pipes have been laid earth excavated in the process of
digging the pipe trenches is used to backfill the trenches. In almost all
cases observed the minimum amount of soil is replaced. This results in the
trench being backfilled with very loose material. When the land is irrigated
after construction of the pipe system the loose backfill is rapidly turned
into a mud that settles and eventually dries out. It is considered that the
present method of backfilling is undesirable because:
i) It encourages the finer portion of the soil to be washed into
the tiles.
ii) It encourages the creation of a 'crust' or 'pan' around the
tile.
iii) It increases the possibility of tile movement.
10.        It is recommended that the backfill should be placed imediately
after the tile has been laid. The backfill should be compacted moderately so
as to avoid a large amount of settlement but not so much as to endanger the
tile pipe.
Trenchless Installation of Tiles
11.        There are avaiLable effective trenchless drain laying machines
which use a floating long beam plough. These machines lay the PVC pipe either
by putting the pipe in, or for smaller diameter (below 200mm diameter) they
can be laid using a "feed down" technique which passes the tube from reels on
the tractor down a shute to the bottom of the plough blade. With the "feed
down" technique gravel can be laid around the top and sides of the tile but
not underneath.
12.        It would seem that trenchless laying could prove useful in Egypt.
The soils are generally suitable for this type of installation. The problems.
over backfill would be avoided and by carrying out the entire installation in
one pass, work could be increased in rate compared with the trench excavating
process. Small machines normally lay pipe up to a depth of 1.7m and larger
machines to about 2.7m. There have been verbal references to such machines
being used on a trial basis in Egypt and not having performed well. These
should be further investigated. In future tile drainage projects it is
recommended that consideration should be given to installing some of the tile
by trenchless laying.



ARAB REPUBLIC 0F EGYPT
PROJECT COMPLETION rEPORT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE I PROJECT
(CREDIT 393-UAR)
Appraisal and Actual Cost Estimates
Appraisal Coat Estimate                            Actual Cost Bstimate
Deascription                       Local  LForeign                  Total           Local 12       Yoreign /3        Total
--- --------------------USS million------------------------------------- ------
Drainue Work* 
Tile Drainagea
Equipmadit                            0.9             9.4             10.3              -             22.1            22.1
Construction                         29.6               -             29.6            31.1              -             31.1
Main and Branch Drains
Equipmont                               .5             5.3             5.8              -              1.8             1.6
Conlstruction                        26.2               -             26.2            19.7              -             19.7
Crop and Land Compensation                -               -               -              5.0              -              S.0
Pumping.Stations                         4.9             7.7            12.6             7.2             3.1            10.3
Workshop.                                 -               -               -              2.3             -               2.3
Administration building                   -               -               -              1.8              -              1.8
llous in-                                                 -                              3.4                             3.4
Reclamation of Saline Land
Equipment                               -             0.8              0.8              -               -               -
Materials and vorss                    1.7              -              1.7              -               -               -
Agriculturil extension service
Equipment                               -             0.2              0.2              -               -               _
Consultantt  and training                0.2             1.0             1.2              -               -               -
Administration and overhead              6.1             0.4             6.5            12.2              -             12.2
Contitigencies
PhysicaL                            7.0             2.2              9.2
Price escalation                    9.0             2.6             11.6
Subtotal                            WT                            T1r                T7             27.0           lO9.7
Dilharaia Coi!trol Program
Equipment, vehicles and material    0.9               4.7              5.6              -              7.9             7.9
Consultant, administration overhead 0.5                0.5             1.0             2.0              -              2.0
CuiitiilS,enOie5
Physical                            0.1             0.5              0.6              -               -               -
Price escalation                    0.2             0.7              0.9              --
Sub-total                          ___                            -8.1               2.0             7.9             9.9
Grand Total                             87.8            36.0           123.8            B4.7            34.9           119.6
Li Usi I' official exchange rate at appraisal of Ls 1.00 " US$-2.57
/2 Using the followinS exchange ratest  1973-75 US$ 1.00 n LE 2.57, 1976 US* 1.00 - L8 2.21; 1977 US$ 1.00 * LI 2.07,
1978 US$ 1.00 - LE 1.851 1979-82 US$ 1.00 * LS 1.43.



55                                A      1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PROJECT COIPLETION REPORT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE I PROJECT
(CREDIT 393-UAR)
Project Cost by Year (US$ million)
Year               Local 1/            Credit              Total
7                   1.5                 -                   1.
1974                4.5                 0.1                 4.6
1975                6.9                 3.8                10.7
1976                9.0                12.6                21.6
1977               17.5                 3.7                21.2
1978               12.6                 7.0                19.6
1979               11.4                 4.0                15.4
1980                7.4                 2.1                 9.5
1981                8.5                 0.8                 8.8
i982                5.4                 0.8                 6.2
Total              84.7                34.9               119.6
1/ Local costs converted to dollars at same rates as in Annex 10.



*   AlAS   #s11t k U -,A
ItA b P  -   10}  r g.n h a at lu f  C 1r t   . 
I    I     1- or                           rt
_______  I   EsI, SitM(A
-                                         .1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I 101 CXCCUTION       T
VI| <"^lhxS.28Ct '            i          I
I   \    I    DI C" Z  [^ UW   I  ps ,l:^ . . 1  1 ASVDL'  I--T.
I  I ^X$UI1  I _______________lI   -{SCUsl1qI^ T 11                                 |DCSI.l   ! 
_                                *g4 e -1,      l or iLT  _1 El
-               ____                        II  i'I1   I  IrG.UTO  rl I AVoIIN I  I,Vl & ii
V 'IF    I   1.    orbc l. s I - irj
r  OcE   ^_         I~~~~ootlPS PL~tj%w -
I Foia ge_                     I  I                         I 1
I o utt#^ eJ   I ^cm^zs  |     ~       IocSr.t    I 
\ zC*titr ~  ~      ~      ELA  I
food Mrr;;r& &  c
r1i'- -4                   IflPI     PELTh IaI



-57- -
ANNEX 13
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE I PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Bilharzia Control 1/
1.        The integrated bilharzia control programe initiated in 900,000
feddans of Middle Egypt, north of Dairut, under the I.3.R.D. Upper Egypt
Drainage Project I, began in 1976. This was supplemented by control work in a
further 153,730 feddans between Assiut and Dairut in 1977 under the Upper
Egypt Drainage Project II. The total area now contains a population of some
4.3 million people. The control strategy applied in this project (described
in detail in Appendix 1) has involved a three year period of intensive snail
control measures - by mollusciciding on an area-wide basis three times
annually - together with chemotherapy of the infected population in rural and
urban areas.
2.        This has been followed by a three year 'consolidation' phase (1979
onwards), during which the integrated control strategy was continued, but with
a reduced number of molluscicide applications annually, applied on an
area-wide basis in the spring and autumn, and supplemnted by surveillance and
focal mollusciciding during the summer per.od - together with continuing
treatment of infected people based upon annual re-examinations. Following the
consolidation phase, on-going maintenance control measures will be applied
with possible further reduction in area-wide mollusciciding, but with
continuing monitoring and treatment of infected cases. The composition of the
control strategy and the increments of intervention during maintenance
operations will, of course, depend upon the level of control achieved and
on-going epidemiological evaluation.
3.        The control strategy applied, the organization and management, and
the detailed chemotherapy and suail control measures used, are given in
Appendix 1. The epidemiological evaluation carried out, including the
parameters measured and the techniques employed, are described in Appendix 2.
4.        The management organization and components, comprising the control
delivery system, are shown in Table 1.
Results
5.        These are presented in Tables 2 - 12 for the Governorates of Beni
Suef and Minya (under Upper Egypt Drainage Project I) but necessarily includes
the small addition of Assiut North (Upper Egypt Drainage Project II) which has
been recorded in the data as part of the overall epidemiological evaluation of
the Middle Egypt Bilharzia Control Programme.
6.        The prevalence of bilharzia infection is generally higher in males
than in females, rises to a maximum at the age of 10-15 years, and starts to
fall gradually after the age of 20 years. In 1955 a study made in 23 villages
distributed in different parts of Middle and Upper Egypt showed that overall
prevalence of urinary bilharzia was 40% in males and 35 2 in females. This
1 Prepared by Prof. G. Webbe (consultant).



-58 -                                ANNEX 13
Page 2
sex difference may be explained by the greater degree of exposure to infection
in males due to occupational and social factors. The prevalence rose from 17Z
in the 2-4 age-group to 47Z in the 5-9 year age-group and reached a peak of
60X at 10-14 years. Thereafter a gradual decline in prevalence was noted
until it reached 20Z at the age of 50 years and over.
7.       The overall prevalence recorded in 1955 was approximately 10  less
than that recorded in 1937. A further decline in overall prevalence of
S.haematobium in Middle7d Upper Egypt apparently occurred between 1955 and
1965 (circa lO). returns from Governorate Endemic Disease Hospitals in
Middle Egypt for 1963, 1970 and 1971 indicate a decline in overall prevalence
of S.haematobium which is probably attributable to the relatively intensive
chemotherapy being practised throughout the country since 1963. Data from
rural Health Units in Beni Suef and Minya also show reductions of 101 and
9.5Z, respectively, in overall prevalence between 1964 and 1971, but these
figures only reflect the prevalence of infection in the proportion of the
rural population reporting sick at Health Centres and Units, and they must be
regarded as an under-estimate of overall prevalence in uany areas. In view of
the observed pronounced local variations in prevalence, such data probably
severely understate the situation occuring within certain districts in Middle
and Upper Egypt.
8.       The prevalence rates of S. haematobium estimated by sample surveys in
58 villages covering all districts in the project area (1377-82) are given in
Table 2.
9.       The overall prevalence rate estimated for 1982 (13.4Z) is 16Z lover
than that recorded in the initial survey in 1977 (29.4Z), representing a
percentage change of 54.4Z. It is noteworthy, however, that the estimated
prevalence rate of 1979 (16.6Z) representing a percentage change of 43.51,
occurred only two years after intervention measures were fully applied, and
that prevalence has only dropped a further 3.2Z, representing a percentage
change of 6.6Z, during the last three years.
10.      The results of the examination of fixed sample 'cohorts' during
1977-82 are given in Table 3.
11.      These results indicate generally lower prevalence rates in the
respective Governorates than the rates estimated in the sample surveys. The
overall rate in 1982 was 11.92 compared with 11.61 in 1981 and 11.01 in 1980.
In Table 4, a comparison is made of the total numbers of school children
examined and the percentages found infected from 1978 to 1983. The data show
the reductions in prevalence achieved folloving treatments, but highlight the
rapid re-infection rate taking place. In both Beni Suef and Minya the numbers
of infected children have increased. The available evidence shows that the
majorLty of those re-infected have light infections, but clearly transmission
control is variable and inadequate. Many re-infections have occurred within
six months following special treatment campaigns.
12.      Intensity data are recorded in Table 5.  A fall in the geometric mean
ova counts is apparent in the October 1982 data from Beni Suef and Minya. The
observed downward trends in intensity are encouraging in relation to disease
control, and an improvement in Minya in terms of the February 1982 figures.



- 59 -                               ANNEX 13
Page 3
13.      In Table 6, a comparison is made of Incidence data for 1980/81 and
1981/82. While a fall of 3.3% occurred in Beni Suef, compared with the
1980/81 figure, the conversion rates in Minya and Assiut (North) both shoved
increases, with an overall increase of 2.7% compared with the 1980/81 figure.
14.      The distribution of villages according to prevalence in the primary
examination (1977) and in the 1979 survey is shown in Table 7. There is a
pronounced shift in the number with a prevalence rate below 20Z (209 or 65.3Z)
compared with 87 or 27.2% in 1977. The number of villages in the sample with
prevalence rates greater than 20% in 1979 was still high (111), although the
general trend was regarded as a good one. In 1982, however, a number of
villages (20) or 10% were identified with prevalence rates greater than 33%,
which emphasises the focal characteristic of transmission throughout the
project area both in 'time and place.'
S. mansoni.
15.      The result of urine and stool examinations carried out in villages of
three districts in Beni Suef Governorate are given in Table 8. It is clear
that transmissionn of the infection continues although some villages are known
old foci of S. mansoni transmission. All positive cases have been treated
with praziquantel (BiltricideR) at 40 mg/kg. body weight.
Chemotnerapy.
16.      The number of people examined and those found to be infected with S.
haematobium at rural health units and centres (1977-1982) are given in Table 9.
17.      The overall prevalence of S. haematobium in the project area, based
on the examination of 1,603,232 people, was estimated to be 15.5%.
18.      The post-treatment follow-up examinations carried out three months
after the final dose of drug, indicate that high cure-rates were achieved,
greater than 90% in Beni Suef and Minya and greater than 75% in Assiut (North).
19.      The results show, however, that variable compliance rates were
achieved, and the recorded cure-rates are surprisingly high in Beni Suef and
Assiut (North), in view of the poor compliance rates of the third drug
applications (approximately 52% and 50% respectively). Further, the high
compliance rates in Minya, and the cure rate apparently achieved at three
months (97%) is inconsistent with the high prevalence rates recently reported
from villages in Minya and Beni Suef (prevalence greater than 33%).
20.      The prevalence rates of S. haematobium given in the returns from
Endemic Diseases Hospitals are shown in Table 10. These have fallen since the
onset of control measures from 1967/77 onwards but continue to reflect
appreciable levels of transmission in Beni Suef, Minya and Assiut (North).
21.      More than 1.5 million infected cases have been treated (including
re-treatments) since 1977, and these have generally been characterized by high
cure rates greater than 85%, following re-examination three months after
completion of therapy.
22.      The chemotherapy delivery system is unquestionably ponderous but
relatively cost-effective (circa 0.3 $U.S. per complete treatment). While



- 60 -
ANNEX 13
Page  4
patient-recording in the villages and schools is generally good, case-finding
is 8  major problem and, in the absence of special treatment teams, this
depends essentially upon the enthusiasm and energy of local health staff. The
problems associated with having to give the drug on three occasions at
fortnightly intervals are formidable, but the results indicate that
substantial reduction in egg output is being achieved with a consequent large
measure of 'disease control'. Nevertheless, re-infections are occurring,
particularly in older persons who have daily occupational and domestic
water-contact activities.
Snail Control.
23.      A high level of technical efficiency has been developed in applying
molluscicide and involving water-management in the extensive irrigation and
drainage systems for the purpose of snail control. The density of snail
populations in branch canals and distributaries, main drains and field drains
has generally been reduced by greater than 98Z of the density le-re'l prior to
chemical applications during the area-wide campaigns in each of the three
annual phases of operations. These operations were beset by difficuLties
during 1976/77, including shortages of equipment and transport, but the
mollusciciding was carried out within the prescribed time-schedules and a
substantial degree of transmission eontrol was achieved.
24.      Snail surveillance throughout the system has shown that very low
levels of infestation were maintained for some 10-12 weeks following the
area-wide applications of chemical and it is considered that a high level of
transmission control was achieved during the intensive phases of intervention
measures 1976-1979. In 1979 the summer phase of area-wide mollusciciding was
discontinued and surveillance and focal mollusciciding, based upon the
detection of snail infested canals and drains, was substituted. This practice
has been contiuued during the consolidation phase of operations in Middle
Egypt to date.
25.      Epidemiological data w   show that the level of transmission control
achieved during the first years of control operations, 1976-1980, has not been
maintained. Various factors have been identified as contributing to this
situation including: the introduction of the surveillance and focal
mollusciciding strartgy for the summer period in the consolidation phase;
failure to complete the area-wide applications in a precise time-scale based
upon synoptic information; and recent failure to treat major areas in Minya
Gcvernorate, under the command of the Sirry Canal -luring the Spring and Autum
phases because of fish-farming. Poor distribution of molluscicide supplies
also affected the time-scale of operations and clearly headquarters'
supervision has been inadequate. As previously recommended, much more
attention must be given to peri-domestic human water-contact sites and
transmission foci with a high level of snail surveillance and management
control, if focal mollusciciding is to be introduced. Although it may show a
saving of chemical and is much cheaper than an area-wide application, its
cost-effectiveness depends essentially upon an efficient infra-structure and
good supervision and may prove to be very low unless these criteria are met.
26.      Snail survey data prior to the 1983 Spring molluscicide applications
are given in Table 11. The numbers of canals and drains infested with snails
in Assiut and Minya are appreciable and, in contrast to the lower levels of
infestation found in Beni Suef. The presence of Biomphalaria alexandrina, in



AN EX13
- 61 -                            Page  5
some canals and drains throughout the system, is noteworthy. Table 12 show;
the average density of B. truncatus and Biomphalaria sp. snails in 211 water
courses sampled in the respective Governorates, prior to the 1983 Spring phase
of control operations, from 1976-1982 in Middle Egypt, and from 1981 in Upper
Egypt. A marked reduction in overall density of snails was achieved in Beni
Suef, which was also the case in Minya and Assiut 'Fo-th) until the end of the
intensive phase of operations in 1979.
Summary and Appreciation.
Achievements.
27.      A large measure of 'transmission' and 'disease' control was achieved
in the project area during the initial intensive phase of intervention, as
shown by the sharp fall in overall prevalence of infection which occurred
(29.4% to 16.6% in two years). This rapid downward trend was not subsequently
maintained, however, and the overall prevalence rate of 13.4% estimated in
1982 is still close to the rate of 13.9% observed in 1981. The results of the
fixed sample surveys show a lower overall rate (11.9Z), which should be
compared with 11.6% in 1981 and 1IZ in 1980. Thus available crude data show
that overall prevalence of S. haematobium in the project area now lies between
12% and 14%, representing a fall greater than 50% since control operations
were first applied.
28.      Available data on 'intensity' of infecticn, indicate that marked
changes are occurring, with reductions in levels of intensity in many parts of
the project area, and that a large measure of disease control has been
achieved.
29.      Incidence data for 1982 show that an overall increase in transmission
occurred compared with the 1980/81 period, which it is considered is
artributable to the failure to complete the agreed mollusciciding regimen
during 1982. The results of special treatments of school-age children.show
the reductions iu prevalence of infection achieved, but highlight the rapid
rates of re-infection which are taking place (within six months) owing to
inadequate transmission control. The continued identification of cases of S.
mansoni in Beni Suef is a matter of concern, and the potential spread of its
transmission, unless -dequate snail control measures and epidemiological
surveillance are undertaken, must be recognized.
30.      It must be emphasized that this control programme is a very
large-scale public health exercise, and not a research oriented pilot
project. The Ministry of Health has always resisted any proposal that a
larger and more effective project staff be superimposed upon the general
infrastructure of health services in the Governorates, and believes that
overall evaluation must be obtained through the available system. As
described, limited evaluation teams are now operating in the Governorate
centres, but more direct supervision of these is necessary.
31.      While the overall achievements of the bilharzia control programme to
date can be regarded as very satisfactory, their further improvement,
consolidation and maintenance pose formidable problems.



-62-                               ANM   13
-   -                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Page  6
Lessons which have been learned
i. Overall management control by the Ministry of Health has been
inadequate and more direct supervision of field operations is
necessaryr.
ii. The infra-structure of health units and centres has enabled the
chemotherapy delivery system to operate, but it is very
variable in quality and could be improved by the creation of
special case-finding treatment teams.
iii. The multiple dose drug regimen required for metrifonate imposes
a ponderous treatment schedule, but more direct supervision of
medical personnel would ensure higher compliance rates and
improved results.  The cost-effectiveness of chemo-therapy p
se may he increased by using a 'single' dose drug, but this is
not a panacea and should not be adopted without careful
consideration of the cost implications and examination of the
weaknesses inherent in the infrastructure of the health units,
which I believe are largely responsible for the apparent
failure to achieve better and more consistent progress.
iv. The results to date show that overall prevalence in the project
area is greater than 111, and that difficulty is being
experienced in reducing it, although intensity of infection has
apparently dropped. In my opinion, the adoption of snail
surveillance and focal mollusciciding during the sumer phases
of operations, at the beginning of the consolidation phase,
played a significant role in the partial breakdown of
transmission control. This is now compounded by other
technical difficulties, e.g. fish farming, resulting in failure
to achieve adequate coverage of the irrigation and drainage
' areas during the spring and autumn operational periods.
v. As alreaci- indicated, there should be much greater motivation
and involvement of senior personnel in project activities
within the respective Governorates. Far too many technical
procedures, data collection, recording etc. are performed by
subordinate personnel with only cursory professional
supervision.
vi. The enormous volume of raw data are now proving extremely
difficult to handle in the absence of automated data banking
and computer analysis which has been constantly urged during
the past six years.
vii. The proposed extension of control activities in Giza and east
Delta, Beheira, etc. will pose many problems for the meagre
Cairo based headquarters staff, since there is a shortfall of
adequately trained technical staff and support personnel. The
inconsistent payment of adequate incentives for special duties,
iS a contributory factor at Governorate level.



63-                               ANNEX 13
Page  7
viil. The presently applied strategy may be regarded as
cost-effective in terms of an annual. per-capita cost at circa
U.S.$1.O compared with other programnes,- cecause of the high
population density in the area under control, although
relatively expensive if the total health expenditure of about
U.S-$4.50 per capita is considered.
ix. Control strategies involving continuation of mollusciciding
activity must represent a significant drain on Ministry of
Health resources, since both foreign and Locally procured
-olluscicides involve relatively large foreign exchange
outlays. I have no confidence that snail surveillance and
focal mollusciciding can ever be effectively carried out in
large-scale irrigation syst-ems with high population density and
almost universal human water contact. In the absence of much
more efficient organization, however, it is most unlikely that
a control programme, based upon chemotherapy only, would be
more cost-effective than an integrated approach involving
molluscicides.
x. The periodic I.B.R.D. supervision missions have been extremely
valuable in stimulating the necessary organization of control
inputs, data collection and evaluation. Indeed it is most
unlikely that the present level of control would have been
achieved without them. Consideration should however be given
to greater direct involvement of I.B.R.D. personnel for
extended mission periods in any future program=e of this kind
and scale.



:
:l:;g:-g::                     :
: : .:
; :
r:' ' :
D . '
''' i'' ' ' "  '          ' '     >; .r - o,@2 8H    W/eS 4
::- *:
- :
:: 8S:
:
;
::
o: :
:-: :



ANNEX 13
Table 1
-65-
Organ izati on
Supreme Commi1ttee             Ministry of Health
Consultant Committee               Coordinator              Executive Comuittee
(First Undersecretary of State)  Directors of Health in
Governorates
Directors of Snail Control
in Governorates
Executive Director
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ !
Chemotherapy                     Project Manager                   Snail Control
Epi deminologist                                                   Chie-f  Engineer
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                   I
Upper Egypt Draiinage
Projects I &II 
Upper Egypt       Middle Egypt         Giza      West !ubariya
Rural H. units and centres       427                 347              113          4
End. Dis. Hsp.                    28                  20                6 
Snail Con'trol
Gov. Inspectomte                   3                   3                1 .
District                                 of28         20                7
Snail Control Centres             59                  45                9           2
" Units              236                 170               37          18



UPPEIR EGYPT DIRAINAGE PROJECTS I & II:  Prevalence of S. haeinatobitium estimated by sample surveys in 58 villages
covering all districts 1977 - 1982.
Beni Suef                   Minya                 Asslut (North)                 Total
Year
Examined        X          Examined        X          Examined        X          Examined
1977      822,422       27.7        1,458,763      33.6         537,977       19.3         2,819,102      29.4
0%  
1979       32,972       17.3          111,247      17.4          20,949       11.8           165,168      16.6
1980       24,980       14.8          169,213      17.3          17,437        9.9           211,630      16.4
1981       30,980       15.5          296,390      14.7          69,031       10.4           396,401      14.0
1982      179,436       15.2          505,260      14.0          45,593        7.6           730,289      13.4
-
Ls i



UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECTS I & II:  Periodic Examination of the Fixed Samples NCOHORTS" in Villages Assigned
for Evaluation. 1977-82.
Governorate             1977               July 1979              July 1980             July 1981              July 1982
Exam.      eve        Exam.       eve        Exam.      eve        Exam.       +ve       Exam.       *ve
tietii Suef        6,226    1,720        79115    1,204         6,930       902       7,724       983        7,338    1,106
(27.6%)               (16.9%)               (13.0X)                (12.7X)               (15.1X)  Z
Minya             15.645    5,256       11,072    1,973        13,450    1,403       11,576    1,439        13,035    1,550
(33.6%)               (17.8%)               (10.4%)                (12.4%)               (11.9)
Assiut (Northi)    5,534    1,073        39799       334        2,460       201       2,883       160        3,013      128
(19.4%)                (8.8%)                (8.2%)                 (5.5%)                (4.2%)
TOTAL             27,405    8,049       21,986    3,511        22,840    2,506       22,183    2,582        23,386    2,784
(29.4%)               (16.0%)               (11.0%)                (11.6%)               (11.9%)
5k
w



UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECTS I & 1I:  Examination of School Children in School Years 1978 - 1982.
Beni Suef                    Minya                  Asslut (North)                 Total
School Year-              --       -----                                                         - -----  
Examined  % Infected      Examined  % Infected       Examined  % Infected       Examined  % Infected
1978-79         44,528        20.4         94,269        22.1         74,382        16.3        213,179        19.7
1979-80         64,562         16.3       121,569        26.3         33,481        14.1        219,612        21.5
Re-esxlam.els   44,782         12.3        86,809        18.6           -             -         131,591        16.5
in suiwier,
1980-81         61,935         16.3       116,167        31.3         34,023        15.8        212,125        24.4
1981-82         74,645         15.7       156,440        25.2         469756        14.5        277,841       20.9           X
Re-exam. -in
March 1982       68,981        12.8        133,779        16.1        32,416        14.2        235,176        15.0
1982-83         78,321         14.1       157,896        26.0         44,895        16.7       281,112        21.2
I>



UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECTS I & ;I:  Intensity:  Geom. mean ova count/1Oml urine assessed in a subsample of primary
school children, October, 1981. February 1982 and Odtober 1982 (compared).
October 1981                   February 1982                October 1982
Governorate
Number          Ova             Number          Ova          Number             Ova
Examined        Count           Examined        Count        Examined           Count
Beni Suef            970           24.6              795           23.1           984               19.1
Minya              2,111           57.5             1,486          108.9         1,848              77.4
Assiut (North)       404           14.1               113            7.8           -
TOTAL              3,485           43.3            2,394            75.6
I|
U
Li



UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECTS I & II: Incidence: Assessed in a subsample of primary school children, "Confirmed"
negatives in 1980-81 and 1981-82, with follow-up examination In the next
school year.
October 1980 - October 1981                      October 1981 - October 1982
Governorateo
Negative       Positive      Conversion          Negative       Positive      Conversion
1980-81        1981-82         Rate              1981-82        1982-83         Rate
Beni Suef           1,333          292            21.9%               1,375         256             18.6%
Minya               1,080          103             18.0%              1,614          370            22.9%
Assiut (North)      1,084           35             3.2 %              1,614          196            12.2%
TOTAL               3,497          530             15.2%              4,603          822            17.9%
e.g



ANNEX 13
Table 7
- 71 -
UPPER E&YPT DRAINAGE PROJECTS I & II:
Distribution of villages according to overall prevalence in
the primar-y examination and in the July-August survey, 1979.
Number of Villages             Percentage of Villages
Overall
Preval ence
1st exam.     July Survey        1st exam.      July Survey
1977            1979
0- 9                    25              83               7.8%            25.9%
10 - 19                 62             126              19.4%            39.4%
20 - 29                 87              59              27.2%            18.4%
30 - 39                71               36              22.2%            11.3%
40 - 49   -             43               11             13.4X             3.4%
50 -59                  20               3               6.3%             0.9%
60 - 69                  9               1               2.8%             0.3%
70-+                    3                1               0.9%             0.3%
TOTAL                  320             320



AINEX 13
Table 8
- 72 -
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECTS I & II:
Special surveys made in Beni Suef for S. mansoni infections in 1582.
Positive (lat. spine)
District and Village        No. examined
Urine      Stools       Both
El Wasta:
N-ydom                 2,720             -         149
Abweet                 1,028             -          77           -
Kom Abu Radi           2,750            6           61
Nassir:
El Zytoon                379            3           -
Bahbasheen                18             -
Beni Suef:
Bayad                  7,486            130        123           56
Beni Sollman           1,856            60          12            7
Naiim                    987              1         -            -
/



ASTut EARAGE
MAedi/terraneon   Sea
CUWOUMYAT            %             NAI   H  DANAG  ARA
W NG 3                  OHQENA   GOVERNORATE
DRAINAGE AREAS - 59,000FEDDANS/1
b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\                                                                        *;AI;RO- ASE
|  .  D,z,,/g00 007  q  |  RAINAGE AREAS-43,DOOODD   CANSA
BENI SUEF GOVERNORATE         ^ iS ' v EtlNl SN                                                                O    N                     !
ORAINAGE AREAS- 4S.OOOPEDDANS                                                                        RE/ S_          3A
ASWAN  GOVE            E ASAS pAY



Gii,eI a, ,.t/~                                                                                      ASWAN   GOVERNORATE
/  U                       @ t                                      | |ODRAINAGE  AREAS- 43,OOOFEDDANS
'' : ,1 / te;?,,.t.,;*' a
BENI SUEF GOVERNORATE
DRAINAOE AREAS- 4I,000 FEDOANS                                                                                                                                  U
AS WAN
ASWAN DAM
ASWAN IIIGII D AM
Bilhamia Cont il oroj7,ni
liiANIQIIA CANAI                                                                                _
EL  MINYA GOVERNORATE                                                                                                                                        t a lake Nossir
DRAINAGE  AREAS-                                                                                                                           ,
68,000 FE DDANS              ,I                                                                   _        _ ,                                            -- \  ,)          9 
IAlInelZilYr#t,,+,,2  &vMrY                                   AledlderfAanpan a o _a                               ARAB  REPUBLIC  OF EGYPT
.'g~   2  / jR YUPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT
-               t                \/ GENERAL MAP
- -                       ~''~"                                            SAUDI                                    Drainage  Project  Area
~~~~                                ,I.~~~~~~~~~~~~     AR~~~~~~~ABIA
DA RT IIA'WO                                                                                                             Cultivated  Areas
A^lllll^DO"K$t  s __ _  RA rur  \   \t                - -        Irrigation  Canals
~~~~~~~~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~   ~~~~~~Rivers
ASYUT   GOVERNORATE                                                                                                                                 Barragesor Handworks
DRAINAGE  AREAS' - 12.OOOFEDDANS '         %                                           OF  EGYPT   -'v-    Sea                                        Roads
!Us.zZ> % Railways
. ~ -~ ; U      I..VASYT BlIlRASCE                                                                        Governorate  Boundarles
0   Occuppied Territory
4.. .                          1aJ'~~~~~~~~M                 ko     40       60                      I?0           ___I
r.,6,z,,r.,^. . 4nhwr~ i., l,^,,fr.  ,r,                                                 ...t.|b. ,, t ...t  ~.   O  p  4      ,       0       I       1       14       1 
*11"                               U~~~~~~~~~~~ 0  A  N






