FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 80a-UAR
APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT
May 23, 1973
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted |
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(January 1973)
US$ 1.00        =    Egyptian Pound (LE) 0.39
LE  1.00        =   US$ 2.57
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 feddan (fed)           =    1.04 acres (ac)
1 feddan (fed)            =    0.42 hectares (ha)
1 kilometer (km)         =    0.62 miles (mi)
1 meter (m)     ,              3.28 feet (ft)
1 cubic meter (m3)       =    35,31 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 metric ton (m ton)     =    0.984 long ton (ton)
ABBREVIATIONS
NDDA     -     Nile Delta Drainage Authority
EGAD     -     Egyptian General Authority for Drainage
EPADP    -     Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage Projects
GDP      -     Gross Domestic Product (Value)
O&M      -     Operation and Maintenance
ppm      -     Concentration expressed in parts per million.
EEC      -     European Economic Community
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS    .............. ................. i-ii
I.  INTRODUCTION        ..........................................   1
II.   BACKGROUND .    ............................................   2
General         ...........................            2
The Role of Agriculture .........................      2
Irrigation and Drainage ................               2
Tile Drainage Experience in Egypt ..............       3
Bilharzia ............................................ 0...   3
III.   THE PROJECT AREA .........     .............................   4
General         ...........................            4
Climate ..     ........................................   4
Topography and Soils ..................                4
Groundwater       ...........................          5
Agricultural Production ......     ....................   5
Population, Land Tenure and Farm Size ..........       6
Agricultural Support Services ....................     6
Credit, Marketing, Transport and Storage .........    6
Agricultural Taxation .................                7
IV.   TRE PROJECT .............    ..............................   7
Description       ...........................          7
Project Drainage and Reclamation Works ...........     8
Bilharzia Control ...................                  9
Status of Engineering .................                9
Consulting Services ..................                 9
Construction Schedule ............. ...............  10
Cost Estimates        ...................................  11
Financing    ........................................  13
Procurement and Contracts ........... .............  13
Disbursement   ................. ....................  14
Accounts and Audits .............. ................  15
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to the
Arab Republic of Egypt in February/March 1972, composed of Messrs. K. Pranich,
J. C. Collins, 3. Nekby, Y. Pret (IDA) and H. L. Parkinson and S. Raadsma
(Consultants). The bilharzia control aspects of the Project were appraised
by Sir Kenelm Guinness (IDA) and Dr. G. Webbe (Consultant) in March/April 1972.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .............. ...... . ...... 16
Project Authority Responsible for Drainage Works . 16
Supervision of the Bilharzia Control Program  .....  17
Staff Availability and Training .............. ....  17
Operation and Maintenance .................... ....  18
Continuity of Bilharzia Control Measures   . . 19
Recovery of Costs     ................................ 19
VI.  PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FARM INCOME ..  20
Cropped Area, Yields and Production ......        20
Markets and Prices   ..............  .........     21
Fam Income   ...................................... 21
VII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ............................ 22
Economic Benefits .....................            22
Income and Employment .....................       23
Qualitative Benefits of Bilharzia Control ........ 23
Ecology       ..................................... ...    24
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION      ................ 24
ANNEXES
1.  Background Statistics
2.  Agriculture
3.  Climatological Data
4.  Soils and Need for Drainage
5.  Groundwater Regime and Drainage Criteria
6.  Project Works
7.  Criteria and Procedure for Selection of Project Area
8.  Reclamation of Saline Land
9.  Draft Terms of Reference for Consulting Services
10. Bilharzia
11. Cost Estimates
12. List of Vehicles, Equipment and Materials
13. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
14. Presidential Decree Establishing the Egyptian Public Authority for
Drainage Projects
15. Agricultural Production, Markets and Prices
16. Farm Budgets
17. Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
FIGURES
6909 Projected Annual Value of Crop Production in the Project Area Using
Average 1967-71 Farmgate Prices
6817 Benefit from Reclaiming 22,400 Feddans of Saline Land
7646 Organization Chart for the Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage Projects
6829(3R) Construction Schedule
6830(R) Proposed Organization of Governorate Irrigation Departments
MAPS
IBRD 3890 General Map of Project Area
IBRD 3988 Beni Suef Governorate - Project Areas
IBRD 3989 El Minya Governorate - Project Areas
IBRD 3990 Asyut Governorate - Project Areas
IBRD 3991 Sohag Governorate - Project Areas
IBRD 3992 Qena Governorate, Northern Part - Project Areas
IBRD 3993 Qena Governorate, Southern Part - Project Areas
IBRD 3994 Aswan Governorate - Project Areas
IBRD 10038 Bilharzia Control Program Area






ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Agricultural production in the Arab Republic of Egypt has been
facing the twin menaces of waterlogging and salinity for the past two dec-
ades. The abundant perennial irrigation in the Nile Valley made possible
since 1965 by the Aswan High Dam has, in the absence of adequate drainage,
resulted in a worsening situation. Increased cropping intensity and wasteful
use of water have contributed to the rapid rise of the groundwater table,
causing salinization of the lands. Already 12,000 feddans (fed) have be-
come barren and this area could double within the next six years.
ii.       Government has awarded the highest priority to its 30 year program
which will improve drainage throughout the 7) million fed irrigated area. Im-
plementation is lagging behind the planned program and only 600,000 fed were
provided with tile drains by the end of 1971. The Nile Delta Drainage Author-
ity (NDDA) established in 1969 and the Egyptian General Authority for Drain-
age (EGAD) established in 1971, to implement drainage works in the Nile Delta
and Upper Egypt respectively, have been supesceded by the Egyptian Public
Authority for Drainage Projects (EPADP) which is responsible for drainage proj-
ects in both regions. In 1970, IDA made a credit (181-UAR) of US$26 million
for the tile drainage of 950,000 fed in the Nile Delta.
iii.      In the Nile Delta Project, problems have arisen in project implemen-
tation. Delays occurred in the appointment of staff to fill senior management
vacancies and in the procurement of equipment. Little use was made of the
consultants' services. These deficiencies have resulted in a delay of about
two years, but corrective measures have been implemented which should accelerate
progress and enable completion of the project by 1978.
iv.       The Upper Egypt Drainage Project conprises installation of buried
tile field drains throughout 300,000 fed, remodeling of existing and con-
struction of new oper. main and branch drains construction and remodeling of
five pumping stations, reclamation of 22,400 fed of severely saline land,
and a bilharzia control program, composed of both snail control and treatment
of infected persons in an area of 900,000 fed. The drainage works would take
six years to complete (1974-1979) and the bilharzia control program would
extend over four years (1975-1978) with subsequent maintenance by the Egyptian
authorities.
v.        The estimated project costs are US$123.8 million of which US$115.7
million would be for the drainage works and US$8.1 million for bilharzia con-
trol. The foreign costs component for the drainage works is US$29.5 million
while that for bilharzia control is US$6.5 million, totalling US$36 million.



- ii -
vi.       The foreign exchange requirements would be for the purchase of
vehicles, equipment and materials; for the foreign costs of constructing pump-
ing stations and installing equipment, all of which, with the exception of
chemicals for bilharzia control, would be subject to international competi-
tive bidding; and for financing consulting services and the overseas train-
ing of Egyptian personnel. The IDA credit would finance all these foreign
exchange items or 65% of the total cost where bids for vehicles or equipment are
awarded to local suppliers. Local currency expenditure would be met by Govern-
ment budget allocations. Civil works, with the exception of pumping station
construction and installation of power lines and equipment, would be awarded
following normal procurement procedures of Government.
vii.      EPADP would be responsible for executing the drainage works under
the Minister of Irrigation, and the Ministry of Agriculture would cooperate
in executing soil surveys and reclamation of saline lands. Bilharzia control
operations would be administered by the Ministry of Health. EPADP would be
competent to carry out the project works and would be supported by consultants
who would advise and assist in planning and design of drainage works, reclama-
tion of saline land and water management practices. The Ministry of Health
would be assisted by experts in supervising the bilharzia control operations.
The project provides for the training of local staff and local contractors
personnel in the special skills needed for successful project execution.
viii.     The main benefit of the project is prevention of the decline in
production due to waterlogging and salinity. Overall production following
project completion would markedly improve over Dresent levels. Based on the
estimates of import substitution derived from wheat, maize and sorghum and
from cotton, sugar and onion exports at forecast world commodity prices in
1980, the net foreign exchange impact, after deducting the import component
of investment and farm inputs, at full development in Year 10 would be US$25
;iillion. The economic rate of return of the drainage and reclamation works
excluding the costs of bilharzia control would be about 20% and would be
relatively insensitive to changes in construction costs, crop yields and
prices. If the costs of bilharzia control are included but not the bene-
fits, the rate of return would be 19%.
ix.       As appropriate assurances were obtained during negotiations, the
project would be suitable for an IDA credit to finance its foreign exchange
cost of US$36 million equivalent. The borrower would be the Government of
the Arab Republic of Egypt.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt has requested IDA as-
sistance to help finance part of its high priority 30 year program (1960-1990)
to improve drainage throughout the country's irrigated area of 7 million fed-
dans (fed), 2.5 million of which are located in Upper Egypt.  Implementation
is lagging behind the planned program and a revised schedule is needed. By
the end of 1971, only about 600,000 fed had been provided with tile drains.
1.02      The project would provide 300,000 fed with buried field tile drains
together with the open main and branch drains necessary to remove effluent,
and would reclaim 22,400 fed of severely saline land. All project works would
be located in six governorates of Upper Egypt (Map IBRD-3890).
1.03      As the open drains to be installed would increase the already serious
transmission of bilharzia 1/, the project provides for bilharzia control to be
undertaken in a 900,000 fed area in Beni Suef, El Minya and Asyut Governorates
(Map IBRD 10038) where conditions are conducive to its success.
1.04      In 1970, IDA made a credit of US$26 million to Egypt (Credit 181-UAR)
for the tile drainage of 950,000 fed in the Nile Delta. Major problems in
execution have arisen, primarily due to ineffective management. Delays occured
in the appointment of senior management staff and procurement of equipment and
little use was made of the consultants' services. These deficiencies have
caused construction to be about two years behind the rate necessary to complete
the project by mid 1976, as anticipated in the Credit Agreement. Corrective
measures have been implemented which should accelerate progress under a re-
cently reorganized and strengthened management.
1.05      World Food Program assistance in support of Government's tile drain-
age operations has amounted to US$5.2 million during the five-year period whicb,
ended in January 1973; a second five-year assistance program costing US$12.7
million started in February 1973.
1.06      This report is based on information submitted by the Egyptian au-
thorities, an economic evaluation prepared by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Pro-
gram and the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of Messrs. K. Pranich,
J.C. Collins, B. Nekby, Y. Pret (IDA) and H.L. Parkinson and S. Raadsma (Con-
sultants), which visited Egypt in February/March 1972. Sir Kenelm Guinness
(IDA) and Dr. Gerald Webbe (Consultant) appraised the project bilharzia control
aspects in March/April 1972. Messrs. J.C. Collins, T. Husain and S. Niaz have
made major contributions to the report.
1/   Schistosomiasis, a water-borne disease.



-2-
II. BACKGROUND
2.01      General.  Egypt has a population of 35 million with an annual growth
of about 2.5%. About 96% of the country is sparsely populated desert, but the
remaining 4%, or 36,000 km2, concentrated mostly in the Nile valley and its
Delta, is densely populated averaging 975 persons per km2. In 1970, the na-
tional per capita GNP averaged US$210 while in the agricultural sector it was
about US$100. Per capita net disposable incomes would in each case be ap-
preciably lower and in 1968 were estimated to be about US$63 for rural areas.
Annex I summarizes background statistics.
2.02      The Role of Agriculture.  Agriculture (Annex 2) accounts for about
30% of GDP. It provides about 85% of export earnings and employs about 50%
of the working population. Since commissioning of the Aswan High Dam the
area of irrigated lands has expanded and the cropping intensity has been in-
creased by the conversion of previously flood-irrigated areas to perennial
irrigation. About 7 million fed are cultivated at a cropping intensity of
160%.
2.03      A new 10-year development plan was scheduled to start in January
1973. Earlier efforts at long-term planning were interrupted by the 1967
war. Under the new plan it is expected that extension of the cultivated
area will be slowed down and increased emphasis placed on improving pro-
ductivity of areas already cultivated.
2.04      Two major constraints to increasing productivity - waterlogging
and salinity - have not been tackled on a scale sufficient to arrest the
worsening situation. Government has given the highest priority to drainage
projects. New organizations have been established for implementing the works:
the Nile Delta Drainage Authority (NDDA) established in 1969 and the Egyptian
General Authority for Drainage (EGAD) established in 1971 to execute drainage
works in the Nile Delta and Upper Egypt, respectively, are to be replaced by
the proposed Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage (EPDA) responsible for
implementation of works in both the Delta and in Upper Egypt.
2.05      Irrigation and Drainage.  Since Pharaonic times, cultivated land
in the Nile Valley had been irrigated by the method of "basin irrigation,"
using flood waters of the Nile during August and September, conveyed by
canals, to inundate lands which were divided by embankments into basins
of from 1,000 up to 40,000 fed. The basins were flooded to a depth of 1 to
2 m for 40-60 days. When the flood receded, sowing commenced and harvesting
was completed before the arrival of the next flood, allowing generally only
one crop a year.
2.06      Conversion to controlled irrigation by means of barrages and canals
commenced in 1843, permitting the introduction of cotton and sugar cane. The
converted systems now cover almost the entire cultivated area stretching from
the Mediterranean Sea to Aswan. The last 900,000 fed in Upper Egypt were con-
verted during 1960-72, concurrently with the construction of the Aswan High
Dam which, by eliminating the seasonal flood downstream, made continued basin



- 3 -
irrigation impossible. The systems built prior to 1960 covering about half
the irrigated area were provided with some inadequate shallow drains, designed
to keep the water level in the drains at 1.5 m below the land surface. These
drains had been poorly maintained. While it took 25-30 years for these lands
to become saline, the lands converted since 1960, which are without drains,
have turned saline rapidly. Increased cropping intensity and poor water man-
agement have contributed to the rapid salinization and corresponding decline
in crop yields in recent years.
2.07      Water has traditionally been free in Egypt.  Farmers have been ac-
customed to seasonal shortages, and have anticipated them by habitually ap-
plying excess irrigation water while available to build up the moisture re-
serves in the soil. Since completion of the Aswan High Dam, however, such
shortages no longer occur, but the tendency to over-irrigate persists. Un-
like most other countries, full supply levels in irrigation canals in Egypt
are generally below land surface and farmers have to irrigate by means of
hand-operated screw pumps or portable powered pumps. With the intention of
avoiding a rise in the water table due to wasteful applications, free-flow
irrigation has not been provided.
2.08      At present the irrigation interval is 18 days in the northern part
of Upper Egypt and 15 days in the center and south. Water is provided on the
basis of 25 m3/fed/day in the north, 36 m3 in the center and 45 m3 in the
south. Trials at local research stations indicate that smaller but more
frequent applications result in higher yields and economies in total water
use. The irrigation schedules of the Ministry of Irrigation need revision
to bring them into line with these recommendations.
2.09      Tile Drainage Experience in Egypt.  Construction of tile drainage
systems in Upper Egypt was begun in 1960 and during the following decade some
80,000 fed were completed, together with over 500,000 fed in the Nile Delta.
The shiortage of cultivable land in Egypt makes tile drainage preferable to
field drains and tile drainage is less expensive than, and as effective as,
tubewells in most situations found locally.
2.10      Bilharzia.  Bilharzia has been a major health problem in Egypt
since ancient times. Two types of bilharzia are present, Schistosoma
haematobium occuring throughout the irrigated area and S. mansoni which at
present is essentially confined to the Nile Delta. The disease organism
passes part of its life cycle in a water snail host. Transmission occurs
through human excreta coming in contact with water inhabited by the snail
hosts and by human contact with infested water.  Infection is highest among
children in the 10-15 year age group. The degree of infection varies locally
depending on the availability and suitability of canals and other bodies of
water in which the snail host may live and breed and on the habits of the
local population.  Persons infected suffer debilitating symptoms and bilharzi
cani predispose the individual to serious complications such as cancer of the
bladder and exacerbate the effects of malnutrition and diseases such as viral
hepatitis.



- 4 -
2.11      Statistics for three governorates in Upper Egypt for 1955 show the
prevalence of bilharzia to be about 65% in areas mainly under perennial irri-
gation compared with about 16% in areas under flood irrigation. Some 40-50%
of the rural population is infected with S. haematobium and about 30% with
S. mansoni where this type occurs. Overall numbers of bilharzia cases re-
porting for treatment have recently shown some decline due to a campaign to
treat infected persons. This treatment is carried out in rural health cen-
ters, at school health units and in endemic diseases hospitals.
2.12      In Fayoum Governorate (Annex 10, para 34 et seq), experimental mass
snail control treatments have been applied twice yearly to irrigation canals
and drains. This together with an intensive program to treat infected persons
has recluced the overall infection level from nearly 50% to 16% in the past
three years. In Upper Egypt, snail control treatments are confined to a few
areas where surveillance indicates high snail populations and where high
bilharzia infection levels occur. The surveillance does not give adequate
coverage of the enormous area and local control operations have only tempo-
rary success due to rapid reinfestation from surrounding areas.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
3.01      General.  The project area extends over the six governorates - Beni
Suef, El Minya, Asyut, Sohag, Qena and Aswan (HIap IBRD 3890). The areas were
identified by Government as being most urgently in need of drainage, based on
observed soil salinity, groundwater levels and other soil characteristics.
The original submission requested tile drains over a total of 600,000 fed, but
EPADP has already begun construction of tile drainage for an area of 66,000
fed using its own resources and on close scrutiny it was found that for about
234,000 fed tile drainage could be deferred. As part of the proposed project,
in areas not in immediate need of drainage, monitoring of soil salinity con-
ditions and groundwater levels would be undertaken. Any deterioration would
be immediately recognized and preparation made for installation of drainage
in a further drainage program.
3.02      Climate.  The project area is situated in the arid zone with a year-
long growing season. The climate is characterized by a cool winter season
extending from November to March and a hot summer from May to September. The
weather becomes drier and warmer going from north to south. Mean temperatures
in January, the coolest month, range from 12°C in the north (Beni Suef) to 16°C
in the south (Aswan). The hottest month in the north is July with mean tem-
peratures of 290C and in the south, August with 34°C.  Rainfall is erratic
and extremely light throughout the area, averaging 11.3 mm in the north and
only 1.5 mm in the south (Annex 3).
3.03      Topography and Soils.  Topography is generally very flat due to
centuries of sediment deposition during seasonal flooding. The land slopes
gently from Aswan to Cairo and there is a slightly steeper gradient from the
river towards the escarpments bordering the valley.  Man--made surface irreg-
uilarities include rough borrow areas resulting from removing soil for bricks
and road construction and abandoned canals once used in basin irrigation.



3.04      Soils are formed from alluvial deposits and are generally fine-
textured, becoming somewhat coarser from Sohag upstream towards Aswan. The
alluvium varies from 4 to 15 m in thickness and overlies deep deposits of
water-bearing sands and gravels. Salinity problem areas occur throughout
the Vallev and the situation is rapidly worsening due to inadequate drain-
age. About 12,000 fed are already barren due to excessive salinity and the
presence of alkali and without remedial measures this will increase to about
22,000 fed by 1978 (Annex 4).
3.05      Groundwater.  The Nile water, with 200 ppm total salts, is of high
quality for irrigation.  As drainage is inadequate, little of this salt is
returned to the river and the remainder has been accumulating in the subsoil
and groundwater for centuries, with the result that shallow groundwater every-
where in the Nile Valley is saline.  In the project area it varies from 500
ppm to 15,000 ppm total salts, with an average of 2,500 ppm.
3.06      In the Nile Valley the river intersects an impermeable clay cap
covering thick layers of sand and gravel. Groundwater pressure in this semi-
confined aquifer is influenced by changes in the river level. Upon commis-
sioning of the Aswan High Dam (1965), the annual floods were eliminated and
the river level now remains relatively low and stable. It was expected that,
as a consequence, groundwater pressure would be reduced, permitting adequate
natural drainage of excess groundwater from the upper soil layers into the
aquifer and to the Nile River. Instead the groundwater pressure has shown a
steady increase over the last six years. This is attributed to the increased
seepage losses from new irrigation canals, deep percolation losses due to in-
creased cropping intensity, excessive irrigation and significantly reduced
pumping from tubewells, since sufficient irrigation water has become avail-
able through the Aswan High Dam. The net result has been a rising groundwater
table (now less than 80 cm from the surface in many locations), causing water-
logging and salinization (Annex 5).
3.07      Agricultural Production.  The crops grown in the project area in-
clude medium-long staple cotton (1-1/8 to 1-3/8 in.), maize, sorghum, wheat,
beans, oilseeds, lentils, onions, berseem and other fodder crops, sugarcane
and vegetables. The area of cotton grown each year is regulated by the Min-
istry of Agriculture. The usual rotation begins with a summer crop of cotton
followed by wheat and beans. In the next summer, maize or sorghum is grown
followed by berseem. The cycle may then be repeated or another season of
summer and winter crops may be grown before recommencing the rotation. Where
sugarcane is grown tlhree crops are harvested over a three-year period before
replanting. Cane is supplied under contract to a sugar factory and the area
cultivated is limited by the factory needs. Draft animals and some tractors
are used for cultivation.
3.08      Waterlogging and salinity have greatly affected agricultural pro-
duction in many areas. Without drainage about 100,000 fed of the project
area will likely become totally unproductive over the next 35 years. On
the remaining productive land, average crop yields will decline 40 to 50%.



- 6 -
3.09      Population, Land Tenure and Farm Size.  Within the project area
there are about 83,000 farm families. About 34% of the holdings are farmed
by the owner, 28% are part owmed and part rented, and 38% are farmed by ten-
ants. Nearly half the cultivated area is rented by the cultivator. The
Agrarian Reform Law of 1952 and subsequent amendments have provided the ten-
ant with a high degree of security and limit land ownership to 50 fed for
single persons and 100 fed per family. The average farm size is 3.4 fed,
wholly owmed holdings averaging 3.1, part owned, part rented holdings 5.4 fed
and rented holdings 1.7 fed. About 75% of the holdings are less than 3 fed
(averaging 1 fed) and occupy only 25% of the cultivated area. The standard
of farming is generally high, but small and sometimes fragmented holdings and
tne need to employ labor-intensive methods are frequently constraints to
the introduction of modern production methods. These constraints are allevia-
ted in the case of cotton cultivation by the organization of production in
consolidated blocks by farmer cooperatives.
3.10      Agricultural Support Services.  The agricultural extension service
provides assistance to farmers through graduate agricultural officers and as-
sistants in each district and agents with graduate or agricultural high school
training in each village.  W4hile staff numbers and training are adequate, the
village agents are presently responsible for administering cooperatives as well
as advising farmers and collecting statistics. The Ministry of Agriculture
plans to reorganize the service and cooperativas will provide their own man-
agement personnel. The extension staff in the project area call upon the
services of subject specialists from research stations in four of the six
governorates to advise on specific problems arising in the field. This ar-
rangement has proved unsatisfactory and the Ministry of Agriculture plans to
station such specialists in each governorate under the direct control of the
extencion service. There is also a need to improve the mobility of extension
staff and equipment is needed for their farmer training program.
3.11      Credit, Marketing, Transport and Storage.  Crop production inputs
are available on credit through village cooperatives, which obtain supplies
and funds from the Agricultural Credit Bank. The cooperative society finances
its operations through commissions on supplies sold and produce marketed. The
maximum amount of supplies available to the farmer is predetermined for each
crop. Amounts are based on research findings and are adequate for current
production levels. All credit, whether in cash or in kind, is given again5t
a 4.5% commission. The repayments are deducted from the value of produce
delivered to the cooperative. The total lending amounted to about US$28 per
cultivated fed in 1970.
3.12      All seed cotton and 300 kg per fed of wheat and beans must be de-
livered to Government through the cooperative at prices fixed annually by
Government. All sugarcane is delivered to the local sugar factory. Of major
crops, only maize, sorghum and the remaining wheat and beans are sold on the
free market. Storage is commonly in sacks in the open, but due to the dry
climate deterioration is not a problem. Some pest control measures are taken.



- 7 -
3.13      The road and railway systems and water transport on the Nile pro-
vide adequate communications within the project area and good connections with
main consumption centers and ports. Marketing, transportation and processing
facilities are adequate.
3.14      Agricultural Taxation.  The 'Land tax, which is normally reassessed
every tenth year, is calculated as one seventh of the net return to land, us-
ing 1956 commodity prices, which are about 20% lower than those prevailing
now. The tax is paid by the landowner and in the case of land occupied by
a tenant, the owner has the right to increase the rent by the increment of
tax following reassessment. On completion of new drainage facilities under
the project, a reassessment of tax liabilities would be made within one year.
3.15      Landowners also pay a local tax for community administration and
development amounting to 15% of the land tax. No rent adjustment to com-
pensate for any increase in this tax liability is permitted.  In addition,
all cultivators whether owner or tenant pay a defense tax equal in amount to
the land tax.
IV.  THE PROJECT
4.01      Description.  The main objective of the project is to prevent a
continued decline in land productivity resulting from lack of drainage over
an area of 300,000 fed in Upper Egypt. Drainage works would comprise in-
stallation of field tile drains throughout the area, construction or im-
provement of open main and branch drains and provision of pumping stations
where gravity drainage is not possible. Land now severely saline and alkali-
affected would be reclaimed. These works would be executed by the Egyptian
Public Authority for Drainage Projects (EPADP), assisted by consultants. The
new open drains to be constructed extend the habitat for the snail intermedi-
ate hosts of bilharzia, and would thus exacerbate transmission of the disease.
Control of snails in relatively discontinuous areas would be expensive and
inefficient. Preventive treatment of new drains alone would be ineffective
in reducing transmission. To derive the maximum benefit from a bilharzia
control program, a discrete area within the command of a single irrigation
system has been selected in Beni Suef, El hinya and Asyut Governorates, ex-
tending over 900,000 fed and including about half the new open drains to be
installed under the project. It has a populatior. of some 3 million and the
highest prevalence of bilharzia in Upper Egypt. The Ministry of Health would
be responsible for the control program assisted by the Ministry of Irrigation
and suitable experts.
4.02      The drainage and reclamation works would be completed in six years
and the bilharzia control program would extend over four years including first-
year mobilization. The project would, during this time, provide vehicles,
equipment and materials for drainage works, land reclamation, agricultural
extension services and bilharzia control together with consultant services
and training of Egyptian personnel both in Egypt and overseas.



- 8 -
4.03      Project Drainage and Reclamation Works.  These works (Annex 6 and
Maps 3988 - 3994) would include:
(a) installation of about 30,000 km of buried field tile drains
and 4,000 km of collector drains throughout the selected
300,000 fed (Annex 7);
(b) deepening and widening of about 775 km of existing and
excavation of about 865 km of new open drains. The total
volume of excavation is about 31 million mi3;
(c) construction of four new pumping stations and expansion
of an existing one with a total capacity of about
54 m3/sec, including transmission lines and power
substations for operation; and
(d) reclamation by leaching of about 22,400 fed of severely
saline land distributed throughout the area to be tile
drained; about half these lands are also alkali-affected
requiring gypsum and subsoiling for successful reclamation
(Annex 8).
4.04      The areas for tile drainage were selected because either salinity,
groundwater table or piezometric pressure was above an acceptable level, or
because seepage occurred from higher adjacent irrigated land. Following tile
drainage the water table should fall to at least 1 m below the surface within
two to three days following an irrigation and to 1.25 m subsequently. To meet
this requirement the drains would need to be installed 1.4 m to 1.8 m deep and
at spacings varying from 20 m to 80 m (averaging about 42 m) depending on
physical properties of local soils.
4.05      Construction of the drainage works would be by a combination of
machines and hand labor. For small open drains excavation would be by manual
labor and for branch and main drains excavation would be carried out by drag-
lines. Installation of tile drains by machines which combine trench digging
and tile laying in one continuous operation is more rapid and efficient in
terms of quality of the finished product than manual labor (Annex 6). About
35 laborers would be employed with each machine, rnainly engaged in back-filling
the trenches and maintaining the supply of drainage pipes and gravel. Instal-
lation of collector drain pipes would be mainly by manual labor with assistance
by back-hoe excavators where a high groundwater table is encountered. Manu-
facture of cement tiles and collector pipes would empplsy about 40 people for
each tile-laying machine operating; only the casting of tiles and pipes would
be mechanized.



-9-
4.06      Bilharzia Control.  Bilharzia (para 2.10 - 2.12) in the 900,000 fed
cultivated area served by the Ibrahimia and Bahr Yousef irrigation canals below
the head regulator at Dairut (Map IBRD 10038) would be controlled by an inte-
grated program of snail control and treatment of infected persons (Annex 10).
A chemical for snail control (molluscicide), Bayluscide (Bayer) has been used
extensively and successfully at Fayoum; see para 2.12. Another, Frescon
(Shell), proved very successful in Sudan and is now undergoing trials near
Cairo. It is expected that snail control would be achieved by the applica-
tion of molluscicides three times annually - in spring, summer, and early
autumn. Both molluscicides would be used: Frescon, dispensed at concentra-
tions of 0.075 to 0.1 ppm continuously over a 15-day period to treat irriga-
tion canals and open drains where sufficient flow occurs to achieve optimum
distribution; and Bayluscide, sprayed at concentrations of 1 ppm active ma-
terial to treat all other snail habitats. However, since the Frescon trials
are not complete, and since there is a possibility that a third molluscicide
may be manufactured in Egypt, it was agreed during negotiations that details
of the program and chemicals to be used would be agreed between Government
and the Association. Materials, equipment and vehicles necessary for the
program would be provided under the project. The program would extend over
four years from 1975-1978, the first year for preparation work and purchase
of materials and equipment and the remainder for actual works. Subsequent
maintenance of control would be undertaken by the Ministry of Health.
4.07      The Ministry of Health would continue treating infected persons in
existing health facilities (para 2.11) and using tartar emetic, the present
drug of choice which would not be financed under the project. Based on the
anticipated number of new cases among children in the 5-12-year age group
in the area, some 200,000 courses of a new oral drug, Niridazole, would be
provided under the project. This drug has a shorter treatment period and
fewer unpleasant side effects making it especially suitable for children.
4.08      Status of Engineering.  Detailed soil maps are available for half
the project area and semi-detailed maps for the remainder. Soil surveys to
upgrade these latter to detailed maps would have to be carried out, to permit
more accurate delineation of the areas in urgent need of drainage and prior
to final design of the project drainage systems. The planning and detailed
design of tile drainage require further predesign investigation (see Annex
5, para 25). Planning and detailed design of main drains has been completed
for about 40% of the project area, the remainder being preliminary design.
Final plans and designs for pumping stations have yet to be prepared.
4.09      Consulting Services.  With the creation of EPADP and appointment
of competent officers in key positions,the Au-hority is now equipped to carry
out the investigations and design of drainage works. Through experience gained
from the Nile Delta Drainage Project, the Authority's staff is competent to
prepare specifications and tender documents for international procurement con-
tracts and for evaluation of bids. However the Authority will require advice
and assistance in the overall planning of works, land reclamation, water
management and agricultural extension practices, and design of pumping stations
and for these purposes consultants would be provided under the project. De-
tails are given in Annex 9. During negotiations assurances were obtained



- 10 -
that consultants for these purposes including snort-term specialists for other
needs would be engaged by EPADP as and when required, in consultation with IDA,
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. A separate panel of Egyptian
consultants and experts has already been nominated by Government to monitor
progress and to evaluate the benefits of both the Nile Delta and Upper Egypt
Projects.
4.10      It was agreed during negotiations that a qualified and experienced
person, acceptable to IDA, would be appointed to direct the snail control pro-
gram. The need for assistance in executing the program was also agreed. Such
assistance could best be provided by the manufacturers of the molluscides but
it is not possible to make final arrangements until details cf the snail con-
trol program are agreed. It was therefore agreed during negotiations that
the snail control program (para 4.06) would include specific proposals for
technical assistance from manufacturers or for appointment of consultants.
4.11      Construction Schedule.  The excavation of open drains would be con-
tinued by manual labor in combination with existing draglines owned by con-
tracting firms. The rate of excavation of drains would be accelerated fol-
lowing arrival of new draglines. Laying of tile drains would commence during
the second year, after arrival of the first tile-laying machines. Construc-
tion of pumping stations would also commence in the second year, with instal-
lation of pump equipment to begin during the third year, since delivery of
pumps would take at least one to one and a half years. The reclamation of
saline land would begin in the second year following completion of the first
tile drainage systems, and continue throughout the construction period. The
construction schedule is given in Chart 6829(3R).
4.12      Taking account of prolonged delivery schedules for equipment and
the demands the project would make on logistics and management skills, the
implementation of open and tile drainage works is estimated to proceed as
follows:
Egyptian Fiscal Year      1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979       Total
Project Year            1      2       3      4      5       6
--length in km----------------------
Open Drains           170    270    300    300    300    300        1,640
--------area in '000 feddans--------------------
Tile Drains            -      40     53      64     72      71        300
The proposed rates of construction are reasonable and could easily be achieved.
Ilowover, the tile drainage installation rates could be adversely affected by
any unforeseen delays in the construction of pumping stations or installation
of equipment, failure to complete which would prevent construction of drains
in the areas served by the station. Timely award of pumping station contracts
is therefore essential.



- 11 -
4.13      Cost Estimates.  Cost estimates of tile drainage works and open
drains are based on unit prices for recent similar works in Upper Egypt.
Estimates for tile-laying machines and pumping stations are based on recent
prices under the Nile Delta Drainage Project. Costs of vehicles and other
equipment are based on current sellers' quotations in Egypt and elsewhere.
Molluscicides and drugs for the bilharzia control program are based on
current manufacturers' prices. A physical contingency of about 10% to cover
changes in quantity of works and unforeseen costs and a price escalation con-
tingency factor of 4% per year for local and 5% for foreign costs, have been
included. The total project cost is estimated to be US$123.8 million exclud-
ing customs duties. The foreign exchange component (adjusted to reflect re-
cent changes in exchange rates) to be financed under the credit and excluding
indirect foreign costs would be US$36 million for equipment, materials and
consultant services. The residual value of equipment which would subsequently
be used for project maintenance and for future phases of tile drainage con-
struction is estimated at US$2.3 million. Detailed estimates are given in
Annex 11 and summarized below:



- 12 -
LE Million                 E Million          Foreign
Local  Foreign   Total    Local/ Foreign   Total   Exchange
Drainage Works
Tile drainage
Equipment and vehicles             0.3      3.7     4.0        0.9     9.4     10.3       91
Construction                      11.5       -     11.5       29.6      -      29.6        -
Main and branch drains
Equipment and vehicles             0.2      2.1     2.3        0.5     5.3     5.8         91
Construction                      10.2       -     10.2       26.2      -     26.2         -
Pmuping stations                     1.9      2.9     4.8        4.9     7.7    12.6         61
Reclamation of saline land
Equipment                           -       0.3     0.3         -      0.8     0.8        100
Material and works                 0.7       -      0.7        1.7      -      1.7         -
Agricultural extension service
Equipment                           -       0.1     0.1         -      0.2     0.2        100
Consultants and training             0.1      o.4     0.5        0.2     1.0     1.2         83
Administration and overhead          2.4      0.1     2.5        6.1     0.4     6.5         56
Contingencies
Physical                           2.7      0.9     3.6        7.0     2.2     9.2         24
Price escalation                   3.5      1.0     4.5        9.0     2.6    11.6         22
Subtotal                        33.5     11.5    45.0       86.1    29.6   115.7         26
Bilharzia Control Program
Equipment, vehicles and
material                            0.4      1.8     2.2        0.9     4.7     5.6         84
Consultant, administration
and overhead                        0.2      0.2     0.4        0.5     0.5     1.0         53
Contingencies
Physical                            -       0.2     0.2        0.1     0.5     o.6         79
Price escalation                   0.1      0.3     0.4        0.2     0.7     0.9         81
Subtotal                         0.7      2.5     3.2        1.7     LI      8.1         79
GRAND TOTAL (w/o duties)        34.2     14.0   48.2       87.8    36.0   123.8         29
Customs duties on project
imports                             2.4       -      2.4       6.2       -      6.2         -



- 13 -
4.14      Financing.  The proposed financing plan is shown below:
% of
LE Million     US$ Million    Project Cost
IDA Credit
Foreign cost                          14.0            36.0            29
Government Contribution
Local costs                           34.2            87.8             71
Total                      48.2           123.8            100
Customs duties                           2.4             6.2
The proposed IDA credit would contribute US$36 million equivalent or approx-
imately 29% of the total project cost. Government allocations would provide
the balance, US$87.8 million equivalent. In addition Government would bear
the cost of customs duties estimated as US$6.2 million equivalent.
4.15      Procurement and Contracts.  All vehicles, equipment and spares for
the project and steel for drainage and reclamation works would be procured
by international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA Guidelines (Annex
12). Where contracts for equipment required for the Nile Delta Project have
not yet been awarded, EPADP will combine orders for the two projects in order
to benefit from economy of scale and the benefits of standardization. Local
manufacturers or processors would be allowed a preference of 15% or the actual
customs duty on imported components, whichever is the lower, when the domestic
value added is 20% or more. Suppliers of tile-laying machines would be required
to provide experienced operators and mechanics to train Egyptian personnel.
International bids would also be obtained for construction of the five pumping
stations. The contracts would include provision for training in the operation
and maintenance of the pumping equipment. The transmission lines and substations
for supplying electric power to operate the pumping stations would be constructed
by the Egyptian General Electricity Corporation, but all necessary equipment
and materials would be procured by international competitive bidding. Mollus-
cicides and drugs for bilharzia control would be procured under negotiated
contracts with the manufacturers which might include technical assistance
(see para 4.10). Neither the existing tripartite tariff agreement between
Egypt, India and Yugoslavia under which trade in a wide range of commodities
between the signatory countries is subject to preferential tariffs, nor the
preferential tariff agreement being negotiated between Egypt and EEC, would
affect offshore procurement procedures under the project, in which external
bids will be evaluated net of customs duties.
4.16      Contracts for tile drains, open drains including structures, land
reclamation and buildings would not be financed by IDA and would be awarded
in accordance with the normal procurement procedures of Government. While
such works could be subject to international competitive bidding, present



- 14 -
restrictions on travel in Egypt could make working in the extensive and scat-
tered project area difficult for foreign contractors and Government wishes to
limit the bidding to local firms. There are a number of experienced Egyptian
contractors whose work is acceptable in price and quality. The larger con-
struction firms, which are nationalized, operate on commercial lines and
there would be adequate competition. Assurances were obtained during nego-
tiations that all works contracts except those for pumping stations would be
awarded through normal procedures of Government.
4.17      Since very few Egyptian contractors have enough vehicles and equip-
ment, contracts would include provision for the purchase of imported equipment
together with adequate spare parts from EPADP. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the terms and conditions on which equipment was sold to con-
tractors would be subject to approval by IDA.
4.18      IDA's Guidelines would be followed in all international procurement.
EPADP would prepare specifications and tender documents and would submit them
to IDA for comment before issue. EPADP's evaluation of bids and recommenda-
tions for award would be sent to IDA for approval. No disbursements would
be made against contracts awarded over IDA's objection and an equivalent
amount of the credit would be cancelled.
4.19      Disbursement.  The proceeds of the proposed credit would finance
the total foreign exchange cost of pumping stations and related services,
equipment, vehicles, spares, steel and other materials, chemicals for bilhar-
zia control, and consultants' services and overseas training for Egyptian
personnel. Contracts for vehicles and other equipment procured locally and
awarded in accordance with IDA's Guidelines for Procurement would be financed
from the proposed credit to the extent of 65% of the total cost, representing
the estimated foreign expenditure component. Any savings would be cancelled.
4.20      The proposed schedule of capital expenditure, given in Annex 11,
is summarized below. Government budget allocations including customs duties
on project imports is also shown. An estimated quarterly disbursement sched-
ule is presented in Annex 13.



- 15 -
Egyptian Fiscal Year       1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    Total
Project year                1       2        3       4        5       6
---------------US$ million-----------
Government contribution
excluding customs
duties                  3.9      12.8    16.9    19.1    18.8    16.3    87.8
IDA credit                4.4       9.0      8.7     8.6      3.9     1.4    36.0
Total                8.3      21.8    25.6    27.7    22.7    17.7   123.8
Annual Government
allocation including
customs duties          4.9      14.5    18.4    20.3    19.4    16.5    94.0
4.21      Accounts and Audits.  In view of difficulties encountered in the on-
going Nile Delta Drainage Project, there is a need for setting up an adequate
cost accounting system for the project. Assurances were obtained at negotia-
tions that a cost accounting system mutually satisfactory to IDA and EPADP
would be set up within one year of the credit becoming effective to determine
the relevant costs of the works performed.
4.22      Since EPADP is a Government agency under the Ministry of Irrigation,
it is subject to a regular external audit by Government's Central Organization
for Accounts and Audits which reports directly to the President. In addition,
resident auditors would be stationed in EPADP's field offices to preaudit
accounts before disbursement. Similar procedures apply to the Ministry of
Health which would be responsible for the bilharzia control program. Assur-
ances were obtained at negotiations that:
(i)  separate project accounts would be established and
maintained by EPADP for the drainage works and by the
Ministry of Health for the bitharzia control program; and
(ii)  following annual audits by independent auditors, copies
of each audit report in English would be submitted to IDA
within four months of the end of each fiscal year.



- 16 -
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
5.01      Project Authority Responsible for Drainage Works.  The Executive
Authority for Projects on High Dam Waters has since 1960 been engaged in the
conversion of 900,000 fed of previously basin irrigated land to perennial
irrigation. This work has now been completed and in 1971 the disbanded author-
ity formed the nucleus of the Egyptian General Authority for Drainage (EGAD),
which was established by Presidential Decree to be responsible under the Min-
ister of Irrigation for future conversion and drainage works in Upper Egypt.
Government has combined NDDA and EGAD under a new joint authority, the Egyptian
Public Authority for Drainage Projects (EPADP), established by a Presidential
Decree (Annex 14). The Board of Directors of EPADP has been established and
a Chairman has been appointed. The proposed organization for EPADP is shown
in Chart 7646.
5.02      EPADP has the necessary powers for the control of all technical,
administrative and financial aspects of both the Upper Egypt and the Nile
Delta (Lower Egypt) Projects. These include all investigations, planning,
design, procurement, construction, budgeting and operation of project ac-
counts. EPADP will have departments responsible for Administration and Fi-
nance, Planning, Research, Evaluation and Training; Petitions, Security and
Public Relations; and Consultants and a Technical Office, which will also be
the office of the Secretary to the Board of Directors. These departments will
report directly to the Chairman.
5.03      The responsibility for planning, design and execution of drainage
works in Upper Egypt and in the Nile Delta will rest with the respective
Vice-Chairmen. Both Vice-Chairmen will be members of the Board and have
already been appointed. Each Vice-Chairman will be assisted by a deputy, who
will have authority to act in his absence. Separate design offices, which will
be responsible for detailed planning and design of all drainage works in each
project, will be attached to the Vice-Chairmen. Field supervision of drain-
age works in Upper Egypt will be carried out by four Directors General - one
each for Beni Suef, El-Minya, Sohag and Isna zones. A mechanical department
will be responsible for supervising the installation of pumping stations and
transmission lines and for workshops, project stores and mechanical equipment
retained by the Authority.
5.04      Procurement wi'll be among the responsibilities of the Administration
and Finance Department and an ad hoc committee composed of the Chairman, Vice-
Chairman concerned and the head of the Technical Office of EPADP will approve
specifications prepared by the design office and will also evaluate bids and
make recommnendations for award.
5.05      To ensure that strong and capable management essential for project
implementation is available, assurances were obtained during negotiations that
Government will appoint, at all times, a qualified and experienced Chairman
for EPADP and a qualified and experienced Vice-Chairman for Operations in
Upper Egypt, both on a full-time basis.



- 17 -
5.06      The Panel of Consultants to monitor progress and to undertake proj-
ect evaluation has already been nominated by Government and includes repre-
sentatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Soils Division and Department of
Statistics. Collection of data on crop yields would be undertaken by the
personnel of the Ministry of Agriculture.
5.07      Supervision of the Bilharzia Control Program.  Overall planning,
execution and supervision of the bilharzia control program would be the re-
sponsibility of the Ministry of Health and would be carried out under the
direction of the program director with the assistance of the team of experts
(para 4.10). The Ministry would prepare a plan for the bilharzia control pro-
gram, acceptable to IDA, within six months of the date of credit effectiveness
and during negotiations assurances were obtained to this effect. Application
of the molluscicides would be carried out under the supervision of the team of
experts and officials of the Snail Control Department of the Ministry of
Ilealth. Engineers from the Ministry of Irrigation would provide all necessary
data on canal flows for this purpose. The Ministry of Health would treat
infected persons and carry out the bioassay work and chemical analyses.
5.08      A proper evaluation of the bilharzia control program is essential
to provide data on which future control programs elsewhere may be based.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Ministry of Health
would set up a supervision and evaluation unit, mutually satisfactory to
Government and IDA, within six months of the date of credit effectiveness,
which would be responsible for the overall supervision and evaluation of
the bilharzia control program.
5.09      Staff Availability and Training.  Project implementation would
require a technical staff of about 90 civil engineers, 220 technicians, 30
mechanical and electrical engineers and 70 mechanics and electricians.  These
staff are necessary for planning, design and administration and for supervision
of construction work by contractors. All the civil engineers and about 150
technicians are available following the disbanding of the Executive Authority
for Projects on High Dam lWaters (para 5.01).  The remaining personnel would
be made available to EPADP from the Ministry of Irrigation. Suppliers of
tile-laying machlines and pumping station equipment would be required to pro-
vide technicians and mechanics to train the local staff in the operation,
maintenance and repair of their equipment.
5.10      To keep engineers and technicians of the Nile Delta and Upper Egypt
projects up to date on tile drainage practices and to train operators and
mechanics in the proner operation and maintenance (O&M) of tile-laying machines
and pumping stations, EPADP has agreed to implement a training program, based
on the program prepared by the consultants to NDDA. EPADP has proposed using
existing facilities available at the Nile Delta headquarters of the Egyptian
Authority for Utilization and Development of Reclaimed Land. Instructors for
these courses would comprise consultants to EPADP, equipment suppliers' per-
sonnel and experienced Egyptian engineers and technicians. To support Egyptian
expertise in drainage planning, design, construction and O&M, funds (US$160,000)
have been provided in the project for sending about 20 engineers and technicians



- 18 -
for traiTling abroad for periods ranging fromn four months to one year. The
project consultants would assist in making arrangements for this program.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that Government's program for
the training of drainage works personnel both in Egypt and overseas would
be available for review by IDA within six morths following credit effectiveness.
5.11      The snail control measures under the bilharzia control program
will require, besides the Program Director, 3 engineers, about 50 overseers,
and 500 workmen.  A training program would be initiated under the supervision
of the specialist staff to instruct these personnel and especially the senior
staff who would be responsible for continuity of snail control following com-
pietion of the initial program.
5.12      The agricultural extens-.on service is adequately staffed with qual-
if ied personnel. Training programs at universities and agricultural high
schools provide sufficient numnbers to meet expansion and replacement needs.
Subject specialists are being appointed at governorate level to provide a
more effective back-un service than has been available in the past.
5.13       Operation and Maintenance.  After completing the drainage contracts,
the contractors would be responsible for maintaining the tile drains and pump-
ing stations for one year, before handing them over to EPADP for final acceptance.
Completed contract works, following formal acceptance by EPADP, would be handed
over to established departments of the Ministry of Irrigation which would be
responsible for all subsequent O&M.
5.14      To ensure that maintenance of drains receives attention equal to
that given to irrigation worlks, the responsibility for 0&M7 of the drainage
systems within the Irrigation Department would be separated from irrigation
at the Assistant Director General level in each of the six governorates
(Chart 6830(R)). There would be a separate budget and account for drainage,
as distinct from irrigation, in each Irrigation 'Department.  Assurances to
these effects were obtained during negotiations.
5.15      The estimatedl annual O&M cost for open drains is LE 0.50 (US$1.28)
ner fed and for tile drains, LE 0.25 (US$0.64).  These estimates have been
based on similar works in Egypt. The funds made available in recent years
were insufficient to meet these costs.  Assurances were obtained during nego-
tiations that idequate funds for 0&N would be allocated annually by Govern-
ment to the M-inistry of Irrigation.
5.16      The overall 0&M cost estimates for drainage works would increase
froM LE 14,000 in 1975 to 1  330,000 from 1')11 onwards, as shown below.  The
OW&  costs of pumping stations have been calculated to include energy charges,
salaries, materials and lubricants, repairs and replacement of parts.



- 19 -
1981
on-
Egyptian Fiscal Year       1974   1975   1976   1977   1973   1979   1980   wards
Project Year                 1      2       3      4       5      6       7      8
Egyptian Pound
(LE '000)                 0      14     42    160    217    278    320    330
US$'000 Equivalent          0      36    108    411    558    714    822    848
5.17      Continuity of Bilharzia Control Measures.  Once control of the
snail population and reduction in transmission of the disease to a very low
level have been achieved, continuity of control measures will be essential;
otherwise, all the efforts already invested in the progran would rapidly be
lost. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Government would pro-
vide adequate funds and make satisfactory arrangements for the continuity of
control measures after completion of the project program.
5.13      Recovery of Costs.  A new irrigation and drainage law was enacted
in May 1972. Provision is made under the law to recover the capital cost of
installing field tile drains from the beneficiaries, whether owners or tenants.
The cost, plus a 10% administrative chiarge, is recovered by annual install-
ments over a period of not more than 20 years free of interest. Maintenance
of tile drains is carried out by the Ministry of Irrigation and financed from
general revenues but the increase in land taxes resulting from tile drainage
which accrue to general revenues will be more than adequate to cover mainte-
nance costs. Capital and O&N costs of the main drainage system and pumping
stations will be financed from general revenues. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that suitable arrangements would be made by Government to
ensure recovery from the users of irrigated lands drained by the works in-
cluded in the project, by way of charges, of amounts adequate to cover:
(a)  the maintenance costs of field tile drainage in the project
area; and
(b)  over a period of 20 years, the capital invested in field tile
drainage in the area of the project, without interest.
5.19      Gypsum, of which some 225,000 tons costino about US$1 million is
needed for land reclamation, has a Government subsidy of about 60% of the
true cost delivered to the project subareas. Cost of the subsidy would be
met from general revenues and all other costs of land reclamation would be
recovered from the beneficiaries indirectly by reassessing the land tax.
5.20      Total recoveries through the capital cost levy on tile drainage
and the increases in land tax together with local and defense taxes which
are pronortional to the land tax, would amount to about US$16 per fed fol-
lowing project completion of which US$8 would derive from tax increases.
This would cover all direct investment costs, excluding bilharzia control
measures, and all drainage maintenance costs at 3% interest. In order to



- 20 -
measure the subsidy element, the full project cost, inclusive of O&M, and all
project revenues were discounted at 10% over 35 years. The calculation shows
that the present value of the Government subsidy to the beneficiaries amounts
to about US$49 million or 47% of total cost. This is equivalent to about
US$550 per family for the 88,000 families in the project area. A higher re-
covery rate is not considered practical as it would seriously reduce farmers'
interest in the new facilities. Increased rents, taxes and charges resulting
from the project would amount to 15-25% of the incremental cash income to the
tenant farmers benefiting from the project.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FARM INCOME
6.01      Cropped Area, Yields and Production.  At full development the
drainage project would halt the present decline in yields and lead to a
considerable increase in production on the 300,000 fed area to be provided
with tile drains and open drains. From Year 10, yields in the project area
would remain constant at about 35% above present levels.
6.02      Present and projected production of the most important crops,
based on the present areas of each land productivity class and anticipated
changes in these areas with and without the project, are shown below. The
method of estimation is described in Annex 15.
With Project        Without Project
Present     Year 10 Onwards       Year 10  Year 35
-___----------'000 tons-------------------
Wheat                              67,              90                48       28
Beans                              28               38                19       12
Seed Cotton                        55               72               39        25
Maize and Sorghum                 167              229              116        70
Sugar                             150              193               115       70
Onions                             23               33                17        7
---------------- ---000 feddans------------------
Total Area of Crops Grown         466              485              403       308
--------------% of project area-----------------
Cropping Intensity                155              162              134       103
For the purpose of appraisal these projections are reasonable but they would
be subject to change following modi'ications to agricultural policy which might
occur at any time during the long projection period. The annual projected
value of production from the project area at average 1967/71 farmgate prices,
both with and without the project, is shown in Figure 6909 and the annual net
value of production of the major crops from areas to be reclaimed is shown in
Figure 6817.



- 21 -
6.03      Markets and Prices.  Although by Year 10 annual project production
is estimated to increase by 23,000 tons of wheat, 10,000 tons of beans, 6,500
tons of lint, 62,000 tons of maize and sorghum, 42,000 tons of sugar and
9,000 tons of onions, these increments are likely to be more than balanced
by declining production in other areas not provided with adequate drainage.
A detailed analysis of future market prospects for the major crops cultivated
in the project area is given in Annex 15. These crops and the projected 1980
prices used in the economic analysis are:
Cotton         29 US cents/lb  fob Alexandria
Sugar          8.4 US cents/lb fob Caribbean port
Cereals     US$64.40/ton  cif Alexandria
Under Government's policy of price stabilization, prices of the major agri-
cultural commodities are regulated and average 1967-71 farmgate prices in the
project area have been used as a basis for estimating present and future farm
incomes.
6.04      Farm Income.  In areas to be tile-drained the resulting increase in
cash income after deduction of rents, taxes and drainage charges would provide
a considerable incentive to farmers. The net cash income by Year 10, assuming
recent average farmgate prices are maintained, would amount to about US$330
for the average owner-cultivator of a 3.1 fed holding and about US$60 for
the average tenant with 1.7 fed compared with US$265 and US$20 at present,
respectively. Without the project, incomes would continue to decline so that
comparison with present income underestimates the total benefit which the
farmers would gain from the project.
6.05      Cultivators of land to be tile-drained and reclaimed would by
Year 10 obtain normal yields and a net cash income of about US$300 for an
average owner-cultivator and US$125 for an average tenant in addition to their
subsistence needs. At present they have to supplement their income by off-
farm work in order to maintain a bare subsistence and without the project
production on their farms would become impossible within 10 years.
6.06      The method of calculating the farm budgets is explained in detail
in Annex 16 along with a detailed breakdown of typical budgets. These have
been calculated for cropping patterns with either cotton or sugarcane as
the major cash crop and for both owner and tenant-cultivators on holdings
of average size. In addition, a farm budget was prepared for tenant farmers
growing cotton with a holding of only one feddan representing the lowest
income group. The effect that the project would have on cash farm incomes
after payment of rent, taxes and investment charges is shown in the table
below. The incomes shown do not take account of the value of crops retained
by the farmer for his subsistence needs. Off-farm incomes are likewise not
taken into account. Where negative incomes are shown, these would be offset
in all or in part by the value of the farmer's subsistence but indicate the
need for additional income from off-farm employment in order that the farmer
may meet his cash payment commitments for rents and taxes.



- 22 -
Type of Holding         Owner-Cultivated Tenant-Cultivated Tenant-Cultivated
3.1 feddan farm   1.7 feddan farm   1.0 feddan farm
Main Cash Crop              Cotton Sugarcane  Cotton Sugarcane         Cotton
- -----US$ *quivalent---------
Tile-drained Area
Present cash income         238       293       25       18            -17
Future cash income
(Year 10)                 309      359        64      55               6
Increment in cash income    71        66        39      37              23
Increase in rent                                 8       8               5
Increase in taxes and
charges                   59       59        23      23              13
Total increment             130       125       70       68             41
Recovery % of total
increment                  45%      47%       33%     34%             32%
Drained and Reclaimed Area
Present cash income          -2      -21       -36     -38             -53
Future cash income
(Year 10)                 293      311       129     124              44
Increment in cash income   295       332       165     162              97
Increase in rent                                19      20              11
Increase in taxes and
charges                  101      105        34      35              20
Total increment             396      437       218     217             128
Recovery % of total
increment                  26%      24%       16%     16%             16%
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      Economic Benefits.  The main project benefit would be to prevent
a decline in production due to waterlogging and salinization. Annual crop
production in the project area is presently valued at US$62 million. With
the project from Year 10 onwards, it would be US$82 million and without the
project would decline to US$45 million by Year 10 and US$27 million by Year
35. These values were based on forecast world market prices.
7.02      Based on the estimates of import substitution derived from wheat,
maize and sorghum, and from exports of cotton, sugar and onions at forecast
1980 world commodity prices (Annex 17), the net foreign exchange impact,
after deducting the import component of investment and farm inputs, would be
US$6 million in Year 5, US$25 million in Year 10 and US$38 million in Year 35.
7.03      In calculating the economic return, farm labor costs have been dis-
regarded since the project only moderately increases production and because
of the existing underemployment which is expected to increase with rapid



- 23 -
population growth. Yields for a specific land productivity class have been
kept constant over time although an increase might be expected with continued
technical progress and a more efficient extension effort, resulting in a wider
difference in production with and without the project. Benefits from increased
production of berseem, mainly used to feed draft animals, have been disregarded
due to absence of sufficient data to quantify them and the cost of animal power
has been excluded from production estimates. The rate of return of the drain-
age works to the economy, based on a useful life of 35 years, is about 20% (An-
nex 17). The analysis did not take account of indirect benefits such as pos-
sible reuse of drainage water for irrigation, nor were the costs and presently
unquantifiable benefits of the bilharzia control program or the unquantifiable
costs of the possible increased prevalence of bilharzia in that area of the
project where no control measure8 would be undertaken included. If the cost
of bilharzia control were to be taken into account, the economic rate of re-
turn would be 19%.
7.04      The project is relatively insensitive to changes in construction
costs. If construction costs were 20% higher the rate of return would drop
to 16%. If the net benefits are reduced by 20% the rate of return falls to
15.6%. Hence, even if the project fell short of expectations, it would still
give an acceptable rate of return.
7.05      Income and Employment.  The expected impact on farmers' income has
been shown in para 6.06. Under existing price-cost relationships there would
be sufficient incentive for farmers to welcome the new facilities. The proj-
ect is estimated to benefit about 88,000 farm families or about 500,000 people,
mainly occupying small farms. Although data on personal incomes are not avail-
able, a rough indication can be gained by comparing the present per capita in-
comes, after deduction of rents, taxes and charges, and including the value
of subsistence, of families with average holdings in areas to be tile-drained.
Annual income is currently US$100 for tenants and US$340 for owner-cultivators
with the national average disposable income per capita of about US$180. As a
result of the project, the per capita incomes after 10 years would be raised
to US$135 for tenants and US$410 for owner-cultivators, while without the
project they would decrease to US$90 and US$230, respectively.
7.06      The project would enable farmers in the area to maintain economic
production, many of whom would otherwise be unable to continue. It would not,
however, result in a substantial number of new farm employment opportunities.
7.07      Qualitative Benefits of Bilharzia Control.  The bilharzia control
program would minimize populations of the snail intermediate hosts in the area
selected for treatment and thereby reduce transmission of Schistosoma
haematobium. Effects of the disease on working habits, productivity, and
on the saving and expenditure patterns of infected persons are difficult to
measure and quantitative information is generally lacking. An estimate of
the benefits conferred by a control program is therefore difficult. Reduction
of transmission of the disease would help in reducing the intensity of infection
among the 3 million people living in the area and prevent serious pathological
manifestations and severe morbidity. The general improvement in the health
and well being of the people would increase their ability to resist the
debilitating effects of other infectioLs.



- 24 -
7.08      The control program would have the important additional benefits
of helping to prevent the spread of S. mansoni from the Delta to Upper
Egypt and reinforcing the control already effectively established in the
adjacent Fayoum Governorate.
7.09      Ecology.  The project would not result in any major change in crop-
ping intensity. Use of agricultural chemicals and in particular pesticides at
present levels does not present a pollution hazard. The materials are distri-
buted by cooperatives under the control of village agricultural agents who are
aware of the risks involved in their use. Herbicides are not generally used
except for weed control in drainage channels, where their application is con-
tkolled by the Irrigation Department and necessary precautions taken to avoid
hazards to health.
7.10      The new system of open drains would increase the area of water in
which malarial mosquitos would breed.  Egypt has a malarial control program
to combat this problem.
7.11      The use of the molluscicides Bayluscide and Frescon in the irriga-
tion and drainage canals to control the snail hosts of bilharzia would not
present a health hazard. Piped drinking water is available in most commu-
nities and the materials are not dangerous at the concentrations used.  There
are no known harmful effects to crop plants. Effects and residues in crops
at harvest are small. There has to date been no experience in the use of
these materials over a long period of time and careful monitoring of the
effects of the program would have to be carried out. Bayluscide is toxic
to fish at the point of application, where the concentration is higher, but
fish killed during treatment of canals are edible. Regeneration of fish
life in canals is rapid. The short half life of the material would prevent
any risk to the Nile River fishing industry through the discharge of drain-
age effluent into the Nile.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      The project is technically sound and of high priority for Egypt.
Without it a large area would become increasingly saline and eventually go
out of production, affecting nearly 1 million people. The bilharzia control
program would also benefit about 3 million people. Tne project is thus im-
portant to Egypt on both economic and social grounds.
8.02      During negotiations, agreement was reached with Government on the
following items:
(a) a qualified and experienced program director, acceptable
to IDA, would be appointed prior to commencement of the
bilharzia field program, on terms and conditions mutually
satisfactory to the borrower and IDA, to assist the
Ministry of liealth in carrying out the program (para 4.10);



- 25 -
(b) a cost accounting system satisfactory to IDA would be set
up within one year of the credit becoming effective,
separate accounts would be established and maintained for
drainage including reclamation works and for bilharzia
control, and annual audits would be sent to IDA within
four months of the end of each fiscal year (para 4.21
and 4.22);
(c) EPADP would be headed at all times by a qualified and ex-
perienced Chairman with a qualified and experienced Vice-
Chairman responsible for operations in Upper Egypt, both
on a full-time basis (para 5.05);
(d) the Ministry of Health within six months of the date of
credit effectiveness would (i) prepare a plan for the
bilharzia control program, acceptable to IDA; and (ii)
set up a supervision and evaluation unit, satisfactory
to IDA (para 5.07 and 5.08);
(e) Government's program for the training of drainage works
personnel both in Egypt and overseas would be available
for review by IDA within six months following credit ef-
fectiveness (para 5.10);
(f) Suitable arrangements would be made by Government to
ensure recovery from the users of irrigated lands drained
by the works included in the project, by way of charges,
of amounts adequate to cover:
(i)  the maintenance costs of field tile drainage
in the area of the project; and
(ii) over a period of 20 years, the capital invested
in field tile drainage in the area of the project,
without interest (para 5.18).
8.03      With the above assurances, the proposed project is suitable for
an IDA credit of US$36 million - US$29.5 million for the drainage works and
US$6.5 million for the bilharzia control program. The borrower would be
the Government of Egypt.
May 23, 1973






ANNEX 1
Page 1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT /
Background Statistics
Population
Total (1972)                                        35 million
Annual growth rate                                 2.5 %
Density in populated area                          975 per km2
Areas
Total land area                             1,002,000 km2
Populated area                                 35,850 km2 (3.58%)
Cultivated area                                28,120 km2 (2.81%)
Cultivated area per capita                       0.19 feddans
Cultivated area per farm (1960)                    3.7 feddans
Gross National Product /1
Total (1970)                                   US$6,870 million
Annual growth at constant prices
(1965-70)                                       2.9 %
Per capita GNP (1970)                          US$210
Agriculture per capita GNP (1970)              US$100
Sources of GNP (1969/70):
Agriculture                                       31 %
Industry                                          28 %
Services                                          41 %
Employment in Agriculture
Population employed in agriculture (1960)         13.2 million
Share of total population (1960)                  51 %
Cropped Areas ('000 feddans) and Production ('000 m tons)
1952                 1966                  1971
Area  Production   Area  Production         Area  Production
Cotton (Lint)      1,967       446      1,859       455      1,525        503
Wheat              1,402    1,089       1,291    1,465       1,350      1,729
Maize              1,704    1,506       1,575    2,166       1,571     2,441
Sorghum              433       522        518       858        494       851
Paddy                362       491        841    1,679       1,135     2,534
Sugarcane             92    3,265         133    5,200         186 /2  6,945 /2
Beans                355       250        398       381        261        256
/1   Values expressed in US$ were calculated at the exchange rate then prevailing.
7T   1970 figure.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Agricultural Inputs (1970)                Total       Per Cultivated Feddan
Fertilizers        N.              318,000 tons               47 kg
P205               40,200 tons                6 kg
Credit                         EE        72 million     LE   11 (US$25)
(US$165M)
Foreign Trade in Agricultural Commodities
BE million
1967    1968    1969
Exports   Cotton (incl. cotton products) 169.2   173.3   195.1
Rice                              29.8      -      55.3
Fruits                             1.0      -       6.8
Onions                             8.9      6.1     7.8
Other                              6.3      -       9.8
Imports   Wheat and flour                    78.2    59.3    38.6
Maize                              5.7      3.5      1.2
Other foodstuffs                  53.8    29.1    26.4
1967    1968
Agricultural exports % total exports             87       85
Foodstuffs imports % total imports               40       24
Wholesale Price Indices December 1970 (1959/60=100)
All products                                           134
Foodstuffs                                             155
Public Expenditure on Agriculture
1968/69                 1971/72 Budget
EE million      % Total   EE million
Investment                        61.1 (US$140M.)     19.6    50.0 (US$115M)
Recurrent                         83.9 (US$193M)      15.7   114.4 (US$263M)



ANNEX 2
Page 1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT
Agriculture
General
1.        The cultivated area in Egypt is some 28,000 km  including 3,600 km2
of land reclairted since 1%6O.  Th-q rpnrePentr onlv 2.87 of the total land
area. Agricultural production provides a livelihood for about 50% of the
national labor force. Due to the virtual absence of rain except on the
Mediterranean coast, agriculture is everywhere dependent on irrigation. The
traditional basin system of flood irrigation has in the past century been
largely replaced by perennial irrigation. This has enabled the cropping in-
tensity to be increased to about 160%. The major crops are cotton, wheat,
maize, sorghum, beans and onions with extensive areas of sugarcane in the
south and rice in the Nile Delta. The standard of crop husbandry is high
and the farmers generally are receptive to modern production techniques.
Land Tenure
2.        The Agrarian Reform Law of 1952 and subsequent amendments have
fixed an upper ceiling on individual land ownership of 50 fed for single
persons and 100 fed per family. Land in excess of these amounts has been
distributed to landless workers and to farmers occupying very small units
in order to create holdings of 3 to 5 fed. The law also limits land rents
to seven times the assessed land tax and has been effective in reducing land
rents to about half the pre-1952 level. Land taxes are reassessed at 10-year
intervals but rents following reassessment may only be raised by the amount
of the new tax increment. Security of tenure is provided by a minimum three-year
year tenancy period and eviction is possible only if the tenant fails to pay
his rent.
3.        In the six Governorates of Upper Egypt in which the project is
located about 50% of the cultivated land is farmed by tenants. Rents are
generally paid in cash but about 5% of the land is sharecropped. The last
census in 1961 showed the average holding size to be some 3 fed but 50%
of holdings were less than 1.5 fed. About 30% of the farmers operated
wholly owned holdings of an average 3.1 fed, 36% rented their land averag-
ing 1.7 fed per holding and 34% had part-owned and part-rented holdings
averaging nearly 5 fed. Since 1961 redistribution of land has tended to
reduce the number of very small farm units, but with the high rural population
of the Nile Valley wholly dependent upon agriculture and the limited area
of cultivable and irrigable land, individual farms continue to average only
about 3 fed. The economics of agricultural production will, however,
continue to be improved through regulation of planting on a village basis.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
By consolidating the areas under each crop into larger units, use of equip-
ment and control of cultural practices through cooperation between groups of
farmers is made more efficient.
Cooperative Societies and Agricultural Credit
4.        Agricultural inputs are made ava±lable to farmers on credit
through village cooperatives which obtain supplies and funds from the
Agricultural Credit Bank.  The cooperative societies are at present managed
by the village agricultural agent assisted by a clerk. Operations are
financed through commissions on the sale of supplies to farmers and on
agricultural produce marketed. For each crop the maximum quantities of
seed, fertilizer and other materials and amounts of cash advances to meet
the farmer's production costs are predetermined. A commission of 4-1/2% is
charged on these credits and the amount owed by the farmer is deducted from
the value of produce delivered at the end of the season. Total lending by
cooperatives in 1970 was about LE 12 per fed.
5.        Farmers are required to deliver to the cooperative all their seed
cotton production and 300 kg of wheat or beans .-or each feddan of those crops
grown. The price is fixed annually by Government and determined by world
market conditions and local costs of production. All sugarcane is delivered
to the local sugar factory under a contractual agreement. Maize, sorghum,
the remainder of tile whert and beans produced, and any other crops may be
sold by the farmer on the free market.
Research and Extension Services
6.        The Ministry of Agriculture provides the research and extension
services required for agriculture. Besides the main research station at
Giza there are four local research stations in Upper Egypt located at Sids
in Beni Suef Governorate, Mallawi in El Nlinya Governorate, Shandaweel in
Sohag Governorate and El Matana in Qena Governorate. These local stations
concentrate on those crops which are of particular local importance. New
varieties are tested under local conditions and those selected are multiplied
for distribution to farmers.  As all seeds of the major crops are distributed
through the village agricultural cooperatives under the control of the Agricul-
tural Extension Service, the introduction of new varieties is efficient and
rapid. Fertilizer trials are carried out and the allocation of fertilizers to
farmers through the village cooperatives is based on research recommendations.
Trials are also carried out to evaluate cultivation practices, irrigation
requirements and pest and disease control techniques.  Little work has been done
at the local level on livestock production, and this aspect should receive in-
creased attention in future. Agricultural research is at present hindered by
the absence of staff on military service.
7.        There is an efficient soil survey department within the Ministry
of Agriculture with adequate facilities and staff.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
8.        The Agricultural Extension Service Organization within each
governorate and at the central headquarters is shown in Figures 6819(R) and
6820 which follow this annex. Within the six governorates in Upper Egypt there
are 22 districts, each with a graduate district agricultural officer and two or
three assistents. Within each district there may be 30 or more villages, each
with a village agricultural agent who is sometimes a graduate but more
frequently has agricultural high school training. Universities and agricul-
tural training centers are providing adequate numbers of trained personnel
to meet the needs of the expanding service but at present the effectiveness
of the extension service is limited by the following factors:
(a) Village agricultural agents are responsible for
administration of village cooperatives as well as for
agricultural extension and the collection of agricultural
statistics. The need for separate management of the
cooperatives is recognized and plans for this are being
prepared.
(b) Although extension staff are supposed to arrange
demonstration plots as a means of encouraging the use
of sound agronomic methods, they rarely have either
the time or facilities to do so.
(c) There is a shortage of vehicles for extension staff and a
lack of equipment for demonstrations.
(d) The highly centralized organization of the service leaves
no opportunity for keen local staff to use their own
initiative.
(e) There is an apparent lack of direct liaison between
research and extension, especially in those governorates
which do not have a local research station. The normal
channel for communication is through the Cairo headquarters.
(f) Although there is provision for subject specialists from
research stations to assist extension officers when specific
problems arise, in practice such help is often either not
forthcoming or is too late to be of use in saving the
farmer's crop.
9.        The Ministry of Agriculture recognizes these limitations and the
need for improvements. Provision has been made in the project for the
services of a consultant to advise Government on the reorganization neces-
sary to achieve a more effective extension service.
10.       Provision has been made in the project to supply each of the six
governorate Agriculture Extension Offices with two cars and one demonstration
van with film and slide projection equipment. Motorcycles (54) for the



ANNEX 2
Page 4
District Extension Officers and their assistants and bicycles (300) for the
use of village agricultural agents are also provided for. Six general pur-
pose vehicles would be needed by agricultural statistics personnel for
monitoring crop yields for project evaluation.
Cropping Patterns and Rotations
11.       The cropping pattern in the project area is based on efficient
and established crop rotations which result in a cropping intensity vary-
ing from 160 to 195% in areas where cotton is the main cash crop and which is
about 120% in areas where sugarcane cultivation predominates.
12.       The cotton crop is usually preceded by a catch crop of Berseem
(Egyptian clover) planted in October from which one or two cuts are obtained
before it is ploughed in prior to planting the cotton in March. Cotton
harvest is completed in October and in November a winter grai,n crop of
wheat or occasionally barley and beans or lentils is sonm.  These are
harvested in the following April-May and are followed by suratner grairS crops
of maize or sorghum. Maize is more commonly grown in the Beni S-uef, El
Minya and Asyut Covernorates, while sorghum is predominant in Sohnag and
Qena further south.  Berseem or a winter fallow prior to cotton -way follow
or a further year of crops may be grown before recommencing the cycle.
'When berseem is grown before a summer grain crop, its season is extended
until May, permitting four cuts to b3e obtained. 1he area of cotton grown
each year is restricted and the eliocated area fo-r each village is distributed
amona the farmers by a local village committee comprised of local farmers
and the village agricu'ltural extension agent.  Sml.1er areas of onions and
peas are cultivated in winter and groundnuts and sesame in summer.  Onions
for export and local markets are particularlY important as a cash crop in
Sohag Governorate.  Farmers also oroduce vegetab.es noth for domestIc
consumption and fcr markets in local towns.
13.       Sugarcane is normall,y growii for three years, prcvitds rtn  a planlt crop
and two ratoons before the area is replanted.  Planting ma- he in autumn
wiien thie cane rows are oI ten interplanted  b'ith beans or else in the spring
when a catch cror of berseemr;  a.y he taken before preparing the land for
sugar.  Cane farTers also grow wlAeat, baresrs bears and berseem in winter
and. sorghum, vlaize arnd sesame in siramer eon the balance of their holdings.
,4.       The croIMP dL1tion .or oacl; governorrote within the project
;irea, based on a i970 survey, iS as follows:



ANNEX 2
Page 5
Main Crop Areas as a Percentage of the Total
Cultivated Area for Each Governorate
------------------ Governorate ------------------
Beni     El
Crop           Suef   Minya    Asyut    Sohag    Qena    Aswan
_____________________    %  ----------------------
Winter Grain         14.0     16.5      18.0     42.0      27.5     30.0
Winter Legume        16.0      13.5     18.5      6.0      13.0      4.0
Onions                -        -         -        7.0       -        -
Summer Grain         31.5     42.0      50.0     54.5      37.0     27.5
Cotton               39.5     38.0      35.0     30.0      19.0      -
Sugarcane             -        7.0       -        -        28.0     45.0
Berseem              46.0     26.5      24.0     43.0      15.5      8.5
Miscellaneous        26.0     18.5      13.5     13.5      13.0      7.0
Total          173.0    162.0    159.0    196.0    153.0    122.0
In Qena Governorate an increase of about 30% in the area under sugarcane
and an equivalent reduction in the areas of annual crops will be needed
to provide cane for the new factory being constructed which will begin
production in 1975.
Livestock
15.       Livestock are kept to provide meat and milk for the farmer's
family needs and for local markets. Oxen, water buffalo, camels and
donkeys are used as draught animals. They are fed on berseem during the
winter and spring months but rely on crop residues and whatever grazing may
be available during the rest of the year. Productivity is low but there is
a lack of reliable quantitative data on the volume of livestock production
and on costs and returns. While there is a need for increased production
of animal protein in Egypt, there is at present no sound basis on which an
expansion of the livestock component of agricultural production may be
forecast.
Seed Production and Storage
16.       Improved varieties of wheat, maize and cotton are produced by
the research stations of the Ministry of Agriculture. Following trials
under local conditions, initial multiplication is carried out on local
research stations and further multiplication is done by selected farmers



ANNEX 2
Page 6
under supervision. Seed is distributed to the farmers through the coopera-
tive organization and this is supervised by the extension service. The
procedure is efficient and distribution of a selected new variety to all
farmers can be completed in three or four years from its introduction. Seed
treatment is provided when necessary. Due to the dry climate, seed storage in
sacks in the open is possible without deterioration. Insect damage is
negligible if seed is dressed with insecticides. Poison baits are used to
reduce losses due to rats.
Fertilizers
'7.       Farmers canpurchase fertilizers on credit from their cooperative
society. The quantities are allocated uniformly on the basis of research
station experiment results. Local production of nitrogen and phosphate
fertilizers is now equal to consumption. Little potash is used and trials
generally show little or no response to potash. More efficient use of
fertilizers would be possible if agricultural extension agents advised in-
dividual farmers on fertilizer use based on an examination of their soils
and past experience with crops. Farmers on the potentially more productive
soils could then receive a higher fertilizer allocation while farmers on
less productive land could obtain a better economic return with a lower
fertilizer input. The reorganized extension service would provide such
advice.
Irrigation
18.       At present the irrigation interval is 18 days in the northern part
of Upper Egypt and 15 days in the center and south.  Water is provided on
the basis of the following estimated peak requirements:
North     25 m3 feddan/day           450 m3 per irrigation
Center    36 "    "      I           540              t "  "
South     45 "    "      i           675 "   "
Trials at the local research stations indicate that more frequent applica-
tions result in higher yields and that water use during the crop-growing
season may be reduced. Following the installation of tile drains the
harmful effects of overwatering will be reduced. The introduction of a
shorter irrigation interval during the hot summer months would be beneficial.
The extension service should make every effort to educate the farmers by
advice and demonstration to economize in water use.



ANNEX 3
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT
Climatological Data
- --Beni Suef---------    -------Aswan---------------
Mean                            Mean
Mean   Relative                 Mean   Relative
Rainfall   Temp   Humidity    Rainfall   Temp   Humidity
Month            in mm       C°        x          in mm       C      _
January            0.5      11.8       64           0.1      16.1       43
February            2.7     13.8       57           0        18.0       34
March               1.8     16.6       52           0.2      21.6       28
April               1.3     20.7       47           0.4      26.7       28
May                0        25.6       41           0.8      31.6       20
June               0        27.6       44           0        33.6       21
July               0        28.6       50           0        33.9       24
August             0        28.3       55           0        34.1       25
September          0        26.6       60           0        31.4       29
October            0.1      24.4       60           0        28.9       33
November           0.2      18.4       66           0        23.4       41
December           4.7      13.2       70           0        18.2       46
Mean Annual       11.3      21.3       56            1.5     26.9       31



I



ANNEX 4
Page 1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT
Soils and Need for Drainage
Available Soil Survey Data
1.        Detailed soil and land classification surveys were completed in
1962-66 for the three northern governorates Beni Suef, El Minya and Asyut
comprising about half the project area. More recently semi--detailed
surveys were made of the remaining area. The land classification system used
was a modification of the United States Bureau of Reclamation (USBR) system
in which the costs of land development were not considered since these would
be included in the capital costs of the project. The classification there-
fore concentrated on assessing the production capacity under existing
irrigated farming conditions and cropping systems, utilizing observed soil,
topography and drainage characteristics.
2.        In the detailed surveys, soil profile observations were made in
each 30-50 fed. Soil samples were taken for laboratory analysis and
when a water table was present at the time of sampling, water samples
were also analyzed. Base maps at a scale of 1:2,500 were used. The classi-
fication was directed towards a productivity evaluation, taking account of
the depth of profile, texture of topsoil and subsoil, depth of water table,
surface and subsurface salinity, exchangeable sodium content of the surface
and lower horizons, the gypsum requirement when alkali was present, and the
appearance of growing crops. Unfortunately the productivity ratings represent
conditions existing at the time of the survey rather than the productivity
potential following soil improvement by drainage or other measures. Since
the survey, some changes in water table depth, salinity and exchangeable
sodium levels have occurred. With the exception of these changes, the maps
are otherwise accurate.
3.        Results of the semi-detailed surveys are considerably less reli-
able due to the low sampling density of 1 sample in 750 to 1,000 fed.
Base maps used were at a scale of 1:25,000 and distances between traverses
were about 1 km. The areas covered by semi-detailed surveys need to be
classified at detailed survey level (using a revised classification based
upon productivity potential following drainage) prior to design of tile
drainage systems.
4.        Mapping units used for the land classification delineated eight
soil profile types, although fewer types existed in most areas. These units
were as follows:



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Unit I    -    Dark brown light clays throughout the
profile (150 cm) which in the absence
of salinity were usually given a
productivity rating of Class 2.
Unit II   -    Dark brown light clays to 50 cm overlying
a coarser textured subsoil, usually sandy
loam. These permeable soils were rated
Class I.
Unit III  -    Dark brown light clays with a gradual
transition with depth to clay loam, silty
clay loam or loam. Productivity was rated
as Class 1 or 2.
Unit IV   -    Similar to Unit I but lighter in texture,
generally clay loam. Productivity potential
rather better than Unit I.
Unit V    -    Pale brown light clay or clay loam overlying
a coarser textured subsoil, generally sandy
loam. With moderate to good permeability
this unit has a high productivity potential
and is considered Class I.
Unit VI   -    Very dark brown or dark brown clay loam
throughout with a good permeability; these
are the best soils in the project area but
occur only over a small area. They are
considered Class I.
Unit VII  -    Very permeable sandy loam to loamy sand soils.
The productivity potential is Class 2 or
Class 3.
Unit VIII -    Sandy soils occurring only in Qena Governorate,
considered Class 2 or Class 3.
General Soil Properties
5.        The predominant clay mineral is montmorillonite, with a cation
exchange capacity of about 60 milli-equivalents (meq)/100 g. All the
soils contain lime in amounts varying from 1 to 10%'. Salinity is a common
problem and although accurate figures are not available over half the 300,000
fed identified as needing tile drainage is now saline (conductivity of
saturation extracts in excess of 4 mmhos/cm) and most of the remainder will
become saline within six years. Approximately 12,000 fed are completely
unproductive due to excessive salinity. The Sodium Absorption Ratio (SAR)
values of saturation soil extracts indicates that most of the saline soils
have more than 15% exchangeable sodium. Unproductive areas frequently have
sodium carbonate present on the surface and these soils will require gypsum and
other soil amelioration techniques for reclamation.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
6.        Structure in the finer textured soils is very coarse prismatic
with subangular blocky microstructure. Where salinity occurs, dispersion
and loss of structure are apparent. Below 150 cm structure becomes massive
and permeability below this depth in clay textured soils is generally very
low. Coarse textured soils generally have a weak structure.
7.        Data from Cairo University indicate that moisture retention
capacities are generally typical for the soil textural classes with
available moistures ranging from about 12% by volume for coarser soils to
about 20% for those with finer texture.
Soil Conditions by Areas
8.        Representative soil profiles were developed for the areas recom-
mended for tile drainage in each governorate, totalling 300,000 fed.
Percentage distribution of the various soil units in these areas was
obtained from the soil unit maps. Permeability estimates for the representa-
tive profiles were made to develop an estimate of drain spacing requirement
and were based on field observations of porosity, texture, compactness,
root distribution, structure and color.  Before detailed designs of drainage
systems are made, in situ field permeability tests will be needed. The typical
soils found in each governorate were:
Beni Suef       (48,000 fed)  Almost entirely Soil Unit II,
with about 1,500 fed of Units III and IV.
Permeability in Unit II is about 0.75 cm/hr,
in Unit III is 0.75 cm/hr in the top 90 cm of
the profile increasing to 7.5 cm/hr below and
in Unit IV varies between 1.5 and 1.75 cm/hr
throughout.
El Minya        (88,000 fed)  Soil Unit I predominates
with about 9,600 fed of Unit IV, 4,700
fed of Unit V, 3,600 fed of Unit II,
and 2,100 fed of Unit VI. Permeability in
Unit I soils is 0.5 cm/hr in the top 60 cm
decreasing to 0.25 cm/hr below, in Unit II is
0.75 cm throughout improving slightly with
depth, and in Unit IV is 1.25 cm/hr throughout.
Permeability in Unit V is 3.75 cm/hr in the top
60 cm but declines to 0.75 cm/hr below 90 cm
depth and in Unit VI is above 4 cm/hr throughout.
Asyut           (12,000 fed)  Soil Unit I predominates with
about 1,200 fed of Unit II, 500 fed of
Unit III and 600 fed of Unit VII. Permeabi-
lity is 0.5 cm/hr for Unit I throughout,
0.75 cm/hr for Unit II improving slightly with
depth, 1.00 cm/hr for Unit III, and 10 cm/hr
increasing to 12.5 cm/hr below 30 cm depth for
Unit VII.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
Sohag           (50,000 fed)  Soil Units I and II
predominate, each occupying about 20,000
fed. The remainder comprises Unit IV
5,000 fed, Unit III 2,500 fed,
Unit V 2,500 fed, and a very small area
of Unit VI. Permeability of Unit I is 0.75
cm/hr decreasing to 0.5 cm/hr below 60 cm
depth, of Unit II is 1.0 cm/hr increasing to
1.75 cm/hr below 90 cm depth and of Units III
and IV 1.25 cm/hr, with slightly better
permeability for the top 60 cm of Unit III.
Unit V has a permeability of 1.5 cm/hr in the
top 30 cm increasing to 2.5 cm/hr below and
Unit VI has 12.5 cm/hr in the top 30 cm in-
reasing to 25 cm/hr below.
Qena            (59,000 fed)  Over half the area is Soil
Unit I and a further 16,500 fed are Unit III.
There are about 5,200 fed of Unit VI,
2,700 fed each of Units IV and VIII, 1,600
fed of Unit V and 750 fed of Unit VII.
Permeabilities of Unit I fall from 1.25 cm/hr
in the top 30 cm to 0.5 cm/hr oelow 60 cm
depth. In Unit III permeability is 0.5 cm/hr in
the top 60 cm and 1.0 cm/hr beLow, in Units IV
and V is 1.0 cm/hr above 60 cm declining to
0.75 cm/hr below in Unit IV anc increasing to
3.0 cm/hr in Unit V. Unit VI has a permeability
of 1.5 cm/hr throughout. Unit VII has a
permeability of 5 cm/hr at the surface increasing
to 7.5 cm/hr at 30 cm depth, then declining to
0.5 cm/hr below 100 cm.  Unit VIII has a permea-
bility of 15 cm/hr in the surface soil increasing
to 25 cm/hr throughout most of the profile by
falling to 12.5 cm/hr below 100 cm.
Aswan           (53,000 fed)  Soil Unit I comprises 25,700
fed of the area with 8,000 fed of
Unit III, 5,500 fed of Unit II, 2,800 fed
of Unit V and 2,000 fed of Unit VII. Permea-
bility in Unit I is 0.5 cm/hr throughout the
profile, in Unit II is 0.75 cm/hr in the top 60 cm
and 1.0 cm/hr below, in Unit III is 1.0 cm/hr
throughout and in Unit VII is 10 cm/hr in the
top 30 cm increasing to 12.5 cm/hr below.
Present and Projected Productivity Levels
9.        Five productivity classes were used to assess present and projected
productivity levels.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
Present Productivity Compared   Potential Productivity Compared
Class                  with Optimum              with Present Regional Average
1                       85-100                               125
2                        70-84                               105
3                        55-69                                80
4                        20-54                                45
5                 Abandoned land where production would be uneconomic
For estimating benefits an estimate of future productivity both without the
project and after installation of tile drainages and the reclamation of
Class 5 land was required. The present and projected areas in each
productivity class in the project area with and without tile drainage are
as follows:
Without Project           With Project
Present      Year 10      Year 35      Year 10 Onwards
'------------  '000 feddans ------------- -----
Class 1                  0            0            0              51.7
2               112.1          37.6         5.0            239.3
3               131.1          99.0        43.0              9.0
4                44.7         117.1       143.4              0
5                12.1          46.3       108.6              0
________________________  %   - ------------------ -------
Class 1                  0            0            0              17
2                37            13           2               80
3                44            33          14                3
4                15            39          48                0
5                 4            15          36                0
The Need for Drainage
10.       The clay soils dominant in the project area have a high potential
for the capillary rise of water from the groundwater table. With the
prevailing dry climate and where the salt content of the groundwater is
high, these soils rapidly become saline when the water table is near the
surface or when the continuous upward movement of salts by capillarity ex-
ceeds the periodic downward leaching during irrigation.  Most of the highly
saline soils were observed to have a water table within 80 cm of the surface.
With such shallow water tables, the rooting development of crops is
restricted, thereby limiting the availability of water and nutrients and
reducing yields. The small volume of noncapillary pore space observed in
the more densely packed subsoils suggests that the addition of some 2 cm of
water to a soil at field capacity would effectively raise the water table
by as much as 30 cm. Under such conditions water management becomes extremely



ANNEX 4
Page 6
criticgl when the equilibrium w&Lter table is already high. To remedy this
situation, drainage should be installed at a depth and spacing sufficient
to reduce the water table to nol: less than I m from the soil surface within
two or at the most three days aiter irrigation and eventually to 1.25 m before
the next irrigation.
The Reclamation of Saline Land
11.       Unproductive land would have to be reclaimed by soil amelioration
->easures used in conjunction wit:h drainage. Soils which are saline require
only leaching but where alkali is present application of gypsum would
be necessary. About 1.5 tons of gypsum per fed would provide 1 milli-
equivalent of calcium per 100 g of soil throughout the top 30 cm. To reduce
the exchangeable sodium in tha top 30 cm of soil to 10% would require 10-15
meq calcium per 100 g or 20 to 30 tons of gypsum, (75% pure) per fed for the
most severely affected soils. Leaching of excess salts would require continuous
flooding of the land, the period under innundation being several months in the
most severely affected areas.



ANNEYX 5
Page 1
ARAB REPIJBLIC OF EGYPT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT
Grotndwater Regime and Drainage Criteria
Groundwater and River Water Level
1.        Distinction is made in the Nile Valley between the groundwater
regime in the semi-confined aquifer (sand and gravel, 25 to 200 m thick) and
in the upper soil layers of a clay cap covering this aquifer. The Nile River
intersects the rather impermeable clay (4 to 15 m thick) nearly everywhere.
Changes in river water level greatly influence the upward groundwater
pressure (piezometric pressure) in the aquifer, especially in areas close
to the river.
2.        Before commissioning of the Aswan High Dam, the river when in flood
(August to September) overflowed its banks and flooded the adjacent basin
areas. During that time the piezometric pressure reached into or above
the topsoil. After the river had returned into its channel, the piezometric
pressure dropped to 2 m and more below land surface. Where irrigation water
was pumped from the aquifer, a steep drop in pressure occurred.
2.        The groundwater table in the upper soil layers dropped after the
flood season. This was caused by natural drainage to the aquifer and by soil
moisture extraction by crops growm after the flood. Absence of irrigation
during crop growth resulted in the groundwater remaining low throughout the
dry season. Any salts that had accumulated in the topsoil due to capillary
rise and evaporation could easily be leached by the following year's flood.
Hence the delicate balance of nature was maintained and the situation required
no field drainage system.
Effect of Control by Aswan High Dam
4.        Complete control of the flow in the Nile River downstream of the
Hi2h Dam (1965) has necessitated conversion from annual flooding to perennial
irrigation.  New irrigation canal systems were constructed and cropping
intensity was increased to 160%.  The maximuim release at present from
Lake Nasser dturing some six months in summer, results in a river-water
level which is only about 2 m above pre-dam low water levels.  At the time
of minimum releases (in January when canal systems are closed for maintenance),
the river level approaches the nre-dam low water levels.
5.        Elimination of the floods was expected to result in a considerable
reduction in groundwater pressure in the aquifer, and natural drainage was



ANNEX 5
Page 2
expected to be sufficient to control the groundwater table.  However, the
average levels in the piezometric wells have shown less seasonal fluctuation
but a slow rise over the last five years. The pressure level averages between
2 and 3 m above the river water level. A new state of equilibrium has not yet
been reached. Seepage losses from the new canals and deen percolation losses
from the abundant irrigation applications appear to exceed the natural
drainage to the aquifer. Consequently, the groundwater table in the upper
soil layers remains hilgh at many locations in the project area.
6.        It is expected that after Lake Nasser has reached its designed
operation level, the river water level will increase by about 1/2 m in summer.
The resulting increase in lateral contribution to the groundwater pressure
will be very minor in comparison with the vertical component of influx from
seepage and deep percolation.
7.        Extensive observations on the water table fluctuations in the
upper soil layers of the project area started in mid-1971 and results obtained
are inconclusive. It was observed that the water table frequently remained
within 80 cm of the land surface for periods exceeding five days at various
locations. This occurred in the absence of any drainage facilities and in
locations where the piezometric pressure of the aquifer was within 150 cm
or occasionally 200 cm of the land surface.
3.        In areas converted to perennial irrigation over 30-40 years ago
and provided with a shallow open main drainage system, there are clear signs
of a rise in the groundwater table over the last six years. During this
time, the practice of pumping considerable quantities of water from the
aquifer ceased when sufficient year-round supplies of irrigation water
became available from Lake Nasser. Other areas such as in Isna and Kom Ombo
suffer from seepage infloxw originating from nearby newly developed irrigated
lands at higher elevations.
Groundwater and Salt Accumulation
').       Shallow g,roundwater tables and poor natural drainage bring about
a very high salinity of the groundwater under prevailing climatic conditions.
This is due to moisture extraction by plant roots while salts remain in the
root zonie. Very saline water was observed within a depth of 150 cm locally
in all but one project sub-area. Typical analvses of low and high salinity
groundwater in the project area and of Nile River water at Cairo are:
Groundwater       Nile River Water
(El Minya Area)           (Cairo)
Total Dissolved Solids (ppm)  low            489    low         171
high      15,440    high       308
Sodium Absorption Ratio         low         1.30    low           0.70
high       32.30    high          1.47



ANNEX 5
Page 3
10.       Clay soils of the type most common in the project area have an
unusually high capillary conductivity potential. As the water table approaches
the surface, especially if it is highly saline, salts may migrate to the
surface faster than irrigation can leach them. The 12,000 fed of barren
land presently found within the project area are evidence of this salt
accumulation process, while another 10,000 fed are rapidly approaching
that stage. It was observed that nearly all the highly saline soils had
water tables within 80 cm of the land surface. With the exception of cotton
and barley, crops grown within the project area have a relatively medium
(wheat, onion, berseem) to low salt tolerance (sugarcane, beans).
Effect of Water Table Depth on Crop Yields
11.       The limited available data indicate that optimum yields of crops
grown on the clay soils typical of the area were obtained when the groundwater
table was stabilized between 100 and 130 cm below land surface. It may
reasonably be assumed that early in the growing period and for short periods
after each irrigation, higher non-saline water tables will not reduce the
yields. Tiowever, the crop root zones should not be continuously waterlogged
for more than two to three days to avoid injury to the root system.
Project Criteria for Groundwater Table Denth Control
12.       Adequate control of the groundwater table to prevent crop yield
reduction requires a draw dowm to a depth of about 1 m within three days after
each irrigation. In addition, leaching of accumulated salts requires lowering
of the water table by an additional 25 cm before the next water application.
13.       The required control of the water table in areas where cotton is
the major cash crop can be obtained with a drainage discharge of 1 mm/day
at the time when the water table is about 1 ni below land surface and about
50 cm above the field drains at a point midway between the drains. For
areas with an tupward seepage as occurs just upstream of barrages, a dis-
charge of 1.5 mm/day should be provided. This figure also holds for areas
where sugarcane is the major cash crop, as this crop has a low salt toler-
ance and requires more frequent irrigation in the two or three months of
peak consumptive use than does cotton. A 10-day interval at that time in-
stead of the present 15-day interval is recommended.
14.       After construction of a field drainage system based on these
criteria, little or no vertical seepage to the aquifer is anticipated. This
should result in a decrease in the piezometric pressure in the aquifer at
most locations until a new state of equilibrium is reached. This would
allow for some natural drainage to occur as an additional safeguard
against future drainage and salinity problems.
Selection of Subsurface Drainage Method
15.       Where subsurface drainage is required to alleviate the drainage
problem in lJpper Egypt, three alternative methods must be considered, namely
vertical drainage by tubewells and open or closed subsurface drains.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
16.       Few investigations on vertical drainage by tubewells have been
undertaken in Egypt and available data do not allow adequate judgment on
the technical and economic feasibility of this method. One test completed
in the Nile Delta indicated that sufficient lowering of the groundwater
table in the uppermost Slay layers would require one well per 250 fed
(cischarge about 0.28 m per sec, depth 50-60 m). The installation cost per
fed of wells was about one and a half times the present estimated cost
of a buried cement tile drainage and piped collector system.
17.       The economics of vertical drainage become generally more favorable
6when groundwater development serves to supply additional irrigation water.
This, however, requires the expense of a conveyance system from the pumps
to the irrigated fields. The Aswan High Dam will provide irrigation
supplies to meet foreseen increases in demand for many years. Therefore,
vertical drainage cannot be considered at present to be a viable alternative
for overall subsurface drainage in Upper Egypt.
18.       There are, however, certain locations in the southern part of the
project area where vertical drainage would be favored from a technical point
of view. This applies to areas which suffer influx of seepage water from
newly develop irrigated lands, located at a higher elevation, where the
influx is difficult to stop by interception drains (areas such as at Isna and
Kom Ombo). Before a final decision is taken, detailed field investigations
and experiments are requtred.
19.       An open field drainage system (laterals and collectors) sufficiently
deep to meet groundwater control requirements would remove permanently about
10% of the arable land from crop production. This would be impractical due
to the limited area of land available for agriculture and the small average
size of farmers' holdings of about 3 fed. In addition, open drains re-
quire considerably more maintenance compared to closed systems and could
increase the need for bilharzia control.
20.       Materials generally used in other countries for closed lateral
field drains which are suited to Egyptian conditions are baked clay, cement
tiles and plastic perforated tubes. The application of mole drainage (un-
protected round subsurface channels) is not advisable for the project because
the low stability of the soils and poor water management would lead to rapid
collapse of the channels. As it is not expected that Egypt will have a
petrochemical industry in operation within the next six years, plastic tubes
or raw materials for their manufacture would have to be imported. The
estimated cost of polyethylene corrugated tube, which is most suitable for
prevailing conditions, manufactured in Cairo from imported resins is LE 0.15
and LE 0.19 per meter (at factory) for tubes with a diameter of 7.5 and 10
cm respectively. This is nearly twice the price of cement tiles, which
varies between LE 0.08 and LE 0.10 per meter delivered to the site. The
use of plastic tubes is thus ruled out for the project due to this higher
cost.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
21.       Investigations should be continued on the possibility of manu-
facturing proper baked clay tiles. Meanwhile, cement tiles would be the
most suitable material for the construction of buried lateral field drainage
systems. Closed collectors can best be made of cement pipes. The effective
life of such a field drainage system is about 35 years.
Project Criteria for Subsurface Drainage Design
22.       The average depth of the lateral drains as proposed in the Project
Study by the Executive Authority for Projects on High Dan Waters and Tile
Drainage in Upper Egypt was 125 cm below land surface. The desired criteria
for control of the water table depth established above require that an average
depth of at least 150 cm be maintained throughout the project. This corresponds
in most cases to a minimum lateral depth of 160 cm at the collector. Should
the minimum collector depth not permit this - as in the case of some upstream
parts of collector units - then the spacing of the laterals should be reduced
to meet the water table control requirements.
23.       For calculation of the lateral drain spacing, the Authority proposed
to use a non-steady state groundwater flow formula. Although the flow to
lateral drains is principally a non-steady state phenomenon, such a formula
would not result in a much more accurate determination of spacings than a
steady state formula, deviations being generally within 10%. This is
mainly due to the rather wide spread of soil hydraulic conductivity values,
which is an important factor in both types of formulas. Steady state
formulas are at present being used in the Nile Delta with good results.
They require somewhat less field investigations than the non-steady state
formula. The use of the steady state formula is, therefore, recommended
for the project.
24.       Based on the sparse hydraulic conductivity data from reports and
observations in the field, the estimated variation in lateral drain spacing
would be between 20 and 60 m. The weighted average spacing used for the cost
calculations was 42 m as detailed in the table below.



ANNEX 5
Page 6
Provisional Calculated Lateral Drain Spacing for Governorates
Weighted
Area Selected   Area % with a Provisional Calcula-   Average
% of   ted Lateral Drain Spacing in m-         Spacing
Governorate    Feddans  Total   20    30    40    50    60   60/1          in m
Beni Suef        48,000  16.0                         97     1.5  1.5       50
El Minya         88,000  29.3    77                    9.5  11    2.5       30
Asyut            12,000   4.0                  80    14            6        45
Sohag            50,000  16.7                  40    15    40    5          50
Qena             59,000  19.7           51    32       9          8         40
Aswan            43,000  14.3            57           13    19   11         45
Total     300,000   100    22.6 18.3  16.2   25.0  12.8 5.1            42
/1   Areas with calculated spacings of 80 and 100 m and more are combined in
this column.
25.       Prior to the design of the drainage system, field investigations
should be commissioned, which would comprise:
(a)  topographical survey of areas to be drained.  Maps (scale
1:10,000 with contour intervals of 25 cm) should be prepared
showing such features as existing irrigation and drainage
canals, property boundaries, location of buildings;
(b)  determination of soil texture and hydraulic conductivity of
the different soil layers to a depth of at least 2 m, one
observation per 16 fed;
(c)  similar soil texture and hydraulic conductivity determinations
to a depth of at least 5 m, one per 250 fed;
(d)  observations on the groundwater table fluctuations in auger
holes, one per 16 fed, at least three times a week during
a six-week period; and
(e)  determination of groundwater salinity, soil surface and
subsurface salinity and alkalinity, one observation per 16
fed.
The data collected would also serve to establish a present and anticipated
future productivity level for the evaluation of the field drainage system.
26.       A detailed study on the required drainage discharge for the field
drainage system in areas with influx of seepage water would be needed.



ANNEX 5
Page 7
Project Criteria for Tile Drainage Construction
27.       The tile diameter should be calculated with accepted hydraulic
design formulas for de-watering of areas, applying a design discharge of
16 or 20 (sugarcane areas only) m3/fed/day. Although a diameter of 5 cm
would suffice in most instances, tiles with a 10-cm diameter may be used,
as is common practice in Egypt. Such a diameter provides an adequate safety
margin against blockage due to silting.
28.       Intrusion of soil particles into tile drains can be prevented by
the application of a gravel envelope, which acts as a filter and promotes
the groundwater flow into the tiles. While the lighter soils occurring in
the project area require a filter, in the areas of heavy soils which
predominate a filter is less essential. Studies in the Nile Delta Project
have, however, shown some siltation occurring in tiles installed over five
years ago without a filter envelope. It was observed that tiles are
often laid with remnants of a cement rim protruding and preventing a proper
joint between tiles. Although these remnants should be removed and only
tiles with smooth ends should be used, this may not always happen. It
would, therefore, be advisable to covter all tile lines in the project area
with a gravel layer, which provides a general insurance for the endurance
of the system. It was observed that the gravel material used was rather
coarse and varied in size approximately between 0.5 and 4 cm diameter, which
does not provide a proper filter. Such material would be suitable for use
in heavy soils (with a clay content greater than 45%). For lighter soils,
amounting to about 100,000 fed in the selected areas, a properly graded
gravel should be used with a size graduation between 0.4 and 1.2 cm diameter.
The same applies to saline soils to be reclaimed. Such areas would have
to be identified during the pre-drainage investigations. In the cost
estimate an allowance has been included for the use of ungraded and graded
envelope material.
29.       The field drainage construction should only be started in those
areas where the water level in the open drains is fully controlled. Trenches
for lateral drains should only be filled when the excavated soil has dried
out. There is a need for close supervision during construction, requiring
one engineer for a maximum of 5,000 fed per year.
Drainage Discharge Capacities for Collectors, Open Drains and Pumping Stations
30.       The design discharge of the buried Sement collector drains would
be based on 8 or 12 (sugar cane areas only) m /fed/day. The method of
design applied at present is acceptable. Subcollectors should be avoided
as far as possible.
31.       The proposed design capacities for the project open main and
branch drains vary between 8 and 12 m3/fed/day, to be increased by 3 to
5 m3/fed/day for relatively small areas just upstream of river barrages.



ANNEX 5
Page 8
In general such capacities suffice. However, it was noticed in the field
that tail water of irrigation canals may contribute considerably to the
main drainage discharge. Although a safety factor has been included in
the proposed design capacities, improvement in the operation of the irriga-
tion system would increase the safety margin.
32.       The proposed capacities of the pumping stations (located in the
northern part of the project area) are based on the estimated peak discharge
of the main drains and the design should include provision for a standby
unit.



ANNEX 6
Page 1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT
Project Works
General
1.        Field drainage systems comprising cement tile drains and pipe
collectors have been and are being installed in both the Nile Delta and
Upper Egypt. The installation of about 80,000 fed of tile drains in
Upper Egypt has successfully been completed during the last decade and at
present a further 30,000 fed are under construction. The need for this
and further extensive drainage works in the immediate future has arisen due
to the rapid increase in areas affected by a high water table and soil
salinity following recent conversion of additional lands from basin to
perennial irrigation and the introduction of higher cropping intensities.
2.        The project is the first phase of a program to construct drainage
facilities on irrigated land in the Nile Valley of Upper Egypt. The project
area totals 300,000 fed, the selected areas being located in six
governorates, extending from Beni Suef in the north to Aswan Governorate in
the south.
Project Drainage Works
3.        The project drainage works would include:
(a)  installation of tile drains and buried pipe collectors
throughout the 300,000-fed project area;
(b)  deepening and widening of existing open main and branch
drains and the construction of new drains needed to
discharge effluent from the tile drained areas;
(c)  construction of four new pumping stations and replacement of
one existing station required to lift the drainage effluent
of low-lying areas in the northern part of the project for
discharging into main irrigation or drainage canals or into
the Nile River;
(d)  reclamation of about 22,400 fed of severely saline land
distributed throughout the project area by leaching; about
half of these lands are also alkali and would require applica-
tion of gypsum and subsoiling for successful reclamation.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
4.        The project would also provide vehicles, equipment, consulting
services, fellowships, training and expansion of the existing office faci-
lities for EPADP.
5.        The breakdown of the project tile drain areas in each governorate
is shown in the table below:
Drainage Area
Governorate          Area                                     Feddans
Beni Suef       Ihnasya (3 subareas)                            33,000
Beni Saleh                                       2,000
Beni Suef Gharb-North (3 subareas)               6,000
Beni Suef Gharb-South                            7,000
El Minya        Beni Saleh                                       8,000
Abo Raheb                                       25,000
Beni Mazar                                       4,000
El Minya Gharb-North (2 subareas)               18,000
El Minya Gharb-South                             4,000
Kabkab                                          25,000
Asyut           Asyut                                           12,000
Sohag           Sohag                                           50,000
Qena            Nag Hammadi                                     15,000
Dishna (2 subareas)                             24,000
Qena (3 subareas)                                5,000
Qus                                             13,000
Isna                                             6,000
Aswan           Idfu                                             8,000
Kom Ombo                                        35,000
Total Project Area                                        300,000
Details of the project works are described below.
Open Main and Branch Drains
6.        The existing open main and branch drains were designed to keep
the water level in the drains at 1.5 m below ground surface, which, under
the present cropping intensity and water utilization, is considered inade-
quate. The flow in these drains is at present often impeded due to inadequate
maintenance and insufficient slopes. To ensure adequate capacity and suffi-
cient depth for providing free-fall discharge from the pipe collectors,
these drains would require widening and deepening to lower the water level
in the (Irains by I m to 2.5 m below ground level. Existing bridges, syphons,
flumes and other structures would have to be either extended or rebuilt.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
7.        Those parts of the project areas which were converted from
basin to perennial irrigation during the last decade lack any drainage
facilities. New open main and branch drains including necessary struc-
tures would be constructed under the project.
8.        The lengths of open drains including outfall drains needed for
the 300,000-fed project area and the approximate quantities of earth-
works which would have to be excavated in each governorate are shown in
the following table:
To Be Remodeled    To Be Constructed           Total
Length   Volume      Length   Volume      Length   Volume
Governorate       km     '000 m3       km     '000 m3      km       '000 m3
Beni Suef         49     2290         157     2750         206        5040
El Minya         217     5965         390     3545         607        9510
Asyut             44     1470          22       780         66        2250
Sohag            198     4500           -        -         198       4500
Qena             245     5865          53      950         298        6815
Aswan             21      425         243     2510         265        2935
775    20515         865    10535        1640      31050
9.        Excavation of open drains under the project would be carried out
by local contractors who have considerable experience in this type of work.
Manual labor would be used for excavation of drains having a bed width of
less than 2 m. All other excavation would be done with dragline excavators.
Care has to be taken where drains pass through very sandy soils, where the
risk of slippage and caving in of the side slopes arises. Excavation in
layers allowing sufficient time intervals for the adjacent soils to drain
and proper protection of the inner toes and side slopes of the profiles
would be necessary and close supervision would be required.
Tile Drainage
10.       The design of the tile drainage system will provide for a reduction
of the water table to at least 1 m within 48-72 hours following irrigation
and to 1.25 m before the next irrigation (Annex 4, para 10). To achieve this
requirement, the tile drains would be installed at an average depth of 1.5 m
(Annex 5, para 22) and the drain spacing, dependent on local soil hydraulic
characteristics, is expected to average 42 m (Annex 5, para 24). The fol-
lowing diagram illustrates the water table conditions at the upper end of
the tile drainage system following an irrigation:



ANNEX 6
Page 4
- Ground surf ace
0.7 - 0.8 m
1 m                        immediately after
18-72 hours                       an irrigation
after irrigation                -                                    1 .25 m
at next irrigation
_f           _ --
dK-.----                      --   A-- 
tile drain,                                 tile drain,
upper end                                   upper end
11.       Under the project, a network of field tile drains or laterals
would be installed at a depth of 1.4-1.8 m below land surface, with
1.4 m as the minimum depth at the upper end of the first lateral. This
depth would increase progressively for the subsequent laterals at the same
gradient as the collector until it reaches 1.5 m and would then remain
constant for the remaining laterals. To permit installation of the laterals
to these depths without lowering the collector and the branch and main
drains, the first few laterals would have to be connected directly to the
collector pipe at its center line while the remaining laterals could use
a header pipe connection to the collector.
12.       The spacing of tile drains would be designed according to the
physical property of soils determined by pre-design investigations. It
is estimated that the spacing would vary between 20 m and 80 m. Each
lateral would be about 200 m and never over 300 m long and each collector
about 1 km to 1.5 km long. Altogether there would be about 30,000 km
of lateral tile drains and 4,000 km of collector pipes in the project
area. About 100 million cement tiles of 30 cm length and some 5 million
collector pipes of 75 cm length would be required.
13.       Tile drains would be constructed mainly by machines.  Combined
trench-digging and tile-laying machines have the following advantages over
manual labor:
(a) no deviations of the set grade occur so all tiles lie
on firm, undisturbed soil;
(b) compaction and puddling of moist or wet soil in the
trench is avoided during the process of tile installation;



ANNEX 6
Page 5
(c) quality of tile-laying and placing of gravel envelope
are more uniform;
(d) continuation of the work is ensured during periods of
seasonal labor shortage, but sufficient spare parts must
be on hand to avoid prolonged delays due to breakdowns; and
(e) construction costs are equal to or less than those for hand
labor at the required installation depth of between 1.4 and
1.8 m.
Many local contractors have already gained experience in mechanical tile
installation.
14.       The excavation of trenches for collector pipes would be carried out
by manual labor supplemented by back-hoe excavators when required. Manholes
would be located at intervals of 180 to 240 m along collectors for maintenance
purposes. While the slope of laterals would be about 10 cm per 100 m or
1:1,000, the slope of collectors would be only about 3-4 cm per 100 m.
15.       The use of plastic pipes in place of cement tiles has been studied
(Annex 5, para 20). The cost of polyethylene corrugated tubing would be
about twice the price of cement tiles, which varies between US$0.18 and
US$0.23 per meter delivered to the site. Because of the higher costs the
use of plastic tubing has been ruled out.
16.       A gravel envelope would be placed around all tile drains.  For soils
with a clay content less than 45%, a well graded gravel with a size between
0.4 and 1.2 cm diameter should be used. For heavier soils, larger size
gravels up to 3-4 cm are permissible.
Pumping Stations
17.       The effluent from the buried tile and open drainage system would
either be discharged by gravity into the Nile, or lifted by pumps where
necessary. Four new pumping stations would be constructed, one of them in
the Beni Suef Governorate at Ihnasya and three in the El Minya Governorate
at Abo Raheb, Beni Mazar and Kabkab. An existing pumping station located
at Beni Saleh in the Beni Suef Governorate has diesel-driven pumps, in-
stalled in 1953. Since the discharge capacity as well as the lift of this
station are inadequate to meet new requirements, the station would be re-
placed.
18.       These five pumping stations would drain catchment basins totalling
321,000 fed of which only 89,000 fed are included in the project area. The
ultimate capacity of the pumping stations would have to meet the maximum dis-
charge from their catchment areas when entirely tile-draine, and the project
installation in-dludes the number of units required for the total area to be
drained - 89,000 fed by tile drainage and the balance, 232,000 fed, by open
drainage. The five pumping stations would together have 21 electrically
driven pump units installed under the project. Power transmission and civil
works would be constructed for ultimate capacity.



ANNEX 6
Page 6
19.       Thie discharge capacities of the pump units would vary from 2.4 to
5.4 m3/sec with operating heads between 3.1 and 6.1 m. Details of the plant
requirements are as follows:
Station ----
Unit Ihnasya Beni Saleh Abo Raheb Beni Mazar Kabkab Total
Catchment basin
area             feddan  96,000    42,000        43,000       63,000    77,000  321,000
Pump station       3
discharge        m /sec    16.0         7.0         7.2         10.5       12.8    53.5
Number of pumps    -          4          4           4            4          5       21
Discharge per      3
pump             m /sec      5.4        2.4         2.4          3.5        3.2      -
Maximum static
head               m         6.1        3.1         3.1          5.0        4.6      -
Maximum load of
station            kW   1,850         420         420          980      1,030      4,700
Number of trans-
formers                      2          2           2            2          2          10
Rating of each
transformer        KVA  2,300         600         600        1,300     1,300
Reclamation of Saline Land
20.       About 11,000 fed 4n the project area would require gypsum applied
at an average 20 tons per fed and incorporated in the top 30 cm of soils.
Application rates for gypsum would vary depending on the amount of alkali
present. Predesign investigations would have to be carried out to establish
the amount of gypsum required for each individual area. The application
would be followed by subsoiling across the installed tile drains to a depth
of 60 cm at I m intervals to improve lateral water movement in the soil.
Gypsum is available from the Nile Delta and Suez Canal areas and would be
transported by barge on the Nile. Transport from offloading sites and dis-
tribution would De by tractors equipped with trailers and distributors.
Craw'ler tractors would be used for plowing and subsoiling.
21.       In ,hese saline alkali areas and on a further 11,000 fed which
are saline but where no alkali is present, excess salts would be removed
by leaching.  Tne land would be flooded and the water level maintained
until salts in the crop root zone had been reduced to acceptable levels.
Tnis may take several months in the more severely affected soils and an
average 2,500 m& of water per fed would be required.  Portable pumps would
be used to raise thze water from irrigation canals.  Wheeled tractors with



ANNEX 6
Page 7
trailers would be used to transport the pumps, fuel and lubricants between
pumping sites.
Bilharzia Control
22.       The snail control program would be carried out over a three-year
period, 1975-77, throughout the selected 900,000-fed area in Beni Suef, El
Minya and Asyut Governorates commanded by the Ibrahimia and Bahr Yousef ir-
rigation canals. To achieve and maintain an acceptable level of control the
program would require:
(a) treatment of all irrigation main, branch and lateral
canals and those main and branch drains where flow
conditions are suitable with Frescon three times each
year in spring, summer and early autumn. In any parti-
cular canal system each treatment would extend over 15
days during which continous low dosage application of
Frescon would be made to maintain concentrations of 0.075
to 0.1 ppm throughout the system.
(b) treatment by spraying Bayluscide over all field drains,
those main and branch drains not suitable for the Frescon
treatment and the tails of lateral irrigation canals and
distributaries where Frescon may not have penetrated.
The Bayluscide would be applied to give concentrations
of 1 ppm active material. Treatments would be repeated
three times each year as in the case of Frescon.
23.       Samples for analysis would be taken throughout the system being
treated to ensure satisfactory concentrations are maintained during treat-
ment.  Spot checks would be made to ensure the efficacy of the treatments
in reducing the snail population.
24.       Treatment of infected adults using tartar emetic would be continued
in health centers, and rural health units within the program area. In addi-
tion, infected children would be treated with the drug Ambilhar to be supplied
under the project.
25.       An epidemiological team recruited from the Department of Public
Health at the University of Asyut would execute surveys to assess the effect
of the control measures in reducing transmission of the disease.






ANNEX 7
Page 1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT
Criteria and Procedure for Selection of Project Area
1.        The Executive Authority for Projects on High Dam Waters and Tile
Drainage in Upper Egypt in its Project Study for the Ministry of Irrigation,
selected a total area of 600,000 fed as being in need of drainage, spread
over six governorates between Beni Suef and Aswan. The selection was based
on soil survey data, especially observed soil salinity and groundwater levels.
Detailed soil surveys and land classification accomplished during 1962-66 were
available on half of the area, the remainder having been classified at some
detailed level during 1971.
Criteria for Selection
2.        On close scrutiny it was found that drainage on about half the
originally proposed area could be deferred. Areas in which tile drains are
urgently needed were selected on the basis of one or more of the following
criteria:
-    soil salinity exceeding 4 millimhos per cm;
-    groundwater levels observed within 150 cm of the land
surface during the soil surveys;
-    low-lying areas including enclosed depressions located
next to newly developed lands at higher elevations;
-    piezometric pressure of the aquifer reaching on average
throughout the year to within 200 cm of the land surface;
at such locations observations indicated groundwater tables
remained less than 150 cm below the land surface during
prolonged periods;
Procedure for Selection
3.        Prior to field inspection, areas selected on the above criteria
were delineated on maps showing soil units and on topographical maps which
located the irrigation canals and existing and planned drainage channels
(scale 1:25,000, vertical contour interval 50 cm). The total area
delineated amounted to 287,500 fed.
4.        A field inspection was made of all the originally selected 600,000
fed. Maps prepared during the "office" study described above were compared
with actual field conditions and proved generally accurate. However, salin-
ity had extended beyond those areas identified as saline during the 1962-1966



ANNEX 7
Page 2
detailed soil survey. Substantial variations were noticed in some instances
between maps of the 1971 semi-detailed soil survey and actual field conditions.
Where possible, such discrepancies were adjusted. Following necessary read-
justments of the boundaries and after deducting an area of 66,000 fed where
tile drainage is already being implemented by the Authority with its own re-
sources, the total area selected for first priority tile drainage amounted
to 300,000 fed. Distribution of the selected areas for tile drains over the
six governorates is tabulated in Annex 6, para 5.
5.        Maps have been prepared showing the locations of the selected
areas (Maps IBRD 3988 to 3994 inclusive). Further boundary adjustments are
expected to be necessary when detailed pre-drainage field investigations have
been undertaken.



ANNEX 8
Page 1
ARAB REPUELIC OF EGYPT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT
Reclamation of Saline Land
1.        At present an estimated 12,100 fed in the project area are Class 5
lands, i.e. unproductive, due to salinity and to exchangeable sodium (alkali).
The area is exnected to increase to about 22,400 fed during implenentation
of the prolect over a six-year period. In order to grow crops on these lands
it would be necessary to remove excess salts by leaching. It is estimated
that at least 2,500 m3 of water per fed (60 cm depth) would be required to
reduce the excess salts in the root zone to an acceptable level.. The fields
would be flooded to a depth of some 20 cm and regularly topped up until
leaching is completed. To raise this quantity of water from the irrigation
canals onto the fields would be beyond the capabilities of the farmers using
their traditional lift devices. The project would provide portable powered
pumps with tractor and trailer units for transporting the pumps and fuel
supplies.  Leaching of salts from the lower horizons would continue as irrigation
water applied to the growing crops percolates downwards and is removed through
the drainage system. It is anticipateed that this Class 5 land would improve
to Class 4 and become capable of supporting crops in the year following
reclamation and that it would subsequently improve to Class 3 and in some
cases Class 2 over the following five years. In order to achieve this im-
provement it would be necessary to augment the leaching on about 11,200 fed
where alkali exists by other soil amelioration operations, comprising:
(a)  the application of gypsum at 20 tons per fed,
incorporated in the top 30 cm of soil by mouldboard
ploughing, to displace the exchan-eable sodium in
the soil:
(b) subsoiling across the installed tile drain lines to
a depth of 60 cm at 1 i:i intervals to improve lateral
movement of water.
2.        Gypsum is available in Egypt where it is mined west of the Nile
Delta and near Suez. From the Nile Delta it could be delivered by barge to
discharge points on the Nile adjacent to project subareas at an estimated
average cost of LE 2.00 per ton. The project would provide 60 hp wheeled
tractors and 4 ton trailers fitted with distributors to transport the large
quantities of gypsum from the discharge points and spread the material in
the fields requirinp treatment. Belt conveyors would be provided for dis-
charge and loading the gypsum.  Crawler tractors (180 hp) equipped with
heavy duty mouldboard ploug1hs and subsoilers would also be provided.  The
necessary equipment is listed in Annex 12.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
3.        Government presently provides gypsum to farmers for land reclama-
tion at a subsidized price of LE 0.81 per ton. Under the project the farmers
would repay the full cost of spreading, ploughing subsoiling and pumping
totalling LE 13.00 per fed plus the subsidized price for gypsum, LE 16.20 per
fed. The repayment would be spread over 20 years and would be free of in-
terest but a 10% administration charge would be added giving an annual re-
payment of LE 1.60 per fed. In areas where only leaching is necessary the
farmers would repay the cost of pumping over tw¢o years, the annual repayment
being LE 1.60.
4.        Land reclamation operations would be carried out by the Ministry of
Agriculture, although tile drainage would be installed by EPADP.



ANNEX 8
Table 1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT
Reclamation of Saline Land
Projected Annual Production of Main Crops (in tons)
for Land Reclamation Area of 22,400 Feddans
Year      Wheat    Beans    Onions    Maize and Sorghum    Seed    Sugarcane
Without Drainage and Land Reclamation
1       925       312        432           1,868            857       16,800
2       492       180        192           1,018            475        9,800
3       257       101         96             550             264       4,800
4        88        31         48             181              86        1,200
5-35          0        0          0                0              0            0
With Drainage and Land Reclamation
1       925       312        432           1,868            857       16,800
2       492       180        192           1,018            475        9,800
3       521       215        168           1,126             518      10,400
4       856       345        263           1,819             778       18,200
5     1,658       662        547           3,459          1,424       35,100
6     2,834    1,049       1,027           5,878          2,390       57,700
7     4,244    1,679       1,665           8,829          3,583       82,200
8     5,031    2,039       2,069          10,576          4,212       92,500
9     5,636    2,312       2,406          11,973          4,709       99,500
10     5,877    2,439       2,566          12,648          4,964      100,400
11-35     6,000    2,505       2,646          12,993           5,095      100,900






ANNEX 9
Page 1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Consulting Services
The Drainage Works
Objectives
1.        The consultants' services would be required to assist the Egyptian
Public Authority for Drainage Proj7ects (EPADP) in the implementation of the
Upper Egypt Drainage Project.
2.        The project consists of laying tile drains in an area of 300,000
fed, remodelling of existing and construction of new open main and branch
drains to serve this area, reclamation of 22,400 fed of severely saline
land and the construction of four new and replacement of one existing pump
stations. The areas to be drained spread over six governorates between Beni
Suef and Aswan in Upper Egypt.
Responsibilities of the Consultants
3.        Consultants would be employed by EPADP to perform the technical
services required for the project for a total time period of about 15 man-
years. Some of the consultants would be engaged on a short-term basis for
specific assignments. The technical duties of the consultants would include:
(a) advise and assist in overall planning and coordination of
project works;
(b) advise and assist in the pre-design surveys and investigations;
(c) advise and direct studies in areas, such as Kom Ombo, where
special drainage problems exist;
(d) assist in the planning and design of the pumping stations;
(e) advise in planning of the reclamation of saline lands;
(f) review irrigation water management and make recommendations to
improve irrigation schedules;
(g) advise on the reorganization necessary to achieve a more
effective extension service;



ANNEX 9
Page 2
(h) provide assistance needed by EPADP for the preparation of a
feasibility study for a further drainage project in Upper
Egypt in the required fields; and
(i) advise and assist in all other aspects of project implementation,
as required.
4.        The consultants would prepare and submit to EPADP a progress report
at the end of each quarter, describing activities undertaken during the re-
porting period, and giving a brief indication of the work to be undertaken
during the next three months. This report wzould become a part of the EPADP
report submitted to IDA.
5.        It is estimated that the above services to be provided by the
consultants would require the following professional staff:
Man-Year
Planning and Coordination Engineer                1.5
Drainage Engineer                                 3
Land Reclamation Specialist                       1
Water Management Engineer                         2
Agricultural Extension Specialist                 0.5
Short-term Specialists
including Pump Station Design
Engineer and Other Specialists                    7
TOTAL                                 15
The above detail is tentative and EPADP would employ the number of experts
needed for the time periods required in consultation with IDA.
6.        A separate panel of consultants has been appointed to monitor
progress and evaluate the benefits resulting from both the Nile Delta and
Upper Egypt Drainage Projects. The panel includes a representative of the
Statistics Department of the Ministry of Agriculture and personnel of that
Ministry would undertake collection of data on crop yields before and after
drainage.



ANNEX 1 0
Page   1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT
Bilharzia
Introduction
1.        Schistosomiasis, or bilharzia, as it is more commonly known, is one
of the most important public health problems of tropical and subtropical
regions, in which there are now more than 200 million infected individuals
throughout the world.  The World Health Organization estimated (1965) that a.-
a cause of morbidity in these areas, it is outranked only by tuberculosis and
malaria. The three most important schistosomes infecting man are Schistosoira
haematobium, Schistosoma mansoni and Schistosoma laponicum. Both
S. haematobium and S. mansoni are endemic in Egypt.  S. laponicum is es remic
in the Far East.
2.        In 1851, Theodor Bilharz first recovered S. haematobium worms durt1ng
the post-mortem examination of a patient in Cairo and shortly afterwardc
demonstrated their relationship to the haematuria which was seen in Egyptiars
who were passing the eggs of the parasite in their urine. S. mansoni was
established as a separate species in 1902 when the lateral spined eggs were
discovered in the faeces of infected patients in the West Indies and Uganda.
Life Cycle
3.        The adult schistosome worms live in the blood vessels.  Those of
S. haematobium inhabit the veins around the bladder and produce the urinary
form of the disease, while adult worms of S. mensoni are mainly found in the
posterior veins of the bowel and are responsible for an intestinal and
hepatic (liver) form of the disease. The three species of schistosomes
commonly affecting man have similar life cycles and develop over a succession
of stages as shown in Figure 6844 (R). Eggs which are laid by the adult female
worms in terminal blood vessels surrounding either the bladder or intes6 ine
eventually reach the lumens of these organs, and are then voided in the urine
or faeces. When the eggs reach fresh water a small free swimming larva, the
miracidium , hatches and is infective to a snail intermediate host. In the
appropriate snail host, development stages called sporocysts are produced
which in some 4-7 weeks in turn produce another free swimming larva, the
cercaria, which is infective to the definitive host, man. The usual portal
of entry is the skin and man becomes infected through contact with waters
infested with these larvae, which may live up to 48 hours after being shed
by the snail. After penetration of the skin, the larvae migrate and eventually



ANNEX 10
Page 2
dcvelon into the mature adult worms which commence egg-laying in the respective
iocations already described. This may begin in some 6-X2 weeks after
penetration of the skin. Only a small proDortion of the eggs laid by the
adult worms are voided in the excreta of man and serious nathologicaL lesions
and sequelae of infection result from the numerous eggs which are retained in
the tissues and organs of an infected person.
f.,rntows
4.        Egg excretion in the case of S. haemotobium usually occurs 10-12
elks after initial infection and may be associated with pain, frequency
of passing urine and haematuria (the presence of blood in the urine).  7he
Mnajority of infected children in endemic areas are in this stage of the
Jisease.  Although haematuria is common, It is not always consIdered
abnormal. Some people consider it to be a normal process of puberty and
not requiring medical treatment while others may ignore pain but may seek
treatment with the onset of haematuria. The establishled S. haematobilsm
I nfection may produce changes in the bladder, lesions in the ureters and
kidneys and other disorders of the urinary tract. Involvement of other
organs and systems such as the genital tract, lungs and central nervous
system may also take place.
5.         The onset of symptoms of S. mansoni infection may occur in 3-8
weeks after ecxposure.  ALthough fever, generali-zed aches and pains, neadache,
abdominal pains, nausea, diarrhoea and coughin,- may occur and the liver and
spleen mav become enlarged, this stage of the disease usuallv exhibits only
mild symptoms in the indigenous population.  Deaths during this acute stage
are rare but have been reported, particularly during therapy using tartar
emetic or soditnn anLimony gluconate.
6.         The established infection may not give rise -co symptoms or, if
present, they may not be severe. Infected persans may complain of vague
illhealth, abdominal pain, headache, letnargy and transient recurrent
attacks of diarrhoea lasting 24-48 hours. While serious liver disease
due to S. mansoni infection usuallv takes many years to develop, progression
from the acute stage to involvement of the portal circulatory system and
liver failure may occur in a few months.  Bilharzial liver is frequently
complicated by nutritional defects and viral hepatitis which may cause it
to progress rapidly and make the prognosis more serious.
EVnaeicity and Distribution of Human Bilharzia in Egypt
7.        It is often suggested that bilharzia caused by S. haematobium
originated in the Nile Valley. Haenaturia, the commonest symptom of the
infection, was certainly described in the "Gynaecological" Papyrus of Kahun
written about 1900 B.C. and many remedies for haematuria are recorded in
,rapyrii. It is Likely that the condition was widespread and probably a
Serious problem amongst the Ancient Egyptians. Large number of calcified



ANNEX 10
Page 3
ova of the parasite have been found in the kidneys of Egyptian mummies of the
Twentieth Dynasty (1250-1000 B.C.). It has also been recorded that Egyptian
males had a disease which made them "menstruate" and also that during the
Egyptian Campaign, many of Napoleon's troops suffered from its effects. It
is thought that Egypt was not the original home of S. haematobium but that
the parasites and their intermediate hosts probably found their way down
the Nile to Egypt from the equatorial regions.
8.        Bilharzia is the most prevalent and serious endemic disease in
Egypt. A survey of about 40,000 persons in various rural villages in 1935
showed an overall incidence of 48% infection with S. haematobium while
S. mansoni was found to be absent south of Giza but showed a prevalance
rate of 32% in the governorates north of Cairo in the Delta.
9.        The importance of the irrigation system, basin or perennial, in
the spread of bilharzia in different districts of three governorates in
Upper Egypt is shown in Table 1. The data show the prevalence of urinary
bilharzia among persons visiting hospitals in areas under perennial irriga-
tion to be 5 to 10 times higher (56% to 69%) than in areas under basin
irrigation (9% to 17%).
10.       The prevalence of bilharzia infection is generally higher in
males than in females, rises to a maximum at the age of 10-15 years, and
starts to fall gradually after the age of 20 years. This has been verified
in a study made in 23 villages distributed in different parts of Egypt in
1955 as shown in Table 2. The overall prevalence of urinary bilharzia was
40%, in males was 45% and in females 35%. This sex difference may be
explained by the greater degree of exposure to infection in males due to
occupational and social factors. The prevalence rises from 17% in the 2-4
year age group to 47% in the 5-9 year age group and reaches a peak of 60%
at 10 to 14 years. From 15 years onwards it starts to decline until it
reaches 20% at the age of 50 years and over. This trend is observed in both
males and females.
11.       The prevalence and distribution of bilharzia according to returns
from endemic diseases hospitals in 1955 and 1965 are shown in Table 3. The
overall prevalence of both types of bilharzia declined over the decade:
from 43.8% to 37.0% in the case of S. haematob-lum, and in S. mansoni infection
from 6.7% to 4.3%. Compared with 1935 data there was an apparent increase
in S. haemotobium in Sohag, Qena and Aswan in 1955 but this was followed
by a decline in 1965.
12.       Returns from Governorate Endemic Diseases Units in Beni Suef,
El Minya, Asyut, and Qena for 1963, 1970 and 1971 shown in Table 4 indicate
a decline in overall prevalence of S. haematobium of 6.3% in Beni Suef, 1.8%
in El Minya, 7.5% in Asyut and 4.4% in Oena. This decline in overall
prevalence is much less marked for Beni Suef and El Minya than is that
observed between 1955 and 1965 (Table 3). A comparison between the returns



ANNEX 1 0
Page 4
for 1963 and 1965 (Tables 3 and 4) indicates that downward trends in pre-
valence of the order of 4.5% occurred in Beni Suef and El Minya and of 7-8%
in Asyut and Qena, respectively, during this period. These downward trends
in prevalence of S. haematobium are probably attributable to the relatively
intensive chemotherapy being practiced throughout the country since 1963.
1^,.      Prevalance of S. haematobium according to the returns of endemic
diseases hospitals (1971) declines from north to south in Upper Egypt - Beni
3uef 40.9%, El Minya 43.4%, Asyut 36.5%, Sohag 40.1% 1/, Qena 31.7% and
Aswan 27.2% 11. As these data renresent biased samples of the populations
in the respective areas, they serve to indicate the order of prevalance,
but undoubtedly underestimate prevalence of S. haematobium in many rural
areas Tithin the districts of the governorates.
14.       In Beni Suef six cases of S. mansoni were recorded in 1963, 27
cases in 1970 and 14 cases in 1971. There is no proof that transmission of
S. mansoni is taking place at this time in Giza, Beni Suef or El Minya
despite the limited presence of Biomphalaria alexandrina, the snail inter-
mediate host of this parasite.
15.       Limited data obtained for Beni Suef, El Minya, Asyut and Qena from
the returns made by Rural Health Units and School Health Units are shown in
Table 4. By law all children attend primary school from the age of six years
and all are medically eyrmined before entrance, re-examined on entrance to
preparatory school at 13 years, and again on entrance to secondary school
(15-16 years). Those found positive for bilharzia are treated.
16.       The data obtained for 1971 from school health units show relatively
low prevalence rates of 3.7 to 9.5% at primary school entrance. The rates
are generally higher at preparatory school and secondary school entrance
and reflect many re-infections since all infected children are treated in
the units. In El Minya the prevalence rate for each age group in 1971 shows
a marked improvement on the same figures in 1963 and even 1970, and probably
reflects the increased application of chemotherapy throughout the areas.
These data again indicate the general rise of the prevalence of infection in
the second decade of life and the inevitability of reinfection in the absence
of other control measures.
17.       Data from the Rural Health Units of Beni Suef and El Minya show
reductions of 10 and 9.5% respectively in overall prevalence between 1964
and 1971. The reduction is less marked in Asyut (3.4%), and in Qena a rise
in prevalence is apparent between 1963 and 1970 (8.6%), with a drop between
1970 and 1971 (4.1%). These figures only reflect the prevalence of infection
in the proportion of the rural populations reporting sick at health centers
and -units, and they must be regarded as an underestimate of overall pre-
valence in some areas, and In view of the wide local variations in prevalence
(Table 1) they severely understate the situation occuring within certain
districts.
1/   Sohag and Aswan data were incomplete and are not included in Table 4.



ANNEX 10
Page 5
18.       In occupational categories, farmers and farm laborers comprising 48%
of the population are the largest groun of infected persons, with prevalence
rates of 50.6% and 41.6% respectively, although fishermen (60.4%) and boatmen
(52%) have higher infection rates. These data relate to findings in an area
of Beheira Governorate in the Delta but may be representative of the distribu-
tion of infections in different occupational categories in other parts of
the country (Table 5).
Infection with S. Haematobium and S. Mansoni
19.       In Egypt S. haematobium infection is regarded as "hyperendemic"
and intensity of infection may be great. Calcification and filling defects
of the bladder. ureteral strictures, hydroureter and hydronephrosis are
frequently seen on urographic examination, particularly of Egyptian males
from rural areas.
20.       In a village survey in Egypt, 2.5% of males over the age of six
who had S. haematobium were diagnosed as having cancer compared with 0.3%
of those not excreting eggs, thus supporting a causal relationship between
S. haematobium and cancer of the bladder; amongst females the cancer rates
were 1.1% and 0.2% respectively. It has been estimated that cancer of the
bladder comprises 19% of all cases of cancer in Egypt, 6.5% of chronic
bilharzial bladders show malignant changes and 83.1% of all cases of cancer
of the bladder in Egypt have bilharzial bladders. The association of
bilharzia with bladder cancer is statistically highly significant, and this
most serious consequence of the infection is seen in many young people. The
age-specific prevalence of S. haematobium infection, its rise and fall, is
the same as for cancer of the bladder, but occurs ten years earlier.
21.       In regions such as the Nile Delta mixed infections with
S. haematobium and S. mansoni are extremely common and it is difficult to
determine the pathology due to each parasite.
22.       The long-term adverse effects of these chronic infections are
frequently underestimated and a general deterioration in health may be
complicated by other infections and malnutrition. The mortality rate due
to bilharzia in Egypt has been estimated to vart from 0.1 to 1% according
to the local prevalence and intensity of infect_on.
23.       11ealth education in Egypt in recent years in schools and at
health centers has resulted in many more persons seeking treatment at
hospitals and health units. Such treatment, if the course is completed,
must confer considerable benefit on the individual concerned. Often, how-
ever, in the absence of alternative water supplies or through occupational
necessity, or sheer ignorance, individuals who have been treated become
re-infected. Undoubtedly throughout the Nile Valley there are many districts
and villages, and even parts of villages, in which prevalence and intensity
of infection are far above the levels recorded by the returns from rural



ANNEX 1 0
Page 6
health units and endemic diseases hospitals. There is a clear need for
integrated control combining systematic treatment of infected persons with
adecquate measures against the snail intermediate host in order to prevent
re-infection and effectively reduce transmission.
Health Units
24.       Throughout Egypt there are at oresent 591 health centers and
1,344 rural health units. Each center is theoretically staffed by two
physicians, one sanitarian, one laboratory technician, one graduate nurse,
two assistant nurses, four assistant midwives and each unit by one physician,
o,< laboratory assistant, one sanitary aid and two assistant midwives.  The
rural health center usually has a 10-20 bed in-patient section and a theater
for minor operations. It is usually combined with an ante-natal clinic and
family planning unit.
25.       The rural health units are responsible for providing a basic
health service, and both the health centers and health units are equipped
with laboratory facilities in which diagnosis of the urinary and intestinal
forms of bilharzia should be possible.
26.       The centers and units each serve approximately 10,000 people and
the number of patients seen daily varies from approxinately 30-100.  700 of
the tota'L 1,935 rural health centers and units are, in fact, at present with-
out doctors and are therefore being run on a part-time basis. Although
records are supnosed to be kept of all patients screened and a record card
maintained for those diagnosed positive and treated, same units in Beni Suef
and El Minya provided ample evidence of a lack of supervision .ncluding
inadequate records, poor laboratory facilities and failure to perform diag-
nostic tests. Other centers in El Minya, Asyut, Qena, Dishna, Luxor and
Fayoum appeared well run.  The facilities are adequate if properly staffed
and supervised. In such units the standards maintained are largely dependent
upon the presence of a well trained, enthusiastic and hardworking doctor,
while the interest and supervision of the Director of Erdemic Diseases, Cairo,
and of the Director General at Governorate headquarters are also important
in maintaining the quality of the units.
27.       hle rural health centers and units have made a profound contribution
to the apparent reduction in prevalence of S. haematobium- in Egypt during the
past ten years. Through such units there is a clear capability, where adequate
staff exist, to apply effective chemotherapy which would Drovide a valuable
complement to an improved standard of snail control in the overall control
of transmission of infection.
Chemotherapy
28,       Use of thne drug tartar emetic was introduced in Egypt in 1920 and
is still the drug of chaoice for routine treatment of bilharzia. It is
mtarnufacture(i locally and th-e routine course of treatment usually comprises



ANNEX 10
Page 7
12 intravenous injections, administered over a period of four to six weeks.
The drug should always be given under close medical supervision owing to the
toxic and side reactions frequently encountered, and the risk of sudden death
during its use. The drug should not be used if there is any evidence of
cardiac or kidney disease.
29.       The long course of injections required with this drug is a consider-
able disadvantage and many patients fail to complete the course of treatment,
even after two or three injections when their symptoms may disappear. Further,
some practitioners deliberately reduce the dosage of drug to avoid unpleasant
side effects and the difficulties which might arise should a death occur.
There has apparently been a marked increase in viral hepatitis during the
past few years which in part may be attributable to the general increase in
treatment of bilharzia using drugs which have to be administered intravenously.
The maintenance of sterile conditions in many rural health units under inadequate
supervision is unlikely and this may well be a causal factor in relation to
hepatitis. Disposable syringes are not available. The drug Astiban, a
complex antimony compound, is also widely used in Egypt although not on the
same scale as tartar emetic. It is given by intramuscular injections once
or twice weekly for S. haematobiumn infections at 8 mg/kg bodyweight to a total
of 30 mg/kg bodyweight. Smaller and less frequent doses are effective in
reducing the symptoms of the infection. The drug is frequently used if
difficulty is expected in injecting tartar emetic intravenously.
30.       Niridazole in combination with phenobarbital is one of the latest
bilharzia drugs and is an oral, non-antimonial nitrothiazole derivative. It
is also an effective amoebicidal drug and it has some effect in guinea worm
infection. It has been used in several field trials in Egypt and more re-
cently for intensive therapy in Fayoum at a dosage of 25 mg/kg bodyweight for
five consecutive days. The reported side effects have been slight. Headache,
vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhoea have been noted but no mental changes
have been recorded as have been reported by many workers elsewhere in the
treatment of S. mansoni and S. japonicum (a third variety of the disease com-
mon in the Far East). Advanced bilharzia or other forms of liver disease with
associated collapsed circulation may predispose to the more severe complica-
tions. The combination of phenobarbital and niridazole is reputed to minimize
the mental disturbances. Administration of the drug should be stopped once
complications arise, and sedation instituted. Generally the condition re-
sponds to sedative treatment and all of the cases have recovered. It was
reported that the drug was well tolerated in Fayoum and medical staff were
enthusiastic about its use and acceptance by the population in which it has
been used to treat age groups from 5-20 years, and in which an estimated 90%
cure rate has been obtained. It is considered that this compound could be
safely used for the treatment of children (5-12 years) in other rural areas
in order to make chemotherapy more acceptable and therefore more effective.
Distribution of the Snail Intermediate Host
31.       Bulinus truncatus, the snail intermediate host of S. haematobium,
occurs throughout the country in irrigation and drainage channels, to a lesser



ANNEX 10
Page 8
degree in main canals and even in the Nile itself. It is more abundant in
irrigation canals than in drains. Biomphalaria alexandrina, the intermediate
host of S. mansoni, is common in the lowlying northern delta area of Lower
Egypt but rare in the southern extremity of the delta and only occurs very
locally south of Cairo. It is more abundant in drains than in irrigation
canals. Both species favor areas where abundant aquatic vegetation occurs.
32.       Reproduction of both species is highest in March and under
iptimal conditions the population of snails may double in 14-16 days.
B. truncatus population peak is early summer after which less favorable
conditions result in a decline. B. alexandrina shows a less pronounced
seasonal peak. Snail control operations should be timed to take advantage
of seasonal variations in reproduction and survival rates.
33.       Levels of S. haematobuim infection of snails for the period 1954-
1957 are appreciably higher in the governorates of Upper Egypt than in the
Nile Delta.
Upper Egypt                   Nile Delta
Giza                0.24%       Alexandria       0.21%
Fayoum              0.32%       Kafr el Sheik   0.23%
Beni Suef           0.30%       Gharbiya         0.05%
Qena                0.76%       Manufiya         0.09%
Aswan               0.40%       Qaliubiya        0.20%
The difference is probably due to the warmer climate in Upper Egypt. More
recent data (1963, 1970, 1971) show generally lower infection levels which
may reflect a lower contamination rate resulting from intensified chemo-
therapy.
Bilharzia Control in Fayoum Governorate
34.       A bilateral assistance agreement between the Federal Republic of
Germany and Egyptian Governments for bilharzia control in Fayoum Governorate
was concluded in 1967-68. The program provided for the molluscicide
"Bayluscide" produced by the Bayer Company to be made available, together
with necessary equipment and transport for effective application in the
360,000 fed cultivated area. The program was supervised by 4 expatriate
staff.
35.       Mollusciciding was carried out as a "blanket operation" in the
early spring and autumn each year, each operation taking approximately 65
days.  All irrigation canals and drains were treated either by pressure
mixing, dispensing or spraying. In 1969, channels other than the main canals
were only treated if observed to be infested with snails, but since then
complete coverage of all watercourses has been Drovided twice annually.
Bavluscide is used at not less than 1 ppm for 8 hours. It was found that
carriage of the chemical along the main supply canal and its branches in-
crea.,!d on successive applications from 40 km on the second to 115 km on



ANNEX 10
Page 9
the fifth application. Carriage was facilitated by the relatively high water
velocities (2 km/hr) in the irrigation system and by increasing the initial
concentration from 1 ppm to 2-2.4 ppm. During the three years the program
has been in operation the Ministry of Health reported that some 340 m tons
of Bayluscide were used although other sources reported 450 and 485 tons.
The estimated cost of the material was DM 9 million (US$2.9M) and a further
DH 7 million (US$2.2M) was spent on equipment, transport, expatriate salaries,
housing, etc. Local costs are estimated to have been LE 137,846 (US$60,000).
The program is being continued following a surveillance and treatment policy
and the extent of future coverage will depend on the results of the surveil-
lance work and financial capability to meet the cost of chemical supplies
should widespread reinfestation of the system occur.
36.       Application of molluscicide in Fayoum has been accompanied by a
vigorous treatment program of the infected population at school health units
(5), rural health centers and units (93) and at endemic diseases hospitals
(5). Tartar emetic has been used and an estimated 84% cure rate obtained. In
addition, 150,000 courses of Ambilhar (CIBA) supplied by the Swiss Government
have been used to treat the 6-20 year age group with an estimated cure rate
of 90%.
37.       The prevalence of S. haematobium has been reduced from an estimated
47-49% overall infection and 65% infection in the 6-15 groups to 30% overall
in December 1970 and 16.5% in December 1971. The program appears to have
successfully controlled transmission and there have been no recorded new
infections in the last 2-1/2 years.
Present Control Measures in Upper Egypt
38.       Due to limited foreign exchange resources, quantities of Bayluscide
available in Egypt are not sufficient to cover the enormous area and snail
control measures are confined to areas selected on the basis of snail infesta-
tion surveys and reported local bilharzia infection levels. Surveillance of
snail infestation levels is unsatisfactory, and control measures applied based
on surveillance results, whilst appearinR to cover main and branch irrigation
canals and laterals adequately, provide totally inadequate coverage of field
drains and less than satisfactory coverage of main drains. Far better
results would be achieved if low dosage continuous application of mollusci-
cide was made throughout an irrigation and drainage system each spring and
autumn.
39.       The efficacy of the molluscicide "'Frescon" (Shell-UK/Netherlands)
is currently being evaluated in trials in Giza and appears satisfactory when
applied on a continuous basis for 15 days at 0,075 to 0.1 ppm providing channel
flows are sufficient to ensure maximum delivery throughout the system. It
seems likely that best possible coverage would be obtained using both Frescon
and Bayluscide, the former in the faster flowing irrigation canals and the



ANNEX1 0
Page 10
latter where water velocities are lower and especially in drainage systems
where disoensing of low concentrations is not possible and spraying of the
molluscicide is more effective.
Toxicology of Molluscicides
40.       Bayluscide is safe to handle and use, and has less effect on the
ecology of the environment than other compounds. It has a very low toxicity
to mammals and is not irritating.  It is toxic to fish at mollt'scicidal
concentrations.
4i.       Frescon is the most active molluscicide 'known and plants, insects
and micro fauna and flora are apparentlv unaffected at the level of apoli-
cations reconmmended.  It has in some instances proved possible to control.
snails without harming fish populations. Toxicological studies in mammals
have shown it does not present any toxic hazards at molluscicidal concentra-
tions. The solvent, tetrachloroethylene, is used for treatment of hookworm
in humans (0.10-0.12 ml/kg bodyweight up to a maximum of 5 mIl/kg bodyweight).
At the proposed molluscicidel concentrations it presents no hiaz2rd even if
the water is used for human consumption.  The longterm effects of low
dosage applications are, however, completely unknownb  The material has been
used extensively in the Sudan during the past three years without any
reported harmful effect.
The Control Program
42.       As the drainage works to be tmdertaken in the Upper Egypt Drainage
Project extend over 800 km from Beni Suef in the north to Aswan in the south,
meaningful snail control measures in all the drainage project subareas would
necessarily involve the entire irrigation and drainage network throughout
the Upper Nile Valley. In the absence of adequate snail control measures
in this overall area at present, it is not expedient to apply intensive
measures in relatively small discontinuous parts of the system unsupported
by complementary control work in adjacent areas. Control measures limited
to drainage channels would likewise be ineffective in reducing transmission
of infection and the widely scattered locations requiring treatment would
make the measures costly and supervision difficult.  The cost of control-
ling snails only in the drains over a three year period in the 300,000 fed
drainage project area is estimated to be some US$2 million.
43.       The drainage project would exacerbate the transmission of bilharzia
as a result of providing new drainage channels where snails would breed and
become infected. It is inconceivable that control measures of any value could
be applied to the drainage svstem unsupported by adequate coverage of the ir-
rigation canals. Rapid reinfestation of the drains from untreated irrigation
canals and distributaries would occur and the applied effort would be render-
ed meaningless in terms of control of transmission. Efficient application
of molluscicide to drains is difficult and the required frequency of their
treatment in isolation would prove prohibitively expensive.



ANNEX 10
Page 11
44.       Control may have the objective of limiting the spread of infection,
reducing morbidity or controlling and even stopping transmission. Control
of transmission implies reduction of bilharzia to a prevalence where it is
no longer a major public health problem. Control once achieved must be
maintained implying a continuing program, although a reduction in the degree
of applied measures should be possible during later consolidation phases. The
different methods of control include mass therapy of the human definitive
host, environmental sanitation, control of contact with water and control of
the molluscan intermediate host. These methods will prove more or less
effective according to the conditions where they are applied and each has
advantages and disadvantages.
45.       It is now generally recognized that treatment of the infected
population, while not always curing the individuals, causes a marked reduc-
tion in the number of eggs passed. Mass chemotherapy, as a control procedure,
has as its main objective a reduction in the number of bilharzia eggs passed
by a community. A secondary benefit would be the alleviation of symptoms
and reduced morbidity in individuals resulting from fewer bilharzia eggs being
deposited in their tissues.
46.       The efficient disposal of human excreta by the provision of adequate
latrine facilities should in theory be an adequate method of controlling
trarsmission of bilharzia. Acceptance of such facilities generally is de-
pendent on overall improved standards of living and education but even then
some contamination of the environment is likely to persist.
47.       Prevention of contact with infested waters through provision of
alternative water supplies is an effective aspect of sanitary control measures.
Uncontaminated domestic water supplies are available in most of the villages
within the area proposed for the control program.
48.       It is generally considered that snail control is one of the most
rapid and effective means now available for reducing transmission of bilharzia
and its efficacy is likely to be enhanced if combined with chemotherapy.
49.       A combination of control methods directed against different links
in the life cycle is most likely to achieve a threshhold level below which
transmission will cease and the composition of any control program must
depend on local conditions.
50.       An area has been selected where substantial drainage works are to
be undertaken and where the irrigation system would provide areas of command
for which feasible control measures could be designed. The area selected
is situated in the Governorates of Beni Suef, El Minya and Asyut where pro-
Ject drainage works extending over 144,000 fed are to be constructed.  The
selected area covers the command of the Ibrahimia and Bahr Yousef canals
below the head regulator at Dairut and extends over some 900,000 fed with a
population of about 3 million. The overall prevalence of bilharzia in Upper
Egypt is highest in these governorates and the intermediate snail hosts of
S. mansoni are already present in parts of the existing drainage systems.



ANNEX 10
Page 12
51.       The project would be of four years duration commencing in 1974 with
the purchase of equipment and materials and the establishment of the necessary
organization to execute the program. Actual control operations would extend
over three years 1975-77 and would include application of molluscicides to
minimize populations of B. trucatus and prevent the spread of B. alexandrina,
s5  reducing transmission of S. haematobium and preventing possible future
5preading of S. mansoni. This program will reinforce the integrated bilharzia
control program in Fayoum province, which receives its irrigation supplies
from the Bahr Yousef canal.
2.        In the circumstances prevailing in the area under consideration,
integrated measures involving snail control by the application of molluscicides
and treatment of the infected population would achieve the best control of
transmission of bilharzia at this time.
Proposed Snail Control Measures
53.       It has been demonstrated that good molluscicides when properly
applied in the field kill at least 99% of the snails, and snail populations
will remain below 5-10% of their original level during some eight weeks fol-
lowing such a kill. Mollusciciding of the entire area should be carried out
and completed by the end of May.  This would result in a low snail population
density during the ensuin< summer period when transmission would be highest.
Optimum control of snails would be achieved by another area-wide application
of molluscicides seven to eight weeks later in mid-July.
54.       A further application of chemical should be made in mid-September,
again on an area-wide basis to extend control of transmission during the
Autumn period.
55.       In the WHO Egypt 49 Scheme, two blanket treatments were carried out
in April and in Autumn during 1963-1964 and approximately 300 gram Bayluscide/
fed/year were used. Later (1965 onwards), one treatment in April was done
and subsequiently surveillance and focal treatments only made. Adequate
control of transmission was not, however, achieved.
56.       In order to achieve and maintain an acceptable level of snail
control, the following program would be initiated:
(a) Continuous low dosage application of Frescon at 0.075-1 ppm
over 15 days to be made three times each year in spring, summer
and early autumn to all irrigation main canals, branch canals
and laterals.
(b) Similar applications of Frescon into main and branch drains
wherever flow condCJions render this method of treatment
suitable.



ANNEX 10
Page 13
(c) Spraying of Bayluscide (1 ppm active material) at the tails
of lateral irrigation canals and distributaries where Frescon
may not have penetrated, and on field drains and main and
branch drains where conditions preclude the use of Frescon.
(d)  Chemical analysis during treatment to ensure adequate
concentrations of molluscicide are maintained throughout
that part of the system being treated. Surveillance would be
confined to spot checks to ensure the efficacy of mollusciciding.
57.       Adequate provision for continuity of the program is essential beyond
the immediate three year period covered by the project. It is expected that
control measures may be reduced after four to five years when integrated snail
control and chemotherapy should have reduced transmission and prevalence of
infection to very low levels.
58.       Chemotherapy of infected adults using tartar emetic would be
continued under proper supervision to avoid as far as possible any health
risks resulting from either the treatment or failure to maintain adequate
sterile conditions in the rural health units. In addition, some 200,000
courses of Ambilhar would be provided under the project for the treatment
of the large proportion of infected children in the 5-12 year age group in
the bilharzia control area and to allow for treatment of patients who may
fail to complete a course of tartar emetic or require further treatment.
Each health unit supplied with this drug would be properly staffed by the
Ministry of Health with qualified personnel.
Organization and Staff Requirements
59.       The treatment of persons infected with Bilharzia and control of the
snail host are the responsibilities of the Ministry of Health. It is desira-
ble that in future the Ministry of Irrigation should become more closely
involved and general collaboration between the two ministries should be
improved.
60.       The Yinistry of Health would be responsible for the overall bilharzia
control project and would prepare a plan, acceptable to IDA, for the operation
of the bilharzia control program. The staff of the Ministry would undertake
treatment of infected persons, snail surveillance, bioassay work and chemical
analyses following molluscicide applications. The Ministry of Health staff
would also carry out molluscicide applications for sna:.l control, and data of
canal flows, essential for applying correct dosages, would be furnished by
the staff of the Ministry of Irrigation.
61.       Molluscicide apnlications would be coordinated and supervised by
a special project team consisting of personnel experienced in the use of the
materials involved, from the Snail Control Department of the Ministry of
Health. Members of the team would include a biologist or engineer as Program
Director and three field technical officers for direct supervision of opera-
tions and of transport and erliipment. The operational staff would consist
of a Program Manager, thiree irrigation engineers, 50 overseers and 500 workmen.



ANNEX 1 0
Page 14
62.       A training program would be initiated under the supervision of
technical specialists in order to instruct personnel who will execute the
work under the project and be responsible for continued snail control in
the area after project completion.
63.       Treatment of infected personnel will continue to be carried out at
existing centers and units and no intensification of this program in the
project area is envisaged.
Evaluation
64.       A proper evaluation of the bilharzia control program is essential
to provide data on which future control programs elsewhere may be based.
The Ministry of Health would set up a special epidemiological team staffed
by available personnel such as those in the Department of Public Health
at the University of Asyut. The team would carry out surveys in order
to establish accurate data on age specific prevalence and evaluate control
measures by estimating changes in incidence of transmission.
Continuity of Control Measures
65.       It is essential that adequate provision be made for the continuity
and maintenance of bilharzia control measures in the project beyond the initial
three year period. It is expected that a reduction in the increments of ap-
plied control measures may be possible after five to six years when integrated
snail control and chemotherapy could be expected to have reduced transmission
and prevalence of infection to a very low level.
qualitative Analysis of Economic Benefits
66.       There is a general lack of quantitative information on the importance
of bilharzia in different geographic areas and in differing epidemiological and
social environments. Certain economic effects suchi as costs of treatment are
directly measurable while others, caused by morbidity and resulting in reduced
productivity, lower learning rates and general performance by children, and
changes in saving and expenditure patterns, are much more difficult to measure.
The debilitating effects of this chronic disease are frequently masked by inter-
relationships with other infections including malnutrition. Direct quantitative
assessment of the benefit conferred by control of bilharzia is therefore ex-
tremely difficult to make, and this is particularly true in rural communities.
67.       Any control measures aimed at reducing transmission and thereby
the intensity of infection, will confer considerabl'e benefit in preventing
serious pathological manifestations arnd severe morbidity. This may be
regarded as an important and highly siznificant qualitative benefit from
such measures. The general improvement in the quality of health of individuals
of the community in the controlled area should also greatly improve their
general ability to resist the debilitating effects of other infections and
may be thus regarded as an indirect but extremely important secondary benefit.



ANNEX 10
Page 15
68.       The proposed measures are also intended to prevent the spread of
S. mansoni from the Delta into the controlled area and this should be regarded
as a very important qualitative benefit of the scheme. Control of bilharzia
in the project area should also reinforce the control already carried out
in Fayoum and must therefore confer considerable benefit to the consolidation
phase of that program.
69.       Assessment of the benefits which will accrue from the application
of control measures,must be made by comparison with the situation which
would develop in the absence of such measures. The overall prevalence of
S. haematobinm in the project area has been assessed as approximately 40%,
though this is probably an underestimate. The expected rate of increase of
the population in the area during the next five years is 500,000, based upon
an estimated oresent population of 3 million, increasing at 3% per year.
Taking an annual incidence rate for S. haematobium of approximately 23% for
children of ages 0-5 there will during five years be an increase of some
115,000 new cases in the group, in the absence of any control measures.
Taking into account the greater likelihood of exDosure to infection in older
groups un to 20 years of age, and possible increases in transmission resulting
from the proposed drainage scheme, the total number of new cases would be
much higher. During this period the intensity of infection, and, therefore,
the morbidity, will also increase in the nroportion of the population already
infected, and many re-infections of nersons treated for, and cured of, the
disease will occur.
Bilharzia Control Equinment and Cost
70.       The equipment, vehicles and materials necessary for the three year
program of bilharzia control are listed in Annex 12. The molluscicide
Bayluscide would be purchased in the 70% wettable powder form and it is
estimated that 45 metric tons per year will be needed. Frescon would be
purchased as the 16.5% emulsifiable concentrate and 46.5 metric tons per
year of the concentrate would be required. These materials and the drug
Ambilhar are each available from only one manufacturer so that international
competitive bidding would not be appropriate. The capital cost of the program
over the years 1974-1977 is estimated to be US$8.1 million, of which US$6.5
million would be foreign exchange. These costs have been detailed in Annex 11.






ANNEX 10
Table 1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF E(VPT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT
Bilharzia Control Program
The prevalence of urinary Bilharzia in areas under different methods of
irrigation in three southern provinces in 1955.
No.         No.               Main Irrigation
Province     District      Examined      Positive      X         Method
Asyut      Dairut           12228          8252       67     Perennial mainly
El-Badari         6815         4721       69     Perennial mainly
Manfalut          7278          1271      17      Basin
Abnub             5637           704      12     Basin
Asyut             9024          2176      24      Basin
Abu Tig           7656          1329      17     Basin
Sohag      Akhmim            8225          4575       56     Perennial
Girga            10157          6934      68     Perennial
El Balyana       12995          7917      61     Perennial
Tima              1892           242      13     Basin
Tahta             3281          298        9     Basin
Qena       Nag Hammadi      11586          7218       62     Pumps (perennial)
Qus               5874           637      11     Basin
Luxor             7106          1055      15     Basin



ANNEX 10
Table 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT
Bilharzia Control Program
Prevalence of Urinary Bilharzia by Age and Sex among 60,197 Persons
Surveyed in 23 Villages in Different Locations in Egypt
Males                   Females                    Total
No.       No.          No.        No.           No.        No.
Age Groups    Examined  Posithe $   Examined  Positive  %   Examined  PositL'   t
0-1   years        38          0   0       35          0    0       73         0   0
2-4   years       866        120  14      768       105   21    1,634        285  17
5-9   years     4,642      2,343  50    4,478     1,951   44    9,120      4,294  47
10-14 years     4,296      2,929  68    3,782     1,977   52    8,078      4,906  60
15-19 years     3,223      2,013  62    2,775     1,361   49    5,998      3,374  56
20-29 years     4,615     2,310  50    5,372      2,071   39    9,987      4,381  44
30-39 years     5,213      2,098  40    5,602     1,501   27   10,815      3,599  33
40-49 years     3,826      1,048  27    3,867        753   19    7,693     1,801  23
50    years     3,hoo        757  22    3,399       603   18    6,799      1,360  20
Total          30,119    13,618  45   30,078    10,382   35   60,197    24,000 40



ANNEK 10
Table 3
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT
Bilharzia Control Program
Percentage of Prevalence and Distribution of Human Bilharzia in ARE Accordine to
Hospital Returns from the Endemic Diseases Hospitals in 1955 and 1965
S. Haematobium         S. Mansoni
Governorateil         1955     1965        1955     1965                  Notes
Beheira               41.1     35.7       21.3      20.0
Gharbiya             42.1      37.0       11.5       5.0
Kafr el Sheikh       43.4      45.3       25.5      20.8     Previously part of Gharbiya
Dakahliya            51.3      41.9       13.4      10.5
Damietta             43.2      23.7       29.5      18.5     Previously part of Dakahliya
Sharkiya             56.1      51.0        4.4       2.0
Qalyubiya             41.1     38.8        1.7       0.9
Minufiya              51.h     37.7         0.7      0.3
El Giza               45.8     40.0         0.3      0.08
El Faiyum            56.6      48.4          -        -
Beni-Suef            51.5      41.4          -        -
El Minya             51.1      40.0          -        -
Asyut                 37.9     37.0          -        -
Sohag                 60.3     40.4          -        -
Qena                 30.2      28.8          -        -
Aswan                 36.6     26.9          -        -
Cairo                 36.3     31.1        0.4       0.4)
Alexandria            14.8     21.0         1.9      7.0)    Urban and therefore not cited
in the 1935 and 1955 spot surveys
Port Said             22.6     14.5         4.1      2.1)
Ismailiya            31.0      20.3        2.3       2.7)
Suez                 20.3      29.0        1.9       1.1)
Total                43.7      37.0        6.1 /2    .31
Ll  "Governorates" were previously called "provinces."  Some provinces have been subdivided;
hence the newly established Kafr el Sheikh and Damietta governorates.
2  This is the S. Mansoni prevalence rate all over the country, the figure for rural
lower Egypt being 9.2.
/   This is the S. Mansoni prevalence rate all over the country, the figure for rural
lower Egypt being 8.3.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT
Bilharzia Control Progra,
Overall Prevalence of Bilharzia in 4 Governornte. of Egypt for 1963. 1970 and 1971/
Preparatory Entrance             Secondary Entracce
Endemic Diseases Unita                     Rural Health Units                  Primary Entrance (6 Years)                   (13 YEars)                        (15 Years)                Com.bined Age Groups
Provinces         Year     Ean.        Posit.      7       Year      REsa.      Posit.      7.      Year      Exan.      Posit.      7O       Exan.     Posit.               Exam.      Posit.        7.     Exam.       Posit.       7
'000        '000                         '000        '000                         '000        '000                ' 000       '000       -       '000        '000        -       '000         '000
Beni-Suef         1963      57.8        27.4      47.2    1963         -           -         -      1963                                                              -         -           -         -        4,7          .7       15.6
1970     49.9        21.7       43.4    1964    327.2        128.4       39.2    1970         -           -         -        -           -         -         -           -         -        2.9           .4      13.1
1971     50,4        20.6       40.9    1970    163.6         59.3       36.2    1971        5.0          .5        9.5     7.7         1.1       13.9      4.5         1.2       25.9    17.1          2.7       15.8
1971    143.9        42.1       29.2
El Minyn          1963      86.4        39.1      45.2    1963         -                     -      1963      12.6         1.3       10.1      3.7          .8       21.5      2.6          .9       33.4    18.9          2.9       15.5
1970     91.0        42.8       47.0    1964    300.9        119.6       39.7    1970        7.6         1.2       15.9     3.9          .6       16.2      1.7           .4      24.7    13.2           2.3       17.2
1971     92.5        40.2       43.4    1970    292.7         85.6       29.2    1971       13.1         1.1       8.2      6 3           .3       5.1      5.7           .5       8.2    21.2          1.9         7.4
1971    176.3        23.8       30.4
Asyut             1963      61.2        26.9       44.0    1963        -     -               -      1963      10.3          .4        3.8      5.1          .4        8.1      2.9          .4       12.1    18.3          1.2        6.1
1970     63.5        23.2       36.4    1964  1,114.2        276 1       24.7    1970         -           -              -          -          -        -           -               -      23.4          5.5       23.2
1971     60.0         21.8      36.3    1970    180.2         43.1       23.9    1971       14.3          .6       44.0     5.5         1.6       29.9      5.2           .8       14.8    24.9          3.0       11.9
1971    213.0        45.4       21.3
Qena              1963      50.4        17,2       34.1    1963       3.9         1.2       31.0    1963       3.6          .2        5.8      1.4          .1        6.8       .4          .1       32.1      5.5          .4        8.1
1970     70.3        23.4       33.2    1970    101.3         40.1       39.6    1970        9.6          .3        3.5    16.9          1.1        6.7    13.7           .5        3.4    40.2          1.9        4.8
1971     67.7         21.5      31.6    1971    145.0          51.4      35.5    1971        8.9          .3        3.8      7.1         1.6       21.9     4.8           .7       13.8    20.8          2.6       12.3
/1  Predominantly S. hannatobs, an S1. ..ann.ni is rare in Upper Egypt.



ARAB REPUIThIC OF EGYPT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJB CT
Bilharzia Control Program
Prevalence of Bilhar2iasis by Occupation
-  --    -- - - - - Number Wilt - - - - - - - - - - -                                                       Percentage With - - - - - - - - - - - -
S. Haeea-                                                                        S. Haema-
No.             tobium          S. Mansoni       Mixed            "Bilhar-                        tobium               S. Mansoni          Mixed                "Bilhar-
Occupation            Examined            Infection       Infection        Infection        ziasis"                        Infection            Infection            Infection           ziasis"
Farmer                  4029                1472             1353             786             2039                            36.5                33.6                 19.5                50.6
Farm Laborer            1713                 539              426             252              713                            31.5                24.9                 14.7                41.6
Landowner                222                  59               52              32               79                            26.6                23.4                 14.4                35.6
Fisherman                 48                  17               25              13               29                            35.4                52.1                27.1                 60.4
Boatman                   25                  12                5               4i              13                            48.o                20.0                 16.o                52.0
Water Carrier
-and Washerman            23                   7               11               7               11                            30.4                47.8                 30.4                47.8
Domestic Servant          47                  13                9               7               15                            27,7                19.1                 14.9                31.9
Skilled Laborer          409                  90               79              42              128                            22.0                19.3                 10.3                31.3
Other Manual            3457                 446              398             172              671                            12.9                11.5                  5.0                19.4
Clerical                 389                  62               43              25               80                            15.9                11.1                  6.4                20.6
Professional             109                  24               27              13               38                            22.0                24.8                 11.9                34.9
None or Other           1473                 336              296             155              477                            22.8                20.1                 10.5                32.4
Total                  11944                3077             2724            1508             4293                            25.8                22.8                 12.6                35.9
- - - -Farmer and Farm Laborer - - - -                               - - - All other Occupations - - -                                        Total - - - - - - - -
Male               Female           Total                          Male           Female           Total                       Male          Female            Total
No. Examined            2900                2842             5742                           3072            3130            6202                       5972           5972             11944
S. Haematobium
Infection              38.9                31.1             35.0                           17.4            17.0            17.2                       27.8           23.8               25.8
S. Ma.son.
Infection              34.7                27.2             31.0                           15.9            14.6            15.2                       25.0            11.0              12.6
Mixed Infection         20.8                15.3             18.1                            8.1             7.1             7.6                       14.3           11.0               12.6
"BiTharziasis"          52.8                43.0             47.9                           25.1            24.6            24.8                       38.6           33.3              35.9
/1  Data from WHO Egypt 49 Project, Farooq et al. 1966.






ANNEX 10
Table 6
ARABI REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT
Bilharzia Control Program
Annual Percentage of Bilharzia Infection in
the Snail in Different Localities
1954    1955    1956    1957   Percentage
Alexandria           Examined          64973   48645   79888   69690
Infected (%)       0.3      0.24    0.08    0.24    0.21
Kafr-El-Sheikh       Examined          62721  103163   75242  115648
Infected (%)       0.47    0.21    0.2       0.11    0.23
Gharbiya             Examined         442607  873483  688554  758020
Infected (%)       0.05    0.06    0.04    0.07    0.05
Minufiya             Examined         767795  517304  485128  875759
Infected (%)       0.1      0.09    0.07    0.05    0.09
Qalubiya             Examined         430201  249724  169737  340410
Infected (%)       0.26    0.19    0.24    0.14    0.21
Giza                 Examined         233143  175544  126144  275979
Infected (%)       0.4      0.2     0.16    0.11    0.24
Fayoum               Examined          72270  104438  336944  440771
Infected (%)       0.6      0.82    0.21    0.21    0.32
Beni Suef            Examined         238217  200924  230112  385064
Infected (%)       0.5      0.2      0.21    0.24    0.30
Qena                 Examined          43414   51367   60019   58170
Infected (%)       1.9      0.71    0.29    0.3       0.76
Aswan                Examined          56711   29968   33026   38074
Infected (%)       0.4      0.5      0.4     0.27    0.40






uPm ECYPT 01610A0N61 PROJECT
Coat Estmtez.
T O T A L                     Year  I                 Tear  2                 Year  3                 Sear 4                  Yaar  5                  Year  6
I 9 7 4                I 9 7 5                  1 9 7 6                 1 9 7 7                 1 9 7 8                 1 9 7 9
Locasl   toreten    7-tel        Lotnl    Fcral-         Local    P.rai.         ttl    F-rriet          Local    For-tar        Laal    Forn             1aal    F-te..
A.  8RAO880Z WtS
.TIe DratTi   ge
(a)  6quilman
q)  Euimnt. nehiles  qod
.tI fCr lil. drainag
-t-atr ct tn intl. 1a1
fraight cad inaur ne             0.89     8.90       9.79        0.26        2.62        0.24       2.35         0.12        1.16         0.13      1.30          0.07       0.73         0.07      0.72
(it)  Tila drain taictenanta
t,iL.et                           -       0.27       0.27         -           -           -         0.05           -         0.05           -       0.05           .         0.06          -        0.06
(Oti)  ttaefaonuetrthntctaea
and nqaflrad guaraocam Car
tile Iyntg aquipmnnt             -       0.24       0.24          -         0.03          -        0.07           -         0.07           -       0.07           -
(6) Coentctt tion
(0) Tile drama and pipe
catlatsora                     25.11       -       25.11         -           -           3.33       -           4.43         -           5.35       -            6.05         -          5.95        -
(00)  Crop tsmpra..t.o.                4.50      -         4 50          -          _          0.90                       0         -           0.90      -             0.90        -           0.90 
Sob-total                       30.50     9.41      39.91        0.26        2.65        4.47       2.47         5.45        1.30         6.30      1.42          7.02       0.79         6.92      0.78
2. 7eei  nd 5roch Draia
(a)  iquip-cot
(')  hraalnne - neinina,  eteni
and oorkabop cquipnent
tedl. local Oreigbo and
ineorance                        0.53     5.32      5.85         0.10        1.00        0.21       2.07         0.10        1.00         0.01      0.50         0.50        0.50         0.02      0.25
(4) Contru:tn ia
(1) LCad aoqoieito                    7.07      -         2.67        0.55         -          0.55        -           0.55         -           0.55       -            0.47         -           -          -
(4i)  Eaca,ation                      055        _        15.75        1.48         -           nun        -           3.9          _           3.09       -            3.09         -          2.58        _
(iii)  Strociocco                       7.79      -         7-79        0.36         .           1.50       _            1i.6                     1.74                   1.74        -           0.49
lub-to-l                        26.74     5.32      32.06        2.49        1.00        4.10       2.07         5.10        1.00         5.43      0.50          5.35       0.50         4.09      0.25
3. FonpIng Stotiona
(i)  Pepa  otora and enltch-
gear                             1.90     4.90       5.80          -          -          0.19       0.94          0.37       1.72         0.36      1.86          0.08        0.356        -
(ii) Tc o-anaaitO linen end
aubatanloto-                     1.0(     0 18       2.00         -           _          0.25       0.30         0.35        0.41         0.35      0.41          0.05       0.06          -          -
(iii) Civil -krta including
niacallanaoua eqUieaettt
and aneel                        2.93      1.56      4.49          -          -          0.58       0.30         0.88        0.40          1.17     0.62          0.30        0.16
Sab-tonal                        4.93     7.62      12.55         _           _           1.02      1.54          1.60       2.61          1.89     2.89          0.43       0.58          -          -
4.  tnc-i-tion of Saline tand
(0)  Cquipmant                         -       0.82       0.02         -          0.22          -        0.24           -         0.24           -       0.06           -         0.06
(i-) Itaterial and  otkc               1.69       -        1.69        0.06         -          0.18        _           0.26         .           0.37        _           0.41         -          0.41
Sub-tonal                        1.69     0.62       2.51        0.06        0.22        0.18       0.24         0.26        0.24         0.37      0.06          0.41       0.06         0.41        -
5. ASricul-ur-l 9totnaloc S-rvina
Eqolp-nnt                                   -        0.20      0.20          -         0.20          -         -             -                        -        -             _           -           -          _
6.  Ionsu-ttnta and Tr-loint                    0.71     0.0O       1.21        0.04       0.2c         0.06      0.30          0.04       0.38          0.05     0.20          0.02        0.l0          -
7. Adeinietranion and ovrrhttd (innO.
Office Building for Ocainaae Work.)        6.10      0.36      6.46         1.05       0.14         1.10      0.22          1.05         -           0.94       -            0.94        -           0.94
6.  Cnnttngonttea  for  Drainage tork.
(iS  Picyeicai                        7.00     2.23       9.23         -           -           1.-0      0.60         1.50           0          1.50     0.60          1.80       0.40         1.20      0.13
(ii)  Priteeaoolation                  8.96     2.57      11.53         -           -          0.40       0.3.7        1.20        0.50          0.9      0.85          2.56       0.40         2.72      0.29
Sub-totol                       15.96     4.80      50.76          -          -           1.48      0.97        2371         1.08          3.46     IOA4          4.36        2.88        5 .92      0.42
TOTAL                           66.15    29.52    uS .66          5.         4.40        12.57      7.8i         16.51       6.43         18.54     6.52         10,53        2.91       16.20       0.45
S.  0ILHA02LA CO0T11OL PP03NAM
0. tiibaraia Control iqnipsnot, Vehicisa
and Mt-rnla
fi)  fqoipneot  oI vabilee             -       0.30       0.30         -           -            -        Q.75           -         0.12           -       0.02           -         0.01
(01)  Ouloa ttidea                     0.88     4.32       5.20          -          -          0.11       l.f          0.33        1.46          0.33     1.46          0.11       0.62          _
(lii)  Dr-Sa                            0.02     0.12       0.14                     _                                  0.02        0.12           _         _
ub-nonal                         0.90     4.74       5.64         -           -          0.11       0.93         0.)35        .70         0.33      1.48          0.11       0.63          -          -
2. C.n -oltant. for the Bllh-icla
Control ?rogro                             0.06      0.54      0.60          -          -           0.01      0.09          0.02       0.08          0.02     0.18          0.01        0.09
3. Admtintiaatioo and ov-rhbod for
tho Bilbatrni L0otro1 proara               0.42       -        0.42          -          -           0.06        -           0.12         -           0.12       -           0.12
4.  Contingn tef -or the BliharcL-
Control Pro6ra
(0)  7Ft  -Il                         0.14     0.53       0.67          -          -           0.00       o 0.        0.00        0.19         0.05      0.l0          0.02       0.07          -
(        .i)  Pri e e.a Ialion         0.I1     0.66       0.81          _         _            0.01       .05         0.04        0.19          0.06     0.26          0.04       0.16
TOTAL                            1.67     6.47       8.14                _ _              0.21      1.17          0.58       2. 26         0. 5     2.09          0.30        0.95         -
CR0762 34TAL (n/o dotine)       87.80    360    03.               3.90       4.41        15.78      8.98         16.09       0.6          19.12     0.61         18.83        3.86       l6.28       1.45
C.etna,   OLtia 00 P-roj-ot Imports        6.20                6.20         1.00         -          1.70        _           1.50         .           1.20       -           0.60         -           0.20






Annex 12
Page   1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT
/1
List of Vehicles, Equipment and Materials
Part A - Drainage Works
Item                        Description             Quantity    _CF Alexandria
Unit Price     Cost
Us$ -
I. Tile Drainage
1       General purpose vehicle, 4-wheel drive       26       4,200           109,200
2       Station wagon, h-wheel drive, 6 seats         8       5,400            43,200
3       Pick-up truck                                26       4,400           114,400
4       Truck, 10 ton                                60      10,000           60o,000
5       Trailer for 10 ton truck                     60       2,400           144,000
6       Tractor, wheeled, 35-50 hp                  100       6,000           600,000
7       General purpose trailer, 3 ton             200        1,300          260,000
8       Farm tractor, tracked, 50-70 hp with
trench backfiller attachment              20       22,000          440,000
9       Transporter semitrailor, 15 ton               3      30,000            90,000
10       Motorcycle                                   4o         550            22,000
ll       Tile-laying machine                          20      75,000         1,500,000
12       Excavator with hydraulic backhoe              6      38,500           231,000
13       Road grader                                   3      33,000            99,000
14       Mobile crane, 7 ton                           3      44,000           132,000
15       Pipe-making machine (for collector pipes)
including moulds                          10       50,000          500,000
16       Tile-making machine /2                                                o50,0oo
17       Workshops and stores equipment                4 lots 75,000           300,000
18       Mobile workshop                               6      25,000           150,000
19       Diesel electric generating set for tile-
making factories (25-35 kW)              20        5,500          110,000
20       Pump, ranging from  3"-n44"                  40       1,100            44,000
21       Tile-testing machine (hydraulic,
hand operated)                           20          550           11,000
22       Surveying instruments (theodol-ite,
level, stafof gage, steel tape, ett.)   lot                        50,000
23       Chain blocks, 1 to 3 ton                     30         250             7,500
24       Electric welding machine, 250A                6       4,000            24,000
25       Spare parts for tile-laying irachines        lot                      955,000
26       Spare parts for vehicles and equipment/3  lot                       1,1 00,000
27       Miscellaneous equipment and tool-s           lot       449.,lOO
28       Reinforcirl steel - tons                    1000        130           130,000
/1 Vehicle and equipment prices include 10% provision for initial stock of spares. Sub-
sequent requirements for spares are shown separately.
/2  Based on 60 small machines, exact size and number subject to review.
73  Spares - Vehicles 20%; tractors 30%; cranes, generatore 10%; pipe
and tile-making machines 50%; trailers 5%



ANNEX 1 2
Page   2
Item                     Description                       Quantity      CIF Alexandria
Unit Price    Cost
29         Steel plate - tons                               3,240          165        534,6oo
Subtotal                                         8,900,000
II. Open Main and Branch Drains
1         General ourpose vehicle, 4-wheel drive               6        4,200         25,200
2         Station wagon, 4-wheel drive,6 seats                 6        5,400         32,400
3         Pick-up trucks                                       4        4,400         17,600
4         Truck, 10 ton                                       10       10,000        100,000
5         Trailer for 10 ton truck                            10        2,400         24,000
6         Transporter semitrailer  60 ton                      4       75,000        300,000
7         Dragline, 1-1/2 cu yd                               13       77,000     1,001,000
8         Dragline, 3/4 cu yd                                 19       4h,000        836,000
9         Angle dozers 140 hp  including rippers               6       60,000        360,000
10         Barges fitted with weed cutting equipment            4       25,000        100,000
11         Mobile workshop                                      3       25,000         75,000
12         Spare parts for vehicles and equipment /1          lot                     468,100
1_3        Miscellaneous equipment and tools                  lot                     43,200
14         Reinforcing steel - tons                        14,000          130      1,820,000
15         Steel plate and structural steel - tons            700          165       115,500
Subtotal                                      5,318,000
III. Pumping Stations
1         Pump, motor and switch gear (including
contractor's foreign exchange cost for
installation)                                                           4,880,000
2         Power transmission equipment                                             1,180,000
3         Civil works construction equipment (steel
sheet pile, dewatering equipment, etc.)                                   600,500
4         Reinforcing steel - tons                         7,000          130        910,000
5         Steel plate and structural steel - tons            300          165         49,500
Subtotal                                      7,620,000
IV. Reclamation of Saline Land
1         Load-ng belt conveyor                                4        3,000         12,000
2         Tractor, wheeled 35-50 hp with 3-4 ton
spreader trailer                                    21       9,000        189,000
/1 Spares - Vehicles 20%; draglines 15%; trailers 5%; dozers 20%; barges 10%.



Annex 12
Page   3
Item                 Description                   Quantity         CIF Alexandria
Unit Price    Cost
3      Tractor, wheeled, 35-50 hp with
trailer for carrying pump and
accessories                              12             7,300       87,600
4      Crawler tractor, 180 hp with mould
board plough and subsoiler                6            45,000      270,000
5      Pump 4", 12 hp on skid mount with
accessories (pipes, etc.)                35             2,400       84,000
6      Spare parts for above                       lot                        160,000
7      Miscellaneous equipment and tools           lot                         17,400
Subtotal                                                     820,000
V. Tile Drain Maintenance
I      Farm tractor, wheeled 35-50 hp               10             6,000       60,000
2      Water wagon                                  20             2,750       55,000
3      Flushing equipment and rod sets              20             5,000      100,000
4      Miscellaneous equipment and tools           lot                         25,ooo
5      Spare parts for above                       lot                         30,000
Subtotal                                                     270,000
VI. Agricultural Extension Service
1      General purpose vehicle 4-wheel drive,
3 for each governorate (for agr.
extension and statistical officers)      18             4,200       75,600
2      Motorcycle  for district agr.
officer and assistant                    54               550       29,700
3      Bicycle for village agr. agent              300                60       18,000
4      Demonstration van (one for each
governorate)                              6             6,000       36,000
5      Audio-visual aid equipment set                6             1,200        7,200
6      Miscellaneous equipment                                                  4,500
7      Spare parts except items 64 and 65          lot                         29,000
Subtotal                                                     200,000
VII. Public Authority for Drainage
1      Equipment for  ffice and  raining  enter  1 lot                         30,000
2      Drawing office equipment                    1 lot                       20,000
3       Equipment for experimental drainage
station and laboratory                  1 lot                       20,000



Annex 12
Page   4
Item                   Description               Quantity           CIF Alexandria
Unit Price    Cost
------US$ ---
4      Surveying equipment                      1 lot                          10,000
5      Microbus or minibus                         3              5,000        15,000
6      General purpose vehicle, 4-wheel
drive                                  20              4,200        84,000
7      Station wagon, 4-wheel drive, 6 seats   18                 5,400       97,200
8      Pick-up truck                               3              4,400       13,200
9      Miscellaneous supplies and equipment
for Authority's offices, etc.                                       32,600
10      Spare parts for vehicles, items 72
through 75                                                          38,000
Subtotal                                                    360,000
Part B - Bilharzia Control Program
1      Test kit                                   30                 30           900
2      Current meter                              10                400        4,000
3      Knapsack sprayer                          300                 60       18,000
4      Motor sprayer                               6                800        4,800
5      Piston medium sprayer                      15                600        9,000
6      Microscope                                  4                650        2,600
7      Truck 5 ton                                 2              9,000       18,000
8      Pick up                                    20              4,400       88,000
9      Station wagon                               3              5,400       16,200
10      Mobile workshop                             2             25,000        50,000
1.1     General purpose vehicle 4-wheel
drive                                   6              4,200        25,200
12      Spare parts                                                             40,000
13      Miscellaneous, equipment and tools                                     18,500
14      Bayluscide /1                          135 m tons          4,815      650,000
15      Frescon /1                             140 m tons         26,200    3,668,ooo
16      Ambilhar71                          205,000 courses          0.56     114,800
Subtotal                                                 4,728,000
Grand total                                             28,216,000
/_ The molluscicides "Bayluscide" and "Frescon" and the drug "Ambilhar" are
specified products which would be procured directly from manufacturers.



ANNEX 13
ARiAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
UPPER EGYPT D-RAINASE PROJEC,
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative Disbursement at End of Quarter
Bilharzia
Drainage          Control
IDA 1F'iscal Year and Quarter    Wor ks           Program            Total
---------------- US$ '000- ------------
1973/74
March 31, 1974                    o0                    _              400
June 30, 1974                  1,000                    -            1,000
1974/75
September 30, 1974             2,000                    -            2,000
December 31, 1974              3, 500-                               3,500
March 31, 1975                 5,000                  200            5,200
June 30, 1975                  7,000                4ho              7,400
1975/76
September 30, 1975             9,000                  700            9,700
December 31, 1975             11,000               1,000            12,000
March 31, 19'76               12,500               1,500            14,000
June 30, 1976                 15,000               2,000            17,000 ,
1976/77
September 30, 1976            16,500               2,500            19,000
December 31, 1976             17,500               3,000            20,500
March 31, 1977                19,000               3,500            22,500
June 30, 1977                 21,000               4,ooo            25,000 /
1977/73
September 30, 1977            22,500               4,600            27,100
December 31, 1977             24,500               5,100            29,600
March 31, 1978                25,500               5,500            31,000
June 30, 1978                 26,500               5,900            32,400
1978/79
September 30, 1978            27,000               6,100            33,100
December 31, 1978             27,800               6,300            3h,100
March 31, 1979                28,130               6,470            34,600
June 30, 1979                 28,830               6,470            35,300
1979/80
September 30, 1979            29,130               6,470            35,600
December 31, 1979             29,530               6,4'70           36,000






ANNEX 14
Page 1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT
RESOLUTION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NO. 158 OF 1973
MERGER OF THE PUBLIC AUTHORITY FOR COVERED DRAINAGE PROJECTS
IN THE NILE DELTA AND THE EGYPTIAN GENERAL AUTHORITY FOR
DRAINAGE INTO ONE AUTHORITY CALLED THE EGYPTIAN PUBLIC
AUTHORITY FOR DRAINAGE PROJECTS
The President of the Republic
Having seen the Constitution and Law No. 308 for 1955
and the Public Authorities Law issued by Law No. 61 of 1963
and Law No. 58 of 19,71 promulgating the State Civil Servants Regulations
and Resolution of the President of the Republic No. 1662 of 1963 concerning
payment of work allowance to officials and workers of the Executive Agency of
the Expansion Projects through high dam water
and Resolution of the President of the Republic No. 2193 of 1964 concerning
the Ministry of Irrigation
and Resolution of the President of the Republic No. 1783 of 1969 establishing
the Public Authority for Covered Drainage Projects in the Delta
and Resolution of the President of the Republic No. 2434 of 1971 establishing
the Egyptian General Authority for Drainage
and the approval of the Cabinet
Has Resolved:
Article 1
The Public Authority for Covered Drainage in Delta and the Egyptian General
Authority for Drainage are mergered into one Authority called "THE EGYPTIAN
PUJBLIC AUTHORITY FOR DRAINAGE PROJECTS" Its seat is Cairo, it has status of
a Juristic person and will be subordinate to the Minister of Irrigation.
Article 2
The Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage participates in developing the
national economy through its different drainage activities throughout the
Republic. It accomplishes its objectives by carrying out research and studies
and by executing the necessary work for agricultural expansion by the com-
pletion of projects of converting basin irrigation system to perennial ir-
rigation.
The Authority carries out the following:



ANNEX 14
Page 2
1.   Studying the condition of land in the Delta, in areas which are being
converted from basin irrigation and other areas in Upper Egypt to
determine the extent of their need for field drainage projects (covered
and uncovered) and to give priorities to the different areas according
to their need.
2.   The necessary field research and studies to extend the covered drainage
networks and to supervise the execution of these networks.
3.   Research and development of schemes for work necessary for the construc-
tion, expansion and deepening of uncovered drains in the project areas
in order to guarantee the required depth and the execution of these
works.
4.   Field research and studies to prepare the information and data necessary
to develop schemes for drainage pumping stations in the project areas
and to supervise the construction of these stations including their
requirements of transformers and electrical lines.
5.   Studies and research to evaluate the effect of covered field drainage
on agricultural production and new research to determine the optimum
spacing, diameters, and installation, depth of covered field drains
for different type  of soil.
6.   Research and study necessary for completion of projects for conversion
of basin irrigation systems and to achieve the planned agricultural
expansion by using the High Dam water.
7.   Training of engineers, supervisors and workers on work in the covered
field drainage projects, on operating and supervising the pumping
stations and on maintaining the equipment and machinery necessary for
the execution of the projects.
Article 3
The Authority is administered by a Board of Directors composed as follows:
Head of the Board of Directors                             Chairman
Deputy Chairman for Lower Egypt                            Member
Deputy Chairman for Upper Egypt
Chairman of Egyptian Public Authority for Cadestral
Affairs
Consultant from Legal Department of National Assembly    it
Under-secretary of Mfinistry of Irrigation chosen
by Ministry of Irrigation
Under-secretary of :Iinistry of Agriculture chosen
by Minister of Agriculture
Under-secretary of Ministry of Treasury chosen
by Minister of Treasury
Authority's Projects Director
AuJiority's Director of Planning and Evaluation
Authority's Director of Financial and Administrative
Affairs



ANTNEX 14
Page 3
The Minister of Irrigation can appoint two members with experience in the
field of the Authority's work.
The Chairman and both his Deputies are appointed by the President of the
Republic. Emoluments of the Chairman and the members of the Board of Directors
are also determined by the President of the Republic.
Article 4
The Board of Directors is enpowered to administer the Authority and to ensure
it accomplishes its objectives. In particular, it Performs the following:
1.   Establishes the Authority's Administrative Procedures
2.   Establishes rules and internal regulations concerning technical, adminis-
trative and financial affairs of the Authority after consulting with
the Ministry of Treasury and without being restricted by Government
rules and regulations.
3.   Establishes rules concerning the appointment of the Authority's personnel,
their promotion, transfer, training and other matters related to their
professional affairs after consulting with the Ministry of Treasury and
without being restricted by Government rules and regulations.
4.   ADproves the Authority's pronosed annual budget and its final accounts
provided they are presented at the time fixed by the Ministry of
Treasurv.
5.   Considlers the periodical reports concerning the Authority's progress
of work and its financial position.
6.   Gives the preliminary anproval of loan agreements.
7.   Accepts donations and offers from different authorities.
S.   Considers all matters which the Minister of Irrigation or the Chairman
deem to be of the Authority's resnonsibility.
Article 5
The Chairman of the Board of Directors administers the Authority, deals with
its affairs and is responsible for the execution of the general policy draxwn
un for the accomplishment of its objectives. He is allowed to authorize one
or more members of the Board to perform some of his responsibilities. He also
renresents the Authority in its relations with other organizations and before
the judiciary.
Article 6
The Board of Directors meets at least once everv month. The invitation to
attend the meeting is extended at least one week before the date fixed for the



ANNEX 14
Page 4
meeting, except in cases of emergency. The Board will also meet if the
majority of its members request it.
Article 7
The meeting of the Board of Directors is not valid unless attended by the
majority of its members. Decisions are passed by absolute majority of votes
of the members present. In case of equal votes, the Chairman has a casting
vote.
Article 8
In case of the absence of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the meeting
is presided over by one of his deputies selected by the Minister of Irriga-
tion.
Article 9
Minutes of the meetings and decisions of the Board are kept in a special
register and are signed by the Chairman and the Secretary.
Article 10
The Chairman submits the decisions of the Board to the Minister of Irrigation
for his approval.
Article 11
The Board of Directors may establish one or more committees to carry out some
of its responsibilities. It can also authorize one of its members or one of
the Authority's directors to carry out certain missions. The Board may also
establish a committee formed from its members or others to carry out special
missions. The committee presents its recommendations to the Board for con-
sideration.
Article 12
The Authority's resources consist of the following:
1.   Appropriations allocated by the State.
2.   Income derived from its activities.
3.   Donations and contributions accepted by the Board of Directors.
4.   Loans (must be agreed to by the Board of Directors).
5.   Proceeds resulting from the execution of the Food Aid Program Fund.



ANNEX 14
Page 5
Article 13
The Authority has an independent budget prepared in the same manner as the
general State budget and a final statement of accounts. The fiscal year of
the Authority starts and ends with the State's fiscal year.
Article 14
Legal procedures are established to transfer appropriations and positions
allocated to both the Public Authority for Covered Drainage Projects in the
Nile Delta and the Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage, included in the
budget of the Ministry of Irrigation (Public Authorities' Budgets) for the
fiscal year 1973, to the said Public Authority for Drainage Projects.
Article 15
All rights and obligations of the Public Authority for Covered Drainage in
the Nile Delta and the Egyptian General Authority for Drainage revert to the
Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage Projects.
Article 16
Personnel of both the Public Authority for Covered Drainage in the Nile Delta
and the Egyptian Ceneral Authority for Drainage are transferred to the Egyptian
Public Authority for Drainage Projects at the same grade levels and with the
same salaries.
Article 17
The Authority has the right of administrative confiscation according to Law
No. 308 of 1955.
Article 18
This resolution will be published in the official gazette and will come into
force from the date of its promulgation.
Issued at the Presidency on
Moharam 9, 1393 (February, 1973)
(ANWAR AL SADAT)






ANNEX 15
Page 1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT
Agricultural Production, Markets and Prices
Crop Production
1.        Crop production statistics for the period 1967-1971 in the six
governorates within which the project is located were obtained from the
statistical division of the Ministry of Agriculture of Egypt. No information
was available on the levels of production within the boundaries of the
project. In order to estimate present production and orojected future
productivity with and without the project, average yields of the main
crops were estimated for each of the five land productivity classes used in
the soil survey of the project area. These estimates were based on yields
obtained by individual farmers on land corresponding to each class.
Cotton
2.        In TJpper Egypt the main commercial varieties are Medium Long
Staple Cotton with staDle length classifications ranging from 1-1/8 to 1-3/8
inches. T4eighted average yields for the six governorates and annual areas
cultivated were:
1967  1968   1969   1970   1971   Average
Weighted Average Yield
Seed cotton m tons/
fed             0.79   0.83   0.96   0.77    n.a.    0.81
Area Cultivated
'000 feddans      540    481    539    488       n.a.    512
Individual farmers in the nroject area obtained yields as high as 1.6 m tons
per fed on good land whilst about 0.8 m tons was usual and on poor soils
yields were as low as 0.3 to 0.5 m tons.  Antic°pated yields for each land
productivity class were:
Class            1    2     3    4    5
Seed Cotton - m tons/
fedcan                   1.00 0.85  0.65 0.40 nil



ANNEX 15
Page 2
Winter Grains
3.        Wheat comprises about 96% of the total area under winter grain
crons in the six governorates, the remainder being barley. The main variety
of wheat is Giza 155 with small areas of the lower yielding Giza 150. New
Mexican wheat varieties are presently being introduced which under experiment
conditions have given 50% higher yields than Giza 155. Weighted average
wheat yields and the annual areas cultivated were:
1967  1968  1969  1970  1971   Average
Weighted Average Yield
Wheat - m tons/feddan    1.24  1.19  1.02  1.24  1.28    1.20
Area Cultivated
Wheat '000 feddans         394   461   389   432   445        424
Total winter grain '000
feddans                   417   486   406   443   456        441
Research yields of wheat of 1.5 m tons Der fed have been obtained with Giza
155 and 2.25 m tons with the new Mexican wheats. Farmers generally reported
yields of 0.90 to 1.20 m tons on average land but only 0.45 to 0.60 m tons
on poor land. Anticipated yields for each land productivity class were:
Class                  1       2       3       4     5
W4heat - m tons/feddan    1.40  1.20   0.90   0.50   nil
Winter Legumes
4.        Beans and lentils tredominate, beans occupying 75% of the area.
Weighted average yields and areas cultivated were:
1967  1968  1969  1970  1971   Average
Weighted Average Yield
Beans - m tons/feddan         0.77  1.02  0.97  1.06  1.14    0.99
Area Cultivated
Beans '000 feddans            170   170   176   168   155        168
Total legumes '000
feddans                      236   221   221   215   218        222



ANNEX 15
Page 3
Anticipated yields for each land productivity class were:
Class           1       2      3       4       5
m tons feddan        1.30   1.10   .80    .40    nil
Summer Grains
5.        Approximately equal areas of maize and sorghum are grown, maize
predominating in the north and sorghum in the south. Weighted average
yields and areas cultivated were:
1967   1968   1969   1970   1971   Average
Weighted Average Yields
Maize - m tons/feddan              1.52   1.51   1.62   1.55   1.47        1.54
Sorghum - m tons/feddan            1.75   1.77   1.79   1.92   1.89        1.82
Area Cultivated
Maize - '000 feddan               359    393    372    401    372         379
Sorghumn - '000 feddan           442    452       398   405    391         418
For estimation of crop production in the project maize and sorghum were taken
together and anticipated yields for each land productivity class were:
Class           1       2      3      4     5
Maize and Sorghulm -
m tons/feddan    2.10    1.80   1.35  0.75   nil
Sugarcane
6.        Sugarcane production is mainly confined to El Minya, Qena and
Aswan Governorates. The princinal varieties are NCC 310, CO 430 and 48/D12.
Weighted average yields and areas cultivated were:
1967   1968    1969    1970    1971    Average
Weighted Average Yield
Sugarcane m tons/feddan  39.16  39.45   37.81   37.68   n.a.           38.52
Area Cultivated
'000 feddans               128    149      16?      178     n.a.        154



ANNEX 15
Page 4
Cane yields were reported to vary from 45 to 50 tons on good land to 10 to
20 tons on poor land. Anticipated yields for each land productivity class
were:
Class        1     2     3      4     5
Cc_ae - m tons!
-eddan          47    41    32    20   nil
CUnions
7.        Onions are grown in all governorates but on an extensive scale
only in Sohag. Average yields and area cultivated were:
1967    1968      1969    1970    1971       Average
Weighted Average Yield
Onions - m tons/feddan   7.84    6.93        6.93    7.05    7.91        7.31
Area Cultivated
'000 feddan                32       31        45      29       31         34
Anticipated yields for each land productivity class were:
Class            1     2      3      4       5
Onions - m tons/
feddan             10.60  9.00  6.75   3.40    nil
Miscellaneous Crops
8.        Although extensive areas of fodder crops, especially berseem, are
grown, much of this is used to feed draught animals. Due to lack of statis-
tics, production of meat, milk and eggs for domestic consumption and sale
in local markets is difficult to quantify. Fodder production has therefore
been omitted from project benefit calculations and to compensate for this
the costs of animal power have been excluded in assessing crop production
costs. The net result is conservative. In calculating the value of crops
produced in the pro,ect area, allowance has been made for vegetables, fruit
and other miscellaneous crops in each governorate. The value of this produc-
tion has been expressed as a percentage of the value of the main crops for
which detailed production estimates were made. The factors used were:
Leni Suef      +    6.25%
El Minyz        +    5.80%
Asvut           +    9.50%
Sohag           +   10.00%
Qena            +    9.00%
Aswan           +    5.80%



ANNEX 15
Page 5
Yield Response to Drainage
9.        The yields of cotton, wheat and maize on areas totaling 50,000
fed in BeTli Suef and El Minya Governorates where tile drainage was completed
in 1962 to 1963 were monitored for three years before and after installation
of the drains. The results indicated increases in yields attributable to
drainage as follows:
Average Yield m tons
Crop        Before Drainage         After Drainage           Increase ,
Cotton              0.63                   0.89                  41
Wheat               0.80                   1.02                  27
1Tai7e              0.90                   1. 1 8                31
In Favolum Governorate monitoring of yields in three villages after tile
draining indicated yield increases ranging from 14 to 33% for cotton, 19 to
60% for wheat and 20 to 40% for maize.  In Beni Suef Covernorate the yields
in three villages, adjitsted to eliminate seasonal variation, showed increases
of the order of 20% for cotton, wheat and naize in the three years after
drainag,e, when comnared to the preceding three years. Yields, however,
generally continued to improve over the recorded neriod following drainage
and reached levels 30 to 80% higher than the average before drainage.
10.       The anticipated improvements in land productivitv in the project
area resulting from drainage give estimated yield increases of about 35%
for annual crops and 25% for sugarcane over a 10-year period.  The existing
improductive land amounts to 4% of the area and without the project this is
estimated to increase to 15% in 10 years and 36% in 35 years.  Without the
project, yields on remaining productive areas are expected to decline by
about 12 to 15% in 10 years and about 30-35% in 35 years.
Markets and Prices
11.       Cotton nroduction in the nrolect area will increase by some 6,500
tons lint bv 193R3.  Eastern Europe and the USSR presently take about 70% of
Egypt's medium and long staple cotton exports. The nominal prices received
are as high or higher than those paid by hard currency countries. Current
trade commitrents and arrangements suggest that this situation will continue.
Export prosnects for the mediunm long staple cotton (1-1/8" to 1-3/8") produced
in the project area will depend on future development of synthetic fibers,
the production policy of other countries, especially the VSA, and upon pos-
sible bilateral apreements which Egynt may conclude, narticularly with Eastern
Europe. World demand is expected to increase only by about 1% annually and
a nrice decline is forecast. The price of Mexican St. Middling 1-1/16" cif.
Liverpool was 30.7 IJS cents/lb in 1970 and 35.5 in 1971 but is expected to



ANNEX 15
Page 6
fall to 25 US cents by 1980 (1970 dollars). The cotton produced in the
Droject area is superior to the Mexican commodity and after making allowance
for currency realignment, its price has been projected to be 32 US cents/lb
cif Livernool equivalent to 29 US cents fob Alexandria. The value of cotton-
seed oil and other by-products is estimated at US$57 per ton of seed cotton
after deducting processing cost. This value is roughly equal to the ginning
cost which amounts to USS60 per ton.
12.       As a result of this project, sugar production in the project area
will increase by about 42,000 tons by 1983 and the development of the new
sugar factory in the Qena Governorate will result in an increase of a fur-
ther 160,000 tons.  Egypt has emerged as a modest net exporter of sugar under
bilateral agreements and intends to retain this position in the future. Due
to population growth, even at present per capita consumption, production will
need to expand by 261,000 tons by 1982. The realized export price was 4.79
US cent/lb and the average farmgate price 4.21 in 1970. The world market
price has been 3.75 US cents/lb in 1970 and 4.52 in 1971 fob Caribbean ports.
A marked upward trend has since occurred and allowing for currency realign-
ment, a projected would price of 8.40 US cents/lb was used in the economic
analysis of the project. The average extraction rate of sugar is 11% in
Egypt and the total factory cost including collection of cane from the indi-
vidual growers anounts to US$41 per ton of sugar nroduced.
13.       WTheat production from the project by year 10 will be some 23,000
tons higher than the present production 70,500 m tons. Egypt imported
850,000 tons of wheat and 275,000 tons of flour in 1970. Import prices de-
creased from an average US$71 per ton in 1967 to about US$56 per ton in 1970.
American wheat was valued at US$57 Der ton in 1970 and ITS$62 in 1971 fob
US port. The import price after allowing the currency realignment is expected
to increase to US$71.80 per ton cif Egypt by 1980.
14.       The project area production of maize and sorghum will increase by
62,000 tons from 167,000 tons to 229,000 tons bv 1983. In 1972 Egypt im-
ported about 73,00Q tons of maize. Import prices have varied between US$64.75
and USW6.61 per ton between 1967 and 1970. US maize delivered to Rotterdam
fetched USgf66.20 in 1970 ani1 IJ$ 62.80 in 1971.  Future price trends are ex-
pected to be similar to those for wheat and a price cif Egypt of IJS$71.80 per
ton is forecast for 1980.
15.       Production of beans in the proiect area will increase from the
present 2R,000 tons to 38,000 tons at nroject full production in 1983.  There
is little world trade in beans and although Egypt exports a small quantity
- 17,000 tons in 1970 - it has been assumed that production from the project
area would be consxmed locally.  Average farmgate nrice for the period 1967-
1971 was I1SA117 per ton and allowing for currency realignment a price of US$130
per ton is projected for 1980.



ANNEX 15
Page 7
16,.      Production of onions in the project area is largely concentrated
in Sohag Governorate. Production is expected to increase by 9,000 tons to
32,000 tons bv 1983. The average export nrice during the period 1967-70
was IJSA132 per ton while the local price was only US$32 Per ton (mixed
grades). About 100,000 tons are exported annually. A price of US$147 per ton
is projected for 1980.






ANNEX 15
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT
Agricultural Production, Markets and Prices
Present and ProJected Cropped Area, Yields and Annual Production
in the Project Area
Without Project     With Project
Present   Yr 10   Year 35   Year 10 Onwards
Wheat
Cropped area ('000 fed)                      70.57     60.33     46.54          73.53
Yield  (m tons/fed)                           0.95      0.80       0.60          1.25
Production ('000 m tons)                     67.33     48.39      27.84         90.16
Increase over present(%)                                                        34
Increase over year 10 without project(%)                                        86
Beans
Cropped area ('000 fed)                      32.88     28.96      22.33         34.17
Yield (m tons/fed)                            0.85      0.65      0.50           1.10
Production ('000 m tons)                     28.22     18.99      11.72         38.33
Increase over present(%)                                                        36
Increase over year 10 without project(%)                                       102
Cotton
Cropped area ('000 fed)                      79.71     70.18     52.86          82.81
Yield (m tons/fed)                            0.70      0.55      0.50           0.85
Production ('000 m tons)                     54.83     38.68      25.14         72.25
Increase over present(%)                                                        32
Increase over year 10 without project (%)                                       87
'aize and Sorghum
Cropped area ('000 fed)                     114.37     99.21     76.16         118.99
Yield (m tons/fed)                            1.45      1.15      0.90           1.90
Production (tOOO m tons)                    166.63    115.63     69.55         228.69
Increase over present(%)                                                        37
Increase over year 10 without project(%)                                        98
Sugarcane
Cropped area ('000 fed)                      40.23     33.15     27.23          42.03
Yield (m tons/fed)                           34.o      31.5       23.5          41.5
Production ('000 m tons)                  1,367     1,047       637          1,752
Increase over present(%)                   ,                                    28
Increase over year 10 without project($)                                        67
Onions
Cropped area ('000 fed)                       3.36      2.87      2.03           3.50
Yield (m tons/fed)                            6.90      5.75      3.65           9.30
Production ('000 n tons)                     23.28     16.55       7.42         32.60
Increase over present(% )                                                       h 40
Increase over year 10 without project(%)                                        97
Berseem
Cropped area ('000 fed)                      79.17     68.57     50.71          82.58
Other crops
Cropped area ('000 fed)                     45.92      39.94     30.10          47.81
Total Area of Crops                           466.21    403.21    307.96         485.42
Crbpping Intensity
% Cropped Area                              162       159       161            162
% Total Area                                155       134       103            162






ANNEX 16
Page 1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT
Farm Budgets
1.        Farm budgets have been prepared on the basis of five different farm
models, namely owner-cultivators with an average holding of 3.1 fed and tenant-
cultivators with an average 1.7 fed holding, each following a cropping pattern
either including cotton as the main cash crop typical of the northern part of
the project area or including sugarcane as is prevalent in the south and a
tenant-cultivator farming only 1.0 fed with cotton as the main cash crop,
representative of the lowest farm income group.
2.        Each farm model has been evaluated for open drains with field tile
drains, alone and in combination with land reclamation where soil salinity
has already become a serious problem. In each case both the present and the
projected future situation in Year 10 with and without the project have been
assessed.
3.        The farm budgets are based on a constant average yield in relation
to land productivity so that they only reflect the benefits resulting from
drainage. Possible future increases in productivity due to improved exten-
sion services, increased use of fertilizers, adoption of improved production
techniques and the introduction of further improved varieties have been dis-
regarded so that estimates of future net returns are somewhat conservative.
4.        The attached tables indicate the actual income which the farmer
would achieve from his holding including the value of subsistence crops
together with the on-farm production costs. As the labor resources of the
farmer and his family would however be adequate to supply the full labor
input at all seasons on holdings of 3 fed or less, the value of this labor
has been included in the net return to the farmer.
5.        Present and future taxes have been estimated on the basis of the
value of present production at 1956 prices and the present costs of produc-
tion. Present rents for tenant farmers are taken as seven times the land
tax and future rents have been adjusted by the increment of tax where the
latter has been reassessed upwards and by seven times the tax change where
the tax has been reduced. This is the present practice in Egypt but results
in an anomalous situation in the case of land to be reclaimed where land tax
assessed on present production and hence rent are zero. Thus with a holding
of about one fed of very low productivity, a farmer paying no rent may have
a higher net income, excluding the value of subsistence crops, than the cul-
tivator of a more productive holding of similar size. In both cases however
such income would be small and for the farmer liable to tax may be insuffi-
cient to meet hiis tax commitments without supplementary income from off-farm
work. Wlhen the land is returned to full productivity in the future, the



ANNEX 16
Page 2
system limits the rent increase to the amount of land tax increase so that
tenants on reclaimed land will pay much lower rents and so derive a higher
net cash income than others on land which is equally productive but has
suffered only minor deterioration, alleviated by drainage alone. It may be
argued, however, that a tenant whose land has been barren for some years
will need the benefit of a low rent over a period of years to repay the
debts which he has incurred in the past.
6.        The models include recovery of tile drainage charges.
7.        The tables show the net return to the farmer both before and after
deduction of rents, taxes and drainage charges. This return includes the
value of crops retained by the farmer for domestic consumption. The total
value of the subsistence food requirements of an average family was estimated
to be LE 30.00 per year comprising:
Per Capita              Per Family
kg     Value LE         kg    Value LE
Wheat                   20        0.80           100     4.00
Maize/Sorghum          120        3.80           600    19.00
Beans                   11         .55            55     2.75
Vegetables and Fruits   -        0.85            -       4.25
The net cash income shown in the tables is the net return less the LE 30 value
of subsistence. Where farm production of subsistence crops falls short of the
farmer's domestic needs, the net cash income shown is the balance remaining
after purchase of additional subsistence needs.
8.        Total charges including rents, taxes and drainage charges have been
shown as a percentage of the farmer's net return before deductions for each
case studied. The increase in future over present net returns after deduction
of charges has been calculated as a percentage of the farmers' present net
return and is a measure of the benefit he receives from the project.
9.        The net cash income of tenant farmers from their holdings is in
general very low. A tenant cultivating sugarcane on an average holding of
1.7 fed without the project recovers only his subsistence plus about US$18
per year. With the installation of tile drains this would increase to about
US$55 and as a result of such drainage the farmer's income including the
value of subsistence would increase by 35 to 40%.  The net cash income of
a tenant farmer cultivating cotton on a 1.7 fed holding is about US$25 with-
out the project and would increase to about US$65 with the installation of
tile drainage.
10.       Where a negative net cash income is shown in the tables this rep-
resents off-farm income which cultivators of small farm units must earn by
casual labur in order to meet their cash commitments and subsistence needs.
Such casual employment is available to meet labor needs at peak seasons on
larger farms of up to 100 fed which occur in the project area.  It was cal-
culated that a tenant on a 1 fed holding would be unable even to meet his



ANNEX 16
Page 3
production costs and charges from the gross value of production from his
holding except by selling about half his subsistence crops. To avoid doing
so he would need to work at least 40-50 days per year deriving an off-farm
cash income of US$30 to 35 of which some US$17 would be needed to pay his
outstanding rent and tax commitments. With the installation of tile drain-
age such a farmer obtains about US$6 in cash after meeting his commitments
but would still need outside work to generate additional cash for his per-
sonal needs.
11.       Owner-cultivators on average holdings of 3.1 fed have a very much
higher income, at present of the order of S$240 to 290, and with the instal-
lation of tile drainage this will increase to about US$300 to 350 plus sub-
sistence. Tile drainage will result in such a farmer's income including the
value of subsistence increasing by about 20%.






ANNEX 16
Table 1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT
Farm Budgets
Owner-Cultivated 3.1 - Feddan Cotton Farm (Beni Suef, El Minya, Asyut)
Areas for Drainage and
Areas for Drainage Only                             Reclamation
Year 10                                      Year 10
With        Without                          With        Without
Present       Project       Project            Present    Project        Project
---------------------------------- E------------------------------------
Gross Value of Production /1
(Average 1967/71 prices)
Cotton                            73.82        91.76        50.83               20.10       88.46
Wheat                             17.53        22.00         11.48               3.46       21.20
Beans                            18.54         23.84        11.78                4.09       23.06
Maize                             72.50        91.33        47.62               17.73       88.31
Subtotal                      181.39        228.93       121.71              45.38       221.03
Minor crops /2                    11.57        14.61          7.77               2.90       14.10            ;
TOTAL                         192.96        243.54       129.48              48.28       235.13
Cost of Production                                                                                             o
Labor                            (42.59)      (42.59)       (42.59)            (21.30)     (42.59)
Seed                              5.89          5.89         5.89                2.95        5.89            2
Fertilizers                       23.75        23.75        23.75               11.88       23.75            o
Machinery                         13.05        13.05         13.05                -         13.05
Spraying                          5.83          5.83         5.83                2.92        5.83            n.
Other                              2.88         2.88          2.88               1.44        2.88            °
TOTAL                          93.99         93.99        93.99              40.49        93.99            0
Charges
Land tax                           8.63        14.41          1.37                -         13.44
Local tax                          1.29         2.16           .21                -          2.02
Defense tax                        8.63        14 41          1.37                -         13.44
Tile drainage charges               -          10.63           -                  -         10.63
TOTAL                          18.55         41.61         2.95                 -         39.53
Net Return /3
Before deducting taxes and
charges                        141.56        192.14        78.08              29.09       183.73
After deducting taxes and
charges                        123.01        150.53        75.13              29.09       144.20
Value of Subsistence Crops
Retained                        30.00         30.00        30.00              20.63        30.00
Value of Additional
Subsistence Purchases             -             -             -                9.37          -
Net Cash Income                  93.01        120.53        45.13               -0.91      144.20          -30.00
-------------------------------US$ equivalent-----------------------------
Return Net of All Charges    315.40           385.96       192.63               74.59      369.73
Net Cash Income                 238.48        309.04       115.71               -2.33      292.81          -76.92
Increase in Net Return
Resulting from Project                        70.56                                       355.70
----------------------------------percent------------------
Charges P. of Return before
Deduction                       13.1          21.7          3.8                            21.5
7. Increase in Net Return
Resulting from Project                        22.4                                        395.7
/I  Cropping pattern includes Cotton 33P%, Wheat 16%, Beans 14% and Maize 49% of cultivated area.
/2  Value of minor crops taken as 6.387 of value of major crops.
/3 Including value of family labor.



ANNEX 16
Table 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT
Farm Budgets
Owner-Cultivated 3.1 - Feddan Cane Farm (Qena, Aswan)
Areas for Drainage and
Areas for Drainage Only                           Reclamation
Year 10                                     Year 10
With        Without                         With        Without
Present      Proiect      Project            Present    Project       Project
----------------------------------EE-----------------------------------
Gross Value of Production /1
(Average 1967/71 prices)
Sugarcane                          140.57       167.88       113.88              29.72      153.87
Wheat                               40.33        49.62        31.88               7.42       44.76
Sorghum                             35.84        43.94        25.11               6.59       39.66
Subtotal                         216.74       261.44       170.87              43.73      238.29
Minor crops /2                      18.75        22.61        14.78               3.78       20.61         D
TOTAL                            235.49       284.05       185.65              47.51      258.90         0
Cost of Production
Labor                              (43.21)      (43.21)      (43.21)            (21.61)     (43.21)
0
Seed                                10.57        10.57        10.57               5.29       10.57  
Fertilizers                         31.59        31.59        31.59                -         31.59          0
Machinery                           17.89        17.89        17.89                -         17.89
Spraying                              -            -            -                  -           -           o
Other                                2.82         2.82         2.82                -          2.82
TOTAL                            106.08       106.08       106.08              26.90      106.08
Charges
Land tax                            13.10        18.93         7.12               1.86       15.91
Local tax                            1.97         2.84         1.07                .28        2.39
Defense tax                         13.10        18.93         7.12               1.86       15.91
Tile drainage charges                 -          10.63          -                  -         10.63
TOTAL                             28.17        51.33        15.31               4.00       44.84
Met Return /3
Before deducting taxes and
charges                           172.62       221.18       122.78              42.22      196.03
After deducting taxes and
charges                           144.45       169.85       107.47              38.22      151.19
Value of Subsistence Crops
Retained                           30.00        30.00        30.00              10.37       30.00
Value of Additional Subsistence
Purchases                            -            -            -                19.63         -         30.00
Net Cash Income                    144.45       139.85        77.47              -8.22      121.19      -30.00
------------------------------US$ equivalent----------------------.---
Return Net of All Charges          370.37       435.50       275.55              98.00      387.65
Net Cash Income                    293.45       358.58       198.63             -21.08      310.73      -76.92
Increase in Net Income
Resulting from Project                          65.13                                      331.81
--___---__--------------------percent-----------------------
Charges '/, of Return Before
Deduction                          16.3         23.2         12.5                9.5        22.9
% Increase in Net Return
Resulting from Project                           17.6                                       295.6
/1 Cropping pattern includes Sugarcane 45%, Wheat 30% and Sorghum 25% of cultivated area.
/2 Value of minor crops taken as 8.65% of value of major crops.
/3 Including value of family labor.



ANNEX 16
Table 3
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT
Farm Budgets
Tenant 1.7 - Feddan Cotton Farm (Beni Suef, El Minya, Asyut)
Areas of Drainage and
Areas for Drainage Only                          Reclamation
Year 10                                   Year 10
With        Without                       With        Without
Present      Project      Project         Present      Project       Project
---------------------------------LE---------------------------------
Gross Value of Production /1
(Average 1967/71 prices)
Cotton                              40.52         50.31        27.84           11.03        48.56
Wheat                                 9.61        12.06         6.30            1.91        11.63
Beans                               10.17         13.09         6.47            2.24        12.65
Maize                               39.76         50.08        26.11            9.71        48.43
Subtotal                         100.06       125.54         66.72          24.89        121.27
o
Minor crops /2                        6.38         8.01         4.26            1.59          7.74          .
TOTAL                            106.44       133.55         70.98           26.48       129.01           o
Cost of Production                                                                                             °,
Labor                              (23.36)       (23.36)      (23.36)         (11.68)      (23.36)          v
Seed                                 3.23          3.23         3.23            1.62         3.23
Fertilizers                         13.02         13.02        13.02            6.51        13.02           0
Machinery                             7.16         7.16         7.16             -           7.16           X
Spraying                             3.20          3.20         3.20            1.60         3.20           v
C
Other                                 1.58         1.58         1.58            0.79         1.58            4
TOTAL                             51.55        51.55         51.55          22.20         51.55           z
Charges
Rent /3                             33.60         36.70         5.23             -           7.38 /5
Defense tax                          4.80          7.90         0.75             -           7.38
Tile drainage charges                  -           5.83          -               -           5.83
TOTAL                             38.40        50.43         5.98              -          20.59
Net Return A
Before deducting rent, taxes
and charges                        78.25       105.36         42.79          15.96        100.82
After deducting rent, taxes
and charges                        39.85        54.93         36.81          15.96         80.23
Value of Subsistence Crops
Retained                           30.00        30.00         30.00           11.68        30.00
Value of Additional Subsistence
Purchases                             -            -            -             18.32          -           30.00
Net Cash Income                      9.85         24.93         6.81          -14.04        50.23        -30.00
------------------------------US$ equivalent---------------------------
Return Net of All Charges          102.18        140.87        94.38          40.92        205.72
Net Cash Income                     25.25         63.92        17.46         -36.00        128.79        -76.92
Increase in Net Return
Resulting from Project                           38.67                                    139.54
-------------------------------percent.------______________
Charges % of Return before
Deduction                          49.1         47.9          14.9                         20.42
% Increase in Net Return
Resulting frhm Project                          37.8                                      402.69
/1  Cropping pattern includes Cotton 33%, Wheat 16%, Beans 14% and Maize 497.. of cultivated area.
/2  Value of minor crops taken as 6.38% of value of major crops.
/3  Based on 1956 cormmodity prices = approx. 80% of gross value of production.
/4  Including value of family labor.
/5  Assumes reassessment of tax presently at zero with only rent increase equivalent to tax
increment permissible.



ANNEX 16
Table 4
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT
Farm Budgets
Tenant 1.7 - Feddan Cane Farm (Qena, Aswan)
Areas for Drainage and
Areas for Drainage Only                            Reclamation
Year 10                                     Year 10
With       Without                          With        Without
Present     Project       Prcject           Present      Project      Project
----------------------------------LE------------------------------------
Gross Value of Production /1
(Average 1967/71 prices)
Sugarcane                      77.09       92.06        62.45             16.30        84.38
Wheat                          22.12       27.19        17.48              4.06         24.55
Sorghum                        19.66       24.10        13.77              3.61        21.75
Subtotal                    118.87      143.35        93.70             23.97       130.68
Minor crops /2                 10.28       12.40         8.11              2.07         11.30
TOTAL                       129.15      155.75       101.81             26.04       141.98            o
Cost of Production                                                                                        o
Labor                         (23.70)    (23.70)       (23.70)           (11.85)       (23.70)
Seed                            5.80        5.80         5.80              2.90         5.80            :
Fertilizers                    17.32       17.32        17.32                -         17.32
Machinery                       9.81        9.81         9.81                -           9.81            .
Spraying                         -           -            -                        - _
Other                           1.55        1.55         1.55                -           1.55
TOTAL                        58.18       58.18        58.18             14.75        58.18
Charges
Rent /3                        50.31       53.50        27.34              7.12        14.80 /5
Defense tax                     7.19       10.38         3.91               1.02        8.70
Tile drainage charge             -          5.83          -                  -          5.83
TOTAL                        57.50       69.71        31 25              8.14        29.33
Net Return /4
Before deducting rent,
taxes and charges             94.67      121.27        67.33            23.14        107.50
After deducting rent,
taxes and charges             37.17       51.56        36.08            15.00         78.17
Value of Subsistence
Crops Retained                30.00       30.00        26.15             5.68         30.00
Value of Additional
Subsistence Purchases           -           -           3.85            24.32           -            30.00
Net Cash Income                 7.17       21.56         6.08           -15.00         48.17         -30.00
-----------------------------US$ equivalent--------------------------------
Return Net of All Charges    95.30        132.20        92.51            38.46        200.43
Net Cash Income                18.38       55.20        15.59           -38.46        123.51         -76.92
Increase in Net Return
Resulting from Project                    36 82                                      161.97
-------------------------------percent-------------------
Charges % of Return before
Deduction                     60.7        57.5         46.4             35.2          27.3
/c Increase in Net Return
Resulting from Project                    38.7                                       421.2
/1  Cropping pattern includes Sugarcane 45%, Wheat 30% and Sorghum 25% of cultivated area.
/2  Value of minor crops taken as 8.65% of value of major crops.
/3  Based on 1956 commodity prices = approx. 84W  of gross value of production.
/4  Including value of family labor.
/5  Assumes reassessment of tax presently at zero with only rent increase equivalent to tax
increment permissible.



ANNEX 16
Table 5
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT
Farm Budgets
Tenant 1.0 - Feddan Cotton Farm (Beni Suef, El Minya, Asyut)
Areas for Drainage and
Areas for Drainage Only                             Reclamation
Year 10                                      Year 10
With        Without                          With        Without
Present      Project      Project            Present      Project       Project
-----------------------------------EE-----------------------------------
Gross Value of Production /1
(Average 1967171 prices)
Cotton                             23.81        29.59       16.39               6.50          28.56
Wheat                               5.65         7.09         3.71              1.12           6.84
Beans                               5.99         7.69         3.80               1.31          7.44
Maize                              23.39        29.46        15.36              5.72          28.48
Subtotal                         58.84        73.83       39.26              14.65          71.32
Minor crops /2                      3.75         4.71         2.50                .93          4.55           0
TOTAL                            62.59        78.54       41.76              15.58          75.87           -
Cost of Production                                                                                              0
Labor                             (13.74)      (13.74)     (13.74)             (6.87)        (13.74)          u
Seed                                1.90         1.90        1.90               0.95           1.90
Fertilizers                         7.66         7.66         7.66              3.83           7.66           0
Machinery                           4.21         4.21         4.21                             4.21           0
Spraying                            1.88         1.88        1.88               0.94           1.88           o
Other                               0.93         0.93        0.93               0.46           0.93
0
TOTAL                            30.32        30.32       30.32              13.05          30.32           Z
Charges
Rent /3                            19.75        21.55         3.09                -            4.34 /5
Defense tax                         2.82         4.64        0.44                 -            4.34
Tile drainage charges                -           3.43          -                               3.43
TOTAL                            22.57        29.62        3.53                -            12.11
Net Return /4
Before deducting rent, taxes
and charges                       46.01        61.96       25.18               9.40         59.29
After deducting rent, taxes
and charges                       23.44        32.34       21.65               9.40         47.18
Value of Subsistence Crops
Retained                          29.50        30.00       21.60               6.65          30.00
Value of Additional Subsistence
Purchases                          0.50                     8.40              23.35                        30.00
Net Cash Income                    -6.56         2.34       -8.35             -20.60          17.18        -30.00
------------------------------US$ equivalent-----------------------------
Return Net of All Charges          60.10        82.92       55.51              24.10         120.97
Net Cash Income                   -16.82         6.00      -21.41             -52.82         44.05         -76.92
Increase in Net Return
Resulting from Project                         22.82                                        96.87
-------------------------------percent-------_____________-__-____
Charges 7. of Return before
Deduction                         49.1         47.8        14.0                             20.4
% Increase in Net Return
Resulting from Project                         38.0                                        401.9
/1  Cropping pattern includes Cotton 33%, Wheat 16%, Beans 14% and Maize 49% of cultivated area.
/2  Value of minor crops taken as 6.387% of value of major crops.
/3  Based on 1956 commodity prices = approx. 80% of gross value of prnduction.
/4 Including value of family labor.
/5 Assumes reassessment of tax presently at zero with only rent increase equivalent to tax
increment permissible.






ANNEX 17
Page 1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
Benefit and Calculations
1.        The project benefits were calculated, based on the difference in
the projected annual distribution of the five land productivity classes in
the project area with and without the project under the following assumptions:
(a) without the project a continuous deterioration in land
productivity would occur;
(b) benefits would begin to accrue in the year following com-
pletion of works and that full agricultural production would
be achieved five years after completion of the project;
(c) the cropping pattern would remain unchanged;
(d) yields for a specific land productivity class would remain
constant; this is a conservative estimate as some increases
would result from continued technical improvements and more
effective agricultural extension;
(e) no benefits from the cultivation of berseem have been included
due to lack of data but this has been partly offset by exclud-
ing animal power and manure from the cost of production esti-
mates;
(f) farmgate prices have been derived from the following world
market prices by deducting transport cost:
Winter and summer grain        US$71.80/ton
Onions                         US5147.20/ton
Cotton lint (1-1/8" to
1-3/8")                       US$639.00/ton (USd29/lb)
Sugar                          US$185.00/ton (US48.4/lb)
Beans have been valued at a local price of US$105-127/ton,
and half of the onions are sold locally for US$32/ton;
(g) the value of cotton seed equals the ginning cost and the
ginning outturn is 37%;
(h) labor is excluded from the cost of production, since the
project would only moderately increase production, existing



ANNEX 17
Page 2
underemployment is expected to increase with rapid population
growth, and since no hired labor would be required for
average holdings;
(i)  the cost of transforming sugarcane into sugar is US$41 per
ton sugar and the extraction rate is 11%;
(j)  the present value of minor crops as a percentage of the
value of the major crops considered separately would remain
unchanged;
(k)  the tile drainage is expected to last for at least 35 years; and
(1)  no cost is attributed to the increase in the prevalence
of bilharzia caused by the new open drains in that part of
the project where snail control measures will not be applied.
Economic Rate of Return
2.        The economic rate of return of the Drainage and Reclamation Works
comprising 300,000 fed of tile drainage with necessary open main drains and
pumpidg stations and 22,400 fed of land reclamation but excluding the costs
of bilharzia control would be 19.8% (see attached Table).
3.        The economic rate of return has been calculated separately for the
drainage and reclamatio,, of severely saline lands and also for the full proj-
ect including the costs of bilharzia control. The results are as follows:
Rate of Return
(i)  Drainage and reclamation of 22,400
feddans of severely saline land                 21.9%
(ii)  The project excluding bilharzia
control costs                                   19.8%
(iii)  The project including bilharzia
control costs                                   18.8%
Sensitivity Analysis
4.        The effects of variations in construction costs atnd net benefits on
the project's rate of return were tested. The project was found to be rela-
tively insensitive to changes. The results of the sensitivity analysis in
which costs of bilharzia control were excluded are as follows:



ANNEX 17
Page 3
Rate of Return
(i)  Construction cost overrun of 10%                       17.4
(ii)  Construction cost overrun of 20%,                      16.3
(iii)  Net benefits reduced by 10%                            17.3
(iv)  Net benefits reduced by 20%                            15.6






ANNEX 17
Table
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
Economic Analysis
Cost and Benefit Flows
(US$ million)
Costs                             Benefits
Project      Calendar    Investment  O&M                         /1
Year         Year          Costs     Costs    Total   Benefits--  Net Benefits
1          1974          8.31        0       8.31         0            -8.31
2          1975         18.78       0.04   18.82          0.74       -18.08
3          1976         20.74       0.11   20.85          2.47        -18.38
4           1977        22.96       0.41   23.37          5.49        -17.88
5           1978        19.24       0.56   19.80          9.65        -10.15
6           1979         16.43      0.71   17.14         14.70         -2.44
7           1980        -2.67 /2   0.82   -1.85          18.98         20.83
8           1981                    0.85    0.85         21.97         21.12
9           1982                    0.85    0.85         25.32         24.47
10          1983                     0.85    0.85         26.58         24.73
11-15    1984-1988                   0.85    0.85         28.32         27.47
16-20    1989-1993                   0.85    0.85         31.99         31.14
21-25    1994-1998                   0.85    0.85         34.94         34.09
26-30    1999-2003                   0.85    0.85         37.17         36.32
31-35    2004-2008                   0.85    0.85         38.03         37.18
Rate of Return - 19.8%
/1   Incremental benefits
/2   Residual value of equipment.






ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT
THE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION SERVICE LOCAL ORGANIZATION IN UPPER EGYPT
LEVEL
Assistant Agricultural Director
For Extension
Governorate                                  L
(6 Governorates)                                                                   1
Extension Supervisor
[                               J                             Subject Specialists
_________________________________(Usually Research Station
Personnel)
District Agriculture Officer                .
District                                      D        A
(22 Districts)                                                                    I
L              ~~~~~District Agriculture Assistant        __      _     _
Village Agriculture Agents
Village
(730 Villages)
Local Rural Leaders
(Farmers)
World Bank-6819(R)






ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT
BENEFIT FROM RECLAIMING 22,400 FEDDANS OF SALINE LAND
1200 
1200___.___          WITH PROJECT
1000
0
800
0
0
z
600
0-j
0
a-
U-
z
WITHOUT PROJECT
o  I 1X1, I I I I I   ~~~~~~~~~~~~I' I    I |II I  I'IIll       II  I'       I  III 
0            5            10            15            20            25            30            35
YEAR
World Bank-6817






ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT
THE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION SERVICE CENTRAL ORGANIZATION
Deputy Minister of Agriculture
(Extensionl
Senior Advisory Council
for Agricultural Euteesion
Technical Office                                                                               General Director
i                     _                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~Agricultural Extension Admin,st,at,onI
Extension
Research Unit
Adm,nsstration                                                                            s,stant General D,rector
S.pcrv,sFr
Rural Deveomn                                                          Agicltr Cener &,                                                                                                                                3r
Suevsr                                                        DeosrtonSprio                                                        E.tens,on Methods Supervisor                                               Prgrmmng Superv,sor
Rural Income                                                             AdvPublcatons                                                                                                                                    Farmer's
L       epr le           l                                                      coC...ciis                                                                                                                                    Information
Department                                                             Department                                                                 r                                                                    Department
Home                                                                 Production                                                               as  ei
Econ OmiCs                                                            Developmnn                                                                eatent                                                                 DessPlartment
|  Department                                                          Deparopment
Agricultural                                                           Illustration
Department
WurId Baek-68E20






ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
1974        1975          1976          1977          1978          1979
YEAR 1       YEAR 2        YEAR 3       YEAR 4        YEAR 5        YEAR 6
1. PLANNING, DESIGN
AND CONSTRUCTION          -
SUPERVISION
2. CONSULTANTS
PROCUREMENT
3. VEHICLES AND                 Specifications
CONSTRUCTIONS EQUIP.          & Tenders                     Delivery
Specifications
4. PUMPING EQUIPMENT                 & Tenders                Delivery
CONSTRUCTION
5. MAIN AND BRANCH              MANUAL LABOR                MANUAL LABOR AND MACHINERY
DRAINS
6. TILE DRAINAGE
7. PUMP STATIONS                                     -                                   -
8. RECLAMATION OF SALINE
LAND
World Bank -6829(3R)






ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION OF
GOVERNORATE IRRIGATION DEPARTMENTS
Level
Levei                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Irrigation Department
in each Governorate)
Go-erno,ate
D-rector General
|  Asst D.G.     |                                                                              Dran Dage
Area LDv-on                                            It., of                                         Dain.ge D-v
| Area Dlws,o   / l          l      raDvon                  r        A,.. -,vcisin    _|    |     Mc.7.7in            |[                            DriaeDv
Area                                                                                      D-.   fWr
Area   Director of Work   l    Director of Work                                                     c         o Director of Work  Drectorfecto  of oWork
|Districtt                           D | , Dlstri~;l:          |    Di--rict       L                                                            [    District
Dlstrict         |Asst. Dl-r of -,kr            |Asst. Dr., of W.,,,            |Asst. D,,_ ofIAkr| t -,r.-fW 
-,w,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t        Diwi       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~     ~      ss    iofWr
District  Istrlct  l           |    Dlstrict      l            |     District      L                                                            [      D     tDr
District                      Dist                            Distrc.|                         District                                                                   I    Disict
Asst. Dir.of Work               Asst Dir of Work                Asst Dr.of Work                                                                 Asst. Dir.of Work
District
Awa. Diro.f Work
Area Division scch as Isna Division or Nag Hammadi Division
Note: 1. Itrigat on and drainage each to have separate bodget
and account
2 Drainage Engineers to receive training on Training
Center
World B-nk--6830(R)






ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT
BILHARZIA CONTROL PROGRAM
Bilharzia Life-Cycle
Paired mature Worms
Veins of bladder - S. haematobium
Mesenteric vessels - S. mansoni
of bowel -S. japonicum
DEFINITIVE HOST
Hepatic portal vessels                                 MAN
Arteries                                      RETAINED IN TISSUES
\eart            t                     N 
Lungs 1 m 9()
6-12 weeks
VeinsI                             \
Schistosomules       /          \    EXCRETION
C~~~OMMON EXTERNAL ENVIRON1MENT.
< ~ ~ ~ ~~~~I WAERR'
EGGS
Free swimming                          S. mansoni
Cercariae               S. haematobium       S. japonicum
O  A  t  Eggs evacuated in Urine
or Faeces in water
INTERMEDIATE HOSTS
48 hours                         Bulinus sp.
Mother slorocvst
Daughter sporocysts     yy,/
Cercariae          Biopji sp.___ 
/ Biom              , la   Free swimming
produced within                                   Miracidium
Snail
24 hours
4-7 weeks             A z/  Penetrates appropriate snail
Oncomelania sp.
(Jordan & Webbe, 1969)                                                                                          World Bank-6844(R)






ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT
PROJECTED ANNUAL VALUE OF CROP PRODUCTION IN THE PROJECT
AREA USING AVERAGE 1967 - 71 FARM GATE PRICES
30-
WITH PROJECT
25
z
0
20
0
0-    5-
u-
w
~    0        5                      52                     5          03
>   10
D
0
0                                   152125                                       03
Y EAR
VVoricd Bank 6909






ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART FOR THE EGYPTIAN
PUBLIC AUTHORITY FOR DRAINAGE PROJECTS
Eoard of
Directors
Chairman
I tyTechnical officer
Petitions, Securt           |         Consultants                -                                                        and
and Public Relations                                       ISecretary to h    or
Vice-Chairman                                                                                                                                                                               VicerCh.i
fof Lower Egypt                                                                                                                                                                                  Uppe
Design Office                                                                          Re-s Deputy    Pling,  0tG. Adminis ration                                                                Deputy
A                                                                Reerh  Evaluationon 
I                                                                and Trainng                                  and Finance
Mechanical                                                                            Director                      Director                                Mechanical                           D     Beni
Z-n                            FDm  isrtju    Zn
Znt                                                                                          Finance                    Adminisration                             Department                          Suet Zone
L                 Tanta                                                                                                                                                                                                                      D o.  Mn
Zone .                                                                                                                                                                                                                              D.G. El-MinYa 
ElKmZone                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Zone
L   iD,G. hebi7l |                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0D G Sohag 
L    D.C. Damanhor jO                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ti
Zone                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Zone
World Bank-7646






2~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SL 2B 7R  ASYvEARAS,                                                                                                -
Mediterranean   Sea                                                                 ,-2i                                                                                  2'
NSOHAG GOVERNORATE
DRAINAGE AREAS - 50,000 FEDDANS
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
QSENA   GOVERNORATE
DRAINAGE  AREAS- 59,000FRO DANS
- 2t'  \    <       _ * <        Cf X  X        X       j                                                       tD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SA 9hRRAGE
f       /   i                                           lS2D                                                              O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FUJf-'
5/.ee   ::                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~ASWAN  GOVERNORATE         
V   )   )                                l l                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DRAINAGE AREAS- 435,000 FEDDANS
BENI SUEF GOVERNORATE                               El
"SN
DRAINAGE AREAS- 48,0DOFEDDANS
f4A00 "IGil DAM
; g ~~~~~~Oa., O',uo; G CIgA 1: ,Vc
EL  MINYA GOVERNORATE                                                                      J ,                                                           k  NCsNAN
DRAINAGE AREAS-                                                                     Z°2C                                                                        '                 _
88,000 FE DDANS                                                                     .
3^1R .us[   T  VLMIIIA                                                          7      __         _
44. 5N.§,N',gMN6N  SE:  >o    [                   ARAB  REPUBLIC OF  EGYPT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT
\8                        \<-   u\ ,I c                                     ~~~~~~GENERAL MAP
7' i               A&ABA t!  ttS   /Drainage  Project Area
DAIRUT HEADWO  ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~      ~    ~    ~    \    >~-Cultivated  Areas
DOIRUT IRADWOBERK "N  _____                                A RAE  N,lhE0DE. O >,                                  -       Irrigation  Canals
ASYUT  GOVERNORATE                                                                                                                           Ri0 N, ""\,k,<    ar s  rHvers
DRAINAGE  AREA'S - 12,SOEFEDDANS                                                                                                               Barr ag E"sT   Roads   H
Railways
Governorate  Boundaries
0       Towns
0  20  A ~~~~N     EN      "A ~~~  20    INC       100   U3
0     0           461                       4






IBRD  3988R
IHNASYA PUMPING STATION
9  Ihnasya        BENI SUEF                A R
BENI SUEF-GHARB                                                             CAIRO
NORTH  AREAS                       I~NSE
6,000 feddans                               \                               Area
\  \of;-  KQ/  map
N                IH     -YA   A S
33,000 Feddans
BENI SALEH PUMPING STATION
BENI SALEH AREA
I      \ t 1  Et. ashn   2,000 Feddans
BENI SUEF-GHAR                                    A);RAB  REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SOUTH AE
7,000 fedidans                                 PER  EGYPT  DRAINAGE  PROJECT
BENI SUEF  GOVERNORATE
J   0    g   }    1OX    lr:   1   I    I    I   | Railway
X /+/ ii                                 Towns
I'jX                                  4% _ Open Drains To Be Remodelled
or Constructed
0      4       8    \ 12      16            ///    Drainage   Project Area
Kilometers                                   Drainage Project Pump Stations
0     2      4     6     8     10   Mag hgh4            Irrigation Canals
Miles               t  12    ; =         Rivers
_A. \  BMAY 1973,






I BRD 3989 R
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
iHA:R NORY H \    f    0;  \ $    g  t ~ ~ ~      ~       ~      ~     ~      ~     MAY197
2 EIAZA El Fashn
ELMINVA-    \j                   fARKAB ABL  
EL MINYA -1                                                   L MNY              OENRT
BENI SALEH AREA                                                            S I PUMPING
8,000 FEDDANS                              ,0 D                 -
I   A
EL MINYA-                                        0
fTGHARB SOUTH AREA
4,000 FEDDANS                 -
li8 hagha           (SCATTERED)
ABO AHBPU PNq TATION
0         ~~~ABO RAHEB
AREA
25,000 FEDDANS      KABKAB AREA
25,000 FEDDANS
EL MINY A-
GHARB NORTH\
AREASBeMar
18,000 FEDDANS
DAIRUT HEADWORKS
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
2-4                                ~~~~UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT
EL MINYA GOVERNORATE
IRailway
BENIMAZA ARE  FM        Towns
_______________             ENI MAZAR AREA      ~Drainage Project Pump  Stations
Samalut  4000 FEDDANSOpen  Draiins To Be Remodelled
Or Constructed
Drainage Project Area
-Irrigation Canals
Rivers
Areo ofi maps
O       4      8       1,2     16     20
KILOMETERS
ELM               0     ~~~  4             8            12
YA                    . ~~~~~MILES            __






IBRD-3990R
MA'Y 1973
ASYUT AREA
12,000 FEDDANS    ./ '
*0
DAIRU T          *
HEADWORKS    Da rut
ARAB   REPUBLIC  OF EGYPT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT
ASYUT  GOVERNORATE
it............                 t  .-               iRALY
t e, (, - M.                                     R Al L\'   TOWAY
TOWNS
OPEN DRAINS TO BE RE -
CAIR                                            MODELLED OR CONSTRUCTEE
DRAINAGE PROJECT AREA
f               38 \X         E     _    IRRIGATION CANALS
N  map                       \:RIVERS
ASYUT                        t
o      4      8     1 2    16
Kilometers
ASWAN)                             0 \\ \ $>?_ °    2    4    6    8    10
0 \\t                                     Miles






.  IBRD 3991 
0 @  |   gCAIRO
,   j), t>,    4,                 v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iJ4
Area of
OHAG  mop
SOHAG AREA            ASj  o
50,000 FEDDANS
.2     ARAB  REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
G,g~       UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT
SOHAG  GOVERNORATE
z vel {t % \ ~~RAILWAY
OPEN DRAINS TO BE REMODEL-
LED OR CONSTRUCTED
\ c   EI BylanA  /mM   DRAINAGE PROJECT AREA
IRRIGATION CANALS
W W               :    ~~~~~~RIVERS
. j v            ~~~~~~0    4    8     12   16   20
Kilometers
Miles
M AY 1191~






IBRD :3992R
IDO"~~~~~~I
NAG HAMMADI AREA
15,000 FEDDANS                                             ADIBARRAGE.
Naammad~~..~ 
ARAB  REPUBLIC  OF  EGYPT
PPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT
QENA GOVERNORATE
(Northern Part)
-i---- i Railway
Towns
Open Drains To Be Remodelled
Or Constructed
Drainage Project Area
I r r Irrigation  Canals
3        Rivers
Disha
q)                        DISHNA AREAS
24,000 FEDDANS               CAIRO
/                           Q~~~~~~~~~~ENA
Area
\~\                                                   of map:
Kii  o m et e rS                      ASWAN
MAY 1 .7






IBRD 3993R
*: M\7Nl$~QENA
SCAIROt                                                                     &\V
QENA AREAS            C)
5,000 FEDDANS
OENA
AreS
AS WA Nt                                          
/ #m~~
J~~~~~ g
QUS AREA
13,000 FEDDANS
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT
QENA GOVERNORATE
(SOUTHERN   PART)
/    iX      IRAILWAY
TOWNS
OPEN DRAINS TO BE REMODELLED OR CONSTRUCTED
}u '    \    ISNA AREA  m/03  DRAINAGE PROJECT AREA
6,000 FEDDANS               IRRIGATION CANALS
X       . .-RIVERS
ISNA BARRAGE
KILOMETERS
O4                          12
MILES           ~~~MAY 197j






I BRD 3994 R
ARAB  REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT
ASWAN  GOVERNORATE
Railway
Towns
___ Open Drains To Be Remodelled or Constructed
Drainage Project Area
Irrigation Canals       IDFU AREA
a==10  Rivers               8,000 FEDDANS
o    4     8    12   16
'    I     I     i     I
Kilometers
o   2   4   6   8   to
Miles
ef~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' X3........
CAIRO
KOM OMBO AREA
35,000 FEDDANS
Area of map**~
l" ara  Drain  kASWAN0
MAY 1973






IBRD-10038R
MAY 1973
310
Birket Qarun                                       ARAB  REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
\_ BILHARZIA CONTROL
El yFoum                       PROGRAM
~jXi'  .- BILHARZIA CONTROL AREA
.1                 r              , ,', ,,,,,,,, ',,,,,,CULTIVATED AREAS
/,'i    /  /             ~~~~IRRIGATION CANALS
/                       ~~~~~~~RIVERS
29'   ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~~BNi SUEF                     -    BARRAGE OR HEADWORKS
290              7                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROADS  290-
/9  /gg /  7             --------I-- E RAILWAYS
Xgg,%/   /   /                      GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES
BENI SUEF
0       20        40        60       80
/                                            KILOMETERS
0      10      20     30      40      50
MILES
"  NBAHIIA  CANAL
BAHR YOUSEF CANAL                                                   I
EL MINYA
EL MINYA
28'                      /                                                                      28-0
,,
Mediterranean Sea
" NAIRUT HEADWORKS
Dairut
0
CAIRO
T ARCA
OF
MAP
AgVUT BARRAGE
ARAB REPUBLIC                    ASYUT         A
OF EGYPT
ASBVAN  - 27°-
310                                             320



