CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 393 UAR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Upper Egypt Drainage Project)
BETWEEN
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 8, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 393 UAR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Upper Egypt Drainage Project)
BETWEEN
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 8, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 8, 1973, between ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   Part A of the Project will be carried out by the Egyptian Public
Authority for Drainage Projects (hereinafter called the Authority) with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to the Authority parts of the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter
provided; and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and the Authority,
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering  ? Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Authority" means the Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage
Projects established by Presidential Decree No. 158 of the Year 1973 of the
Borrower;


﻿4
(b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and the Authority of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement; and
(c)   "Project Area" means the areas, designated by the Borrower and the
Association, in upper Egypt within the Governorates of Beni Suef, El-Minya, Asyut,
Sohag, Qena and Aswan.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-six million dollars ($36,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shail otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section ".04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1979 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June 15 and
December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each June 15 and December 15


﻿5
commencing June 15, 1983 and ending December 15, 2022, each installment to
and including the installment payable on December 15, 1992 to be one-half of
one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) The Chairman of the Board of the Authority is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required
or permitted to be taken, in respect of Part A of the Project, under the provisions
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
(b)   The Minister of Health of the Borrower is designated a, representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to
be taken, in respect of Part B of the Project, under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement anc. Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) carry out Part A of the Project
through the Authority with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
sound administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural practices and shall
provide promptly as needed the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose; and (ii) carry out Part B of the Project through its Ministry
of Health with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound
administrative, financial and public health practices and shall provide promptly as
needed the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause the Authority
to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the
obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action necessary
or appropriate to enable the Authority to perform such obligations, and shall not
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(c)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit allocated under
Categories 1, II, III and V of paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement available
to the Authority for the purpose of carrying out Part A of the Project.


﻿6
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods provided under Part B of
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall appoint to the Board of the Authority,
at all times, a qualified and experienced Chairman and a qualified and experienced
Vice-Chairman for Operations in Upper Egypt, both on a full-time basis.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause the responsibility for the operation
and maintenance of drainage systems, within the irrigation departments in each
of the governorates in the Project Area, to be separated from that pertaining to
irrigation systems.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause the irrigation departments in each of the
governorates in the Project Area to maintain separate budget and accounts for
the drainage systems therein.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall make adequate provision to ensure that
its Ministry of Irrigation shall have available to it, at all times, the funds required
for the efficient operation and adequate maintenance of the drainage systems
provided under Part A of the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall make suitable arrangements to ensure the
recovery, by way of charges, from users of irrigated land drained by the works
included in Part A of the Project of an amount adequate to cover: (a) the
maintenance costs of field tile drainage in the Project Area, and (b) the capital
invested in field tile drainage in the Project Area over a period of twenty years
without interest.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause the works, facilities and equipment
included in Part A of the Project to be operated and maintained in accordance
with sound agricultural, engineering, economic and financial policies and practices.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than six months after the
Effective Date or such other date as shall be agreed with the Association, prepare


﻿7
a plan, acceptable to the Association, for the operation of the bilharzia control
program under Part B of the Project.
(b)   The plan of operation referred to in Sub-section (a) above shall make
adequate provision for the technical supervision of the snail control program under
Part B(i) of the Project by experts acceptable to the Association to be employed
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.09. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the program
for the control of bilharzia under Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall employ,
prior to the commencement of said program, a qualified and experienced program
director acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.10. In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall cause
an effective bilharzia oral drug, acceptable to the Association, to be supplied only
to health centers and units staffed with appropriately qualified personnel.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall establish within its Ministry of Health, not
later than six months after the Effective Date or such other date as shall be agreed
with the Association, a supervision and evaluation unit, mutually satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Association, which shall be responsible for the overall
supervision and evaluation of the bilharzia control program under Part B of the
Project.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall, after the completion of the bilharzia
control program referred to under Part B of the Project, make satisfactory
arrangements to ensure the continuation of the measures for the control of bilharzia
in the areas referred to under Part B(i) of the Project and shall provide the funds
required therefor.
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall: (i) cause its Ministry of Health to maintain
separate accounts for the bilharzia control program referred to under Part B of
the Project; (ii) cause such accounts and related financial statements for each fiscal
year to be audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; and (iii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months
after the end of each fiscal year, (A) certified copies of such financial statements
for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested.


﻿8
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by the Authority of its obligations under the Project
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures of the Authority and, in respect of the Project, of the departments
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures of the Authority and, in respect of the Project, of the departments             -
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement or the performance by the Authority of its obligations under
the Project Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.


﻿9
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 6.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   The Authority shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement
or obligation of the Authority under the Project Agreement.
(b)   Presidential Decree No. 158 of the Year 1973 of the Borrower shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as
to materially and adversely affect the ability of the Authority to carry out the
covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in the Project Agreement.


﻿10
Section 6.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 6.02 of this Agreement
shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the execution and delivery
of the Project Agreement on behalf of the Authority have been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within tite
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered
on behalf of, the Authority, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the
Authority in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date September 6, 1973 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.03, 3.04,
3.05, 3.06, 3.07, 3.12 and 3.13 of this Agreement and the provisions of Section
6.02 and Section 6.03 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date
on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance, Economy and Foreign Trade of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
9.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿II
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance, Economy and
Foreign Trade
Lazoughly
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address:
ECOTRADE
Cairo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By /s/ Ahmed Tawfik Khalil
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By  /s / M.P. Benjenk        Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
I


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated                    Of
(Expressed in                Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)           to be Financed
I.   Tile drainage con-             9,400,000               100% of foreign
struction and main-                                    expenditures or
tenance equipment,                                     65% of total ex-
vehicles and mate-                                     penditures if
rials under Part A(i)                                 locally procured
of the Project                                         (representing
the estimated
foreign expendi-
ture component)
11.   Equipment, vehicles           6,700,000               100% of foreign
and materials for                                      expenditures or
Parts A(ii), (v)                                       65% of total ex-
and (vi) of the                                        penditures if
Project                                                locally procured
(representing
the estimated
foreign expendi-
ture component)
III.  Pumping stations;             7,600,000               100% of foreign
transmission lines;                                    expenditures or
materials, equip-                                      65% of total ex-
ment and installa-                                     penditures if
tion under Parts                                      locally procured
A(iii) and (iv) of                                    (representing
the Project                                            the estimated
foreign expendi-
ture component)
IV.  Equipment, vehicles            4,700,000               100% of foreign
and materials for                                     expenditures or
Part B of the                                          65% of total ex-
Project                                                penditures if
locally procured
(representing
the estimated
foreign expendi-
ture component)


﻿13
Amount of the
Credit Allocated                % of
(Expressed in               Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)          to be Financed
V.   Consultants' serv-            1,000,000              100% of foreign
vices and training                                   expenditures
of drainage per-
sonnel under Part A
of the Project
VI. Consultants' serv-              600,000               100% of foreign
ices for Part B                                      expenditures
of the Project
VII. Unallocated                   6,000,000
TOTAL             36,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the  term   "foreign  expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the  term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)   expenditures under Categories IV and VI until the Borrower shall have
furnished to the Association the plan of operation referred to in Section 3.08
of this Agreement pursuant to the provisions thereof; and
(c)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,


﻿14
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association  shall have reasonably   determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement, no expenditures
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I or
II or III or IV shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for
reallocation to such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
adjust the percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
Part A
A drainage and reclamation program including:
(i)        drainage of areas totalling 300,000 feddans by the installation
of 30,000 km of buried field tile drains and 4,000 km of
collector drains, and the provision of vehicles and construction
and maintenance equipment required therefor;
(ii)       the improvement of about 775 km of existing open drains and
the excavation of about 865 km of new open drains, and the
provision of vehicles and equipment required therefor;
(iii)      the construction of four pumping stations and the expansion
of an existing station;
(iv)       provision of transmission lines and power substations for the
pumping station;
(v)        the reclamation of about 22,400 feddans of severely saline land
by gypsum treatment and leaching, and the provision of the
equipment required therefor;
(vi)       the provision of equipment and vehicles for the Authority and
for extension services; and
(vii)      the provision of technical assistance for the training of the staff
of the Authority in drainage works.
Part B
A bilharzia control program including:
(i)        snail control through a program of regular area-wide applications
of molluscicides in an area of about 900,000 feddans in Beni
Suef and El Minya governorates;


﻿16
(ii)        provision of the oral drug niridazole to health centers and units
within the 900,000 feddans; and
(iii)       provision of materials, equipment, and vehicles.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 1979.


