CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 393 UAR
Project Agreement
(Upper Egypt Drainage Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
EGYPTIAN PUBLIC AUTHORITY FOR DRAINAGE PROJECTS
DATED JUNE 8, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 393 UAR
Project Agreement
(Upper Egypt Drainage Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
EGYPTIAN PUBLIC AUTHORITY FOR DRAINAGE PROJECTS
DATED JUNE 8, 1973


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 8, 1973, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and the
EGYPTIAN PUBLIC AUTHORITY FOR DRAINAGE PROJECTS (hereinafter
called the Authority).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between Arab Republic of Egypt (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-six million dollars ($36,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that the Authority agree to undertake such obligations toward
the Association as hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS the Authority, in consideration of the Association's entering into
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The Authority shall carry out Part A of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and
efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate  engineering, agricultural,
administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.


﻿4
Section 2.02. In order to assist the Authority in the preparation and
implementation of the Project, the Authority shall employ, by such dates as shall
be agreed with the Association, consultants acceptable to the Association upon
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Authority shall
employ qualified and experienced contractors upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) The Authority undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods provided under Part A of the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to
it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Authority to replace
or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Authority shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made
available to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) The Authority shall furnish to the Association promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Authority: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the
Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation
upon the provisions of Section 5.03 of this Agreement, enable the Association's
representatives to examine the Project, the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association


﻿5
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so made available to it
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.07. The Authority shall, prior to the preparation of the final plan
and designs of the tile drains provided under Part A of the Project, carry out
all necessary soil surveys and predesign investigations.
Section 2.08. The Authority shall prepare and submit to the Association
for its approval the terms of sale of the imported equipment provided under Part
A of the Project to local contractors.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the Authority
Section 3.01. The Authority shall conduct its business and carry out its
operations in accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering, and
agricultural practices and to that end shall employ at all times qualified and
experienced management and staff.
Section 3.02. The Authority shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
Section 3.03. The Authority shall, not later than six months after the
Effective Date or such other date as shall be agreed with the Association, prepare
and submit to the Association for its review a program for the training, locally
and overseas, of its personnel engaged in drainage works.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Authority shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.
(b)   Without any limitation upon the generality of the foregoing, the
Authority shall maintain separate records and accounts for drainage and reclamation
works.
0s


﻿6
Section 4.02. The Authority shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Authority and
the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Authority shall, not later than one year after the Effective
Date or such other date as shall be agreed with the Association, effect a cost
accounting system, mutually satisfactory to the Association and the Authority,
to determine the relevant costs of the works carried out by the Authority.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and the Authority shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Association and the Authority shall from time to time, at the request of either
party, exchange views through their representatives with regard to the performance
of their respective obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations
and financial condition of the Authority and other matters relating to the purpose
of the Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association and the Authority shall promptly inform each
other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by either of
them of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Authority shall enable the Association's representatives
to examine all plants, sites, works, properties and equipment of the Authority
and any relevant records and documents.


﻿7
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of the Authority thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two
dates:
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify the Authority of this event.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿8
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For the Authority:
Egyptian Public Authority for
Drainage Projects
5 A El-Goheiny Street
Dokki
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address:
DELTATILE
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt
Section 7.02. Any action 2equired or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of the Authority may be taken or executed by the Chairman of the Board of
the Authority or such other person or persons as the Authority shall designate
in writing.
Section 7.03. The Authority shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person
or persons who will, on behalf of the Authority, take any action or execute any
documents required or permitted to be taken or executed by the Authority pursuant
to any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿9
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL. DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ M. P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
EGYPTIAN PUBLIC AUTHORITY FOR
DRAINAGE PROJECTS
By /s/ Mustafa El-Said
Authorized Representative


﻿10
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.    Contracts Subject to International Competitive Bidding
1.    With respect to any contract for the construction of complete pumping
stations and for the procurement of construction or maintenance equipment or
material estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Authority shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   Contracts shall include appropriate clauses for the provision of
(including payment for) a sufficient number of fully experienced technical personnel
to supervise the assembly and maintenance of the equipment in the Project Area
and to train the operators of such equipment. The required number of personnel
shall be made available for field maintenance duties in the Project Area on the
machinery and vehicles supplied from the dates of delivery to the construction
contractors until the end of the guarantee period or such other date as shall be
specified in the contract to ensure the adequate training of maintenance technicians
and equipment operators; or in the case of pumping stations equipment, from the
start of installation until a six months training period for operating staff has been
completed after the commissioning of each installation.
(c) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Authority shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, and the reasons for the intended award. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement,
promptly inform the Authority and the Borrower, and state the reasons for such
determination and advise the Authority of any cancellation pursuant to the
provisions of paragraph 4(c) of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.


﻿11
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
2.    With respect to any other contract for the procurement of construction or
maintenance equipment or material, the Authority shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of
any such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract is not consistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement, promptly inform the Authority and the
Borrower, and state the reasons for such determination and advise the Authority
of any cancellation pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 4(c) of Schedule 1
to the Development Credit Agreement.
B.    Supplemental Rules on Bid Evaluation and Comparison
I.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids, customs duties and
other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on locally
produced goods, shall be excluded, except to the extent hereinafter provided, and
bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for
imported goods, or the ex-factory price for locally produced goods. The cost to
the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery
of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be taken into account in
the evaluation of bids in accordance with paragraph 4.7 of the Guidelines for
Procurement.
2.    For purposes of the provisions hereinafter set forth, the following terms shall
have the following meanings:
(a)   "Preferred Domestic Bid" means a bid offering goods manufactured
in the territories of the Borrower if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association that the manufacturing cost of
such goods includes a value added in the territories of the Borrower of not less
than 20% of the ex-factory bid price.
(b)   "Non-preferred Domestic Bid" means any other bid offering goods
manufactured in the territories of the Borrower.
(c)   "Foreign Bid" means any bid other than those specified in (a) or (b)
above.


﻿12
3.    For goods included in Categories I, II, III and IV of the table set out in
paragraph I of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement, a margin of
preference may be granted by the Borrower to Preferred Domestic Bids. Such
preference shall be granted by adding to each Foreign Bid, for the purpose only
of comparison with Preferred Domestic Bids, an amount (hereinafter called
"Domestic Preference Margin") equal to the smaller of (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay
for the goods offered in the bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods.
4.    If Preferred Domestic Bids are received, the comparison among all evaluated
bids for each contract shall be made in the stages and with the preferences indicated
below:
Stage                     Bids to be Compared                     Preference
I.         All Preferred Domestic Bids and Non-preferred         None
Domestic Bids.
II.        (a)  Lowest evaluated bid under Stage I, if           Add Domestic
Preferred Domestic Bid, with all Foreign        Preference
Bids;                                           Margin to
Foreign Bids
or
(b)  Lowest evaluated bid under Stage I, if           None
Non-preferred Domestic Bid, with all
Foreign Bids.
III.       If lowest evaluated bid under Stage II is not         None
the lowest evaluated bid under Stage I, all
Foreign Bids.
5.    The bidding documents shall clearly indicate any preference which will be
granted to Preferred Domestic Bids, the information required to establish the
eligibility of a bid for such preference and the methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.
C.    Contracts Not Subject to International Competitive Bidding
All contracts for civil works except those for pumping stations, shall be
awarded in accordance with the normal procurement procedures of the Borrower.


