                                 Document of
                             The World Bank




                                                  Report No: ICR 0000167




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                               (IBRD-45940)




                                  ON A

                                  LOAN

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$180.0 MILLION

                                 TO THE

                           GOVERNMENT OF INDIA

                                 FOR THE

           RAJASTHAN POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT




                              January 30, 2007




Sustainable Development Unit
South Asia Region




                                     1

                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                 ( Exchange Rate Effective 10/31/2006 )
                       Currency Unit = Rupee
                         Rupee 1.00 = US$ 0.0222
                            US$ 1.00 = Rupee 45.02


                                Fiscal Year
                            April 1 - March 31




              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AP       Andhra Pradesh
Ajmer    Ajmer Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Limited
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
DSM      Demand Side Management
Discom   Distribution Company
ECO      Energy Conservation and Commercialization
EE       Energy Efficiency
EMP      Environment Management Plan
ERP      Enterprise Resource Planning
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
FRP      Feeder Renovation Program
FinRP    Financial Restructuring Plan
GOI      Government of India
GOR      Government of Rajasthan
ICR      Implementation Completion and Results Report
Jaipur   Jaipur Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Limited
Jodhpur  Jodhpur Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Limited
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PDO      Project Development Objectives
R&R      Resettlement and Rehabilitation
RAP      Resettlement Action Plan
RERC     Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory Commission
RSEB     Rajasthan State Electricity Board
RVPN     Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Prasaran Nigam Limited (Transmission Company)
RVUN     Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Limited (Generation Company)
SPP      Social Policy and Procedure
TA       Technical Assistance
UI       Unscheduled Interchange


                                     2

UP           Uttar Pradesh
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
WTP          Willingness to Pay
crores       10,000,000 Rupee
kV           kilo Volt
kWh          kilo watt hour




     Vice President: Praful C. Patel

   Country Director: Fayez S. Omar

    Sector Manager: Salman Zaheer

Project Team Leader: Rohit Mittal




                                       3

                                         India
        RAJASTHAN POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT


                                     CONTENTS

                                                                        Page No.
1. Basic Information                                                       5
2. Key Dates                                                               5
3. Ratings Summary                                                         5
4. Sector and Theme Codes                                                  6
5. Bank Staff                                                              6
6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design                      7
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes                      10
8. Assessment of Outcomes                                                 15
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome                              19
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance                           19
11. Lessons Learned                                                       21
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners  22
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis                                       23
Annex 2. Restructuring                                                    26
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing                                      27
Annex 4. Outputs by Component                                             29
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis                                  34
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes    46
Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                48
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Result                                        49
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results                          50
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR          51
Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders        63
Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents                                    64
Annex 13. Map IBRD 29249R                                                 65




                                            4

1. Basic Information
                                                                      RAJASTHAN POWER

Country:                India                 Project Name:           SECTOR
                                                                      RESTRUCTURING
                                                                      PROJECT
Project ID:             P038334               L/C/TF Number(s):       IBRD-45940
ICR Date:               01/30/2007            ICR Type:               Core ICR

Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:               GOVERNMENT OF
                                                                      INDIA
Original Total
Commitment:             USD 180.0M            Disbursed Amount:       USD 166.2M

Environmental Category:B
Implementing Agencies

RVPN & Discoms
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners


2. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process        Original Date     Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review: 10/20/1995           Effectiveness:    03/12/2001         03/12/2001
Appraisal:         03/15/2000        Restructuring(s):
Approval:          01/18/2001        Mid-term Review:                     06/04/2004
                                     Closing:          06/30/2005         06/30/2006


3. Ratings Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory


3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
 Implementation Performance       Indicators     QAG Assessments (if any)        Rating:
Potential Problem Project at any
time (Yes/No):                  No            Quality at Entry (QEA):         None

Problem Project at any time
(Yes/No):                       No            Quality of Supervision (QSA):   None

DO rating before                Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:        Satisfactory




                                             5

4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                            Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other social services                                                   1               1
District heating and energy efficiency services                         3               3
Power                                                                  95             95
Renewable energy                                                        1               1
                                                        Original Priority Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Infrastructure services for private sector development   Primary          Primary
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization    Primary          Primary
Climate change                                           Secondary        Secondary
Environmental policies and institutions                  Primary          Primary


5. Bank Staff
                         Positions                           At ICR        At Approval
Vice President:                                         Praful C. Patel  Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:                                       Fayez S. Omar    Edwin R. Lim

Sector Manager:                                         Salman Zaheer    Alastair J.
                                                                         McKechnie

Project Team Leader:                                    Rohit Mittal     Magdalena V.
                                                                         Manzo
ICR Team Leader:                                        Rohit Mittal

ICR Primary Author:                                     Joseph Daniel
                                                        Wright




                                                 6

6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)
6.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale
for Bank assistance)


       In the late 1990s, Government of India (GOI) had been encouraging the States to
undertake power sector reforms to encourage state-owned utilities and the emerging
private generating companies to operate in a competitive and commercial environment
regulated by an independent State commission. On June 1, 2000 Rajasthan effected the
Rajasthan Power Sector Reform Bill. This would pave the way for the acknowledged
extensive exercise to restructure and rationalize Rajasthan's power sector, which had been
ailing for more than a decade. In July 2000, under this Act, the Government of Rajasthan
(GOR) established the successor entities to Rajasthan State Electricity Board (RSEB) -
a generation company (Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam or RVUN), a
transmission company (Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Prasaran Nigam or RVPN) and three
distribution companies (named for their head offices of Jaipur, Ajmer , Jodhpur ) were
established. The Act also strengthened the role of the Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory
Commission (RERC), which had been established in 1998. In 2000, per capita electricity
consumption in Rajasthan was 302 kWh/year. Electricity sales were growing at an
annual average of 7%, and the estimated shortfall in annual electricity generation was
about 15%, while the deficit in peak capacity was estimated to be about 23% or about
1,000 MW. Both percentage deficits were well above the countrywide average. The
sector had over 380,000 outstanding applicants for electricity, most of whom had been
waiting for several years, due to lack of generation capacity. 90% of villages had a
supply line, but only 40% of the population had an electricity connection. Lack of
adequate supplies of power, caused by funding constraints, were preventing economic
development in the State. Overall operations were marred by long service interruptions,
unacceptable voltage and frequency swings, high system technical and commercial losses
(42%), low system power factors and over-loaded power lines and substations. Financial
performance was characterized by low earning capacity, poor cost recovery, heavy debt
reliance and tight liquidity. This poor state of affairs was mainly the result of inadequate
investments, brought about by sequential governments' interference in the management of
the sector, and especially caused by their directives to charge low tariffs to residential and
agricultural consumers. The Rajasthan Power Sector Restructuring Project was designed
as Rajasthan's first engagement with the Bank in the power sector to begin the long
exercise to address these issues. The project would further the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) of reducing infrastructure bottlenecks by promoting power
sector reform, independent regulation, and the creation of a commercially viable sector,
which would encourage private sector investments. The Project Appraisal Document
(PAD) recognised that Bank support to Rajasthan would be pursued in the context of
assisting the State through the proposed loan followed by further possible support as
reforms in the sector progressed and deepened.




                                              7

6.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

       PDO: To support the on-going power sector reform process in Rajasthan leading to
higher sector efficiency and financial recovery; and improve power supply by removing
the critical bottlenecks in the power transmission and distribution system.

       Key Performance Indicators (in summary): (a) the establishment of a fully
functioning electricity regulatory commission, (b) the satisfactory implementation of the
Financial Restructuring Plan, resulting in a financial turn-around of the five successor
companies by FY2005, (c) private participation in distribution by having strategic
investors in place by end-2002, and (d) investments in the transmission and distribution
system would result in improved voltage levels, reduced outages and technical losses,
and increased energy availability in the service areas affected by investments.

6.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification

       Project development objectives (PDOs) were not revised. One of the covenants,
"offering majority equity stake to private sector in the distribution companies", which
was also a key performance indicator, was deleted, by agreement with all parties, during
the project implementation. The reason for this was that the prevailing conditions in the
Indian market were not conducive to privatisation of distribution assets. The deletion of
the covenant was judged not to materially affect the achievement of the PDOs,
because there had been progress in introducing private participation in the functional
areas, including billing, metering and the operation and maintenance of sub-stations, and
initiatives towards encouraging rural franchises.

6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised
(briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as captured in the
PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the
project)

       The PAD identified the main beneficiaries to be (i) Rajasthan's population, which
would benefit from the State's improved fiscal position (ii) power consumers who would
benefit from better quality service (iii) households waiting for service that would benefit
by receiving new connections (iv) RSEB's successor companies, whose financial
performance would improve, and (v) power utility employees who would benefit from
safer, improved working conditions.

6.5 Original Components (as approved)

       (a) Loss Reduction. For the rural areas, where losses were greatest, the
Distribution Companies (Discoms) were to utilize part of the loan funds to procure
transformers and distribution materials to begin to tackle the problem. The loan-financed
materials would, however, be only a small fraction of the stock of materials the Discoms


                                              8

would procure and employ during the period of the restructuring project. The Discoms
planned to replace poorly planned, inefficiently lengthy, low tension (LT) lines and
infrequently-spaced large transformers with more frequently spaced smaller
transformers, power factor correcting capacitors and high tension (HT) lines (11 kV),
which can carry much larger loads with small conduction losses. These "LT-less
initiatives" would all contribute to reducing technical losses. In an effort to prevent non-
technical losses (mainly theft), bare conductor on LT lines and service connections were
to be replaced with insulated aerial bunched cables, which would make it impractical for
consumers to illegally connect themselves to these, difficult-to-patrol, remote distribution
lines.

       (b) Transmission/ Distribution - System Reinforcement. Rajasthan expected
to connect about 750,000 consumers during the project period. Part of the loan proceeds
was intended to finance about a third of the network expansion required to supply these
additional consumers. The expansion included new and extended substations at 220 and
132 kV, along with new and extended associated transmission lines. The loan was also
to finance new and improved 33 kV substations and lines to reduce technical losses
and improve the reliability of supplies.

       (c) System and Consumer Metering. Error-prone mechanical meters, which are
easy to interfere with, were to be replaced with modern, tamperproof, more accurate
electronic (static) meters. 300,000 meters were to be financed under the loan. Inter-
company boundary metering, to measure power and energy exchanges, was also to be
financed under the loan, as well as metering to record and allocate the aggregate energy
used by the consumers connected to each of Rajasthan 8,400 11 kV feeders.

       (d) Technical Assistance. A project preparation facility (PPF) of US$2 million
had been provided in 1996 to help prepare the project and to advise the utilities and GOR
on restructuring the sector. The project loan would continue to fund technical assistance
for: (i) the management of the reform process; (ii) institutional development of RVPN
and the RERC; (iii) the formation of joint venture distribution companies; (iv) a socio-
economic study of the impacts of the reform project; (v) off-grid renewable energy
development for remote areas of the State; (vi) demand-side management and energy
efficiency initiatives; (vii) management of power sector impacts on the environment; and
(viii) public information/ communication on benefits of reform. USAID was to fund
technical assistance activities through its energy conservation and commercialization
(ECO) project in the area of Demand Side Management (DSM)/ Energy Efficiency (EE).




6.6 Revised Components

       The project components were not revised.




                                              9

6.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

       Funds amounting to US$13.9 million out of the loan had been identified in the
PAD to finance the cost of the civil works of substations and the erection costs of
transmission and distribution lines. During project implementation, RVPN and the
Discoms judged that it would be impractical and especially unnecessarily time
consuming to award such petty local contracts via Bank procurement procedures, and
thus proposed to the Bank that these contracts be financed from their own resources, and
that the funds so released be utilized by the Discoms to procure via International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) increased quantities of distribution materials. The Bank
accepted this proposal, and the funds were used for this objective.

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

       The PAD presented a comprehensive overview of the Rajasthan power sector at
the time of appraisal, demonstrating that the project team had a solid grasp of the issues
confronting the sector. Adequate arrangements were made for project implementation,
procurement and safeguard management. In retrospect, sector-wide distribution loss
reduction targets, and the sector financial turnaround targets, contained in the Financial
Restructuring Plan (FinRP), were too ambitious and out of proportion to the level of
reform leverage, which the Bank loan afforded. The original FinRP was revised twice
during the project implementation period as the companies failed to meet their targets,
partially owing to the countrywide slow down in the power sector reform process, and
also because of the measures that became unavoidable if Government and the power
utilities were to respond appropriately to address the problems caused by the severe
drought. As the project proceeded, it became clear, as had been envisaged in the PAD,
that conclusive progress in power sector reform could not be achieved during the
timeframe of single project, and that a long-term engagement would be required. The
investments of the loan were related to a small portion of Rajasthan's power sector
infrastructure, and thus could not result in the achievements of sector-wide targets as set
out in the PAD. Experience demonstrated that sector-wide loss-reductions, especially
non-technical losses, can only be brought about slowly, and not as quickly as the PAD
suggested. Government commitment was initially demonstrated, but it waned in the face
of the severe drought and other political pressures. However, the project's design
reflected the optimism within the Bank and in Rajasthan, where the idea of rapid
financial turnaround driven by ambitious reform and supported by fresh investment was a
commonly shared outlook for the power sector. In retrospect, the analysis of the risks
was too optimistic. It did not anticipate the severe drought and the consequent directive
by Government that the power utilities should rapidly expand the number of already
heavily subsidized agricultural connections. Further, the opposition to tariff increases
was rated as "substantial", when it could arguably have been rated as



                                               10

"high". Recognizing the changed scenario, the supervision team accepted that
privatization was not possible during the project period, and that loss reduction targets
should be related, realistically, not to the State-wide sector as had been envisaged in the
PAD, but to the investments themselves.

7.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and
actions taken, as applicable)

      (a) Loss Reduction. In 2003, a major step forward in the identification and
location of distribution losses was achieved under the project, in that the exercise to
procure and install meters on about 98% of Rajasthan 's 8,400 11 kV feeder lines was
completed. This enabled the Discoms to attribute losses, and to identify 100 of
Rajasthan's worst 11 kV feeders, which were made the target of a Feeder Renovation
Program (FRP), embracing the LT-less concept. Through the implementation of the
FRP, for the subject feeders, losses on average were reduced by 15%, billed energy
increased by 30%; and the rate of transformer burnouts was reduced by 10% or better.
As a result of the pilot schemes and this latter success, all three Discoms took up the FRP
in earnest. By 2005, the FRP had been further expanded to address the losses of several
hundred feeders per Discom (about 3% of Rajasthan's feeders), the program is
continuing with the aim of addressing all the rural feeders (other programs are in place to
address the losses on urban and industrial feeders).

      (b) Transmission / Distribution - System Reinforcements. Rajasthan has
successfully exceeded the 220, 132 and 33 kV system reinforcement and expansion
plans, envisaged at appraisal. During the project period RVPN built and commissioned
twelve new 220 kV substations and seventy-five 132 kV substations. The project
financed materials for one of the 220 kV substations, eleven of the 132 kV substations,
and the associated 220 kV and 132 kV transmission lines. Details given in Table 4(a)4
of Annex 4.

      (c) System and Consumer Metering. Inter-company boundary metering was
successfully procured and installed under the project. Instead of the target of 750,000
consumer meters over the project period, the Discoms procured and installed 4.5 million
electronic/static meters, for 940,000 new consumers and for the replacement of 3 million
broken meters and mechanical meters. As envisaged, the loan financed about 300,000 of
these new meters.

      (d) Procurement and Implementation. Annex 4(a) provides details of issues
that were encountered by Rajasthan during the ICB procurement exercise, along with
suggestions that could be employed to improve procurement in Bank-funded India
 projects. It also provides an overview of the way in which the physical components of
the project were implemented, and how the proposed scaling-up of the extensive feeder
renovation program will need to be managed for it to be successful and produce
sustainable results.




                                              11

       (e) Technical Assistance (TA). At the time of project appraisal, Rajasthan had
already made considerable progress in the power restructuring process. A component
(US$5.6 million) of the project was technical assistance, under which RVPN and the
Discoms were to be strengthened and further strides in the restructuring process
achieved. It needs to be stressed that while the loan of US$180 million constituted only
about a tenth of the sector investments made by Rajasthan during the project period,
assistance under the TA component had strong, beneficial impacts on the sector. As a
result of the TA, the following key outcomes were achieved in RVPN: (a) setting up of a
dedicated Regulatory Affairs Unit; (b) downward delegation of powers in the
organization; (c) establishment of a employee database; (d) establishment of System
Operating Procedures for implementation of Grid Code; (e) installation of a
comprehensive transmission and protection database; (f) design of an integrated
Management Information System; (g) introduction of consumption based incentive
scheme for industries being supplied with bulk power; and (h) unbundling of the
transmission and bulk supply tariffs. Further, these activities also contributed to the
creation of a road map for the next generation reforms and restructuring consequent to
notification of India 's Electricity Act of 2003 to effect separation of the trading function
from RVPN and transfer it to the three distribution companies (with effect from April 1,
2004), resulting in Rajasthan becoming the first state in the country to adopt the multi-
buyer model in the power sector.Under the USAID funded grant component for TA,
USAID facilitated adoption of DSM/ EE principles and practices in the Jaipur Discom.
Under the project, a DSM Cell was established in Jaipur Discom in January 2001 and
assistance was provided to train the staff in planning, screening, designing,
implementing, and evaluating DSM programs, and in designing a pilot DSM program as
part of a long-term DSM plan.

       However, despite the satisfactory implementation of the physical investments, the
health of the overall sector continued its decline (details at Para 8.3) and there was
limited progress on introducing private participation in distribution (details at Para 6.3).

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

       It was not possible to define baseline data at the time of appraisal because the
utility was in the process of being restructured. At negotiations, it was therefore agreed
that the baseline data would be finalized during the first few months of the project.
Initially, sector-wide and project-specific data was difficult to collect from the
distribution companies as they were newly established. As time went on, the data
collections improved in both quality and timeliness, and the beneficial results of the
project became evident. Additional indicators were added at the mid-term review. The
monitoring of financial performance provided a strong basis for dialogue between the
supervision team, the utilities and GOR. The sector is currently improving its information
technology (IT) systems through a Management Information System (MIS)/IT contract,
which was designed during the project period. Because of time constraints, this
contract could not be financed from loan proceeds. It is expected to be completed in
December 2007. This will facilitate the move to a modern MIS/ IT system,
including customized software on project monitoring, inventory control, pay-roll,



                                              12

personal information system and financial and accounts model, aiming at reaching a full
Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) model.

7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

       Environment. Environmental management of various project activities gradually
improved during the project and has been generally satisfactory. As part of project
preparation, specific Environmental Management Plans (EMP) were prepared and
implemented, in line with the Environmental Framework and Safeguards management
plan agreed with the Bank during appraisal of the project. This framework was used for
all the major transmission schemes, financed under the project. The same framework is
now incorporated by the transmission company into their project planning and
implementation although there is some room for improvement in the monitoring and
reporting of EMP implementation at individual investment levels. RVPN is working on
this and also aiming at obtaining ISO 14001 certification. The Distribution companies
are working on improving their environmental performance, particularly, integration of
environmental management measures in their project planning and implementation.
Rajasthan has continued to encourage the use of wind power, and during the six year
project period some 320 MW of wind-powered electricity generators were installed by
private investors.

       Social. The social planning and the implementation of social safeguards,
particularly involuntary resettlement, and similar activities of the project were generally
satisfactory. As part of the project preparation, a Social Policy and Procedure (SPP)
including Resettlement and Rehabilitation (R&R) entitlement framework was prepared
and agreed before the project appraisal. Specific Resettlement Action Plans (RAP) were
prepared and implemented, in line with this agreed R&R entitlement framework. The
project did not involve any physical displacement but required appropriation of land
(including acquisition of private land) for constructing grid substations. Since the extent
of land lost by landholders was small, none was found eligible for R&R support, other
than the compensation amount , which were appropriately paid out.

       Financial Management. The financial management arrangements for the
investment project have been satisfactory through the project life. With the induction of
several professional staff, the utility companies have done well to rise to the challenges
of transition to corporate accounting and continued to make incremental improvements in
financial management, as evidenced by speediness of preparation of annual financial
statements, institutionalisation of internal audit function, efficient debt management,
updating of asset registers, maintenance of cost records, finalization of Trust accounts
etc. The entity audits have been prepared within four months of the close of financial
year for last three years and significant efforts have been made to resolve the audit
observations. The utilities have done quite well on restructuring their high cost debts,
about Rs. 76,000 million of debts have been restructured, resulting in net savings of
around Rs. 6,500 million over the loan period.




                                                13

      Procurement. The procurement has generally been satisfactory. Initially there
were delays in view of the differences in the procedures being followed by the erstwhile
RSEB and the procedures under a Bank financed Project. This resulted in several
complaints by the bidders. Substantial time was spent in resolving these complaints.
During initial supervision missions, special efforts were made to advise the
Implementing Agencies about the Bank's procedures. However once the procedures were
understood and appreciated by the Implementing Agencies, the procurement process was
satisfactory. For procurement of minor works, the Bank declared mis-procurement for a
total value of some US$ 2 million, which was cancelled from the loan amount, because
the procurement was not carried out in accordance with Bank guidelines.


7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

      Operation and maintenance : RVPN and the Discoms have provided the Bank
with their plans for the operations and routine and emergency maintenance of the Bank-
funded plant and equipment along with that funded from their own resources. These
plans were reviewed by Bank staff, and judged to be adequate and to internationally
recognized norms. Annex 4 provides detail of the adequacy of the equipment procured
and the standards of its installation. By the loan closing date, some distribution materials
of three lots had not been delivered. The Discoms have set aside self-generated funds
(about US$1.5 million equivalent) to complete the execution of these contracts.

      Follow-up activities: Table 4(a)3 of Annex 4 provides brief details of the ongoing
FRP work and the scaling up of the programme across the Discoms to renovate the
remaining 7,350 feeders at a total cost of about US$800 million. Experience gained on
this project (the pilot schemes and the several hundred feeders completed or ongoing) has
been extremely useful. It has enabled the Discoms to understand and resolve the
technical problems involved, and has indicated the enormity of the difficulties of
managing the proposed extensive FRP. It has highlighted the magnitude and complexity
of contracts and their management. Numerous erection contractors and sound contract
management will be needed if the work is to be completed on schedule, and to a
standard, which will capture the benefits of loss reduction in a sustainable manner. For
the last twenty years, there had been a freeze on recruitment of technical staff in the
power utilities. Realizing the extent of the problems in the sector, and especially the
need for strong engineering supervision of the FRP installation contractors, GOR has
agreed to allow the Discoms to recruit additional staff (engineers), a large number of
whom will help ensure, by appropriate supervision, that the four year FRP is carried out
in a manner which will achieve sustainable results.




                                               14

8. Assessment of Outcomes
8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

       While project objectives may be judged, in hindsight, to have been overly
ambitious, they continue to be highly relevant to the CAS, and to the priorities of the
GOR. The relevance of the project was undermined by not addressing some of the risks
identified at appraisal adequately in the project design. Implementation, which supported
a sustained, albeit gradual, improvement in the institutional capacity of the power
companies, continues to be relevant to national and GOR priorities and the Bank's
assistance strategy.

8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 4)

       The project generally achieved its objective of supporting the power sector reform
process in Rajasthan, alleviating transmission and distribution bottlenecks and, to a lesser
extent, improving the sector's efficiency, but it was unsuccessful in demonstrably
contributing to the sector's financial recovery. This was largely because the socio-
political barriers to this outcome were not adequately recognized at the design stage, the
leverage of the relatively small investments supported was over-estimated and the impact
on the project was not adequately addressed during implementation. The indications of
the project achievements are:

       (i) Regulatory Commission. The Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory Commission
(RERC), has been established and is fully staffed and functional. Amongst RERC's
outcomes have been the following activities, initially supported by advisory consultant
services, financed under the loan: (a) In March 2001, the RERC issued its first tariff an
order for tariff revision, reducing cross-subsidies, simplifying the tariff structures, and
introduced progressive two-part tariffs for most consumers. This was followed by s
econd tariff order in December 2004; (b) In April 2001, the RERC issued 30 year
licenses to the RVPN and the Discoms; (c) RERC has issued regulations allowing open
access and trading as part of its ongoing work to achieve further liberalization and
commercialization of electricity market; (d) RERC has also laid down standards of
performance for the distribution and transmission licensee. Many of the RERC's
complex, and of necessity, lengthy activities, involved the conducting of public hearings,
before orders/ regulations were finalized.

       (ii) Financial Restructuring Plan. Following extensive reviews at State level,
the sector Financial Restructuring Plan (FinRP) had been approved and implemented in
March 2000, with Government agreeing to provide significant subsidy support to the
power sector. The sector has followed the Plan and Government has continued to
provide financial support on time, despite Government's own fiscal problems and the fact
that because of the continuing declining finances of the sector, the FinRP had to be



                                                15

revised twice during the project. However, the financial performance of the power
companies did not improve as forecast at appraisal. This was because the targeted
improvements brought about by the project were outweighed by two unprecedented
factors, resulting in distribution losses across the sector remaining generally as they were
at appraisal. Firstly, to save the crops, which were threatened by severe and unexpected
droughts, the utilities were obliged to provide agricultural consumers with additional
hours of already subsidized supply. Secondly, the increasing cost of power and concerns
about power availability and reliability caused industry, where distribution losses were
minimal, to invest in and run captive generation, leaving the grid. Both these factors
resulted in a marginal increase in the sector's overall percentage losses, which swamped
the impact on overall losses of the gains made through the project in the target areas.
The sector was further undermined by delayed and inadequate tariff revisions, which had
become increasingly politically difficult while other states were providing "free power"
to farmers. By the end of the project the extent of financial losses had been contained and
improvements were being demonstrated, although 'financial recovery' will take another 3
to 5 years.

       (iii) Loss Reduction. The loss reduction activities in the target areas were
satisfactorily completed. The successful achievement of the outcomes is described in
detail in Annex 1 and 4. Generally in the sector, there were marked improvements in
efficiency and financial performance in several aspects of the business, viz. collection
efficiency increased, losses on rural feeders (under the Feeder Renovation Program) and
the number of transformer burnouts were reduced, and debt and cash management was
improved. Rural villages who achieved loss reductions so that losses were less than 15%
were promised, and given, 24 hour supply. This was a significant incentive and much
appreciated by the villagers.

8.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

       At appraisal, the economic rate of return (ERR) of the sector reform program was
estimated at 35%, and the ERR of the distribution investment program was estimated at
43%. Based on the best available information and an assessment of the incremental cost
and benefit streams of the specific investments funded by the project, the ICR estimates
ERR of the project at 22%, the ERR of distribution component at 39% and the ERR of
the transmission investments at 18%. The foregoing assumes a value of Rs. 2.5 per kWh
for each unit of energy saved through loss reduction. The results are conservative
estimates that exclude benefits such as network capacity to serve future load and
improvements in the quality of supply. The result is highly sensitive to the assumption
about the value of saved energy, but in all cases the ERR result remains above the 12%
hurdle rate. The financial turnaround, as planned at the time project appraisal, has not
happened and the sector continues to suffer large losses. During FY2006, the power
sector had a revenue deficit of about Rs. 16,290 million (about US$ 360 million). The
primary reason for the large revenue deficit continues to be system inefficiency reflected
by high distribution losses and non-revision of tariffs in a timely manner (see Para 8.2).



                                              16

The losses have proved harder to address under the project than was originally envisaged
and drawing on the success of the FRP, the companies are now formulating new plans to
reduce losses, including through scaling up FRP, improving services to the more
lucrative urban and industrial customer segments, and intensifying anti-theft measures
(like vigilance and operationalisation of special police stations). Thus the financial
turnaround envisaged at the project design stage has not been achieved. In retrospect, and
comparing with the achievements in other states, it seems that the original targets were
over ambitious. Details on the economic and financial analysis carried out for the ICR
are given in Annex-5.

8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

       It was recognized at appraisal that the problems in the sector could not be cured by
this one project alone, and that further support would be required before all of the steps
of reform could be accomplished. The overall rating of the project takes this into
account. The project has achieved much of its developmental objectives in that (a) the
RERC is fully functional and capable of regulating the sector into the future; (b) the
FinRP was adopted and it has continued to be supported by Government, including
committed subsidy funding to the utilities. The FinRP continues to be used by
Government, utility management and Bank supervisory staff to monitor the progress of,
admittedly, a still unhealthy sector. The sector's management, and particularly financial
management capability, has improved markedly during the project period; (c) The
project's pilot feeder renovation program, which could only begin to address the first one
thousand feeders, has demonstrated the economic and financial benefits to be gained with
the significant reduction in distribution losses and transformer burnouts, as well as
illustrating the complexities involved for the proposed state-wide follow-up operation
involving the renovation program to address the problems of the balance 7,350 feeders;
(d) the other physical components of the project, the sub-transmission and transmission
components, although small in comparison to Rajasthan's parallel sector investments,
have more than attained the targets set out at appraisal.

8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

       Although the project was not directed specifically at the poor, they were the direct
and indirect beneficiaries of project interventions, in that the expansions of the
transmission and distribution systems brought more extensive and reliable supplies of
power to the poor in rural areas. Some areas even achieved 24 hour supply, previously
unheard of in rural areas. In the second half of the project period, the power companies
commenced independent customer satisfaction surveys, which will be used in the future
to assess poverty impacts.




                                              17

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

       Engineering.        220, 132 and 33 kV substation and lines were completed to a
high standard of construction, and most of them were commissioned in advance of the
planned schedule. Thus RVPN and the Discoms have proved that they need little
institutional change or strengthening as far as engineering planning, construction and
operation at these voltages are concerned.        Rajasthan is about to embark (see Para 7.5)
on a large 11 kV FRP that, because of its size, will be implemented by many small
'turnkey' contractors. Thus the duties of a portion of the Discoms' staff will change
from that of being implementers to that of being contract supervisors or project
managers. GOR recently announced its intention to permit the Discoms to recruit 400
new engineers and technicians, who will be employed mainly to plan and design the
FRP, and supervise and manage the petty contractors . The recruitment exercise began
in June 2006, and is expected to be completed by December 2007. The employment of
these engineers and technicians will augment and free up a suitable number of staff to
maintain and operate the Discom's assets.

       Financial Management.          The financial management capacity of the
implementing agencies improved during the project (as described earlier at Para 7.4).
While the considerable efforts have been made to decentralize the accounting function,
which provide a strong trajectory for further strengthening financial management, some
key financial management decisions relating to debt management and cash management
have necessarily remained centralized. This centralized approach has provided flexibility
and helped the companies, during the transitional period, in meeting their payment
obligations on time. The individual companies otherwise enjoy autonomy in taking their
own decisions in respect of investments, expenditure, borrowings, payments etc. Plans
are in place towards devolving funds/ cash management to the individual companies in
the next year. The development of the ERP package (see Para 7.3) will enhance the
quality of the financial management information systems and further strengthen financial
management capacity.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)




8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)




                                                18

9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

        The improvements made to the quality of the transmission and higher voltage
distribution system are likely to be sustained. However the improvements in efficiency
and financial performance of the rural feeders are at risk without adequate resources to
sustain maintenance and commercial management. This is being addressed over the
coming two years, with the recruitment and training of additional staff (see Para 7.5 and
8.5(b)). Many of the reforms implemented - the restructuring, independent regulation,
tariff filings, improved debt and cash management are likely to be sustained. The overall
financial position of the Discoms and RVPN continues to be poor, and will deteriorate
without continued action to improve efficiency; implement timely tariff
adjustments; government support to collect what is billed; greater operating autonomy to
the discoms; and ensuring that government guided social mandates required of
the utilities are fully compensated.


10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)
10.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

        At entry the project was considered well designed, and it had much in common
with other state-level power restructuring and investment projects in India of the same
period. In retrospect it should have paid more attention to the achievements attributable to
the project and risk mitigation and monitoring.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

        It was a complex project to supervise because of the large number of procurements
and the need to monitor four power companies. There was a good quality of dialogue
between the supervision team, the implementing agency and the borrower. The project
was rated as Unsatisfactory at various points in its implementation, largely due to
concerns over financial performance, but in each instance, the team, the borrower and the
implementing agency were able to take necessary remedial actions to improve the
likelihood of achievement of the PDOs and restore the projects Satisfactory rating.
However, more attention could have been paid to adequately addressing the risk to the
achievement of the financial recovery objective, and reassessing the project indicators
accordingly. There were several changes to the leadership and composition of the task
team, but some team members ensured continuity.



                                                19

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

       Taking into consideration the ratings for lending and supervision, the overall rating
for Bank's performance is given as "Moderately Satisfactory".




10.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

        The borrower (GOR) performed the actions expected of it at the time of appraisal.
The government maintained its momentum of the reforms during the initial years and
provided necessary support. It provided subsidy support in line with its original
commitments and on time. However, during the later part of the project, the government
failed to sustain the reform momentum, significant reasons being the continuous drought
suffered by the state as well as the impact of the policy of free power to farmers adopted
by other states. This put pressure on the government to take actions on social welfare,
particularly, to increase release of agricultural connections at a pace much higher than
what was agreed to under the financial restructuring plan, supply more hours of service to
rural areas during drought to save crops, and allowing the discoms to collect only part of
tariff increases pending a final determination on additional subsidies.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Implementing
Agency          Performance

                The implementing agencies performed satisfactorily in implementing the
                physical investment components. Despite initial delays caused by
                procurement issues, the bulk of the physical works were completed by loan
                closure. The implementing agencies were innovative in refining the design
                and implementation of the FRP and also performed the financial
RVPN &
Discoms         management actions, for example debt restructuring and timely preparation
                and audit of accounts, expected of them at the time of appraisal. The
                implementing agencies failed to make timely tariff applications and could
                not achieve satisfactory efficiency improvements at the state level despite
                the fact that losses continue to come down on the pilot feeders in line with
                the targets.




                                               20

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

      Though the investment component of the loan was handled satisfactorily, the
envisaged financial turnaround did not happen because of a number of actions/ inactions
by the government/ implementing agency (see Para 8.2 and 8.3). In hindsight the targets
may also have been ambitious. The regulator did try to push the utilities to perform in
line with the targets approved in the revenue requirement/ tariff petitions and disallowing
revenue requirements on account of non-achievements of targets, however the impact of
this was not sufficient.    The responsibility for the performance cannot be separated
between the utilities and GOR. The ownership of the utilities remained with GOR after
restructuring. The government, being the owner of the utilities, could have insisted on
better performance from the utilities (e.g. in reduction of high level of distribution losses)
and provided them with necessary support (for instance, towards their independent
functioning and management continuity). The utilities should have made better
commercial decisions. Given this, a rating of "Moderately Satisfactory" is assigned to the
to the overall borrower performance as it is also to the implementing agency.

11. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

       The expectation of the pace at which the reforms can be implemented and the
outcomes realized should be realistic. Given the socio-political constraints the pace of
reforms will be determined by the willingness and capacity of the governments to
address key reform issues. Expectations of financial turnaround and phasing out
subsidies should, similarly, be realistic. In reality, the government would generally need
to provide substantial financial support during the transition period to meet the cost of
reforms (e.g. financial restructuring costs, employee liabilities, explicit provision of
subsidy as per regulatory directives etc.). This would thus require prudent prioritisation
of the government's expenditures and public policy decision-making during the
transition.

       Subsidized power supply to agriculture is a broad public policy issue, not just a
sectoral issue. The problem of subsidized power supply to agriculture and resistance to
metering is embedded in the political economy of distorted agricultural policies.
Sustainable improvement in power sector requires this complex economic and political
problem to be addressed.




                                               21

       Tariff reforms and cost recovery improvement as well as efficiency improvement
are essential for the financial turnaround of the power sector. Tariff subsidy to the
consumers must be explicitly defined and transparently delivered without compromising
the utility's finances. The subsidy should be adequately budgeted by the government and
provided in a timely manner. Realistic projections of reductions in losses should be
linked to the investments being financed by the loan, rather than, as was the case in this
loan, forecasting, based on very little advance evidence, that overall State power sector
losses would be significantly reduced in parallel with, but not as a result of, the project
inputs.

       Public acceptance of sector changes and consequent prospects of sustainability are
likely to only come about if the changes result in quickly achieved and highly visible
improvements in service quality. In this instance the promise of 24 hour supply for those
villages bringing losses down to 15% was a significant incentive and benefit.

       In future, and in general through out the various sectors, while encouragement may
well be given for ICB package sizes to be large to encourage international participation
and economies of scale, every effort should be made, through market research by the
borrower, to ensure that lot sizes are so finalized as to ensure that eligible bids will be
received from the most likely source - in this case the Indian manufacturers. This would
not undermine ICB, because any interested international bidders could bid for an entire
package of lots.

12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

       Government of India : Department of Economic Affairs had no comments on the
report.

       Consolidated comments were provided by Government of Rajasthan which are
reproduced in Annex 10 after the summarized report of borrower's contribution for the
ICR. The State Government, in its comments, has in general concurred with the
observations made in the ICR and has also provided clarifications/ assurances on certain
aspects of project implementation and improvement in performance of power companies.
Steps taken in recent past/ planned by the Government and the utilities are expected to
the improve the operational and financial performance of the utilities and the power
sector going forward, provided the same are adhered to.


(b) Cofinanciers




(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                             22

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

       PDO: To support the on-going power sector reform process in Rajasthan leading to
higher sector efficiency and financial recovery; and improve power supply by removing
the critical bottlenecks in the power transmission and distribution system.

       Key Performance Indicators (in summary): (a) the establishment of a fully
functioning electricity regulatory commission, (b) the satisfactory implementation of the
Financial Restructuring Plan, resulting in a financial turn-around of the five successor
companies by FY2005, (c) private participation in distribution by having strategic
investors in place by end-2002, and (d) investments in the transmission and distribution
system would result in improved voltage levels, reduced outages and technical losses, and
increased energy availability in the service areas affected by investments.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

       Project development objectives (PDOs) were not revised. One of the covenants,
"offering majority equity stake to private sector in the distribution companies", which
was also a key performance indicator, was deleted, by agreement with all parties, during
the project implementation. The reason for this was that the prevailing conditions in the
Indian market were not conducive to privatisation of distribution assets. The deletion of
the covenant was judged not to materially affect the achievement of the PDOs,
because there had been progress in introducing private participation in the functional
areas, including billing, metering and the operation and maintenance of sub-stations, and
initiatives towards encouraging rural franchises.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)


                                   Original Target      Formally      Actual Value Achieved at
  *Indicator     Baseline Value      Values (from         Revised
                                       approval           Target        Completion or Target

                                     documents)           Values               Years

Indicator 1 : Establishment of a fully functioning electricity regulatory commission
                                                                     RERC established and
Value                                                                functioning with a full
(quantitative RERC is            RERC is fully                       complement of members.
or            established and    established and                     Continued good
Qualitative)  functioning.       functioning.                        performance in this area is
                                                                     expected.
Date achieved 04/01/2001         06/30/2005                          06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement) Fully achieved




                                              23

Indicator 2 : Satisfactory implementation of the financial restructuring plan
                                                                    Financial Restructuring Plan
Value                                                               implemented. Further a
(quantitative Sector in financial Financial recovery                revised financial
or            distress.           by project-end.                   restructuring plan approved
Qualitative)                                                        in November 2005 and
                                                                    implementation started.
Date achieved 04/01/2001          06/30/2005                        06/30/2006
Comments      After severe drought caused a set back, a revised Financial restructuring plan has
(incl. %     been approved by GoR in November, 2005. Financial recovery is now forecast for
achievement) FY2012. The financing gap has started to reduce year on year.
Indicator 3 : Private participation in distribution

Value         Distribution

(quantitative companies, under Privatization of the                 Continued out-sourcing

or            full government     distribution                      activities, with plans also for

Qualitative)  ownership,          companies.                        franchising activities.
              incorporated.
Date achieved 04/01/2001          12/31/2002                        06/30/2006
Comments      The legal covenant has been deleted as the prevailing conditions in the Indian
(incl. %      market were not conducive to privatisation of distribution assets. Significant
achievement) progress has been made on outsourcing of activities to the private sector.

Indicator 4 : Investments in the transmission and distribution system -improved voltage levels,
             reduced outages and technical losses, and increased energy availability
                                  improved voltage                  Significant loss reduction
Value                             levels, reduced                   and improvement in quality
(quantitative Poor quality and    outages and                       of supply in selected feeders
or            reliability of      technical losses, and             targeted by the Project under
Qualitative)  power supply        increased energy                  the Feeder renovation
                                  availability.                     program (FRP).
Date achieved 04/01/2001          06/30/2005                        06/30/2006

Comments      The FRP is showing encouraging results in terms of improved voltage levels,

(incl. %     reduced transformer burn-outs (between 7% to 48%) and significant loss reduction

achievement) (between 22% to 51%) on the selected feeders and in some cases 24 hour supply is
             now possible.




                                                 24

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)


                                     Original Target       Formally    Actual Value Achieved at
  Indicator     Baseline Value        Values (from          Revised
                                         approval           Target       Completion or Target

                                       documents)           Values                Years

Indicator 1 : Improved financial performance of the utilities

Value         Financial                                                Continued good financial

(quantitative management            Improved financial                 management and

or            performance needs management.                            reporting. Progress on

Qualitative)  improvement                                              addressing auditor
                                                                       observations.
Date achieved 04/01/2001            06/30/2005                         06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %      Entity audits have been finalized and submitted to the Bank within four months of

achievement)  the end of the fiscal year for three years running. Debts have been restructured.




                                                25

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)

                                Not Applicable




                                     26

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                                  Appraisal  Actual/Latest
                   Components                      Estimate  Estimate (USD  Percentage of

                                                   (USD M)        M)         Appraisal

1. LOSS REDUCTION - AT LOW VOLTAGE
LEVEL, INCLUDING CAPACITOR                             46.70           52.50     112.42
INSTALLATIONS
2. TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION
SCHEMES INCLUDING SPECIAL EQUIPMENT                   153.00         148.20       96.86

3. SYSTEM AND CONSUMER METERING                        13.60           14.80     108.82
4. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE: CONSULTANT
SERVICES FOR INSTITUTIONAL
STRENGTHENING OF UTILITIES AND RERC;                    7.70            5.60      72.73

DISTRIBUTION PRIVATI ZATION
5. INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATIONS                       0.50            0.20      40.00
                                                        0.00            0.00
                              Total Baseline Cost     221.50         221.30
Physical Contingencies                                  0.00
Price Contingencies                                     0.00
                              Total Project Costs     221.50
Front-end fee PPF                                       2.00            2.00     100.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                      1.80            1.80       1.80
                       Total Financing Required       225.30         225.10



(b) Financing


                                                 Appraisal   Actual/Latest
         Source of Funds             Type of                                Percentage of
                                    Cofinancing   Estimate   Estimate (USD
                                                  (USD M)         M)         Appraisal

  US: Agency for International
Development (USAID)                        Grant        2.00           1.18       59.00

  Borrower                                             60.00          32.73       54.55
  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND                                   180.00         166.19        92.33
DEVELOPMENT
  BORROWING COUNTRY'S
FIN. INTERMEDIARY/IES                       Loan       24.80          25.00      100.81




                                             27

(c) Disbursement Profile




                            28

Annex 4. Outputs by Component

       The project has been able to utilize US$ 166.19 million out of the total loan amount of
US$180 million and the balance loan amount of US$ 13.81 million has been cancelled.

       (a) Loss Reduction, Pilot Program and the FRP.                   The first phases of the eight
district pilot program, consisting of 100 of Rajasthan worst feeders indicated that the
application state-wide of the LT-less initiative could be successful.             As a result of this
output, the three Discoms began a comprehensive FRP, covering 1,125 feeders. Tables 4 (a)1
and 2 indicate the outputs resulting from the Program in the three Discoms.

                           Table 4(a)1: FRP results to June 30, 2006

            Feeders     Villages    No of small     ABC         Meters    Losses    Energy   Transformer
                       benefiting  transformers    utilized    replaced,  reduced   saved      burnouts
           Renovated                  installed                 or new    by (%)               reduced
                                                    (km)         ones              (million     by(%)
                                                               installed            kWh)
  Jaipur       451       5,580         3,938        3,413        40,000    51%       335         26%

 Ajmer         198        573          4,514        1,451        31,952    25%        35          7%
 Jodhpur       496       1,257         9,673        4,785       367,836    22%        77         48%



                                 Table 4(a)2: Benefits of the FRP

               Cost of materials used in    Benefits gained by FRP, Rs. crores (kWh      Pay back period
                above FRP (Rs. crores)        saved & transformers not destroyed)
 Jaipur                  354                   101                                           3.5 years
 Ajmer                    40                   11                                            3.6 years
 Jodhpur                  93                   24 (in the first two month period)            0.4 years


       This project and program output has proved the FRP concept, and justifies the
continuation of the FRP program over the next four years for the remaining 7,350 feeders,
most of which will require similar attention, attention, but with diminishing costs per feeder,
because the Discoms will renovate the worst feeders early in the FRP plan.

                       Table 4(a)3: The proposed four year FRP plan

                Ongoing FRP work         FY07        FY08           FY09      FY10        Total
                  & to end FY06
    Feeders          1,145                1,450       1,850         2,200      1,850       8,495
   Rs Crores           750                   780        800           950        670       3,950




                                                29

        (b) System reinforcements. During the project period, the loan financed a minor
portion of Rajasthan's program of transmission and sub-transmission development, which is
summarized in Table 4(a)4. The quality of the procured materials and equipment was
generally to high standards, and erection was carried out efficiently. All of the loan-
financed materials for the 220, 132 and 33 kV system reinforcements were delivered and
installed well before loan closure. In the case of the distribution works, and the FRP, the
standards of construction need to be improved if the extensive FRP program is to be effective
and produce sustained results (see Annex 4-a).


                    Table 4(a)4: Expansion of Rajasthan's Transmission and
                           Sub-Transmission Reticulation Completed
                             During the Project Period (2001-2006)

                                         Materials for these      Rajasthan's total network
                                      components were financed    expansion during project
                                          by loan proceeds       period, financed by loan and
                               Unit                                  self-generated funds
    220 kV lines             Circuit               49                        1,790
                             km
    220 kV grid substations  Nos.                   1                           12
                             MVA                  100                        1,450
    220 kV grid substation   MVA                  700                        1,100
    extensions
    132 kV lines             Circuit              272                        1,536
                             km
    132 kV grid substations  Nos.                  11                           75
                             MVA                  275                        1,800
    132 kV grid substation   MVA                  575                        1,220
    extensions
    33 kV capacitors banks   MVA                  175                          603
    New 33/11kV substations  Nos.                 195                          803
                             MVA                  426                        2,640
    33/11kV substation       MVA                  388                        1,030
    extensions
    33 kV lines              Circuit              580                        6,376
                             km
    11/0.4 kV substations    Nos.              13,800                      121,536
    11kV line                Circuit            5,950                       41,338
                             km
    230/415 volt line        Circuit            2,950                       24,279
                             km
    Single phase meters      Nos.             359,600                    3,858,156
    Three phase meters       Nos.             151,500                      619,651
    ABC cable                Circuit          10,000                       12,135
                             km




      The outcome of these investments in transmission and distribution is that the three
Discoms were able to improve the quality of supplies to their existing consumers, and to
provide electrical supplies to an additional 940,000 consumers.




                                              30

Annex 4(a) - Procurement and implementation

Procurement

       The materials management departments in RVPN and the Jaipur Discom, on behalf of
the Discoms, were responsible for the procurement of transmission and distribution materials
respectively. At the time of appraisal, about half of the project bidding documents had
already been prepared for some 55 packages in 127 lots, and these were issued soon after
loan approval. The lots sizes in some of the packages proved to be too large, and in many
cases no bidder was able to meet the qualification criteria that stipulated that bidders must
have supplied 80% of the lot size in a previous year. As a result, 50 lots had to be reduced in
size, with an increased number of lots; and re-bids took place. This, and the lack of
familiarity of many of Rajasthan's manufacturers and the staff of Implementing Agencies
with formal bidding processes, under the World Bank funded Project also lead to the need for
re-bids; and thus extensive delays in the completion of the overall procurement exercise were
caused. This also resulted in several complaints and substantial time was spent in resolution
of these complaints. During initial supervision missions, special efforts were made to keep
advising the implementing agencies about the Bank's procedures. Once the procedures were
understood and appreciated by the implementing agencies, the procurement process was
satisfactory. Moreover, the materials management departments were scrupulous and
meticulous in their evaluation of bids and in their recommendations for awards. By the end
of the project period they had proved their ability to effectively handle ICB procurement
procedures in accordance with Bank procurement Guidelines. For procurement of minor
works, the Bank had to declare mis-procurement for a total value of USD 2.019 million as
the procurement was not carried out in accordance with the Bank guidelines.

Lesson learned

       In an attempt to encourage wider international participation in the ICB procurement
process, and to effect efficiencies in the procurement exercise, the Bank initially required that
packages and lots should be as large as possible. At project start-up this resulted in many of
the lots receiving no eligible bids, because the only interested bidders (who were from India)
did not have the stipulated experience of having manufactured in a previous year, the
stipulated 80% of the lot quantity, and thus did not qualify. Many bid exercises had to be
repeated with smaller lot sizes and increased quantities of lots, resulting in loss of time and at
some expense to the Discoms and to the bidders. In future, and in general through out the
various sectors, while encouragement may well be given for package sizes to be large to
encourage international participation and economies of scale, every effort should be made,
through market research by the borrower, to ensure that lot sizes are so finalized as to ensure
that eligible bids will be received from the most likely source  in this case the Indian
manufacturers. This would not undermine ICB, because any interested international bidders
could bid for an entire package of lots. In the event, even for the earlier-issued larger
packages, there was no interest shown by foreign bidders. For the project's 269 lots, very
few bids were received from foreign bidders. This was probably because overseas
manufacturers are aware of the competitiveness of the Indian suppliers' prices. Borrowers
must also be encouraged to carry out extensive market research of potential bidders to ensure



                                             31

that the bidders fully understand the strictures of the Bank's procurement procedures; and
where necessary, borrowers need to explain that type testing of materials and equipment must
be performed prior to the bid closing date.

Implementation, Operations and Maintenance

      During the execution of the project, about twenty site visits were undertaken by Bank
staff. In order to prepare the ICR, a specific round of site visits was undertaken for the three
Discoms and for the transmission company, to evaluate the final status of implementation of
investments and assess the outstanding benefits of the project. The findings were as follows.

Compliance of Materials with the Specified Standards

      Visits to the Discoms and Transmission (Transco) company stores and discussions
with Rajasthan staff indicate that Standards were complied with. Designated departmental
engineers inspected the materials and witnessed acceptance tests on the offered lots at the
manufacturers' works, and sealed them appropriately. Inspection reports of the major items
such as power transformers, conductors, Aerial Bunched Conductors (ABC) cable, current
transformers and control cable were verified by the Bank team with reference to purchase
orders in the headquarter stores of each Discom and the Transco. The reports were checked
with the purchase orders with reference to the Indian Standards, and the acceptance tests
specified therein and the test results were found to be acceptable. Lead seals, installed by
the inspectors, were checked with those mentioned in the relevant inspection reports and
found to tally. Sample type test reports were also check and verified as correctly having
been performed. However, a new test facility has recently (May 2006) been developed at
Jaipur city stores for testing power transformers. Some of the 3.15 MVA and 5.0 MVA
power transformers supplied were test checked in this new facility and the losses were
observed to be abnormally high. The suppliers are currently replacing these power
transformers. Faults have also been detected in one manufacturer's L.T and H.T tri-vector
meters. These are also being replaced under the warranty clauses of the contract. Test
checks have recently been conducted on distribution transformers and conductors at the
stores and there were no adverse reports.

Standard of Installation

       The standard of installation for the transmission components, the substations and
transmission lines, is judged to be high. But defects were noted at some of the installations
in the Discoms. As described in the ICR text, these have come about as a result of
deficiencies in supervision of the petty erection contractors. For the expanded FRP, four
hundred additional staff will be employed to supervise the future FRP. Defects included the
following: (a) 33 kV bus structures had been improperly erected and poles were in bent
positions resulting in excessive sagging of the 33 kV bus-bars; (b) oil leakages were noted
from some of the power and distribution transformers; (c) more substantial earthing is
required to protect equipment and the public and livestock; (d) low-tension cables should be
properly and neatly attached to the substation structures; (e) low-tension fuses should be
safely enclosed in suitable boxes and not accessible to the general public; (f) insulators



                                              32

should be provided for the stray wires, to prevent accidents to the public and livestock; (g)
sub-station yards were untidy and thus unsafe, with grass and bushes growing amid the
switch and control gears; and (h) metering on some 11 kV feeders is not been erected and
commissioned. These points were brought to the attention of management and will be dealt
with during the Discoms' annual maintenance routines.

Maintenance

       There is an acute shortage of manpower for operation and maintenance (O&M) of the
assets in all four companies. However, the recruitment and deployment of the four hundred
engineers and support staff, which will occur during the next two years, will reduce this
shortage, by relieving staff in the Discoms, who currently are over extended due to their
involvement in the planning and supervision of the feeder renovation program, so that they
can adequately carry out routine maintenance and operations duties. Although currently
departmental personnel are hard pressed to attend to consumer complaints; independently
performed consumer research surveys indicate that local faults in urban areas are generally
attended to in less than two hours of receipt of the complaint. Fuse-off call centers have been
established in all the circle headquarters for promptly attending to complaints in the district
headquarter towns. Pre-monsoon inspections of lines are carried out during the months of
April-June of every year and defects noticed are rectified. During these inspections, lines
are also checked and ensured that they are maintained with proper clearances by cutting trees
and bushes. The Discoms are having break down vehicles in each subdivision with the
required tools and plant and necessary safety appliances to attend to emergencies such as
outages of lines and equipment at the substations. Training is imparted to their staff members
on operation and maintenance aspects at their training centers. O&M of the assets is being
carried out in an efficient manner and the Bank team judges that the assets created under the
loan would also be similarly operated maintained.

Effectiveness of the investments

       The effectiveness of the investments is especially illustrated in two components of the
project, where payback period are very short. The loan, inter alia, financed the 220 kV
Sujangarh substation. Since its installation, the substation has resulted in improved voltage
profiles in the area, and reduced energy losses at 220 kV and in particular at 132 kV. The
saving in annual energy loss alone is calculated to be 13.4 million units with a load factor of
60% and loss load factor of 43% and the value of savings is Rs 41 million per annum at a
tariff of Rs 3.08 per unit. RVPN estimates that the payback period is less than 5 years for the
substation investment of Rs 195 million. The loan also financed the procurement of some
195 MVAR of power factor correcting capacitors. In all during the project period Rajasthan
procured and installed 600 MVAR of these capacitors. The saving in annual energy loss
alone is calculated to be 125 million units, with a value of Rs 380 million per annum. The
payback period is thus estimated to be less than 2 years on the investment of Rs 550 million.




                                             33

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)

Economic Analysis

This section covers the economic analysis of the project carried out for the ICR.

Summary

       At appraisal, the economic rate of return of the sector reform program was estimated at
35%, and the ERR of the distribution investment program was estimated at 43%. Based on
the best available information and an assessment of the incremental cost and benefit streams
of the specific investments funded by the project, the ICR estimates the NPV of the project
as Rs 4,298 million (12% discount rate, 2000 prices) and base ERR of the project at 22.39%.

Methodology

       This project is the fifth of the World Bank state-level power sector restructuring
projects for which ICRs have been completed - the others being Haryana, Andhra Pradesh
(AP), Orissa and Uttar Pradesh (UP). In the AP ICR, the estimation of ERR could be fairly
precise, because detailed benefit evaluation studies had been done both at appraisal, as well
as at the end of the project, for all three components of the project (i.e. for transmission, for
distribution, and for metering). In Orissa, no benefit studies were available, and therefore the
ICR economic analysis relied on an estimate of returns based on assessment of the
incremental cost and benefits streams derived from the aggregate financial statements. In UP,
it was only possible to make a specific benefit estimate for the transmission component. In
the case of Rajasthan it is possible to make detailed estimated of the incremental cost and
benefit streams of the specific transmission and distribution investments funded by the
project.

       In the case of Rajasthan project, at appraisal two types of economic analysis were
performed: the first and estimation of the net economic benefits of sector reform and
restructuring, the second an analysis of the incremental costs and benefits of the specific
distribution investments to be financed under the project.

       The estimation of the benefits of sector reform and restructuring gave an NPV result
of Rs. 87,768 million (2000 price level) and an ERR of 35%. This analysis was based on
construction of reform and non-reform scenarios and evaluation of the incremental costs and
benefits of the former over the latter. In this analysis the principal benefits were taken to be
(i) reduction in technical and non-technical losses (ii) lower cost power supply from private
generators (iii) better quality power supply. It is not meaningful to repeat such an analysis
for an ex-post evaluation because it is not possible to construct in retrospect an objective
counterfactual scenario i.e. what would have happened (a) in the absence of the project, or
(b) if there had been a different reform path. Indeed, as it turned out the reforms were only




                                              34

partially implemented (e.g. the utility was restructured, but the distribution companies were
not privatized) and these reforms did not lead to the aggregate sector level outcome - loss
reduction, financial recovery, reduction in power purchase costs - that were expected at the
time of appraisal (see main ICR for full description).

      The ICR economic analysis therefore focuses on re-evaluating the incremental costs
and benefits of the specific investments financed under the project. This has two main
components (a) transmission and distribution system reinforcement (b) low voltage network
loss reduction, the so-called 'FRP'.

Transmission Investments

      At appraisal, the transmission investments were not evaluated as a discrete investment
(though the investments would have been a component of the evaluation of the overall
reform program). The ICR economic evaluation does however calculate the net benefits of
the transmission investments as a discrete investment component.

      In the case of Rajasthan for specific benefit estimates for the transmission system
reinforcement component, based on a load flow study of the transmission network, were not
available. Instead an independent expert engineer was commissioned to visit a sample of
system reinforcement schemes and evaluate the efficiency improvements resulting from
these investments. The value of this component was $165.2 m (70%) of the project value.
The benefits from the sale of electricity saved due to reduction in losses are measured at the
willingness to pay.

Distribution Investments (Feeder Renovation Program or FRP)

      At appraisal there was a separate analysis of the net benefits of the distribution
investment component. This took a 'time-slice' approach, evaluating the NPV of all the
distribution investments to be made by in the period 2001-2003. This was the correct
approach because at the time it was not possible to foresee the location of specific
investments. However ex-post it is possible to evaluate the investments financed by the
project as separable components (according to good practice for economic appraisal)
Therefore for the ICR economic evaluation takes the approach of evaluating the incremental
costs and benefits for the specific distribution investments funded under the project.

      For the component 'low voltage network loss reduction', later known as the 'FRP' each
of the distribution companies worked with an independent expert engineer to provide data
on capital investment costs and before and after energy losses for a sample of distribution
investments. This enabled a detailed valuation of the benefits of the investment program.
The value of this component was $48.1 m i.e.20% of the project value.

      The analysis is based on only the benefits of reduction in technical losses in the
distribution system and distribution of additional power. In addition the investments made
under distribution component of the project has resulted in other benefits such as (a)
improvements in the quality of supply (b) network capacity to serve future demand growth



                                              35

(c) lower network repair and maintenance costs e.g. lower rates of transformer burn-out.
These benefits are less readily quantified and have therefore not been included in the
completion economic evaluation. It should be noted therefore that the base case NPV
calculation if likely to underestimate the value of the complete set of project benefits.

Other Components

      The benefits of the other components of the investment program i.e. system and
consumer metering, technical assistance, information and communications are not readily
quantified. The value of this component was $ 22 m (9%) of the project value.

Key Assumptions

      In the interest of consistency with the PAD economic analysis the ICR economic
evaluation was conducted in constant 2000 prices.

Loss Reduction

      At appraisal it was expected that distribution losses would be reduced from on from
38% to 12% over the life of the project. The actual outcome was that for the rural
distribution feeders renovated losses were reduced on average from 62.2% to 21.1% (values
obtained from survey of 845 feeders renovated during the life of the project). The difference
may be explained by (i) under-estimation of the extent of rural losses, especially theft and
un-metered supply, at appraisal (ii) prioritization of the renovation of the feeders with highest
losses.

Valuing the Benefits of Loss Reduction

      There are several ways to value the benefits of energy saved by investments in network
loss reduction. One is to value the energy saved at the avoided cost of power generation.
However, when a generation shortage exists, as in Rajasthan this may underestimate the
economic benefit as a unit of energy saved could be supplied to a customer that was
previously rationed, in which case the energy would be appropriately valued at the
consumers willingness to pay for electricity. The PAD analysis used the latter approach.
The assumption for the WTP value used at the time of appraisal was Rs. 3 / kWh (2000 price
level).

      The (2005) ICR for the Uttar Pradesh Power Restructuring Project examines
estimation of willingness to pay in detail. It found that self-generation costs suggested high
values WTP for most consumers, ranging from Rs. 3.72/kWh (at 2004 price levels) for large
industrial users to Rs. 7.55/kWh for diesel agricultural pumps and over Rs. 8/kWh for small
standby generators. However, it noted that these should be regarded as upper bounds of
WTP, applicable only to a first tranche of consumption, and should not be taken as
representative of average WTP. Knowledge of the shape of demand curve is required to
estimate average WTP, however there are no reliable estimates of this available for Rajasthan
(nor were there for UP). Given the ERR is very sensitive to the WTP assumption, and absent



                                             36

a detailed study of demand that would permit credible estimates of the demand curve,
caution is indicated. A conservative estimate of WTP at Rs. 2.5/kWh (at 2000 prices) is
therefore used for the Rajasthan ICR (as it was for the UP ICR). In addition ICR economic
evaluation, and calculates the NPV and ERR results for a range of alternative assumptions
(see table):

                       Method                           Value Rs. / kWh (Yr 2000 prices)
 Avoided Cost (Dadri Thermal Power Plant)                             2.46
 Consumer WTP (UP ICR)                                                2.50
 Consumer WTP (PAD)                                                   3.00
 Consumer WTP (large industrial self-gen)                             3.47
 Avoided Cost (UI charge)                                             4.60


Results

Transmission

      The completion economic evaluation of the transmission investments yields an NPV of
Rs. 2,068 million (12% discount rate) and the ERR of 18.31%. The foregoing assumes a unit
of energy saved through loss reduction is valued at Rs. 2.5/kWh.

                                                      Benefit of Loss
                                            Loss       Reduction
               Capex         Opex         Reduction                      Net
               Rs. m         Rs. m         GWh           INR m          Benefit      NPV     ERR
   2001         780             8           52            129            -659        2,068   18.31%

   2002         803            16           105           262            -557

   2003        1,540           31           206           516           -1055

   2004        1,497           46           305           764            -779

   2005        1,457           61           402           1004           -513

   2006        1,500           76           501           1252           -323

   2007          0             76           501           1252           1177

   2008          0             76           501           1252           1177

   2009          0             76           501           1252           1177

   2010          0             76           501           1252           1177

   2011          0             76           501           1252           1177

   2012          0             76           501           1252           1177

   2013          0             76           501           1252           1177

   2014          0             76           501           1252           1177

   2015          0             76           501           1252           1177

   2016          0             76           501           1252           1177

   2017          0             76           501           1252           1177

   2018          0             76           501           1252           1177

   2019          0             76           501           1252           1177

   2020          0             76           501           1252           1177

   2036          0             76           501           1252           1177




                                                   37

       The ERR result given alternative assumptions about the value of saved energy are shown
below:

                        Method                            Value Rs. / kWh (Yr 2000 prices)     ERR %
  Avoided Cost (Dadri Thermal Power Plant)                             2.46                    17.93
  Consumer WTP (UP ICR)                                                2.50                    18.31
  Consumer WTP (PAD)                                                   3.00                    23.18
  Consumer WTP (large industrial self-gen)                             3.47                    28.11
  Avoided Cost (UI charge)                                             4.60                    41.68


       This sensitivity analysis shows that the ERR result is highly sensitive to value of energy
saved, however in all cases the ERR remains well above the 12% hurdle rate. Based on
conservative assumptions the transmission investment component may be judged to have a
satisfactory economic outcome.

Distribution

       The completion evaluation of the NPV of the distribution investments is Rs. 2230 million
 (NB this is not directly comparable to the distribution component NPV stated in the PAD as
that was calculated for a time-slice of the distribution companies entire investments). The ERR
of distribution component at project completion is 38.63%.

                                         Benefit of Loss
                                          Reduction
             Capex        Opex
             Rs. m        Rs. m             Rs. m         Net Benefit       NPV           ERR
    2001      227          5                  68             -164           2,230        38.63%

    2002      234          9                 138             -105

    2003      448         18                 272             -195

    2004      436         27                 402              -61

    2005      424         35                 528              69

    2006      437         44                 659              178

    2007        0         44                 659              615

    2008        0         44                 659              615

    2009        0         44                 659              615

    2010        0         44                 659              615

    2011        0         44                 659              615

    2012        0         44                 659              615

    2013        0         44                 659              615

    2014        0         44                 659              615

    2015        0         44                 659              615

    2016        0         44                 659              615

    2017        0         44                 659              615

    2018        0         44                 659              615

    2019        0         44                 659              615

    2020        0         44                 659              615

    2036        0         44                 659              615



                                                     38

       The foregoing assumes a unit of energy saved through loss reduction is valued at
Rs 2.5/kWh. If saved energy is valued at the same rate as at the time of appraisal
(Rs 3.00/kWh) then the completion ERR is 51.15% (NB this result then bears comparison to
the appraisal ERR estimate of 43%). The ERR result for over assumptions about the value of
saved energy are shown below:

                        Method                      Value Rs. / kWh (Yr 2000   ERR %
                                                            prices)
  Avoided Cost (Dadri Thermal Power Plant)                    2.46              37.72
  Consumer WTP (UP ICR)                                       2.50              38.63
  Consumer WTP (PAD)                                          3.00              51.15
  Consumer WTP (large industrial self-gen)                    3.47              65.16
  Avoided Cost (UI charge)                                    4.60              112.55


      In all cases the ERR result is robust and well above the 12% hurdle rate. The
switching value  the value for saved energy would bring the ERR result below the hurdle
rate  is Rs. 1.08/kWh.

       The major driver of the higher ERR result is that (a) actual efficiency improvements
were much higher than expected (b) that they were achieved more quickly than expected,
because the discoms focused on renovating the lest efficient rural feeders first. This is
clearly a case of reaping 'low-hanging fruit'  given the magnitude of the loss reduction it
may be difficult to sustain such loss efficiency improvements, and its is likely that future
distribution investments would not yield such high returns.

       It is also worth noting that the result presented above is based on conservative
assumptions and may underestimated the ERR because it excludes benefits such as (a)
improvements in the quality of supply (b) network capacity to serve future demand growth
(c) lower network repair and maintenance costs e.g. lower rates of transformer burn-out.
Moreover, as noted in the earlier discussion of self-generation costs, there is good evidence
that the actual WTP will be higher than the Rs. 2.5/kWh assumed for our baseline, though to
assess exactly how much higher would require a level of detailed analysis of the demand
patterns that goes beyond the scope of this report. Therefore, despite the various
uncertainties, the base 38.63% ERR may be taken as a credible (and conservative) estimate:
the distribution investment component of the Rajasthan Power Sector Restructuring Project
may therefore be viewed as successful in generating good economic returns.

Conclusion

       At appraisal, the economic rate of return of the sector reform program was estimated at
35%, and the ERR of the distribution investment program was estimated at 43%.

      Based on the best available information and an assessment of the incremental cost and
benefit streams of the specific investments funded by the project, the ICR estimates the NPV
of the project as Rs. 4,298 million (12% discount rate, 2000 prices) and base ERR of the
project at 22.39%.



                                               39

       The completion evaluation of the NPV of the distribution investments is Rs. 2230
million. The ERR of distribution component at project completion is 38.63%. The
completion economic evaluation of the transmission investments yields an NPV of Rs. 2,068
million (12% discount rate) and the ERR of 18.31%. The foregoing assumes a unit of energy
saved through loss reduction is valued at Rs. 2.5/kWh. The results are conservative
estimates that exclude benefits such as network capacity to serve future load and
improvements in the quality of supply. The result is highly sensitive to the assumption about
the value of saved energy, but in all cases the ERR result remains above the 12% hurdle rate.




Financial Overview of the Power Sector

       This section analyses the financial improvements envisaged when the project was
appraised; the actual financial performance of the sector during the project implementation
and the factors affecting this; the present financial condition of the sector; the impact on the
state finances; and the future outlook for the sector's finances. The financial turnaround, as
planned at the time project appraisal, has not happened and the sector continues to suffer
large losses and is in financial distress. During FY2006, the power sector had a revenue
deficit of about Rs. 16,290 million (about US$ 360 million) which was financed mainly
through a mix of short-term borrowings and committed cash subsidy support from
government. The primary reason for the large revenue deficit continues to be system
inefficiency reflected by high distribution losses and non-revision of tariffs in a timely
manner. The tariffs have shown slight improvements during the course of the project, but the
pace has not matched what was forecast during project preparation, reflecting the difficult
political economy. This has not been helped by the frequent droughts ( or poor monsoons)
and the low ground water levels necessitating increased pump capacities and additional
irrigation. This, together with the policy on supplying free power to agriculture being
followed in the neighboring state of Punjab and also in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu has
put pressure on the state, and the utilities, to provide a better service and to reduce or waive
agricultural tariffs. Thus losses have proved harder to address than was originally envisaged
although the companies now seem to have an effective plan to reduce them under the Feeder
Renovation Program couple with other initiatives like urban and industrial focus program
and intensification of anti-theft measures like vigilance and operationalisation of special
police stations. Collections, have typically been quite high but have shown a slight declining
trend over the last four years largely on account of certain charges that are being billed by the
companies but not collected, under government directions pending a final decision on
whether these charges should be billed to the consumer or subsidised. Thus the financial
turnaround envisaged at the project design stage has not happened and in retrospect and
comparing also the achievement in other states, it seems that the original targets were over
ambitious.




                                               40

Financial reform actions envisaged in the transfer scheme

       As described in the PAD, as a part of the implementation of the reform program the
GoR prepared and approved a provisional FinRP for the power sector in March 2000. The
FRP provided for cleaning up of RSEB's balance sheet, to set off cross debts between GoR
and RSEB and to develop future projections capturing the impacts of efficiency
improvements and diverse policy initiatives with an objective to ensure turnaround of the
sector. The FinRP envisaged Rs. 31,080 million of one-time restructuring support and Rs.
24,480 million of transition period support from GoR for the power sector, tariff increases of
10% p.a. (other than agriculture tariff increase which was at 26% p.a.) during FY01 to FY04
and reduction in losses from 42% to 22% during the period FY00-FY07. The successor
companies were expected to break-even in FY2004 and to be rapidly privatized. Despite the
Government's commitment to this plan at the outset, the political economy of power sector
reform and the droughts faced by the state impacted the tariff increases and even vigilance
against power theft and made it impossible for the Government and the companies to adhere
to this plan.

Important Developments during the Project implementation

       Since the project inception and initial unbundling a number of important developments
with a significant influence on the power sector have taken place:

     Based on the provisional FinRP of March 2000, the transfer scheme for transferring
        of assets, liabilities and personnel was finalised in January, 2002 and the one time
        restructuring support from GoR was revised at Rs. 16,980 million (from Rs. 31,080
        million);
     In view of the changed scenario wherein the assumptions made in the original FinRP
        differed significantly vis--vis the actual ground realities, the FinRP was revised and
        approved by the GoR in August 2003. The revised FinRP envisaged turnaround of the
        sector by FY2007 and also laid down the commitments to be fulfilled by the
        stakeholders. The salient points of the revised FinRP included - (a) reducing the T&D
        loss from 42% in FY2001 to 27.9% in FY2007; (b) rationalization of agriculture tariff
        to reach 50% of cost of supply and aggregate tariff revision of 12%, 5% and 8% in
        FY2005, FY2006 and FY2007 respectively for all other categories; (c) GoR to
        provide Rs. 4000 million cash support per annum and allow retention of Electricity
        duty by the companies till FY2012, to fund the revenue deficit during the transition
        period and to discharge the borrowings taken by the utilities during transition period;
        (d) RVUN and RVPN to operate in cost breakeven basis till FY2005 and earn returns
        thereafter while Discoms to operate at cost breakeven till FY2005 with GoR subsidy
        bridging the revenue deficit;
     Consequent to the changes in business drivers and statutory/ regulatory framework,
        the FinRP was further revised/ updated and approved by GoR in November 2005.
        The main thrust of this business plan is to increase efficiency, improve the quality of
        supply and service to consumers and thus enhance the financial viability of the
        utilities to make the sector self sustainable. The sector is now projected to turn
        around by FY2012 (with substantial improvement by FY2009). As per the plan, the



                                              41

        Discoms are projected to achieve a turnaround with subsidy support by FY2009 and
        full financial turnaround without subsidy support by FY2012 (until which time the
        Discoms will earn no return on equity). The committed GoR subsidy will bridge the
        gap between revenue and cost until turnaround is achieved. RVUN and RVPN would
        start earning return on equity after all the Discoms have reached break even with
        subsidy support, i.e. from FY2010 onwards.

       This projected turnaround is later than was originally planned as per the PAD as well
as the original FinRP of August 2003 but would still represent substantial progress provided
the plan can be adhered to.

Actual Financial Performance

       The financial turnaround has not been achieved and the sector continues to suffer large
losses and is in financial distress. During FY2006, the power sector (essentially the
distribution business since the generation and transmission business are operating on no
profit/ loss basis) had a revenue deficit of about Rs. 16,290 million (about US$ 360 million)
which was financed mainly through a mix of short-term borrowings and committed cash
subsidy support from government. Though the revenue deficit went up to Rs. 20,140 million
in FY2005, the deficit has come down during FY2006 (which though higher than the FinRP
target is lower than actual's for FY2004), which is a considerable achievement, but more
action is required if the sector is to break even. The main reasons for the increasing deficit
and not achieving the financial turnaround as planned have been  (a) only a slight decrease
in distribution losses during the period compared to the target of significant reduction, losses
in fact went up during FY2003 and FY2004 because of the severe drought that put pressure
on the government and utilities to provide increased hours of supply to agriculture to save the
crops; losses have also been aggravated by the overall shift in mix of supply with some
decrease in industrial supply and an increase in agricultural supply; (b) tariff revisions not in
line with the projection made at the time of project design, Tariffs have been revised only
twice, indicating the difficult political economy situation in the state as well as the country
(especially when one of the neighboring states is providing free power to agriculture). This
has been further compounded by the utilities not making regular and timely annual tariff
filings as mandated under the Electricity Act; and (c) the increasing fuel prices (especially
coal) that have pushed up the power purchase cost.

       The companies have been taking steps to improve consumer mix by encouraging
industrial consumption growth through an incentive scheme since FY04 .The revenue deficit
is expected to come down further this year with the significant improvement expected in
bringing down the distribution losses under the feeder renovation program for rural feeders
as well as the steps being taken on controlling power theft through increased vigilance
activities and operationalization of special police stations in line with the Electricity Act
2003 mandate. The table below compares the targets set out in the PAD, in the original
financial restructuring plan and in the revised financial restructuring plan, to the actual
performance to date. In retrospect and comparing also the achievement in other states, it
seems that the original targets were over ambitious.




                                              42

                         Comparison of Projected and Actual Financial Performance


                           FY01     FY02      FY03    FY04    FY05    FY06    FY07  FY08  FY09  FY10  FY11  FY12
  Distribution Sector Revenue Deficit (Rs.. million)
  - As per PAD             12480    10130     5730    1710    -230    -260    -250  -270  -300  -330  n.a.  n.a.
  - As per FinRP of
  Aug-03                   8200     12910     15880   15170   9700    8500    2390  n.a.  n.a.  n.a.  n.a.  n.a.
  - As per FinRP of
  Nov-05                   n.a.     n.a.      n.a.    n.a.    23230   15300   12050 7420  5570  -240  -2310 -6820
  - As per Actuals         8200     12910     15830   17330   20140   16290
  Tariff Increases (other than Agriculture)
  - As per PAD             10%      10%       10%     10%     2%      2%      3%    n.a.  n.a.  n.a.  n.a.  n.a.
  - As per FinRP of
  Aug-03                   0%       13.6%     0%      0%      12%     5%      8%    n.a.  n.a.  n.a.  n.a.  n.a.
  - As per FinRP of
  Nov05$                   n.a.     n.a.      n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    0%      0%    0%    0%    8%    0%    0%

  - As per Actuals %       0%       13.6%     0%      0%      10.2%   0%
  Transmission/ Distribution Losses
  - T&D losses (%) as
  per PAD                  40.60    38.20     35.70   32.30   28.20   25.10   22    n.a.  n.a.  n.a.  n.a.  n.a.

  - T&D Losses (%) as
  per FinRP of Aug-03      42       39.52     40.89   37.89   34.81   31.60   27.88 n.a.  n.a.  n.a.  n.a.  n.a.

  - Distribution Losses
  (%) as per FinRP of      n.a.     n.a.      n.a.    n.a.    40.25   37.25   33.34 29.81 26.61 23.94 21.63 20
  Nov-05
  - Distribution Losses
  (%) as per Actuals       39.12    37.23     39.96   42.62   41.10   40.30

  $ - Overall Tariff Increases including Agriculture
   - Effective from Jan, 05 only


       Rajasthan has been achieving high collection levels traditionally in the past but this
area has been showing a slight declining trend for the last four years (see table below). This
performance in this area has been impacted because of (a) deferment of collection of
minimum charges from the agriculture consumers by Government since November, 2002; (b)
the Discoms are billing agriculture consumers at revised tariffs (as per December 2004 Tariff
order) while the consumers continue to pay at old rates (pending a review of the agricultural
tariffs by a Government committee); and (c) non-payments by the local/ municipal bodies.

                Collection Efficiency    FY02      FY03    FY04    FY05    FY06


                                                                           (Prov.)

                Ajmer Discom             101.5%    98.2%   96.5%   96.4%   94.0%
                Jaipur Discom            99.5%     99.6%   99.4%   98.6%   97.4%
                Jodhpur Discom           98.8%     97.9%   96.3%   95.0%   93.8%
                All Discoms              100.1%    98.6%   97.6%   96.9%   95.3%


       The revised collection efficiency figures on collectible dues i.e. excluding minimum
charges and revised tariff from agriculture consumers, the recovery of which is presently
suspended, are indicated below:




                                                        43

               Collection Efficiency     FY02      FY03     FY04        FY05     FY06


                                                                                 (Prov.)

               Ajmer Discom              101.5%    98.5%    98.3%       98.7%    100.5%
               Jaipur Discom             99.5%     99.8%    100.2%      99.7%    100.5%
               Jodhpur Discom            98.8%     98.0%    97.8%       96.5%    98.4%
               All Discoms               100.1%    98.9%    98.9%       98.5%    99.9%


       It is imperative for maintaining the financial health of the distribution companies (as
well as for the commercial operations) that Government either supports the companies in
billing and collecting these amounts or declares them as items for subsidy and provides
funding accordingly.

Compliance with Financial Covenants

       The companies have complied with the receivables covenant comfortably. RVUN and
RVPN also comply with the profitability covenant, because of the structure of tariffs. The
discoms, however, even after accounting for subsidy received, do not cover all their
operating costs and interest, primarily because the tariff structure is such that the losses in the
sector are passed down to the discoms.




             Compliance with Financial Covenants (to confirm numbers with Rajasthan)


                                                        FY01       FY02       FY03     FY04      FY05   FY06
  Covenant : Receivables (Net of Provision)  60
  Days
  Ajmer Discom                                          30         25         31       40        44     46
  Jaipur Discom                                         52         46         48       51        50     43
  Jodhpur Discom                                        15         22         28       37        45     47


  Covenant : Profitability  Cover operating costs
  & interest with operating and non-operating
  revenue (incl. cash subsidy), Rs. million
  RVUN                                                  723        1865       2464     3002      2003   1997
  RVPN                                                  227        1032       1204     1343      1300   1609
  Ajmer Discom                                          (1526)     (2676)     (2985)   (3000)    (2761) (1011)
  Jaipur Discom                                         (2245)     (2813)     (2862)   (1340)    (1092) 1823
  Jodhpur Discom                                        (1782)     (2993)     (3300)   (2325)    (3186) (2236)


Note: Receivables figures exclude unbilled revenue and Profitability figures exclude depreciation




                                                        44

Impact on state finances

        The impact of all the financial stress in the sector has been a greater burden on the
state finances than was originally planned and a cash deficit which is being financed by a
mix of subsidy support from government and short-term borrowings.

                         Subsidy Support from the Government to the Power Sector

                                                                                                    (Rs. million)


                    FY01     FY02     FY03    FY04  FY05  FY06  FY07 FY08  FY09   FY10  FY11    FY12
   GoR Funding
   of Subsidy

   - As per PAD     12480    10130    7350    1910  0     0     0    0     0      0     n.a.    n.a.
   - As per FinRP
   of Aug-2003      1400     2610     4620    6860  7230  7500  7800 8000  8210   8450  8690    8950
   - As per FinRP
   of Nov-2005      n.a.     n.a.     n.a.    n.a.  10850 9430  9780 10110 10440  10830 11120   11440
   - As per
   Actuals ()       3380     2860     5980    8730  10790 11960


   Unfunded
   Subsidy Gap

   - As per PAD     0        0        -100    -200  -230  -260  -250 -270  -300   -330  n.a.    n.a.
   - As per FinRP                                               -
   of Aug-2003      6800     10300    11260   6860  2470  1710  4440 -5910 -6880  -8020 -8690   -8950
   - As per FinRP                                                                 -             -
   of Nov-2005      n.a.     n.a.     n.a.    n.a.  12380 5870  2270 -2700 -4870  11070 -13430  18270
   - As per
   Actuals          6890     10300    11410   9760  9640  7200


: includes subsidy received by way of Adjustments




        The revised FRP approved in November 2005 envisages transition support of Rs 84
billion from GoR during FY2005-12 for the sector, i.e. about 8.4% of one year of state's
annual GSDP (at current prices).

        Despite the recent reductions in the level of financial loss, it will take another 3 to 5
years for the sector to achieve financial turnaround. The high level of distribution and
financial losses of the sector represent not only a constraint to the growth of the State which
requires quality power for development, but also a constraint to the social sectors from
whence funds are diverted to finance the sectors losses. This financial situation in the power
sector is not sustainable for the state. It was noted at the time of project preparation for this
project, that the financial hemorrhage had to be stopped  this remains relevant today. GoR
and the utilities need to take strong action in addressing the fundamental ills plaguing the
sector in order to improve the operational and financial health of the power sector in the
state.



                                                   45

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members


        Names                   Title                Unit   Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Syed I. Ahmed          Lead Counsel          LEGMS

Sameer Akbar           Sr Environmental
                       Spec.                 SASES

Mohammed Hasan         Senior Social
                       Development Spec      SASES

Sunil Kumar Khosla     Sr Energy Spec.       SASEI
Magdalena V. Manzo Sr Operations Off.        TFO

Lucio Monari           Lead Energy
                       Economist             LCSEG

Kari J. Nyman          Lead Specialist       ECSSD
Judith K. Plummer      Sr Financial Analyst  SASEI
Natarajan Raman        Consultant            SASEI
Supriya Sen            Sr Financial Analyst  SASEI
Sameer Shukla          Sr Energy Spec.       ECSSD
Rajesh Sinha           Sr Financial Analyst  SASEI
Anthony E. Sparkes     Consultant            SASEI
Supervision/ICR
Sushil Kumar Bahl      Sr Procurement Spec.  SARPS

Manoj Jain             Sr Financial
                       Management Specia     SARFM

Manvinder Mamak        Sr Financial
                       Management Specia     SARFM

Rohit Mittal           Financial Analyst     SASEI
Judith K. Plummer      Sr Financial Analyst  SASEI
Anthony E. Sparkes     Consultant            SASEI


(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


No.     Date ISR                                            Actual Disbursements
        Archived              DO                   IP            (USD M)
1   07/17/2001         Satisfactory         Satisfactory                     18.54
2   12/04/2001         Satisfactory         Satisfactory                     18.54
3   06/21/2002         Satisfactory         Satisfactory                     21.00
4   12/10/2002         Unsatisfactory       Satisfactory                     35.74
5   05/13/2003         Satisfactory         Satisfactory                     53.81
6   09/04/2003         Satisfactory         Satisfactory                     62.69
7   03/18/2004         Satisfactory         Satisfactory                     86.04
8   09/02/2004         Unsatisfactory       Satisfactory                     98.37



                                            46

9   03/28/2005         Satisfactory      Satisfactory                         109.15
10 11/03/2005          Satisfactory      Satisfactory                         121.74

11 04/21/2006          Moderately        Moderately
                     Satisfactory     Satisfactory                            141.94

12 06/30/2006          Moderately        Moderately
                     Satisfactory     Satisfactory                            142.87


(c) Staff Time and Cost
                                            Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

            Stage of Project Cycle                                USD Thousands
                                            No. of staff weeks  (including travel and
                                                                  consultant costs)
Lending
                    FY95                                                       91.46
                    FY96                                                      120.81
                    FY97                                                      102.15
                    FY98                                                       89.01
                    FY99                                                       60.82
                    FY00                                     62               164.45
                    FY01                                     35               111.04
                    FY02                                                        0.00
                    FY03                                                        0.00
                    FY04                                                        0.00
                    FY05                                                        0.00
                    FY06                                                        0.00
                    FY07                                                        0.00
                                    Total:                   97               739.74
Supervision/ICR
                    FY95                                                        0.00
                    FY96                                                        0.00
                    FY97                                                        0.00
                    FY98                                                        0.35
                    FY99                                                        0.00
                    FY00                                                        0.35
                    FY01                                     16                59.65
                    FY02                                     35               109.26
                    FY03                                     33               103.50
                    FY04                                     34               113.90
                    FY05                                     46               195.27
                    FY06                                     31               141.66
                    FY07                                     10                47.44
                                    Total:                  205               771.38




                                        47

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

        Bank                  Ratings                Borrower           Ratings
Ensuring Quality at
Entry:                  Moderately Satisfactory Government:       Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory Implementing
                                                Agency/Agencies:  Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank            Moderately Satisfactory OverallBorrower
Performance:                                    Performance:      Moderately Satisfactory




                                              48

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)




                                       49

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)




                                  50

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Borrower's Comments on the Draft ICR

       Consolidated comments provided by GOR vide letter dated 16.12.2006 from
Secretary (Energy) are reproduced below:

Procurement

       While following the World Bank procedures for procurement under International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) route, the World Bank insisted for bigger lot size with
intention to have competitive prices and attract participation of international bidders /
bigger firms. The participating bidders in India were not having capacity sufficient
enough to qualify the stringent qualification criteria of 80% quantity supply in one year
during last five years. Further, contrary to expectations of the World Bank, the response
from foreign bidders was not encouraging barring a few items where hardly 3-4 bidders
participated. Time was involved in re-bidding of various lots / packages which caused
delay in procurement. Delay was also caused due to litigation in High Court as well as in
Supreme Court over the lot size.

       During the implementation of the project, it has been widely felt that greater
degree of flexibility in matters relating to procurement issues such as fixing of
qualification requirements, package / lot size would have avoided delays in procurement
with saving of time and cost. However, the fundamental provisions (such as award of
contract to the lowest bidder and 'no negotiation' with bidders etc.) of the World Bank
procedures / guidelines have to be adhered to.

Utilities Performance

       The implementing agencies performed largely on expected lines. In some areas the
achievement of the PDO has been partial owing to factors beyond their control. The
limitations have been duly appreciated by the World Bank. Alongwith the GoR, the
utilities did realize that action such as for hike of tariff every year would have adverse
impact on the common man in the State in drought conditions and other adverse
circumstances. On the other hand, in the larger interest of the State's economy, the
number of agriculture connections was increased and supply of more power arranged in
conditions of drought and rain failures. The impact of these on the financials of the
utilities could not be avoided.

       The Financial Restructuring Plan, a dynamic document, was revised/ updated twice
during the project period taking into account the impact of various developments that
took place during the period. The updated final document approved by GoR in
November, 2005, reflects the business plan strategy to be adopted with a view to turning
around the sector within specified time frame. The commitments on the part of the
utilities as well as GoR have been clearly spelt out. Greater thrust has been laid on
reduction in distribution losses mainly by technical intervention (through implementation



                                               51

of a project named as 'Feeder Renovation Programme'), to a level of 20% by FY 2011-
12. The provision of return on equity has been suitably incorporated in the later part of
the transitional period. The aspects such as improvement in supply and reliability of
power and suitability of the transmission and distribution system have also been taken
care of.

Compliance of materials with the specified standards

      The testing facilities have since been developed to ensure adherence to
specifications of material/ equipment used in maintenance, strengthening and expansion
of the transmission and distribution network. Depending on the situation, requisite
number of units is determined in the sample size for the purpose of testing. The utilities
will get benefited from the World Bank's observations regarding compliance of specified
quality standards.

Standard of installation

      Under the Feeder Renovation Programme, existing feeders are being renovated. To
ensure quality of implementation of the Feeder Renovation Programme, directions /
guidelines containing standard drawings have been issued to the field officers. The
management steps involved in the guidelines are as under:

     Looking to the quantum and nature of work involved, the implementation is to be
        looked after by the sub-divisional officers. Following officers have been
        designated to take care of the programme;
            o Junior Engineer designated as Feeder Manager will be responsible for the
                feeders assigned under his control
            o Superintending Engineer of the area designated as Project Manager
     For implementation of the feeder renovation programme, survey report for
        feeders shall be approved by the Project Manager after verification by the Feeder
        Manager and the Assistant Engineer.
     Physical checking of the works shall be carried by responsible officers. The
        works shall be regularly inspected / supervised. 100% feeders shall be inspected
        by the Feeder Manager every week, 20% feeders inspected by Assistant Engineer
        every fortnight and 10% feeders inspected by Deputy Project Manager every
        month.
     Energy audit on renovated feeders shall be done regularly. Month-wise analysis
        of the Energy drawl, sold, revenue assessment, revenue realization and
        distribution loss shall be carried out by the Feeder Manager and authenticated by
        the Assistant Engineer and Executive Engineer.




                                              52

Financial Management

      The utilities are taking steps to further improve the financial management function.
These include, among others, (a) enhancing the scope of use of computers for preparation
and maintenance of accounts, (b) cleansing the balance sheets by carrying out
adjustment to the extent possible in respect of old balances pertaining to the erstwhile
RSEB period, (c) attending to the audit qualifications to minimize repetitions, and (d)
implementing the plan for de-centralizing the funds management within specified time-
frame.

      The centralized approach of cash and debt management has helped the companies,
during the transitional period, in raising funds in sizeable amounts at cost effective terms,
besides providing flexibility in meeting their payment obligations on time. In the process,
the credibility of the companies in the financial market was maintained throughout the
project implementation period. It may be pointed out that the pooling of resources
(technically) was also required upto 30.6.2007 in view of the fact that against bonds
issued by the erstwhile RSEB, escrow cover was provided in favour of bond-holders (the
trustees) on total collections / receipts, which now get pooled.

      The last servicing of RSEB bonds will fall due in June, 2007. In view of this and
also considering the fact that the companies have gained experience over the years and
have reached a stage where they can possibly manage their funds independently, decision
has been taken for separation of funds management of RVUN (the generation company)
w.e.f. 1.11.2006 (being already implemented) and de-pooling of resources of Discoms
w.e.f. 1.7.2007. By then, the individual company's viability is also expected to improve.
An in-principle decision has also been taken to appoint separate whole-time Directors
(Finance) in the companies as soon as possible.




                                              53

Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                    54

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents

1. Project Appraisal Document: Rajasthan Power Sector Restructuring Project,
   December 18, 2000

2. Rajasthan Power Sector Restructuring Project: Mid-Term Review Report, 2004

3. All Aide-Memoires

4. Progress Reports from RVPN and the Distribution Companies




                                      55

Annex 13. Additional Annexes
13.1 Map IBRD 29249R




                               56

