Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20768-lN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$180 MILLION
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
FOR THE
RAJASTHAN POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
December 18, 2000
Energy Sector Unit
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 2000)
Currency Unit = Indian Rupee
IRs. 46.00 = US$1.00
US$0.0217 = IRs. 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Ajmer Discom      =      Ajmer Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited
CAS               =      Country Assistance Strategy
CERC              -      Central Electricity Regulatory Commission
EMP               -      Environmental Management Plan
ERR               =      Economic Rate of Return
FRP               =      Financial Restructuring Plan
FRR               -      Financial Rate of Return
GoR               -      Government of Rajasthan
GSDP              =      Gross State Domestic Product
IPP               =      Independent Power Producer
Jaipur Discom     =      Jaipur Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited
Jodhpur Discom    =      Jodhpur Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited
KfW               -      Kreditanstalt fir Wiederaufbau
MW                =      Megawatts or 1,000 kilowatts
NPV                -     Net Present Value
NTPC              =      National Thermal Power Corporation
PFC               =      Power Finance Corporation
PLF               =      Plant Load Factor
PPA               =      Power Purchase Agreement
PPF                      Project Preparation Facility
PIP               =      Project Implementation Plan
PMR               =      Project Management Report
REDA              -      Rajasthan Energy Development Authority
RERC              -      Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory Commission
RSEB              =      Rajasthan State Electricity Board
RSPCL                    Rajasthan State Power Corporation Limited
RVPN              =      Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Prasaran Nigam Limited (Transmission Company)
RVUN              =      Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Limited (Generation Company)
Reform Act        =      Rajasthan Power Sector Reforms Act, 1999
SEB               =      State Electricity Board
SP&P              -      Social Policy and Procedures
TA                -      Technical Assistance
T&D               =      Transmission and Distribution
USAID              =     United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:    Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:    Edwin R. Lim
Sector Director:    Alastair J. McKechnie
Task Team Leader:    Magdalena V. Manzo



INDIA
RAJASTHAN POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       3
2. Key performance indicators                                                          3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      10
3. Benefits and target population                                                     10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       11
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          13
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          15
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           16
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   17
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        17
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           18
2. Financial                                                                          18
3. Technical                                                                          23
4. Institutional                                                                      23
5. Social                                                                             24
6. Environrnental                                                                     25
7. Participatory Approach                                                             26
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     27
2. Critical risks                                                                     27
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     29



G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             30
2. Other                                                                               30
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           32
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          32
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           33
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                     38
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          45
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary and Fiscal Impact of Reforms                       46
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                                55
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        75
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      88
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    89
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   90
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             94
Annex 11: Reform Policy Statement                                                         96
Annex 12: Reform Program and Irnplementation Plan - A Summary                            105
Annex 13: Project Eligibility Criteria                                                   110
Annex 14: Social Assessment Framework                                                    ill
Annex 15: Environmental Policy for Transmission Projects                                 115
MAP(S)



INDIA
RAJASTHAN POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia Regional Office
SASEG
Date: December 18, 2000                            Team Leader: Magdalena V. Manzo
Country Manager/Director: Edwin R. Lim             Sector Manager/Director: Alastair J. Mckechnie
Project ID: P038334                                Sector(s): PD - Distribution & Transmission, PP - Electric
Power & Other Energy Adjustment
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Energy
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
[X] Loan     I ] Credit    [ Grant      [ Guarantee       [ Other:
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 180
Proposed Terms: Variable Spread & Rate Single Currency Loan (VSCL)
Grace period (years): 5                                 Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan:    Source                                     Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                        60.00           0.00          60.00
IBRD                                                             0.00         180.00         180.00
AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT                             0.00           2.00           2.00
BORROWING COUNTRY'S FINANCIAL INTERMEDIARY                      24.80           0.00          24.80
Total:                                                          84.80          182.00        266.80
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
Responsible agency: RAJASTHAN DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY
Department of Energy, State Government of Rajasthan
Address: Secretariat Building, Jaipur 302 005
Contact Person: Mr. C. S. Rajan, Secretary of Energy
Tel: 91-141-380 635                 Fax: 91-141-380 635                Email: secenergy@satyam.netin
Other Agency(ies):
Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Prasaran Nigam Limited (RVPN)
Address: Vidyut Bhawan, Dave Marg Road, Jaipur 302 005
Contact Person: Mr. D.C. Samant, Chairman & Managing Director
Tel: 91-141- 740 692              Fax: 91-141- 740 168                Email: rsebjpr@jpl.dot.net.in
Jaipur Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (Jaipur Discom)
Address: Dave Marg Road, Jaipur
Contact Person: Mr. Umesh Kumar, Chairman & Managing Director
Tel: 91-141-740-864              Fax: 91-141-740-831                 Email: jaipurdiscom@jarenery.com



Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
Annual    3.50      48.00      75200      45.00      8.50
Cumulative    3.50      51.50     126.50    171.50    180.00
Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: 02/28/2001  Expected closing date:  06/30/2005
OCS PAD Fo e,  A.4. 23O
-2 -



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objectives of the proposed Rajasthan Power Sector Restructuring Project are to: (a)
support the ongoing power sector reform process in Rajasthan leading to higher sector efficiency and
financial recovery; and (b) improve power supply by removing the critical bottlenecks in the power
transmission and distribution system.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Implementation of regulatory, financial, and institutional reforms will be demonstrated by: (a) the
establishment of a fully functioning electricity regulatory commission, (b) the satisfactory implementation
of the Financial Restructuring Plan, resulting in a financial turn-around of the five successor companies by
FY2005, and (c) private participation in distribution by having strategic investors in place by end-2002,
respectively. Investments in the transmission and distribution system would result in improved voltage
levels, reduced outages and technical losses, and increased energy availability in the service areas affected
by the investments.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: CAS (Report No. 17241-IN) on January 15, 1998 and CAS Progress Report (No.
R99-12, IDA/R99-lO on January 26, 1999           Date of latest CAS discussion: 02/18/99
The project pursues the CAS objective of reducing infrastructure bottlenecks by promoting power sector
reform, which involves the establishment of independent regulation, operation of commercially viable
utilities in a competitive market, and creation of an enabling environment for private investment in the
sector.
Power sector reform is setting the pace for establishment of a more comprehensive multi-sectoral reform
program in Rajasthan in line with the state focus envisioned in the CAS and in order to restore fiscal
balance, accelerate economic growth and alleviate poverty in the State. A dialogue between the Bank and
the State on fiscal sector reforms is underway. These reforms are intended to create additional fiscal space
over the medium term for well-targeted public investments in high priority development areas, including
substantial increases in social sector spending and poverty reduction programs.
Reform in the power sector is critical to achievement of fiscal sustainability. Over the years, the power
sector has had a large negative impact on the state's financial stability and economic growth. The subsidy
requirements from the Government reached an unsustainable level of Rs 16 billion (or US $370 million) in
FY2000. In the absence of reforms, the net Government support required by the sector over the coming
period FY2000-2007 is estimated to be over Rs 131 billion ($2.8 billion), or about 1.3% of GSDP on
average each year, a level that the State budget cannot support. In contrast, under the reform scenario,
which includes an aggressive approach to the privatization of distribution, the project supports
implementation of a financial recovery plan (FRP) for the sector. Inplementation of the FRP will
contribute to fiscal stability as the required budget support declines to a more manageable level of Rs 18.5
billion ($400 million) during the period FY2000-2004 and to a minimal level thereafter. This level of
support has been designed to assist the power sector during the transition period towards achieving
self-financing while ensuring that public sector investments in social sectors are not jeopardized.
- 3 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
India's Power Industry.
India's power industry is characterized by inadequate and inefficient power supply. Peak capacity and
energy supply shortages are estimated to be over 20 percent and 10 percent respectively, and are expected
to grow in the years ahead. The widening gap is partly attributable to poor policies in the sector leading to
inflated demand as well as to insufficient investments in the first half of the 1990's and the sector's
continuing inability to implement investment plans. Plant availability and efficiency are generally low, and
system losses are high throughout India's power transmission and distribution networks. Low tariffs, heavy
cross-subsidies, poor collection performance and outright theft, combined with increasingly tight state
budgetary resources have constrained supply expansion and investment in upgrading the transmission and
distribution system. The financial performance of the sector as a whole is unsatisfactory, with low or no
returns and no contribution to investment from intemal resources. Commercial losses of the State
Electricity Boards (SEBs) have reached the equivalent of about US$3.2 billion or nearly 1 percent of
India's gross domestic product (GDP).
In 1991, in an effort to mobilize resources for generation capacity expansion, the Government of India
opened power generation to private sector investments. However, private investments have not been readily
forthcoming without assurances of guarantees from the Government of India. It has since become evident
that in the absence of major structural and regulatory reforms in the power sector at the state level, it would
be difficult to mobilize the resources to support the investmnent needs of the sector. Accordingly, the
Government of India, with the assistance of the Bank, has been encouraging states to undertake
comprehensive power sector reforms. India's state governnents have clearly acknowledged the problems
with state-run utilities and a number of states, including Rajasthan, have initiated comprehensive reform
program.
In July 1998, the Government of India enacted an Electricity Regulatory Commission Act. This Act
provides for establishment of the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (CERC) and State Electricity
Regulatory Commission(s) (SERC) at the national and state levels, respectively, in an attempt inter alia to
de-politicize the tariff-setting process. The CERC has been established and is responsible for approval of
tariff for central sector utilities, and tariff review/setting of multi-state Independent Power Producers
(IPPs). In parallel, India's power transmission and system operations are going through an extensive
national restructuring program. To encourage private investment in the transmission business, the Central
Government enacted the Electricity Laws (Amendment) Act 1998, in August 1998. This Act provides for
the establishment of a central transmission utility, state transmission utilities and transmission licensees.
Finally, Electricity Bill 2000 is proposed to be introduced which will create an enabling framework for the
states to restructure and rationalize the electricity industry.
Main Sector Issues in Rajasthan.
For over 40 years, Rajasthan's power sector has been dominated by the Rajasthan State Electricity Board
(RSEB), a vertically integrated state-owned utility formed in July 1957 under the provisions of the
Electricity (Supply) Act 1948. The state grid has access to 4,056 MW of generating capacity of which
1,302 MW was fully-owned and operated by RSEB. Since July 2000, RSEB's successor entity for
generation, the Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Limited (RVUN), now owns and operates the
fully-state-owned generation facilities, while the successor transmission company, Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut
Prasaran Nigam Limited (RVPN) operates those stations which are jointly-owned with other states. The
system covers a large geographical area of 342,000 sq. km., two-thirds of which is desert with low
population density. Annual per capita electricity consumption is 302 kWh, lower than the average in India.
-4 -



The grid presently serves over 5.0 million customers of which domestic and agriculture customers, account
for 4.3 million. Apart from RSEB's successor entities, two other state-owned institutions are involved in
the development of the power supply, namely, the Rajasthan Energy Development Authority (REDA) and
the Rajasthan State Power Corporation Limited (RSPCL). REDA was established in 1985 with the
objective of promoting and developing the use of non-conventional energy sources. RSPCL was
established in 1995 with the objective of developing power generation capacity within the state from
alternative sources of energy, including solar thermal, wind and hydro.
Rajasthan's power sector suffers from a severe shortfall in power supply. Energy shortages have increased
from about 7.8% in 1991 to about 15% in 1998, while the deficit in peaking capacity worsened from 14%
to nearly 23% during the same period. Electricity sales grew at an annual rate of 9% over the last decade
with most of the growth accounted for by consumer categories availing of subsidized tariff, i.e., domestic
and agriculture users. The share of industry in the total sale of power has come down from 43% in FY1992
to 40% in FY1998. In contrast, the combined share of domestic and agriculture has increased from 39% to
52% during the same period. Unserved demand is significant as evidenced by a huge backlog in service
connections to about 380,000 customers. Due to funding constraints, RSEB's generating capacity had not
kept pace with the increase in electricity demand, such that by mid-90s the share of power purchases from
outside the State exceeded 50% of total grid availability.
RSEB's operations were marked by frequent service interruptions, unacceptable voltage and frequency
swings, high system losses and poor cost recovery. Systems losses are estimated at 42%. Over the past
decade, cost coverage from revenue has been on a decline from 91 % to 76%, resulting in a revenue deficit
of 24% in FY1999. In the last few years, the finances of RSEB have been stretched to its limit due to the
growing revenue shortfall. This in turn has put pressure on the State Government to increase its subsidy
support to RSEB. The sector's deteriorating finances impede the inflow of fresh capital investments needed
for power systems expansions and improvement.
Causes. A root cause of this crisis is the lack of management and financial autonomy of RSEB from the
State Government. This has led to the lack of commercial business orientation, accountability and modem
utility management practices in RSEB. State influence prevails in tariff-setting, investment decisions,
personnel deployment, among others. For instance, RSEB has been directed by the State to charge low
tariffs to agriculture and residential consumers and to undertake or continue unremunerative activities
without proper compensation. Under such a politicized environment, introducing the management and
operational autonomy and perfornance incentives needed to improve electric service to consumers has
proven difficult.
Challenges and Government Strategy. The real challenge facing the Government is to reduce widespread
poverty, arrest the high rates of unemployment, and improve social development. The lack of a reliable
electricity supply currently severely constrains this development. Deterioration in infrastructure, mainly
electricity supply, amongst other reasons, is cited as one of the major deterrents in attracting investments
into the state. Power shortages in the rural areas not only affect agricultural production but also constrain
avenues for non-farm income-generating activities, aggravating poverty in the rural areas. While the grid
has reached 90% of the villages, less than 40 % of the population has access to electricity since the level of
house connections is comparatively low. Thus, relieving the power constraint is key to the development of
the State, which is so necessary to help the reduce the incidence of poverty.
The unconstrained demand for electricity services in the state in the next ten years is projected to grow at
about 7 percent per year. Eliminating the power deficit, through supply and end-use efficiency
improvements, requires an additional capacity of roughly about 1000 MW over the next seven years. The
- 5 -



associated investments are estimated to cost Rs. 30.6 billion for generation and a minimum of Rs. 85.4
billion for rehabilitation and expansion of the transmission and distribution system. Such level of
investments cannot be financed under the present conditions of deteriorating financial performance of the
power sector. Capacity additions from the IPPs, if any, will also be constrained by the ability of the sector
to pay for the power purchases. The need to restore the power sector's financial viability through a
comprehensive set of reforms has become an economic and political imperative.
To address the fundamental management and operational problems, stem the financial collapse of the
power industry and ensure its sustainable development, the Government of Rajasthan has decided to
restructure the power sector. The objective is to create an operating regime that fosters competition,
efficiency and transparency, as well as attract private finance, resulting in the overall improvement of
electricity services in the State. The State has issued a Policy Statement on Power Sector Reforms
Programme (see Annex 11) which calls for inter alia: (i) The unbundling of the vertically integrated
monopoly power utility (RSEB) and functional separation of generation, transmission and distribution into
separate service companies, registered under the Companies Act; (ii) establishment of a statutory,
autonomous regulatory agency; and (iii) private sector participation in generation and distribution business.
The legal basis for implementing the reforns is the Rajasthan Power Sector Reforms Act 1999, which took
effect on June 1, 2000. The financial framework under which financial transformation of the sector is
envisioned to take place during the transition period FY2000-2004 is provided under a Financial
Restructuring Plan (FRP) approved by the State Government in March 2000.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project addresses governance issues in the sector by fostering more accountability through
corporatization and unbundling, reduction of theft through investments in loss reduction schemes, and
improved management and operational efficiency through privatization. Rajasthan's power sector reform
program is designed to: (i) insulate the sector's management and operations from government interference
by confining the role of Government to policy matters, and establishing transparent, stable and objective
ground rules for all power sector participants; (ii) create a business environment that will attract private
investment and management expertise in power generation and distribution; (iii) establish financially and
operationally sound power utilities, all with the end in view of (iv) improving power system supply and
service efficiency. Accordingly, in formulating the reform program, the Govermment has had to make a
number of strategic choices relating to the structure, regulation, and ownership of the power industry, and
the implementation approach. This investment project is designed to support and sustain progress to date
in the reform program and allow critical improvements in the power system to be made. The project has
been designed drawing from the lessons leamt from implementation of similar programs in India (Orissa,
Haryana, Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh) and in other countries, adapted to local realities.
Industry and Market Structure
The first phase of the program involves unbundling of the vertically integrated monopoly power utility,
RSEB, into new entities based on functional specialisation. These new companies will initially be fully
state-owned . The second phase calls for the conversion of the distribution companies into joint venture
companies with management and majority shareholdings lodged with private strategic investors. The
Government has also expressed an intention to divest its equity shareholdings in the generating companies
during the second phase to help meet the sector's funding requirements as spelt out in the FRP. In the long
run, the power sector in Rajasthan may evolve towards a multi-buyer model with competition in generation
and distribution, which would encourage even more efficient and economic operation of the sector.
- 6 -



On July 19, 2000, the entire business of RSEB was transferred into five companies through a statutory
transfer scheme effected under the Rajasthan Power Sector Reforms Act. The resulting new entities are:
*   RVUN, which owns and operates RSEB's existing power stations, and will take up on-going and
new generation projects;
* RVPN, responsible for transmission and bulk supply of electricity;
* Ajmer Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (Ajmer Discom), Jaipur Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (Jaipur
Discom), and Jodhpur Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (Jodhpur Discom), as distribution companies.
The operating relationships among these companies are as follows: RVPN would enter into Power
Purchase Agreements (PPAs) with RVUN. Additional generation will be procured through Central
Government owned generating companies and IPPs. For new contracts with RVPN (other than for the
existing plants), RVUN will have to compete with IPPs for the market - and RVPN will have to
demonstrate to the Regulatory Commission that its purchases are economic and efficient. RVPN will be
the bulk supplier for the existing generation in the State. RVPN is not a statutory monopoly supplier; it is
not a single buyer. Distribution companies may also enter into direct PPAs with generators and other bulk
suppliers, and over time, RVPN will increasingly focus on transmission and system operations.
The pace of movement from the RVPN being the main wholesale trader of existing capacity to the
"multi-buyer" model would be determined inter-alia by: (i) the Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory
Commission (RERC) based on the experience and knowledge gained on the functioning of the restructured
industry, efficiency and economy of power purchases, the potential for wholesale competition; and (ii) the
market, based on the creditworthiness of the contracting distributors. Under its transmission license,
RVPN will be expected to maintain separate accounts for its bulk supply and transmission services, which
will provide a basis for the future functional separation of power purchase and transmission system
operation. In parallel, India is pursuing national bulk power tariff reforms and regional and inter-regional
electricity trading. RVPN will operate in the Northern region power pool and in the emerging national
power market and will represent Rajasthan in the Northern Region Electricity Board, the governing body of
the Northern region power pool. Distribution companies could also operate in the regional pool as soon as
they have the necessary metering in place.
Legal and Regulatory Framework
Rajasthan has decided to provide for independent and autonomous regulation of the sector in keeping with
its resolve to limit the role of Government to policy matters, to bring transparency into the regulatory
process, and to balance the interests of customers, government, investors, financiers and lenders, suppliers,
employees and the people of Rajasthan. The State Government had already established a three-member
Commission under the central Electricity Regulatory Commissions Act, 1998, and has further strengthened
the Commission through the recently notified, Rajasthan Power Sector Reform Act 1999. It is essential for
the Commission to make its regulatory processes transparent and inclusive, and accountable to multiple
stakeholders so as to create an environment conducive to the kind of independence envisioned and provided
for in the Reform Act.
Privatization of Distribution
Rajasthan has determined that privatizing the distribution business is the only effective means of addressing
the fundamental managerial, operational and financial issues in distribution, to reduce the system losses and
improve efficiency, and thereby restore the sector's creditworthiness. Successful privatization of the
distribution business would require having a credible regulatory framework in place, significant progress
- 7 -



towards restoring the creditworthiness of the sector, and design and execution of transparent and credible
privatization transactions. In order to achieve the reform schedule of having privatized the distribution
business within 2002, the next step is for Rajasthan to engage investment advisors to assist in the
management of the privatization transactions.
There is concern about the marketability of the Discoms particularly since no distribution company in India
with large numbers of agricultural customers has been privatized. Among the issues that would be pursued
during the course of project implementation are: establishing principles for multi-year tariff adjustment;
arriving at a suitable capital structure for the new companies; and defining service obligations and
performance norms. Within the context of the overall Financial Restructuring Plan, financial projections
worked out for each Discom in Rajasthan indicate that each Discom is a viable business. A salient feature
of the FRP is for the divestment proceeds to be plowed back directly into the sector, as far as necessary to
ensure adequate capitalization of the companies. The investment advisors will help prepare a clear
privatization strategy that addresses regulatory risk, capital restructuring and creation of investor interest in
the domestic and international markets.  To mitigate regulatory risk, involvement of the Regulator in the
formulation of the privatization strategy would be needed. Regulatory advice from consultants will be
availed by the Regulator under the technical assistance component.
Agricultural Tariffs and Subsidy Policy
The need for appropriate adjustments in agricultural tariffs to ensure financial recovery of the power sector
as well as restore fiscal balance has been a long-standing concern. The issue is complex and transcends the
power sector and requires further analysis of the effect of tariff adjustments and quality of power supply on
inter alia farm income, cropping patterns, input and output pricing, modernization of tubewell industry,
and choice of irrigation technology. The Bank is currently undertaking a study to examine the levels of
electricity subsidies to farmers, identify who actually benefits from them, the costs of poor quality supply,
and the magnitude of resource transfers from farmers to the utilities as a result of tariff adjustments. The
study will recommend policy options for the Government's consideration, e.g., shifting subsidy from
consumption of electricity to provision of access through lower connection charges.
In the case of Rajasthan, the Financial Restructuring Plan (FRP) is conservative with respect to projected
annual average tariff adjustments of 10% keeping in mind that except for the domestic and agricultural
users, other consumers are already being charged at or above the cost to supply them. Hence, the bulk of
the adjustments is expected to affect agriculture users, who are assumed to experience an average annual
increase of 26% in tariffs between now and FY2004. The Plan calls for a revenue subsidy limited to cash
support levels afforded by the State in the recent past. The subsidy is to be phased out in four years with
the expectation that thereafter, any further tariff relief to agriculture users would be borne through
cross-subsidies from other power consumers.
The Discoms are expected to file for full cost-recovery tariffs before the Regulator. Should the regulator
approve annual increases higher than 10%, the financial recovery of the sector would be accelerated, more
significant adjustments in agricultural tariffs effected, and the need for subsidy would be reduced. Further,
to ensure that the non-materialization of the subsidy does not result in financial distress for the Discoms, a
mechanism will need to be designed so that the subsidy is applied as an adjustment clause to the tariff of
the affected consumers. In the event cash subsidy transfers from GoR do not occur, the consumer is fully
aware of the level of non-subsidized tariff required and may be charged in order to sustain service delivery.
Thus, the potential for higher tariff adjustments is built into the scheme of things, but tempered in the FRP
to reflect a real risk of lack of customer appetite for such increases.
- 8 -



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
During the four-year reform transition period, FY2001-05, Rajasthan plans to expand its transmission and
distribution network in order to extend electricity service to an additional 750,000 customers. Proceeds
from the proposed Bank loan would help finance schemes that would provide service access to one third of
these new consumers, with the balance of investments to be financed from the utilities' own resources. A
main thrust of the proposed Bank support will be to help improve the distribution system particularly in
beginning the long process of reducing the level of losses in the rural areas, improving system voltages and
supply reliability, and in investing in the metering required to facilitate the privatization exercise. In
addition, the loan will finance a number of activities that will improve the institutional capacity of the new
regulatory and utility entities to operate in a changed business environment. Specifically, financing of
consultant services would be provided for regulatory advice, privatization of the distribution companies,
institutional development of RVPN, environmental performance management, development of off-grid
renewable energy and energy efficiency programs, among others. In addition, in order to create greater
awareness of and generate wider support for the reform program, the project will finance information
dissemination and communication initiatives including coverage through media, advertising and public
meetings.
The following table provides a summary of the components to be funded under the Project.
Indicative             Bank-      % of
Component                   Sector         Costs     % of    financing   Bank-
=_______________________                           (US$M)    Total       (US$    financirng
1. Loss reduction - at low voltage  Distribution &     46.70       17.5      37.20      20.7
level, including capacitor installations   Transmission
2. Transmission & distribution schemes                153.00        57.3    122.50       68.1
including special equipment
3. System and consumer metering                         13.60        5.1     10.90        6.1
4. Technical assistance: consultant  Institutional      7.70         2.9      5.20        2.9
services for institutional strengthening   Development
of utilities and RERC; distribution
privatization; reform management;
renewable energy and energy efficiency
programs; environmental management.
5. Information and communications   Institutional       0.50         0.2      0.40        0.2
Development
6. Repayment of PPF Advance                             2.00         0.7      2.00        1.1
Total Project Costs                   223.50       83.8    178.20       99.0
Interest during construction                 41.50       15.6       0.00       0.0
Front-end fee                     1.80        0.7       1.80       1.0
Total Financing Required                    266.80      100.0    180.00      100.0
Includes physical and price contingencies.
As part of the technical assistance, the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) will
provide parallel co-financing for demand side management (DSM) and energy efficiency (EE) activities.
-9-



This will involve a grant of about US$2 million from USAID's Energy Conservation and
Ccommercialization (ECO) project. The assistance will initially focus on activities of the Jaipur Discom
such as: establishment of a DSM cell; development of protocols of collaboration among
industries/end-users and ESCOs; development of a consumer awareness and information program; and
design of regulatory and incentive mechanisms.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The key policy and institutional reforms that the governnent has decided to embark upon are discussed in
section B.3. The reforns are expected to facilitate: (i) functional separation; (ii) private participation in
various activities of the sector; (iii) effective regulation of the sector; (iv) transparency, autonomy and
accountability in the governance of the sector; and (v) over time, increasing competition in all generation
and supply.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project will support comprehensive reforrns which will benefit, in the medium to long-term, present and
future consumers of electricity through improvement in reliability and availability of power supply. Tariff
reforms and commercialization of utility operation will improve resource allocation and overall economic
efficiency. It is expected that the need for subsidies will be reduced thus permitting more governnent
resources to flow to other development priorities. Creation of a competitive environment will bring in
commercial capital and business management skills into the sector. Transmission expansion and upgrading
will increase availability and reliability of power supply, allowing the state economy to expand.
Beneficiaries consist of domestic and agricultural electricity consumers in Rajasthan, as well as those
gainfully employed in the various commercial and industrial enterprises relying on grid supply. Power
sector employees will benefit from training and upgrading of skills, as well as from an increase in
professional career opportunities resulting from emergence of new entities and general expansion of the
power industry. Benefits will accrue as described in the table below:
Benefits                                              Target population
* Improvement in state fiscal situation and release of funds  Rajasthan's population at large (impact increasing over time).
to priority sectors for public investment
* Improved quality and availability of power in selected areas  Customers currently receiving poor quality of service due to
through reduction in transmission and distribution losses  overloaded transmission or distribution systems. Service
and upgradation of system.                              connections will be made possible as well for new customers.
Improved metering and billing.                          Customers of RVPN and Discoms receive better billing service.
* Increased institutional capability to implement the reformT  Primary beneficiaries: RSEB's successor entities. Final
measures and execute the investment program.            beneficiaries: Rajasthan's population.
Improved employment terms, work & safety conditions for  Former RSEB staff.
employees and upgradation in tools and training for the staff
for better operational efficiency and customer service.
- 10 -



Poverty Aspect
The poorest consumers in the community will continue to be protected from the full impact of tariff
increases through appropriate tariff design, e.g., use of lifeline rate. However, most of the poorest of the
poor do not currently benefit from electricity connections and are thus not adversely impacted by tariff
increases. For these people, the largest impact of power reform is positive in that they may ultimately
receive more social services once Government is no longer obliged to subsidise the power sector and is able
to direct more funds to social sectors like health and education. Further, it is planned that once the power
supply situation improves, more connections can be provided, in order to give access at least to 'light and
fan' power for a larger number of poor consumers. In addition, the project also includes consideration of
renewable or off-grid power supply to those communities where it is not cost effective to provide grid
supply.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project investrnents and technical assistance activities will be implemented over four years.
Channeling of IBRD Assistance and Onlending Arrangements
The Borrower will be the Government of India, which will onlend the proceeds of the loan under its
standard arrangements for developmental assistance to the states, and fully additional to Rajasthan's
regular plan assistance. The Government of Rajasthan will onlend the proceeds to RVUN, RVPN and the
distribution companies (Discoms) on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
To monitor project related expenditure, RVWN, RVPN and the Discoms shall each assign a separate
account code with adequate sub-codes to capture expenditures by component. The companies shall each
open a separate bank account ( Project Account) into which the project funds will be deposited.
Withdrawals from these accounts will be only for meeting the project expenditure. All disbursements from
proceeds of the Bank loan, including those into the Special Account, will be transferred into these project
accounts. Counterpart funds will also be deposited by the executing agency into these accounts to ensure
that the project implementation and disbursement of the Bank loan do not suffer for lack of counterpart
funds. Funds in these accounts will be subject to prudent treasury management.
Executing Agencies
RVPN and the Discoms will be the executing agencies for the transmission and distribution components of
the project, respectively. Part of the technical assistance may be extended to the Regulatory Commission
and RVWN. All contracts signed by RSEB, including for advance procurement under the Bank project,
will be transferred to and managed by RVPN and the Discoms, respectively, as per the Transfer Scheme
rules.
Project Monitoring and Coordination
The Reform Guidance Group, was established in August 1999, under the Chairmanship of the Honorable
Chief Minister, and with the Secretary of Energy, as secretary. In addition, Rajasthan has set up a Steering
Committee chaired by the Chief Secretary with the Secretaries in charge of Energy, Finance, Agriculture,
Industry and Irrigation as members. Further, a Task Force chaired by the Chairman of RSEB has actively
supervised and provided guidance to the work of the reform groups. There are four working groups,
which were re-activated in April 1999, and 8 sub-groups fonned in August 1999 to support a range of
- 1 1 -



reform-based activities. About 50 staff directly participate in advancing the reform agenda. Over 25
officer-level staff work full time in the Reform Office and with the Project Management Unit (PMU); other
staff work from within RSEB's functional departments (e.g., Human Resource, Legal).
Following the restructuring of RSEB, the composition of the Steering Committee and the Task Force will
be modified to include the Chief Executives of RVPN, RVUN and the Discoms. The role of these
commnittees will also be revisited to reflect the change in the role of the State in the governance and
regulation of the power sector. The Steering Committee will meet at least once in six months or more
often as needed. The Task Force would carry out close review and monitoring of the program through
quarterly review meetings. The Reform Office shall continue to exist until reform measures, which cut
across the boundaries of the new entities and need close coordination, are fully implemented; e.g., transfer
of staff, implementation of financial restructuring plan, privatization of distribution.
At the operational level, each of the executing agencies will implement its own project administration,
institutional development and strengthening program. They will also each set up a Project Management
Unit to co-ordinate and monitor the implementation of the investment schemes.
Project Supervision
Given the complexity of this program, intensive implementation review by the Bank is required. The Bank
will supervise both the implementation of the reform program and the execution of the project. The
program would be supervised with respect to the effectiveness of regulation, privatization process, adoption
of competitive practices in the industry, improvement in financial operation of the new utilities, and extent
of political and public support for the reform process. Lessons learnt in other states will influence the
supervision strategy in Rajasthan. RERC will benefit from regulatory advice and information available
through the internet exchange established between the Bank and the state and central electricity regulatory
agencies in India. Project implementation will be supervised by the Bank through review of procurement
actions, monitoring of contract administration and conduct of site visits. In addition to the main quarterly
supervision missions, additional support to the client will be provided by the New Delhi office. The impact
of the Government's support to the power sector's financial restructuring on the State's budget will be
monitored through the Bank's dialogue with the State on economic and fiscal restructuring. To the extent
feasible, Bank mission visits will be coordinated with other donors (USAID, KfW) and the program of
review meetings of the Task Force. The executing agencies shall submit to the Bank, progress reports as
per agreed formats, every quarter. A mid-term review of the project will be carried out by the Bank and
the Government no later than two years after Loan effectiveness. A third party review of the progress of
project implementation by independent consultants would be commissioned by the State Government, the
results of which will feed into the mid-term review.
Accounting
RSEB followed accrual-based commercial accounting system, as described in Annex 6, and this system has
been transferred to the successor entities. Certain modifications to the accounting system will be necessary
for the new companies to be in compliance with the requirements of the Companies Act. For the financial,
budgeting and accounting systems to meet the requirements of the commercial environment in which they
will have to operate, the successor entities will need to improve financial controls, professionalize the
organization, induct professionally qualified staff, upgrade the skills, and improve the technology. In this
connection, recruitment and selection of qualified accounting and finance personnel are well underway.
- 12 -



Audit
The internal and external auditing arrangements are described in Annex 6. In the future, the external audit
of RVPN, RVUN and the Discoms will be carried out by independent auditors on advice of the
Comptroller and Audit General of India as per requirement of the Companies Act 1956. Said auditors will
have also have to be acceptable to the Bank. Project Financial Statements to be prepared by RVPN and
Discoms as per agreed "Project Management Report" formats, will be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank and in accordance with acceptable auditing standards. The audit of project
accounts would include an assessment of the adequacy of accounting and internal control systems, ability
to maintain adequate documentation for transactions, and eligibility of expenditures for Bank financing.
The audited Project Financial Statements together with the auditor's opinion on it - including an opinion on
the Statement of Expenses (SOEs) - would be submnitted to the Bank not later than six months after the
close of each fiscal year. In addition, RVPN, RVUN and the Discoms will furnish annual audited
corporate financial statements. The audit report on the Special Account maintained by the Government of
India would include a summary of special account transactions and the closing balance held by the Reserve
Bank of India. The audit report on the Special Account would be submitted to the Bank not later than six
months after the close of each fiscal year.
Project management reports (PMR)
The basic accounting systems for RVPN and the Discoms to prepare PMRs do exist, but would require
some changes to generate timely and reliable reports. In view of the unbundling of RSEB and formation of
new companies, RVPN and the Discoms will prepare only selected PMR reports in the first year of project
implementation and full PMR reports by April 1, 2002. It is envisaged that disbursement during the first
two years of the loan would be made using the traditional method of disbursement, but that PMR-based
disbursement would be used thereafter.
Co-Financing
Parallel co-financing from USAID involving a grant assistance of about US$ 2 million will be made
available for energy efficiency and demand-side management activities. This grant is being extended under
USAID's Energy Conservation and Conunercialization (ECO) project. Some co-financing of investments is
planned to be secured from domestic financial institutions, notably Power Finance Corporation, Rural
Electrification Corporation, and Life Insurance Corporation.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
From the outset, all the alternatives considered for this operation were premised on the Rajasthan
Government having initiated fundarnental reforms and taken meaningful and significant upfront policy
actions. The options considered differed in terms of timing, type of lending instrument, and level of Bank
assistance and were assessed in terms of responsiveness to the support required for reform implementation.
Now that the Government has taken significant reform measures, it is for the Bank to support the
Government's efforts to build a constituency for change. Bank financing of T&D investments will help
consolidate public opinion in favor of reforns by making service improvements possible and arrest further
deterioration in the infrastructure.
One alternative was to provide a single larger loan (of about US$400 to 450 million) to finance an
- 13 -



investment time-slice with a follow up loan of a similar amount to support further investments several years
later and help deepen the sector reforms. This would have been sirnilar to the approach taken in the Orissa
Power Sector Restructuring Project. However, given the large number of reform steps still required in
Rajasthan, a smaller loan as proposed is preferred, with the understanding that the Bank is ready to
consider further support in the near future as reforms progress and deepen.
Another option extensively considered was to use the Adaptable Program Loan (APL) instrument involving
an overall program assistance from the Bank of over $600 million package over a period of about seven
years. However, early experience in other states, Haryana (Ln. 4271 -IN) and Andhra Pradesh (Ln.
4441 -IN), suggests that the APL instrument does not amply match the profile of funding requirements of
the power sector. Given the severe liquidity constraints in working capital and counterpart funding during
initial years of reform, a combination of time-slice investment loans, sector adjustment loans and IFC
financing to support power sector reforms is deemed to be more appropriate. Under such an approach,
overall World Bank Group assistance could range from $880 million to $1 billion over a seven to ten-year
period, assuming the current momentum of reforms in Rajasthan is sustained and key reform
implementation milestones achieved.
Finally, as in other states, Bank assistance to Rajasthan's power sector is being pursued in the context of
the larger initiative of assisting the State in implementation of a fiscal recovery program.
Commercialization of the power industry is expected to wean the sector from state budgetary support, and
thus make available more funds for deploymnent to priority poverty-reduction programs.
Indicative Package of Bank Support
Indicative Amount     Indicative Time of
Milestone                             Bank Support                  in US$ million          approval
Unbundling including separate distibution   First Investment Loan (transmission and
companies, and FRP approved by Govemment    distribution schemes)                         180            January 2001
Fiscal framework in place; FRP underway &
distribution divestment at an advanced stage  First Sector Adjustment Loan                100           late 2001
Distribution divestment completed           Possible IFC support                       50 to 200         2002
Fiscal framework and FRP under implementation,
distribution divestment completed           Second Adjustment Loan                        100            2003
Distribution divestment completed; generation
divestment initiated if required under the FRP; First  Second Investment Loan             250            2003
Investment Loan largely disbursed
Functoning power market; Second Investment Loan
disbursed                                   Third Investment Loan                         200            2006
Total Package           US $880 to $1000 million
- 14 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                  (PSR) Ratings
(Bank_financed pro_cts oly
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Completed projects (ratings of outcome L3436 Power Utilities                        S
based on OED review):              Efficiency Improvement, 1992
Need to reduce losses, improve     L3096 Maharashtra Power                          U
creditworthiness, & rationalize tariffs  Project, 1989
L3498 Second Maharashtra                        U
Power Project, 1993
On-going projects:                 L4545 UP Power Sector             S              S
Restructuring, 2000
L4441 Andhra Pradesh Power        S             S
Sector Restructuring APL 1,
1999
L4271 Haryana Power Sector        U             U
Restructuring APL1, 1998
L4014 Orissa Power Sector         S              S
Restructuring, 1996
L3577 Powergrid System            S              S
Development,1993
L3237 Northem Region Power        S              S
Transmission, 1991
Planned projects:                  Investments and/or adjustment
loans supporting power sector
reforms in Kamataka, Andhra
Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh,
Haryana, Rajasthan & Orissa
Other development agencies
Asian Development Bank
Completed projects:                Rayalaseema Power Project
Northern Madras Thermal I &
II
Unchahar Thermal Extension
Power Efficiency Project
On-going project:                  Power Transmission
Planned projects:                  Power sector restructuring
projects in Gujarat and Madhya
Pradesh
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 15 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Appraisal reports for all the India power projects prepared since 1993, as well as the CAS reports have
documented: (i) failure of the approach developed in the seventies and eighties to support the revitalization
of the SEBs, and (ii) the need to adopt a new approach supporting only in-depth reforms of the power
sector, based upon up-front actions rather than commitments and promises. The first loan (investment
loan) based on this new approach was approved for Orissa in 1996. There followed two loans, using the
new adaptable programme loan instrument, to Haryana (1998) and Andhra Pradesh (1999) and an
investment loan to Uttai Pradesh (2000).
The Bank's Operations Evaluations Department, in its December 1999 report "Meeting India's Energy
Needs (1978-1998): A Country Sector Review", has given a strong endorsement to this approach: "OED
strongly supports the South Asia Region's strategy for the (Indian) energy sector, initiated in 1993, that
concentrated all its power sector resources into promoting SEB structural reform and only financed
distribution system upgrading. The strategy is highly commendable for its relevance to India's development
objectives, its efficacy in rehabilitating a critically weakened sector, its efficiency in use of Bank resources,
and its mobilization of private sector resources. In light of the radical institutional changes that are being
implemented, the reform is likely to be sustainable. OED deems this a best practice model that should be
emulated throughout the Bank's energy sector portfolio." The Rajasthan Government's reform initiative has
benefited greatly in form and substance from the experience of Orissa, Haryana, Andhra Pradesh and, more
recently, Uttar Pradesh.
The proposed Bank support for Rajasthan is heavily based on the lessons of our on-going operations in
other states as detailed below.
a) The operations underway in Orissa, Haryana, Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh have demonstrated the
importance of establishing a clearly defined policy agenda, including a detailed implementation strategy,
which is endorsed by the Government and political leaders. The policy agenda has to be communicated and
discussed widely, and its salient features unambiguously stated. This clear enunciation of the long-term
policy helps align the Government's reform strategy with its vision and guides the future interaction
between the Bank and the state.
b) Experience in the aforementioned states have also shown that these difficult reform programs need
"champions", small core groups of reform agents, who understand the complexities of reforms and manage
the implementation of the program. These states have a strong political leadership, which has provided a
clear mandate to the reform agents. They also had some very dedicated Government bureaucrats and utility
staff who have expertly managed the reform process. Reform implementation requirements have
underscored the need to staff the new utilities with qualified personnel having the requisite skills to manage
the transition and meet the new challenges posed by the new environment of regulation, commercialization,
customer-oriented service and private participation.
c) A correct sequencing of the legal, financial and institutional aspects of the reform program is essential
in order to ensure a smooth but consistent implementation of the restructuring process. The first step is to
establish the legal basis of the reform. The next step should ideally be sector restructuring to increase the
irreversibility, create the framework for further reforms and provide the opportunity for securing the
necessary skills to implement the program. This should be accompanied by the establishment of a
regulatory regime, followed by change in ownership of the distribution business. It is difficult for the State
Governments to tackle all of the issues of reform at the same time (for instance, addressing the concerns of
staff, industries, politicians, and consumers) and thus it is imperative that the actions are prioritized and
- 16 -



sequenced appropriately to achieve the desired result
d) The experience in the other reforming states has also clearly emphasized the critical need for financial
restructuring and the development of a track record for the State Government on meeting its commitments
under this financial restructuring. This track record becomes particularly important when the reform
program reaches the stage of privatization of distribution. The Government's financial commitment has
been facilitated by the presence of the Bank's economic restructuring program, e.g., in Andhra Pradesh and
Uttar Pradesh.
e) As other State programs have shown, the Bank's early involvement in power sector reform plays a key
role in demonstrating early efficiency gains arising from the distribution investmnents. This facilitates the
crucial process of communicating the rationale of the reform program to all the stakeholders and enlisting
their support for reforms.
f) The earlier operations have also demonstrated the need to take advantage of opportunities as they arise
with the aim of advancing the reform agenda to a stage where it is, as far as possible, irreversible. Power
sector refonms involve a long and complex agenda; its implementation difficult and requiring sustained
commitment. There is thus a need to provide sufficient flexibility in the program to exploit "windows of
opportunity" as well as to cope with delays.
g) Experience in Orissa, and now in the other states, has underlined the importance of realism, flexibility
and openness on the part of the Regulatory Commission during the transitional phase. The Regulator must
be consulted and be prepared to discuss issues as they are identified, given that the newly created utilities
are encountering problems that they are not completely equipped to deal with. This experience has also
highlighted the central role that the Regulator plays in reducing the perceived regulatory risk for potential
private investors in distribution. These issues have been discussed with the Regulatory Commission in
Rajasthan, and are expected to be taken care of as the regulatory regime develops further.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Since 1994, the Government of Rajasthan, RSEB and the Bank have discussed reforms in the power sector.
After a hiatus in 1998, the reform dialogue was revived in 1999. Since then the Government has taken a
number of key, politically difficult decisions demonstrating a strong Government commitment to reforms
and lending a degree of irreversibility to the process. These measures include adoption and dissemination
of a Reform Policy Statement, the enactment of the Rajasthan Power Sector Reforms Act, increase in
electricity tariff and reduction of cross-subsidy, and establishment, staffing and initial functioning of the
Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory Commission. In addition, the Government developed and approved a
Financial Restructuring Plan for the sector and completed the unbundling of RSEB into the five corporate
utilities, the only state so far to have done so in a single stage. Initiating these reforms involved intensive
debate among the political leadership, consensus-building among public constituents and consumers, and
sustained in-house dialogue among RSEB management and staff.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Since 1993, the Bank has been extensively involved in a policy dialogue with the Central and State
Governments to promote systemic power sector reforms at the state level. The strategy of Bank assistance
to India's power sector is to support long-term structural reforms, which would transform the power sector
from one which is heavily dependent on government funding and thus lacking management autonomy, into
a commercially-oriented industry, independently regulated on principles of economic efficiency. Through
this project, Bank assistance will provide much needed long term capital to the sector as well as catalyze
- 17-



financial support from other development lending agencies during the transition stage of reforns. In
particular, by taking a lead role in donor coordination, the Bank has been able to mobilize growing
consensus among the donor community for the reforms resulting in inflow of bilateral assistance, e.g., from
DFID, KfW, CIDA, USAID, to the reforming states. The Bank can also make available guarantee
instruments, and together with IFC and MIGA, foster private sector participation in Rajasthan's power
generation and distribution business. The Bank's advisory capability will facilitate implementation of the
reform process. While supporting the power sector reform in Orissa, Haryana, Andhra Pradesh and Uttar
Pradesh, the Bank has gained significant understanding and experience of these reforms in the Indian
context. By drawing on these lessons and also best practices learnt from the Bank's global experience in
power sector reforms, the Bank can help Rajasthan deal with the issues of design, implementation and
adaptation of its reform program.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$1908 million; ERR = 35 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
o Other (specify)
Rajasthan Power Sector Restructuring Program
The economic benefits of the program are considerable and derive essentially from: (i) the elimination of
the power deficit, and (ii) efficiency improvements, particularly notably the reduction of technical and
non-technical losses, that both the reform measures and the large investment program are expected to bring
about. In the absence of reforms, the conditions of the power sector will continue to deteriorate; the sector
will be less able to meet the needs of the consumers and the requirements of economic development; and
transmission and distribution losses will continue to increase. Based on consumers' surplus analysis, the
program net present value (NPV) is estimated at about Rs.88 billion, with an ERR of 35%. Under
different assumptions regarding a lower load growth, a higher investment program, and a slower pace of
improvement of system losses, the program NPV is estimated to range from Rs.20 billion to Rs. 88 billion.
Rajasthan Power Sector Restructuring Project
The net benefits of the distribution investment supported under this project are found to be significant with
a net present value equivalent to about Rs. 18 Billion and ERR of 43%. Under a wide range of
assumptions such as higher costs, lower levels of benefits and delaying their materialization, the project
NPV remains positive in the range of Rs.5.6-17.6 billion.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 887 million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Financial Rate of Return
The financial NPV of the proposed program is estirnated at Rs. 40.8 billion. A financial internal rate of
return for the reform program is not calculated - multiple shifts in sign of the cumulative values of the
financial net flows over time render the solution to the FRR indeterminate. The financial NPV of the
proposed project amounts to Rs.8.9 billion.
The financial assessment of the reform program concludes that the sector can be expected to turn around in
- 18 -



about five years, and in the longer term, will not need subsidy from the Government to meet its financial
objectives. Financial self-sufficiency is expected to be attained by year FY2005, with each utility
projected to earn a return on equity of 16 percent. This can only be achieved with reform, successful
privatization of distribution, improvements in efficiencies, appropriate regulation, timely and adequate
tariff adjustments and financial restructuring. Given the unprecedented changes being planned in the
sector, for a business of this large size, a turn around time of five years from financial crisis is ambitious
but achievable, provided that the aforementioned actions are implemented successfully.
Financial condition of Rajasthan 's power sector
The sector has been suffering large cash losses and is in acute financial distress. Accumulated losses
without subsidy as of March 31, 1999 were Rs 22.4 billion (US$ 530 million), and financial losses in 1999
alone without subsidy are estimated to be about Rs. 11.3 billion (US$ 263 million). The Government of
Rajasthan can no longer afford to pay the subsidy and has resorted to accounting set-offs against its
long-term loans and equity. RSEB had also borrowed deeply to try to cover its revenue shortfall, entered
into sale and lease back transactions on many of its assets leading to large debt overhang. hi contrast to
other SEBs, however, RSEB was broadly up to date with its payments to NTPC so it did not have the
large late payment charge obligations which some other States face. RSEB had also borrowed heavily in
order to meet its obligations and this borrowing will fall due in the next few years (peaking in FY2003).
This debt burden has proved a challenge in the development of a financial restructuring plan.
This critical financial condition is caused by mismanagement of the power sector as reflected in the
below-cost tariffs, technical inefficiencies and high system losses. Adequate and timely tariff adjustments
have not been effected due to political expediencies, and though the Government has provided indirect
support by foregoing the debt service and providing new loans to RSEB, this support has not been
adequate. In 1999, the Board would have needed an average tariff increase of 10% to cover its operating
costs, and 38% to cover all costs. A recent tariff revision in October 1999, increased tariffs by 15% over
all. The same order increased the minimum charge for various categories of consumer, which is also
expected to yield revenue improvements. Industrial sales growth has been negative or stagnant over the
past few years, demonstrating that industry has been forced to enter into captive generation, and in some
cases, preferred to move to other states. In addition, the total energy loss in the system, including technical
losses, currently estimated at about 42 percent has further aggravated the problem (T&D losses have
traditionally been understated at 25%, but during this year, the Board has reviewed its loss estimates and
has restated these at 42%).
Financial restructuringplan
The restoration of the creditworthiness of the sector over a reasonable timeframe began with a clean up of
the balance sheet of the Board before the transfer of the business to the successor utilities. The balance
sheet clean up which the Board and the government agreed to, entailed the write-off and provisioning of
fictitious, doubtful and obsolete assets, the recognition of liabilities that were either understated or not
reflected in the balance sheet, and the settlement of cross-dues between the Board and the government.
Significant balance sheet restructuring of RSEB was undertaken, before transfer of assets and liabilities to
its successor companies, to set a basis for quick restoration of their creditworthiness as detailed in the
financial restructuring plan. The main features of the agreed plan are: (i) providing for unfunded staff
related liabilities estimated at Rs. 17.1 billion by the issue of bonds guaranteed by the Government of
Rajasthan to independent Pension and Provident Fund Trusts to be managed jointly by the employees and
the companies; (ii) adjustment of cross-debts between the Govermnent of Rajasthan and RSEB; (iii) writing
off or provisioning for unusable and obsolete stores and uncollectible receivable amounting to Rs. 3.1
- 19-



billion; and (iv) write-off of Government debt and part of the equity to the extent of Rs. 30.7 billion against
all the above.
The Government of Rajasthan will contribute to the restructuring by foregoing its loan repayments, interest
payments, duties and taxes due to it, and equity outstanding in RSEB to the extent required. In addition, the
Govermment of Rajasthan will provide, during the transition period, cash subsidy and equity to partly fund
the losses in the initial years and to adequately capitalize the new companies.
In addition, in the next four years the entities would need subsidy/equity from the state Government to
partly meet its investment and debt service requirements. Subsidy would be required until FY2004. Given
the unprecedented changes being implemented in the sector, a turn around time of five years, for large
business of this size, from such massive bankruptcy is not unexpected.
Given the total insolvency faced by the sector and the fact that agricultural tariffs are well below costs and
will continue to be so for the near future, the success of the reform program will depend partly on whether
a meaningful financial restructuring package can be negotiated where the major creditors and lenders
contribute to alleviating the burden in the transition period. In the financial restructuring workouts of other
reforming states, the major brunt of the cost of transition towards creditworthiness has been borne by the
state governments, with major lenders contributing with marginal rescheduling of overdue and outstanding
debt. In the case of Rajasthan, the financing requirements are large, and the finances available within the
State Government are so restricted, that the Government does not have the capacity to bear the burden
alone. There is thus, a gap between the requirements of the sector over the next 5-6 years, and the capacity
of the Government to provide these resources. Rajasthan has little room for re-scheduling of debt and
payables. Hence, the viability of the preliminary financial restructuring plan drawn up by Rajasthan will
hinge upon successful divestment of shareholdings in the distribution and generation business.
The Government will need to ensure that the various government departments pay their electricity bills on
time in the future, and in case of default, will use that department's budget to pay for the electricity. In the
event that bills remain unpaid, late payment surcharges will be enforced. The Government will also have to
provide guarantees to the issuance of trade bonds, bonds for retirement and provident fund liabilities and
other borrowings for capital expenditure by the utility.
The FRP as designed is conservative in many respects. Burden-sharing is primarily assumed by the
consumers (through higher tariffs) and the State Government as owner, through the aforementioned
write-offs of government debt and equity, provision of subsidy support, and divestment of shareholdings in
the distribution and generation business. No asset revaluation was done; if resorted to, the equity value of
the companies are likely to increase. However, at this stage, rather than undertaking an asset revaluation,
the valuation placed by the private bidders on the distribution and generation business is expected to
determine the fair market value of the equity shares of these companies. The viability of the FRP would be
enhanced by any authorization by the Regulator of tariff adjustments higher than the assumed 10% annual
average tariff increase. Further, as a contingent source of financial space, negotiations with the central
government agencies and financial institutions are underway to seek improved credit terms.
Financial projections
Detailed descriptions of future financial performance of the entities and the assumptions underlying the
projections are provided in Annex 5. The aggregate fnancial projections of the successor entities are
driven by: (i) annual average tariff increases limited to some 10 percent, in the next four years after which
marginal increases would suffice for the companies to meet their financial objectives. (Higher tariff
- 20 -



increases or higher subsidy support would be needed if the reform program were not implemented); (ii)
progressive reduction in cross subsidies; (iii) State Government support during the transition period (Rs 8
billion in cash in the next four years plus retention of electricity duty and interest of Rs 10.5 billion); (iv)
privatization of distribution; (v) efficiency improvements and reduction in T&D losses; and (vi) a
comprehensive ten year investment program in transmission and distribution system.
Tariff The financial projections are based upon tariff increases and rationalization of the tariff structure to
reduce cross-subsidization, at a pace that is politically sustainable but simultaneously restores the financial
viability of the companies. Given the already high tariffs for industrial sectors prevailing in Rajasthan, this
strategy is considered pragmatic. The Regulatory Commission was established in January 2000 and will
decide on tariff adjustments for the year FY 2001 onwards. With the separate distribution companies
formed, in the future, retail tariffs may vary from one region to another based on the cost structures of
each company. These variations will be minimized inter-alia through capital restructuring of these
companies and market responses, rather than through differential bulk tariffs. The objective is to ensure
that distribution companies are given the incentive to improve efficiency as well as take decisions on a
commercial basis.
Subsidies and Profitability. During the transition period, the Government of Rajasthan will have to
provide cash subsidies to cover the shortfall in revenue to meet its operational costs, debt service,
incremental working capital requirement and counter-part funding for the investment program. With the
present assumptions on tariffs and efficiency improvements, the Government of Rajasthan will need to
provide subsidies till FY04, after which there will be sufficient internal cash generation through tariffs to
achieve the desired Self Financing Ratio (SFR) and the return on equity. The Project Agreement calls for
the Discoms to file for full cost-recovery tariffs before the Regulator. To ensure that the
non-materialization of the subsidy does not adversely affect the Discoms' operations, a mechanism will
need to be set up so that the subsidy is applied as an adjustment clause to the tariff of the affected
consumers so that in the event cash subsidy transfers from GoR do not occur, the consumer would have to
bear the authorized tariff in full.
Efficiency Improvements. Improvements in operating performance of existing plants are based on on-going
refurbishment. Over a seven year period, losses are expected to reduce from over 42% to about 22%
through reduction in technical losses, linked to investment program; and reduction in commercial losses
linked to privatization of distribution. Enforcement of performance standards by the Regulatory
Commission and efficiency-based incentives for private investors would foster sustained improvements in
systems operations.
Investment and Financing Plan. Of Rajasthan's investments in the next seven years of Rs 116 billion,
more than 50% will be invested in the distribution system, which has been neglected in the past and
requires substantial investment towards rehabilitation and reinforcement in order to improve the quality of
power supply as well as meet the load growth. The remainder will be invested in transmission and ongoing
generation projects. The main agencies financing this program are IBRD, Government of Rajasthan, with
the balance funding from Indian Financial Institutions and market borrowings by RSEB and the successor
entities.
The sector's future finances are critically dependent on the following: (i) aggressive and successful
privatization of the distribution business for efficiency improvements, (ii) tariff increases that gradually
correct the imbalance in the tariff structure, (iii) transition support from the government in the form of cash
subsidy and equity, (iv) divestment of shares in generation to raise funds, (v) efficiency improvement in
collections and reduction of losses, and (vi) investment in generation, transmission and distribution
- 21 -



upgradation and expansion. (Refer to Annex 5).
The assumptions on which the financial forecasts are built depend on the commitment of the five utilities,
the Government and other stakeholders, not only to implement the agreed measures, but to do so to a
timetable agreed in the final financial restructuring plan. In particular, the increase in tariffs is dependent
on the Board making timely filings with RERC and the assumption on collections is dependent on the
Government ensuring that its entities pay their electricity dues. Providing that these, and other
assumptions, prove to be correct then it is forecast that the sector will be able to sustain itself without
significant Government support from FY05 and will thence begin a financial revival as the positive impact
of privatization on the sector is felt.
Risk factors
Successor companies face the challenging task of bringing about rapid changes in the corporate culture and
business attitude of their organizations. The initial years are likely to be very demanding on the
management and the staff, with unsettling uncertainties, changes in the work environment to which the staff
have been accustomed, changes in the policies, structure, systems and procedures, and development of an
increasingly commercial environment. With the attention of the senior management focused on the
management of change-process, it is likely that operational and financial performance of the emerging
entities may deteriorate initially. In addition to the continuation of the risks inherent in the prevailing
business environment of an SEB the companies would face new risks. The main financial risks related to
the following: (i) the inability of the utility to file for adequate tariff increases and/or the Regulatory
Commission not granting the required tariff adjustment, (ii) the inability of the Government to provide its
committed financial support to the sector, (iii) slower pace of privatization, resulting in slower efficiency
improvements, and slower recovery in the financial condition of the sector, (iv) financial restructuring
assumptions not materializing, and (v) the inability of the sector to bridge the financing gap between its
requirements and the ability of the Government to provide the required finances, either through negotiations
with lenders and suppliers or through divestment of assets. The risk of failure to meet the financial targets
is significant and is proposed to be mitigated by the following commitments from the Government and the
utilities.
To seek to address the above risks, the Government agrees that (i) Government will assist the utilities to
negotiate and agree on their respective financial restructuring plans; (ii) the amounts of Government
support, both subsidy and equity, for meeting the financial objectives of the power sector entities, will be
provided, in cash, on a timely basis until the companies become financially self sufficient; (iii)
Government will support the utilities in contracting power and signing PPAs along sound commercial
principles; (iv) Government will provide the necessary guarantees to the utilities to issue the bonds
required in the financial restructuring plan for employee and trade related liabilities; and (v) Governnent
will make budgetary provision for the electricity dues of its departments, undertakings and local
government institutions; and ensure that these amounts are paid to the distribution companies on a regular
and timely basis. In addition, RVWN, RVPN and the Discoms agree (i) to support the Government in each
of the above; (ii) not to create escrow on revenue earned from specific geographic areas, consumers or
types of consumer; and (iii) to file a full cost-recovery annual revenue and tariff filing (or multi year tariff,
as required) with the RERC each December.
Details of the financial risks and mitigation measures are more fully described in Annex 5.
- 22 -



Fiscal Impact:
In terms of fiscal impact, the benefits of the reform program would be quite substantial. Under the
business as usual scenario, the net Government support required by the power sector over the period
2000-2007 is estimated to be over Rs. 131 billion or about 1.3% of GSDP on average each year, , level
that the state budget cannot sustain. Under the reform scenario, including an aggressive approach to the
privatization of distribution and generation, the required budget support declines to Rs 18.5 billion during
the period 2000-2004, after which minimal budgetary resources to the sector would be necessary. In
2004-05, the power sector would be able to generate surplus financial resources, and contribute to the
exchequer.
It must also be emphasized that the obligations that the Rajasthan Government is committing to under the
financial restructuring plan are not new commitments, nor are they future investments. In the absence of
power sector reform, the need for such support would be higher and escalating. Indeed, the reform in the
power sector is the single most important aspect of structural and fiscal reform in the state. In the absence
of power sector reform, instead of becoming a net contributor to the state budget, the power sector would
continue to burden public finances, in fact the need for investment support and subsidies would continue to
grow.
To avert further adverse effect of the power industry's financial deficit on the social sector and poverty
reduction programs, the Government has decided to cap its level of budgetary assistance to the power
sector during the transition period. Thereafter, the reformed power sector shall become a net contributor
to the state's resources and help create more fiscal space in the budget to support higher levels of social
sector investment. The Government's intention is clearly defined in its power sector reform policy
statement (Annex 11).
3. Technical:
The proposed investments under the program and project are technically sound, and their implementation
will pose no unusual demands on the staff or contractors of RSEB's successor companies, i.e., RVPN and
Discoms. The project consists of extensions and improvements to existing, similar systems, which have
been erected by RSEB and its local contractors. The components do not involve any unusual or unproved
technologies. The transmission and distribution equipment procured by RSEB and its erection are well up
to international norms, and the specifications being used to procure the equipment which will be financed
by the loan reflect these standards. The proposed project and program have been prepared by
RSEB/RVPN in concert with its internationally recruited consultants who are being financed under the
PPF. Bank staff have reviewed the project components and are satisfied that these will contribute to
reductions in system losses, much improved consumer supply voltages, provide greater system flexibility,
and reduce periods of supply outages and service interruptions.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
Major institutional issues relate to (i) the overall project management capabilities of the five utilities, given
the rapid and substantial transformation that the sector will undergo; (ii) independence, and autonomy of
the Regulatory Commission and clarity and certainty of the regulatory framework; (iii) the institutional
development of the emerging utilities to enable them not only to function commercially as quickly as
possible, but also to manage the reform process satisfactorily. Commercial accounting system and
procedures used by RSEB at present are adequate and will be transferred to the new entities. However, the
companies will need to upgrade the skill levels of finance, accounting and audit staff. A plan for skill
- 23 -



enhancement, including recruitment of professionally qualified staff, will be prepared by the executing
agencies with the assistance of implementation consultants. Project implementation arrangements are set
out in the borrower's project implementation plan, and summarized earlier in Section C4. A Country
Profile of Financial Accountability (CPFA) for India has been prepared and any financial risks indicated
therein so far as concems this project have been given due consideration during appraisal.
b. Project management:
During project preparation, a project management unit (PMU) was created within RSEB to manage the
investments planned under the Bank project. With the formation of five utilities, the procurement and
project management activities for the distribution and transmission investments will be handled by the
respective PMUs at RVPN and the Discoms. The field implementation support would be provided by
respective construction units organized at field level. Some of these field units need to be strengthened to
meet the work requirements. These units have been identified and would be strengthened before finalization
of works contracts. Rajasthan has decided to have a separate cell in the Reforn Office to monitor the
overall progress of the Bank-financed investments. The Reform Office is headed by a Chief Engineer who
reports to the Chairman of RVPN and to the Reform Task Force.
The implementation of the physical component has been packaged in few works contracts, which would
also include supply of minor equipment and material not being procured under international competitive
bidding. Thus field staff would be free from the responsibility of arranging minor materials and
contracting, and would spend their resources in supervising the execution of projects by contractors.
5. Social:
Socio-economic Impact of the Reform Program. The development objectives for the proposed project are
to initiate the reform process and to remove critical bottlenecks in the State's power transmission and
distribution network. These objectives will translate into wider social and economic benefits by providing
reliable, quality power supply to meet the electricity requirements of various segments of the population
including domestic users and farmers. At the same time, it will help reduce the burden placed by power
sector on public finances thereby contributing to the fiscal balance and free up resources for the State to
invest in social sectors. During the project implementation, the Government plans to commission a
socio-economic impact assessment study to monitor and evaluate the outcomes of the reform program with
respect to consumer welfare. An information and communication campaign is underway which will
dissemninate the issues and development under the reform to the general public and various stakeholders as
well as obtain their feedback.
Social Aspects of the Project.
Participation and consultation: As part of the project preparation, RSEB/RVPN carried out a social
impact assessment for sample substations proposed to be financed under the project. This involved
interviews with individual landholders, discussions with local communities, and mapping of resources and
infrastructure in the samnple substation areas. Local populations were informed of the project and its
benefits through holding of group meetings and distributing brochures in the local language. Consultations
were also held with officials of the other government departments at the district level particularly those
involved in the acquisition of land. The emphasis had been on the long term institutional sustainability of
the investments by linking them with existing programs in the area. This would allow the activities to be
coordinated, rather than requiring establishment of new institutional mechanisms which may face limited
capacity or comparative advantage.
- 24 -



Minimizing adverse impact: Significant efforts were made to minimize adverse impact of the project on the
local communities in terms of displacement and economic losses. The flexibility of route selection of
transmission lines enabled the avoidance of socially and environmentally sensitive areas. Measures
undertaken to avoid or minimize the adverse impact on the local population included (i) adding the
additional switchgear and transformer capacity to the existing substations, thereby eliminating any new
land acquisition; (ii) avoiding the transmission route involving any human displacement; (iii) making
certain that the route does not result in the economic upheaval of the people; and (iv) ensuring that the
proposed route does not adversely affect public utility services like communication lines, railway tracks,
playgrounds, schools, wild life, bird sanctuary, other establishments etc.
Social impact assessment: An assessment of land acquisition associated with construction of new
substations was carried out which indicated availability of adequate government land free of encroachment.
Even in those substations which involved acquisition of private land, the proportion of loss to the total
landholding was marginal and did not have significant impact on the livelihood of the land losers. Land
required for erecting towers is minimal, and cultivation is allowed undemeath. The transmission lines do
not cause any damage to the local property but the height of trees or structures underneath is restricted.
Social policy and procedures (SP&P): RSEBIRVPN has developed SP&P which is consistent with the
relevant National and State (Rajasthan) regulations and the World Bank's Operational Directive 4.30 on
Involuntary Resettlement. The main objective of SP&P is to provide the overall policy and procedural
framework which will govern the actions that RVPN and the Discoms will undertake to assess and mitigate
the negative social impacts resulting from all its investment program. RSEB/RVPN disseminated the
provisions of SP&P to its field level functionaries and others responsible for planning and implementing
land acquisition and resettlement component of the project. The local population were also informed of the
project and its benefits through group meetings and brochures. This was done in connection with the social
impact assessment carried out for sample substations. The sample assessments demonstrated
RSEB/RVPN's capability to plan to mitigate adverse impact due to land acquisition and physical
displacement.
See Annex 14 for further information.
6. Environmental assessment:              Environment Category: B (Partial Assessment)
Given the nature of major project components, there are no significant environmental impacts identified or
envisaged. Power generation is not a part of this project. Except for a State-owned solar-thermal power
plant partly financed with GEF support and a coal-fired station at Suratgarh which is under completion,
most of the new generation capacity is expected to be financed by the private sector or by central power
utilities, which at the least are expected to adhere to GOI environmental standards. This project supports
investments only in transmission and distribution systems and is expected to have a positive environrnental
impact through improved efficiency in supply and demand side management. However three issues which
could be a cause for concern if not handled properly are: (a) possible presence of PCBs (polychlorinated
bi-phenyls) in old transformers and capacitors (which would require the preparation of PCB management
plans); (b) provision of adequate safety features in the design of lines and substations; and c) minimization
of any adverse environmental/ecological impact through proper route/location selection. The project has
therefore been categorized as Environmental Category "B".
A programmatic approach has been adopted to address the environmental issues associated with the
project. For the first set of investments under the project, an Environmental Analysis (EA) has been
- 25 -



undertaken. As part of the EA, the RSEB had prepared an overall Environmental Policy which will govern
all the investments of the proposed project to be implemented by the successor entities. The Environmental
Policy highlights the guiding principles for planning of transmission and distribution schemes from the
planning stage to operation and maintenance in a way to ensure reliability, security, economy, and a cleaner
and safer environment. Key principles include: (i) avoidance of right of way through environmentally and
socially sensitive areas; (ii) minimizing impacts during project construction activities in an environmentally
and socially sustainable manner by following good construction practices; and (iii) ensuring environmental
safeguards such as adoption of advanced technologies, expertise and management techniques for mitigation
of any unavoidable negative impact arising during operations and maintenance. The Environmental Policy
is included in the document on "Environmental Framework and Safeguards for Transmission Projects"
prepared as part of the EA.
In addition to the Environmental Policy, the document on "Environmental Framework and Safeguards for
Transmission Projects" includes chapters on detailed project description, existing policy, legal and
administrative framework, baseline conditions, assessment of environmental impacts of transmission
projects, investigation of the use and disposal of PCBs, analysis of alternatives, i.e., environmental
screening criteria for route selection, public awareness strategy, and Environmental Management Plans
(EMPs). The chapter on EMPs provides a framework for preparing work-specific plans for mitigation,
monitoring, and institutional measures to be taken during construction and operation to eliminate adverse
environmental impacts, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels. It also provides a listing of
authorities responsible for implementation of various activities during different phases of project execution.
The project also includes a TA component to improve the environmental performance of the new
companies.It is proposed that this TA would be utilized to strengthen their capacity to implement
environmental management plans and mitigation measures, as well as to undertake preparatory activities
(e.g. environmental audits and outline compliance programs) for privatization/divestment of existing assets
now owned by RVUN, RVPN and the three Discoms. The TA would also be used to develop the
institutional framework, along with the state environment authorities, to strengthen the monitoring and
compliance regime of new and existing power generating plants. The TA will also be used to more
carefully analyze the environmental impacts of the reform and privatization process. See Annex 15 for
further information.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The Government of Rajasthan is cognizant of the importance of building consensus among its various
constituents on the reform program. Accordingly, the State has an on-going communications program
involving consultation with and participation of various stakeholders, i.e., political groups, consumer
interest groups, including industries and farmers associations, civic society, power sector employees,
government administration staff, and others.
A Communication Strategy sub-group has been created by the Government which has developed a
three-pronged comnmunications program. As a first step, Rajasthan Government widely disseminated its
power policy statement throughout the state. This was followed by a series of presentation to RSEB
employees on the elements of the reform program including training of in-house resource persons. Among
consumers, the energy ministry has convened district levels meetings to present and elicit reactions from the
general public on the reforms. Industries, represented by various Chambers of Commerce and Industry
- 26 -



Associations have been involved. Farmers have also been associated through panchayats and the state
administrative machinery and through public meetings at the village and block level by the members of the
political parties. A media campaign is underway to educate the general public on the reforms as well as
address their concems. A website has also been set up with regular update on the progress of the reform
program as well as providing responses to questions raised by visitors to the site. In addition, the
Regulatory Commission is planning to launch a campaign to provide information to the public, and hold
public meetings and hearings to explain the role, authority and processes of the Regulatory Commission,
rights and obligations of the consumers and the civic society, and encourage their participation in public
hearings for regulatory review in the future.
b. Other key stakeholders:
As described in section E.5., preparation of the project also included consultation with stakeholders
particularly with people potentially affected by the investment schemes, as well as with officials and
members of local communities.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Full implementation of Rajasthan's power sector reform agenda is expected to result in a commercially
viable power industry. A combination of regular tariff adjustments, phasing-out of revenue subsidy, and
loss reduction would help restore the sector's creditworthiness and attract investment funds from private
and commercial sources to finance system expansion and supply. Regulation by an independent
Commission would increase transparency in operating rules and tariff setting and improve consumer
awareness thus heightening accountability of service providers. Entry of private financial and managerial
resources is expected to result in more efficient operation and more customer-oriented service.
The planned investments financed by this loan will reduce some bottlenecks to supply and improve
efficiency in selected areas. This will create a demonstrable improvement in power supply to some
consumers and help maintain support for reforms. The investments, including those for inter-boundary
metering, will also pave the way for privatization of the Discoms.
A number of the upfront reform measures taken by the Govemrnment has brought the reform agenda to such
a point where moving forward on reforms is easier than having to turn back. Nevertheless, sustained
political commitment will be required throughout the transition period. It has helped that the reform
program to date has spanned the terms of two political leadership in the State and has been made possible
through consensus-building.
- 27 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
:   j : RiskS :;03X 00.0 ::::Risk Rating        Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
The Government of Rajasthan does not        S         To some extent, the reform process has
continue the reform process after the                 become irreversible and difficult to discontinue,
initial steps.                                        since the new companies have been created and
the Act made effective. After an initial Bank
involvement at this stage through a single
investment loan, commitment of a long-term
involvement shall be based on continued and
satisfactory implementation of the reform
program.
Changes in political leadership in          S         The reform agenda was formulated over a
Rajasthan lead to changes in the reform               period spanning two sets of political leadership
agenda.                                               during which the reform issues were heavily
debated. As more institutional reform measures
and commercial practices are adopted, the
reform process will be more difficult to reverse.
The Government of Rajasthan does not        S         As explained in section E.2., the Government of
mobilize sufficient budgetary resources               Rajasthan has agreed to maintain its past level
to carry out the financial restructuring              of support to the sector and mobilize additional
plan.                                                 funds from the divestment proceeds and other
sources.
Tariff increases create opposition to       S         Hearings on consumer concems are provided for
reform particularly among agricultural                during tariff deliberations; communications &
users currently enjoying subsidies.                   information campaign and service improvements
from investments will mitigate opposition.
Rajasthan does not allow the new utilities  S         The Government and the entities will sign
to function autonomously or arbitrarily               corporatization agreements specifying
removes or replaces key managers.                     management autonomy: The companies' Articles
of Association also address this issue.
Early distribution privatization would facilitate
autonomy.
Discoms fail to attract private investors.  H         Quality advice on marketing of Discoms from
investment bankers will be availed. Regulator
will participate in development of privatization
strategy to help mitigate regulatory risks.
Regulator does not allow sufficient tariff  M         Regulator has been made fully aware of the FRP
increases.                                            and of tariff requirements.
- 28 -



Employee resistance to the reform            M         Intensive in-house dialogue among power sector
program makes the implementation of                    employees is continuing. The Reform Act and
reform difficult                                       the transfer schemes include specific provisions
to safeguard employee interests.
From Components to Outputs
Physical works are not completed in time     M         This risk will be minimized through creation
or to normally accepted standards.                     of project monitoring units in the executing
agencies and through close monitoring and
supervision of implementation of investment
projects to agreed standards.
Quality of supply does not improve.          M         Investments are focused on low voltage side so
that service improvements are tangible to the
consumers.
Overall Risk Rating                          s
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
There is a growing political consensus and increasing support for the reforms. The Governments efforts to
reform the sector, increase accountability through inter-alia introducing transparency in the management of
the sector, will affect vested interests which may be deeply embedded in the institutions. Therefore, the
Government will face and need to overcome resistance in implementation of reforms.
With reforms under implementation in some other states, some of the issues that were highly controversial
earlier have now become less controversial as the apprehensions and doubts of the decision makers, the
civic society and the opinion leaders have started to ease. The following areas may, nevertheless, involve
some degree of controversy:
(a) Employees. Apprehensions about job security, terms and conditions of service, and payment of
retirement benefits may continue to be raised even though there are specific provisions in the Reform Act to
protect staff benefits. Dissent among employees has so far been mitigated through extensive
information-sharing and transparent transfer scheme arrangements.
(b) Agricultural consumers. User charges for surface irrigation in most of the states, including
Rajasthan, are very low compared to power tariffs for lift irrigation, which make it politically difficult to
raise power tariffs for agriculture. However, under a proposed Bank-assisted irrigation project, the State is
looking at rationalizing surface irrigation charges so as to recover operating and maintenance costs. There
will nevertheless be resistance to increases in agricultural tariffs. This will also be exploited by the vested
interests among the utility staff who benefit from the opacity in the system that enables them to camouflage
pilferage as agricultural supply. Tariff determination by an independent Regulatory Commission, through
a transparent and consultative process, is expected to make the tariff more equitable and increase its
acceptability.
(c) Tariffs for domestic and other customers. In the medium term, the tariffs are expected to go up in
parallel with modest improvements in the supply situation and until the utilities are able to plow back the
gains of efficiency to moderate the need for tariff adjustments. The Government will mitigate this risk by
providing subsidy and financial support during this period. Adjustments in industrial and commercial
- 29 -



tariffs are however expected to be tempered given that they are already high.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
(i) Standard requirements and legal opinions for Bank loan; (ii) Subsidiary Loan Agreements, satisfactory
to the Bank, have been executed on behalf of Rajasthan and RVUN, RVPN and the Discoms.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Flow and Utilization of Funds
*   The Governnent of India shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to Rajasthan in accordance
with its standard arrangements for developmental assistance to the States of India and release to
Rajasthan proceeds of the loan, including the amounts deposited in the Special Account. In addition,
the standard covenants for maintenance of the loan account and its audit shall be required.
* The State Government of Rajasthan shall onlend the proceeds of the Loan to each of RVPN, Ajmer
Discom, Jaipur Discom, and Jodhpur Discom and other beneficiaries under a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement entered into between Rajasthan and each beneficiary, respectively.
Institutional Change
*   GoR shall undertake to offer in CY2002 a majority of its equity in the Discoms for sale to the private
sector. GoR and the Discoms shall take all measures as may be necessary for efficiently implementing
the transactions resulting from such offer.
*   GoR shall undertake to offer equity in RVUN for sale to the private sector, in so far as this is
necessary to meet the financing gap demonstrated in the revised financial restructuring plan. GoR and
RVUN shall take all such measures as may be necessary for efficiently implementing the transactions
resulting from such offer.
*   GoR will ensure that proceeds of the divestment of shareholdings in the Discoms and RVUN would be
ploughed back into the sector, to the extent necessary for the efficient implementation of the revised
financial restructuring plan.
Financial Performance
* Standard covenants for maintenance of accounts, audit, and submission of audited accounts within six
months of close of financial year.
*   GoR shall provide financial support, in cash and on a timely basis, to the RVUN, RVPN, and the
Discoms to achieve the financial and operational objectives of the Financial Restructuring Plan.
*   GoR shall support the utilities to contract power and effect Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) along
sound commercial principles.
*   GoR shall make budgetary provision for all outstanding electricity dues of its department and ensure
that these amounts are paid to RVPN and the Discoms.
*   RVUN, RVPN, and the Discoms with the participation of GoR shall negotiate with their respective
creditors and suppliers and agree on their respective financial restructuring plans and submit a report to
the Bank on the outcome of said negotiations by December 31, 2001.
*   RVPN and the Discoms shall file for full cost-recovery tariffs with RERC.
*   RVUN, RVPN and the Discoms shall take all necessary measures to achieve: in FY2002 to FY 2005,
revenues from all sources related to operations and non-operating income sufficient to cover all
expenses related to operations including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in
lieu of taxes, and interest and other charges on debt and lease payments; and in each subsequent Fiscal
Year such rate of return as may be permissible under applicable notifications issued by the Borrower
- 30 -



(Government of India) in case of RVUN, and in case of RVPN and the Discoms, such rate as may be
prescribed by the Regulator.
*   RVPN and the Discoms shall not create any escrow on revenues earned from specific geographic areas,
specific consumers or categories of consumer, as this would adversely affect the prospects for
privatization of that area.
*   The three Discoms shall take all steps necessary to maintain their accounts receivable net of provisions
at a level not exceeding an amount equivalent to two months of proceeds of their sale of power in FY
2002 and thereafter.
*   RVWN, RVPN and the three Discoms shall furnish to the Bank by December 31 of each fiscal year: (a)
their five year financial projections, including their updated Investment Plan and financing plan for
review by the Bank and for comments, if any; and (b) a report reviewing the adequacy of their tariffs to
meet the requirements set forth above.
*   RVPN and the Discoms shall carry out a time-bound action plan for strengthening the financial
management system for their relevant parts of the project in order to enable them to prepare quarterly
Project Management Reports by April 1, 2002.
*   RVPN shall provide an independent report, satisfactory to the Bank, by July 31, 2001, which shows a
review of the accounting standards and accounting policies of RVPN to ensure that these are consistent
with the applicable national accounting standards. RVPN shall implement any necessary corrections to
their accounting policies by September 30, 2002, with respect to the accounts for year ending March
31, 2002.
Environment and Social
-   RVPN and Discoms shall conduct enviromnental and social impact assessment for each transmission
and distribution scheme to be financed by the Bank loan and ensure compliance with Rajasthan's Social
Policy and Procedures (SP&P) and Environmental Policy, and with the Bank's OP 4.01, OD 4.30 and
OD 4.20.
Monitorinz and Evaluation
e   RVPN and Discoms shall submit quarterly progress reports within 45 days after close of the quarter.
-   Government of Rajasthan shall engage the services of consultants to conduct an independent review of
the progress of the Reform Program and of the project, and furnish findings of said review to the Bank
no later than December 1, 2002. A "mid-term" review by the Bank will take place on or about
February 15, 2003.
- 31 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
0 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
C23 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ 2. The follo ving exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Maena V. Manzo           v         astair J. Mckechnie                 n  
Team Leader                     Aector Manager,                    Country Manager
-32-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
INDIA: RAJASTHAN POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Key Pufomnce..
Hlerarchy of Objectives    ,      , Itors             Moniorin  & Evalutio         Critical Asumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Reduce infrastructure      In several states:           *  CAS- Progress Report;    *  State power sector
bottlenecks by inter alia,   *  Reform legislation      *  Portfolio Review           reforms will remove a
promoting comprehensive         adopted                 *  Occasional Bank reports    major bottleneck to
state power sector           *  Electricity Regulatory  *  Relevant information       economic growth,
restructuring programs, and     Commission established     from various project       thereby alleviating
creating an enabling         *  Entry of private           implementation review      poverty
environment for private        investment into the         mission reports         *  Simultaneous progress
investment in the sector.       power sector                                           in other infrastructure
sectors and basic human
resource development to
sustain rapid growth
- 33 -



Key P.tforane
Hieacy ofObjYecives               fnict;or        D     oiQrn  &  vAluto           Criyy ;tit  cafldAssuptions ;
Project Development        Outcome I Impact            Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
To support the on-going      *  Rajasthan Electricity    *  Quarterly progress       *  The political
reform process in Rajasthan     Regulatory Commission       reports                     commitment to reform
and improve electricity service  is fully fimctional     *  Supervision mission         remains strong during
by removing critical         *  Transfer scheme for new     reports                    the transition period,
bottlenecks in the power        companies finalized;     *  Evaluation mission          even as the benefits are
system in selected areas.       and licenses, where         reports                     not yet fully visible
appropriate, issued                                 *  Rajasthan is able to
*  Financial Restructuring                                attract private investors
Plan is under                                          in distribution given
implementation;                                        competing investment
Government provides                                    opportunities elsewhere
the required financing                              *  Government mobilizes
support                                                sufficient resources to
*  Tariff adjustments, as                                 carry out the financial
required, authorized by                                restructuring plan, and
the Regulatory                                         complete project
Commission and                                         investments.
implemented
*  Comprehensive
distribution privatization
strategy approved and
implementation
underway
*  Information &
communications
campaign on reform
program is sustained
*  Timely and satisfactory
progress on completion
of physical works
- 34 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators         Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical AssumPtions
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Power system strengthened in   * Reduction in system   * Quarterly progress      *  Govemnment selects
priority areas. Improved       losses in selected areas   reports                   competent managers for
quality of power supply and    with reference to       *  Supervision mission       the new utilities
reduction in technical and     December 2001 baseline    reports                 * Government allows the
commercial losses for selected  data emerging from     * Evaluation mission         sector entities to operate
areas.                         audit                     reports                    with full autonomy
*  Metering program                                  *  Government remains
underway - all feeders                               committed to reforms
(to I IkV level) metered                             and communicates its
and readings reported by                             support to the managers
December 2001;                                      implementing the
inter-company boundary                               reforms, throughout the
meters installed and                                 organizations
readings reported: 25%
by March 2002, 75% by
March 2003.
Improved financial          * Improved revenue         * Companies' annual audit  * Government
performance of the power       generation and cost        reports and financial     commitment to meeting
entities.                      control to meet the       projections                financial objectives of
agreed financial       * Updated Financial           the FRP is sustained.
objectives                Restructuring Plan
*  Maintain annual
collection level at 95%
*  Annual revenue filing
by December 31 each
year; or as required for
multi-year tariff
* Negotiate debt and
commercial liability
rescheduling plan with
the utilities' major
lenders and creditors
and update FRP by
December 31, 2001
* Utility accounts are
prepared as prescribed
under the Companies
Act and in compliance
with Indian accounting
standards by FY 2002
accounts
- 35 -



Entry of private sector in the    * Comprehensive      * Progress in engagement   *  Transparent contracting
distribution business          privatization strategy     of privatization          process and adequate
approved by December      advisers.                  performance incentive
2001                                                in place; regulatory risk
*  RFQ and RFP for        * Project report on           contained.
Discom privatization      progress of solicitation
issued by February 2002   process.
and July 2002,
respectively
Improved environmental and    * Completion of          * Progress reports
social performance of utilities  environmental
management study,
December 2001
*  Completion of study on
socio-economic impact
of reforms, March 2002
- 36 -



Kiy Pefniance
Hierarchy of Objectives         Indicators         Monitoring& Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:        (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                          Outputs)
Includes all price contingencies
* Loss reduction schemes.  * $46.7 million including   * Quarterly progress   *  Adequate institutional
* Transmission &             price contingencies      reports                    capacity in the utilities
distribution systems   *  $153.0 million                                      to implement and
reinforcements                                   * Supervision mission        monitor (a) the reform
*  System and consumer                                reports                    program, and (b) the
metering               * $13.6 million                                        investments
* Timely availability of
additional power from
planned generating
stations and from the
regional grid
* Institutional           * $ 7.7 million (funded by   * Progress and supervision  *  Companies will
development of RVPN       Bank and USAID)           reports                   professionalize
(Transmission company)                                                        management services
and RERC; and
Formation of Joint
Venture Distribution
Companies, including
information and
communications
* Improvement of          * $0.5 million            * Evaluation report from  * Incorporation of
environmental                                      independent consultants    social-environmental
management                                                                    considerations in
performance of the                                                            privatization initiative
sector and
socio-economic impact
monitoring
- 37 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
INDIA: RAJASTHAN POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Program and Project Descriptions
Rajasthan power sector and its consumers. Rajasthan's electricity power sector was operated until July
19, 2000 by Rajasthan State Electricity Board (RSEB), which was formed in 1957 under the Indian
Electricity (Supply) Act of 1948. On July 19, 2000 RSEB was split into five companies through a
statutory transfer scheme effected under the Rajasthan Power Refonns Act. The five companies are:
Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Limited (RVUN), which will own and, operate RSEB's power
stations, and take up on-going and new generation projects; Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Prasaran Nigam
Limited (RVPN), which will be responsible for transmission and bulk supply of electricity; and three
distribution companies (the Discoms); Jaipur Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited, Ajmer Vidyut Vitran Nigam
Limited, and Jodhpur Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited. The sector's service area is geographically large
(342,000 sq. km.), two-thirds of which is desert with a low population density. Based on registered sales,
the average growth rate of electricity demand over the past four years has been 9.2%. However, because
electricity supplies have been limited by lack of funding, demand has been suppressed and thus this growth
rate is based on estimates. In FY1997-98, RSEB bought or generated, and supplied 20,978 million kWh
(units) of energy, and its sales within the state were over 14,700 million units. In that same year RSEB
was able to meet a suppressed system peak demand of 3,169 MW. Of the total electricity consumption in
Rajasthan, 40% was accounted for by industrial loads, 34% by agriculture, 18% by domestic, and 10% by
commercial and others. RSEB 's customers numbered 5.1 million. During the last ten years, RSEB had
been connecting new consumers at the rate of about 250,000 per year. Per capita consumption in the State
is estimated at 302 kWh/annum. Rural electrification has been a high priority of Government, and 36,553
villages had been connected to the grid as of March 2000. However, Rajasthan has a connected but unmet
peak demand of about 1,000 MW during the height of the agricultural season. Also, Rajasthan's industrial
and commercial sector operate captive plants estimated by RVPN to exceed 700 MW. In addition, there is
significant level of unserved demand due to a backlog in service connections to 380,000 would-be
customers, including an unconnected load in the agricultural sector represented by 203,000 pending
applications. These potential customers have an estimated demand of about 1,100MW.
Demand for electricity. Rajasthan's load curve describing the State's demand for electricity is almost flat
resulting from the load restrictions and consumner supply rationing by rotation, due to inadequate grid
supplies. In 1998, the system peak varied from a high of about 3,169 MW in February 1998 to a low of
about 1,868 MW in August 1998. This wide seasonal variation is due to the change in irrigation
requirements between the food-grain planting seasons in the first quarter and in the monsoon months.
Electricity forecasts for energy and peak demand in Rajasthan are produced at five-year intervals by India's
Central Electricity Authority (CEA), jointly with GoR and the state utilities, which develops detailed
estimates of future demand by consumer categories and major current and potential consumers. Analysis
of this data indicates that Rajasthan's un-suppressed demand for electricity is rising at the rate of about 7%
to 7.5% per annum. However, if price and income elasticities were applied, it is estimated that the energy
sales in the State would grow more moderately at about 6 % per annum instead. (see annex 4)
Power supplies. A total generating capacity of 4,056 MW is available to the RVPN through various
supply arrangements. Installed capacity, which is owned and operated by RVUN amounts to 1,302 MW,
consisting of the 850 MW Kota thermal power station (KTPS), 250MW at Suratgarh TPS, a 38.5 MW
gas facility at Ramgarh, and the balance made up of hydro including 8 micro-hydel stations. RVPN's
shares in partnership projects total 949 MW of which 87% is hydro. Allocations from the central sector
- 38 -



power stations aggregate to 1,805 MW of which 74% is thernal-based, 19% is nuclear, and 7% is hydro.
RVUN operates Kota and Suratgarh TPS efficiently and maintains them well. In 1998 the PLF for Kota
TPS was 83%, which is creditably high for power stations in India. The owned hydro-plants are
dispatched according to irrigation releases and serve partially as base load and load-following units.
Expansion of generating capacity in Rajasthan. In 1993, the GOR announced a policy to encourage
private sector participation in electricity generation, and as a consequence about 3,000 MW of new
generation are at various preliminary stages of preparation. The order in which the schemes planned by the
independent power producers (IPPs) will come to financial closure and the success rate is unknown, but
will likely accelerate as a result of the more stable sector which this subject reform program and project is
expected to achieve.
Transmission and distribution. Rajasthan operates about 17,000 kmn of transmission, 25,000 km of 33kV
sub-transmission, and 344,000 km of distribution lines. Its transmission and distribution substations have
an installed capacity of about 16,000 MVA. However, in the last several years, Rajasthan investments in
its transmission, sub-transmission and distribution systems have not been sufficient to properly
accommodate the needs of the high nurnber of consumers that have been or are waiting to be connected.
This has resulted in sub-transmission (33 kV) lines being inordinately long, instead of being augmented by
higher voltage 132 kV lines, or being reinforced appropriately with higher voltage injections from
additional 132/33 kV substations. Lower voltage lines are similarly too long, especially in the rural areas.
This is resulting in heavy technical losses, unreliable supplies, frequent outages, unwieldy and difficult to
control sub-transmission systems, and heavy damage to utility and consumer equipment caused by
extremely poor voltages. These results are causing high economic and financial losses in the state.
Rajasthan's four year (2001-5) power program and the project. In the four year period, FY2001-2005,
Rajasthan will expand its network at all voltages (400 kV, 220 kV, 132 kVand 33 kV and 11 kV) to
accommodate an additional 750,000 consumers, which it expects to connect during the program period.
The World Bank loan will support the procurement and erection of equipment to expand the network
appropriately, to connect about one third of these new consumers. The other two thirds and the supporting
infrastructure will be connected with materials financed from the utilities' own resources. The main thrust
of the project will be to help improve the distribution system, and in particular to begin the long process of
reducing the level of losses currently existing in the rural areas, to imnprove system voltages and supply
reliability, and to invest in the metering required to facilitate the privatization exercise.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$46.70 million
Loss Reduction schemes (see cost table, Annex 3, items 1 and 2). RSEB's technical and non-technical
losses have been re-estimated to be about 42%, and are a cause for serious concem to the new utilities.
These losses are to be given special attention under this project. About a third of RSEB's load was
supplied to industry at high voltage, where losses are minimal, thus the other two-thirds of the system incur
technical and non-technical losses well in excess of 50%. The utilities are tackling this problem with
various initiatives, including attempting to reduce non-technical losses by the eventual privatization of the
distribution of electricity, where most of these occur. The utilities' immediate approach, in the rural areas,
is to reduce losses by eliminating as much as possible the long lower voltage or low tension (LT) lines,
which over many years have evolved without sufficient long term planning, due to pressure to connect rural
areas and villages. Besides causing huge technical losses, these long lines, which are difficult to patrol and
maintain, provide easy access for users to "connect" themselves. This leads to the transformers being
heavily overloaded and also results in improper protection against overloads, a problem, which RSEB had
- 39 -



experienced for several years. The severity of the problem can be appreciated from the failure rate of
distribution transformers in recent years, which has been around 15%. In FY2000, of the 178,586
transformers installed, 20,663 failed. Overloading was the main cause of these failures. To begin to
reduce this problem, the utilities propose to utilize, in eight districts, about US$ 40 million of the loan
funds to help finance schemes consisting of "LT-less" systems. These schemes will replace long low
voltage lines with high voltage (11 kV), low loss transmission lines augmented by appropriately sized and
more frequently located distribution transformers. In parallel with this initiative, the Discoms will replace
bare conductors on low voltage lines, in rural and urban areas, with fully insulated bunched conductors,
which will help to prevent thefts of electricity by consumers connecting themselves illegally.
Capacitor Installation (see cost table, Annex 3, item 3). In June 2000, India's Northern Region Electricity
Board, issued a Report entitled "Power Supply and Suggested Measures for Irnproving Power Availability
in the Northern Region". The report highlighted that Rajasthan's system is still 800 MVAr short of the
ideal in power factor improving capacitors. This is resulting in losses in the system attributable to low
power factor, which results in higher magnitude of the current flowing in the line resulting in low voltage
regulation and increased transmission and distribution losses. In accordance with the recommendations of
the report, the utilities will install capacitors at 33 kV, 11 kV level and at LT voltages. The addition of
capacitors to improve network operating voltages has very high returns, and in worst affected areas, the
pay back period based on the tariff is less than a year.
Project Component 2 - US$153.00 million
Transmission/distribution - system reinforcement (see cost table, Annex 3, items 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9).
The correction of the shortcomings described above is one of the sector's and the GoR's most pressing
needs. Besides the investrnents in the LT-less systems, described above, the loan will also help finance the
materials, equipment and plant for initiatives to further address these problems. These components under
the loan will consist of systems reinforcements throughout Rajasthan, and will include new 220 kV and 132
kV substations and transmission lines and the expansion of several existing 220 kV/l 32 kV substations,
together with the construction of the associated tee-offs from existing transmission lines (US$ 25 million).
However, the main thrust of the project will be to address losses through 33 kV and lower voltage
improvements and reinforcement schemes, including the construction of new substations, the expansion of
existing ones, and long-delayed maintenance and modernization of old substations (US$ 115 million).
Annex 3 provides summary costs of these components, and the project files contain full details and
technical, economic and financial justification for each component and sub-component. These investments
will improve system voltages, reduce losses, provide for better switching facilities and protection, and help
facilitate the privatization initiative, which will eventually include all the system below 132 kV.
The 132/33 kV substation reinforcements and the 33 kV and lower voltage line and substation expansions
will have a high profile in the reform process. They will be seen by a frustrated, consumer population to
result quickly in obvious improvements in their supply voltages, the reduction of outages, and the
abbreviation of the duration of brown-outs. This supply-side management initiative will result in a
reduction of technical losses equivalent to about 100 MW of new generating capacity.
The Discoms and RVPN will undertake various rapid response initiatives (US$13.3 million), including the
procurement of hot-line maintenance equipment, specialized vehicles, tools, and training, and strategic
spares for all voltage levels of the system, including high voltage switchgear and protective devices and
consumer meters and fuses.
- 40 -



Project Component 3 - US$ 13.60 million
System and consumer metering (see cost table, Annex 3, items 10 and 11). A prerequisite for RVPN's
and the Discom's successful commercialization is the implementation of a comprehensive program to install
system meters, to measure the flow of electricity in and out of the system, and at circle, division and
sub-division levels. Some of this metering is already in place, and data is being collected from these meters.
The project loan will help finance the completion of this system of metering, with the installation of
sub-divisional and inter-company boundary metering.
The project will include the procurement and installation of about 300,000 electronic (static) meters, which
will be used to replace old inaccurate and obsolete meters, and meters on premises where interference by
consumers is prevalent. The existing electro-mechanical meters are susceptible to tampering, and
mechanical faults due to aging often favor the consumer. RVPN and Discoms will purchase static meters
under the project, which will help to eliminate the problems. About 150,000 of these meters will be
installed as part of RVPN's and Discom's initiative during the project period to supply power to 800,000
new consumers, living mainly in rural areas.
Project Component 4 - US$7.70 million
Technical assistance (TA) The Bank provided a PPF of US$2 million in 1996, and funds from this have
been used to prepare the project components, and to advise the utilities and the Government regarding the
activities required for restructuring the sector. The technical assistance component of the program, which
will cost about US$7.7 million, will be funded from the loan and USAID. The reform and restructuring
program, being an extensive and complex program with multidimensional aspects affecting various
stakeholders, requires to be supported by adequate technical assistance of the national and intemational
experts. GoR has identified several key areas where technical assistance is required for the implementation
of reform program as well as for institutional development and capacity building of new power sector
entities. The following areas have been identified for technical assistance:
(i)   Reform Project Management
(ii)  Institutional Development of RVPN
(iii)  Institutional Development of RERC
(iv)  Formation of Joint Venture Distribution Companies
(v)   Socio-economic Impact Assessment
(vi)  Renewable Energy Development
(vii)  Environmental Management
(viii) Communications and Information
For all the above-identified areas the Reform Office will be hiring consultants, wherever the internal
capabilities do not exist. Counter-part staff will be provided to the consultants from the concemed
departments of RVPN and the Working Groups. Depending on the terms of consultancy, support facilities
will be provided to the consultants.
The scope of the consultancy assignments would include the organization and running of workshops,
seminars, brainstorming sessions, etc. by the consultants for the benefit of the Power Sector Reform (PSR)
Working Groups, and other functionaries of the utilities. The progress of work of the consultants under the
ToR is being monitored regularly by the PSR Working Groups. The Task Force will review the reports
prepared by the Working Groups and consultants and the measures for implementation are then proposed
to the Steering Committee. In areas wherever the work of one consultant depends on the work of another
consultant, the PSR will provide co-ordination for the work of the consultants so as to see that the work
proceeds smoothly and as per schedule. The proposed, technical assistance activities under the project are
- 41 -



described below:
Reform Project Management: Support of the new industry and market structure requires the
implementation of a large number of interrelated steps in accordance with closely monitored macro and
micro schedules. PricewaterhouseCoopers is providing support to GOR in the area of management of the
reform program. Consultants will carry out the following essential reform tasks: (a) filing of Bulk Supply
and Retail Tariff application by the successor entities to RERC for tariff revisions; (b) development and
finalization of the Power Purchase Agreement between RVUN and RVPN; (c) development and finalization
of the Bulk Supply Agreement between RVPN and distribution companies; (d) diagnosis and suggestions
for improvement of technical interface arrangements between successor entities; (e) development of funding
mechanisms for Pension and Gratuity Trusts; (f) development of funding mechanisms for successor
entities; (g) finalization of Financial Transfer Scheme during provisionality period; and (h) finalization of
Staff Transfer Scheme during provisionality period.
Institutional Development of RVPN: The institutional development of RVPN includes modifying the
organizational structure to suit new tasks assigned to it under the regulatory regime; equipping the
organization with a modem, integrated Management Information System; improving the operation of the
power system by adopting the latest practices; and evolving a cost-effective power procurement policy as
per long term requirement.
Institutional Development of RERC: The Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory Commission (RERC), with
powers to determine tariff for transmission facility and supply of electricity, has been set up in January
2000. To assist in the process of establishment of RERC, RSEB had constituted a Regulatory Affairs
sub-group, under the Power Sector Reform office. The Working sub-group has initiated several tasks
required for establishing the Commission and commencement of its operations. In the initial period of its
constitution RERC would primarily concentrate on finalizing its personnel policies, appointment of staff,
finalizing its code of conduct and business rules, developing and putting in place its systems and procedures
for performing its regulatory functions and preparation of institutional development plan. The sub-group
has prepared the drafts of the various documents, which is being reviewed and finalized by RERC on its
establishment. The consultant engaged for institutional development will be expected to analyze, interpret
and make specific recommendations with respect to the organizational structure, regulatory policies,
professional capabilities of staff, training needs and procedures of RERC's utility regulating functions in
the areas of rate making, power plant and transmission line siting, energy forecasts, system expansion need
justifications, energy conservation, standards and codes.
Formation of Joint Venture Distribution Companies: The second phase of reform implementation is the
conversion of the distribution companies (Discoms) into joint venture companies whereby private strategic
investors would own the majority shareholding and take over management of the Discoms. The
consultancy assignment will provide high quality advisory services to the Government of Rajasthan to
ensure successful privatization of the Discoms through a transparent and competitive international
solicitation process. The consultant will be responsible for the design and overall coordination and
management of the privatization process, and would advise the Government on the selection of strategic
partners.
Socio-economic Impact Assessment: The purpose of undertaking the Socio Economic Impact Assessment
Study (SEIA) is to provide an integrated and participatory framework for gathering, analyzing, prioritizing
and incorporating social information in developing and implementing the power reform program. The
quality and availability of power and services are expected to improve as a result of the reform program
and thereby improve the quality of living standards. The baseline information (for which the consultant will
- 42 -



be expected to adopt a judicious mix of qualitative and quantitative methods to achieve this baseline related
to quality and services of power supply) collected through the SEIA will form the basis for measuring the
impact and outcome of the reform program. In addition, the social strategy to be prepared as part of the
SEIA process will influence the decision making in the reform process and also help monitor the impact of
the reform process on the poor, and identify methods which could mitigate hardships of reform on the more
vulnerable electricity consumers.
Renewable Energy Development: A renewable energy study will explore opportunities to provide
electricity access through off-grid renewable energy technologies in remote areas of the state, where it is
uneconomical to provide electricity access through grid-extension. A renewable energy action plan for
off-grid electrification would prove useful to reach such areas and bring electricity service to scattered
populations. The consultant will identify areas and populations to be targeted under the renewable energy
action plan; review the renewable energy resource availability in the areas identified; determnine the off-grid
technological options that may be utilized in these areas; carry-out the economic and financial viability of
the options; assess the need for capacity building within the Rajasthan State Power Corporation
Limited/other agencies/private sector stakeholders who will play a key role in off-grid renewable energy
power development in the state.
Demand Side Management and Energy Efficiency (DSMIEE) offer opportunities to overcome the
significant demand and energy deficits in the state of Rajasthan. Technical assistance in this area will
include (1) assistance in defining the DSMtEE function and location within the restructured power sector
(2) implementation of load research program within distribution companies including preparation of a LR
plan, training, procurement of related hardware and software (3) building capacity within the distribution
companies to plan, design, implement and evaluate Bankable DSM activities, (4) assistance in
implementing DSM demonstration projects in the agricultural, industrial and municipal end-uses and (5)
mobilizing private sector delivery of energy efficiency services in the state through targeted training and
awareness building activities. Consistent with the state Government policy statement, Rajasthan power
sector reform program includes a focus on Demand Side Management with an objective to improve
efficiency in supply and end-use of electricity. A DSM technical assistance program, demonstration
projects and investments in loss reduction "LT Less" schemes and capacitors during the initial phase of
reform will set the stage for Rajasthan to pursue specific DSM investments later in the program. The
United States Agency for International Development (USAID) will co-finance DSM/EE TA activities to the
extent of approximately US$ 2.00 million through its energy conservation and commercialization (ECO)
project. The activities will initially focus on the Jaipur DISCOM and include: (1) establishment of a DSM
cell, (2) design and implementation of a load research program (3) building capacity to plan, screen, design
and evaluate DSM programs and policies, (4) develop protocols of collaboration with industries and other
end-users, ESCOs, (5) develop a consumer awareness and information program (6) design of a pilot DSM
program and a long-term DSM Plan (7) facilitate financing and implementation of a pilot DSM Program,
(8) select, develop and build capacity of local financial institutions and service providers for sponsoring
energy efficiency projects, (9) analyze and recommend comprehensive measures for reduction of
commercial losses and, (10) study the regulatory mechanisms, like tariff incentives/design and mandatory
policies, for promoting DSM in utilities.
Environmental Management: The power sector reform is expected to yield substantial enviromnental
benefits in addition to economic gains from improvements in the efficiency of power generation,
transmission, distribution and utilization. Adjusting energy prices, restructuring utilities and introducing
competition should lead to substantial reductions in emissions. At the same time, implementation of the
reform program provides an opportunity to define clear environmental targets for the sector and to improve
policy, regulatory and institutional mechanisms to achieve them. The proposed environmental work will
- 43 -



ensure that the power sector restructuring program leads to concrete improvements in environmental
performance of the power sector and to assist in the privatization program. The objectives of the
environmental study are to: (a) assist GOR and their utilities in preparing specific measures for reducing
the environmental impact and addressing the environmental liabilities of existing activities in the power
sector; (b) review environmental policies and practices that apply to the power sector in Rajasthan and, if
required, recommend measures that can be taken by the State governnent to improve these policies and
their implementation; and (c) examine linkages between the power sector restructuring program and the
environment, and, as appropriate, recornmend policies designed to mitigate any possible negative effects.
Project Component 5 - US$0.50 million
Information and Communications. As part of the program of technical assistance, the project will
support the on-going public information campaign to disseminate the latest developments under the power
reformn program. This will include use of print communications and other media forms, the organization of
workshops and meetings with the general public.
-44 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
INDIA: RAJASTHAN POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
roject Cost Estimates (US$1=Rs.46)                             _   _
Project       Projec    TD be ffunded                                         Dlsbursement from Loan
co mponent,   componet                     10  udd yT be, funded T.b
Project components            total estimated tota=letmated Rajasthfan power   by SI      under World            RVPN FY (US$ million)
seUS(SSBa n k loan
cost (Rs.    cost (US$       millionr (US   S  millio) (S   ilin                                      
Crores)       million)       million)                   (LIS$ milion)   2001 T2002   2003 12004   2005
A - Loss reduction schemes
_ LT-less systems (Jhunjhnu, Sikar, Alwar,         140.0          30.4             6.1                         24.3             0.0   10.0       9.0    0.
Nagaur, Jodhpur district circles)
Replace 10,000 km of L.T. overhead lines wit       55.0          12.0             2.4                          9.6             4       3.      2.0     0
Aerial Bunched Insulated Cable
3ICapacitors (@ 33 kV, 175 MVAr; @ 11 kV, 58        20.0           4.3             0.,                           35              1.6     1      06      0.1
MVAr: & a Lt, 500 MVAr)
Total. A         215.0          46.              9.3                         37.5            106    142    11.6    1.
B - System rsinforcements
4 Additional 220 kV1132 kV substations and           75.0          16.3            33                           13.0             3       5    4          1.
lines
5 Augmentation of 220kVW132 kV sub-stations         40.0            8.7            1 7                           701     04      1.      4.      0.      0
Upgrading & renovation of existing 33111 kV       230.0          50.0            10.0                         40.0             00    16.1   100        6.
substations
7 New 33 kV lines & 33111 kV substations and       298.0          64.8            13.                           516             12.0   23.0    11.0      5
LT lines
_  Rapid response distributlion management           56.0          12.              2.4                         907      05      3       4       17      0
(including procurement of strategic sparns)
0 Special equipment, transport and tools,             5.0           1 .            0.2                           0               02      0       02      0.1
including hot-line working tools
Total - B        704.0         153.0            30.6                        122.4     09    27       541    27.4   12.
C - Systom and consumer metering
10 Provision of electronic meters: 200,000           42.5            9.2            1.                            74      1.0    1.       3.4     1.      0.
domeatic; 30,000 non-domestic; 6,000 small
and medium industrial consumers; and 50,000
miscellaneous consumers.
1 Inter-company boundary metering                    20.0            4.3            0.                            35      0       1       11      0       0
Total-c           62.5          13.0             2.7                         10.9     1       2.      52      1       0.
_ - Technical assistance
12 Institutlonal development and studies             35.5            7.7            0.5            20             5.2     0       1       2       14      0.
Total - D         35.5           7.7             0.5           2.0            0.2     0.5    1.       2.0     1       0.
E - Information and communications                                                                                I               I
1 3Public information campaign                         2.3           0.i             01                           0.4     01      0       01 
Total - E          2.3           0.              0.1                          0.      01      02      01
Total base cnt                                  1019.2         221.6            43.2           2.4          170A      3d    42u0    7560   421    13.
Physical and price contingencies (Included
above in the component costs)
PPF repayment                                       9.0           2.0                                          210     2
Front-end fee                                       0.1           1.                                           10      18   -
Total prolect financing required (excluding      1036.4         225.             43.            20           1001      60    42.0   75.6   42.1   13.
IDCi
Interest during construction (IDC) @ 12.5%        191.1          41.5           415
_Total projact fInancing required (Including     1227.5         20               64.1            2.0         160.1      6.6   42.0    75.6    42.1    13.
IDC)
- 45-



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
INDIA: RAJASTHAN POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
This annex summarizes the results of the costs benefit analyses for the power sector reform program and
for the proposed power sector project. The existing power situation in Rajasthan is poor, and likely to
worsen in the absence of reforms. The gap between the demand and supply of electricity is widening and
shortages have reached the level of 23% of peak demand in 1998. The state has coped with power
shortages by rationing power supply to agricultural users and HT industrial consumers, and by permitting a
large backlog of applications for electricity connection. Power is supplied for only 7 to 8 hours a day in
rural areas. Rural connections are pending for several years. Load shedding is a serious problem as well,
particularly for industries dependent on an uninterrupted supply of power, and as a result, Rajasthan's
industrial and commercial consumers have installed captive plant with a total capacity of over 700 MW.
The reform program entails a comprehensive range of measures to improve the technical efficiency of the
sector; to enhance the commercial performance of the sector through several institutional reforms including
the establishment of an independent regulatory commission for setting tariffs and regulate monopolistic
activities, functional unbundling of the power utility, corporatization of the sector and privatization of
distribution companies. The project supports mainly investments in distribution facilities to reduce losses,
improve the quality of power supply and increase sales volume.
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The economic benefits of the proposed program are high, and in the range of Rs. 20-88 billion (US$0.5 to
1.9 Billion) under most sets of assumptions.
Costs and Benefits of the Reform and Restructurin2 Pro2rar
In Rs
Millions
Year    Incremental  Incremental Total  Incremental     Incremental        Incremental    Net Cash
Investment     Operating      Total Cost      Sales (GWh)         Revenue         Flow
Cost         Expenses
2000         0             875             875               0                 0            -875
2001        -76            873             797               1                 5            -792
2002         16            885             901              -77              -307           -1209
2003        2127           930            3057              295               1179          -1878
2004        4802           1032           5833             -264              -1056         -6890
2005        6436           3177           9613              425               1702         -7911
2006        8612           3745           12356            1972              7887          -4469
2007       11166           3980           15146            3767              15069           -78
2008       10282           1803           12085            5608              22432          10347
2009       11063           4423           15485            7450              29800          14314
2010       12581           9551           22132            9485              37938          15807
2011       14665           16279          30944            11624             46497          15554
2012       17251           19331          36582            13931             55724          19142
201j       19866          20281           40147            16548             66191          26044
2014         0            20281           20281            16548             66191          45910
2040         0            20281           20281            16548             66191          46910
ERR =          35%
NPV =         87, 768
-46 -



These benefits derive mainly from the following: (i) a reduction in technical and non-technical losses, (ii) a
reduced cost of private power supply, and (iii) an improved quality of power supply (farmers presently
incur a high cost for rewinding pump motors damaged by low voltage profile and frequency). Finally, are
the benefits associated with meeting previously unserved demands. Based on consumers' surplus analysis,
the net present value of the base case is estimated at Rs. 88 Billion with an ERR of 35%.
Distribution of Economic Costs and Benefits of Reforms
The table below shows the distribution of costs and benefits for the baseline assumptions under reforms as
compared to the business as usual scenario. Most of the economic benefits (Rs. 87.8 billion) are captured
by consumers (Rs. 65.1 billion), followed by the Government of Rajasthan (Rs. 16.8 billion) and the
utilities (Rs. 5.8 billion).
Economic Costs and Benefits of Reforms - NPVs of economic flows (in constant Rs Billion - 2001)
Utilities   Government    Consumers          Society
(=financial)                               (=economic)
Benefits                                                             675.2          675.2
Supply Costs                          (334.7)          7.0                         (327.7)
Tariff                                 460.5            -           (460.5)
Electricity Duty & Dividends           (8.40)         35.3          (26.9)
Total Reform Scenario                  117.4          42.3           187.8          347.5
Total BAU                              111.6          25.5           122.7          259.7
Impact of Reforms                        5.8          16.8            65.1          87.8
In terms of distribution of consumers' surplus, the largest gainers are domestic consumers, followed by
industry and agriculture (see graph below). Industry is a significant beneficiary because, compared to the
business as usual scenario, shortages are eliminated and its increasing demand is met. Similarly, and
despite the fact that agriculture tariff is expected to increase significantly under reforns as compared to the
business as usual scenario, sales to agriculture are expected to grow faster also because of improvements in
the reliability and quality of power supply.
Distribution of Consumers' Surplus (Net Impact)
R.. 
25.0
10.0
5.0
Domestic   Commercial  Agriculture         Industry       others
- 47 -



Main Assumptions:
The net benefits associated with the reform program have been estimated by comparing costs and benefits
of the investment program under reforms with those under the business as usual scenario. A standard
conversion factor of 0.90 has been applied to the local cost component. Annual operating costs have been
assumed to be equivalent to the sum of (i) generation costs (derived from a spreadsheet model simulating
the Rajasthan generation dispatch profile), and (ii) two percent of cumulated capital investments. The
investment streams under the reform and the business as usual scenarios have been calculated for the period
2000-2013, and benefits have been estimated for the period upto 2040. As a proxy for benefits, a
willingness to pay equivalent to Rs. 4/kWh has been assumed (similar to the economic analyses for A.P and
Haryana APL programs). Under the reform scenario, transmission and distribution losses are assumed to
decline from the level of 42% in 2000 to 16% in 2013; while under the business as usual scenario, losses
are expected to gradually increase from the present level of 42% to 50% in 2016. Demand projections are
based on a model incorporating income and price elasticity (see Attachment at the end of this Annex for
details). Projections of macro-economic variables, such as GSDP, are derived from an economic study
(India - Rajasthan: Averting Fiscal Crisis and Accelerating Growth - Green Cover Report, June 30, 2000).
Under the reform scenario, tariffs are expected to increase in real terns according to the Financial
Restructuring Plan. Under the business as usual scenario, tariffs are assumed to remain constant in real
terms at their present level.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
The economic benefits are robust with respect to wide ranges in input assumptions.
Scenario                           Sensitivity      NPV (ERR)
Base Case                  .                        Rs. 88 Billion (35%)
Larger Investment Program          +20%             Rs. 84 Billion (34%)
Lower Demand Forecast              -10%             Rs. 20 Billion (15%)
Slower Loss Improvement achievements  Delay 2 years  Rs. 86 Billion (34%)
Lower WTP                          Rs.3/kWh         Rs. 42 Billion (24%)
Financial Rate of Return
The financial net present value of the proposed program is estimated at Rs. 40.8 Billion. A financial rate
of return for the reform program has not been reported because the signs of the financial net flows are
changing over time, making the solution to the FRR indeterminate.
Economic Costs and Benefits of the Project
In order to assess the economic benefits of the investment component supported by the present project, an
economic analysis has been carried out following a methodology similar to that adopted in the analysis of
program benefits. A standard conversion factor of 0.90 was applied to the local investment component.
Annual operating costs for the different distribution components are assumed to be equivalent to about 2%
of the cumulated investment costs. Generation costs have been added to the power evacuation component.
Investment profile and energy savings have been derived from the detailed engineering reports. Distribution
losses are assumed to decline from the present level of 38% to 12% in 2012. Based on consumers' surplus,
the net present value is estimated at Rs. 18 Billion with an ERR of 43%.
- 48 -



Costs and Benefits of the Distribution Component
In Rs
Millions
Economic   Cumulative
Capital     Capital      Capital    Operating                         Total    Net Cash
Year    Expenses    Expenses    Expenses   Expenses Other Costs Total Costs  Benefits    Flow
2001       3,392        3,324       3,324        66           0     3,391      1,476       -1915
2002       6,542       6,411        9,736       195        266      6,873      3,291      -3582
2003       1,890        1,852      11,588       232        533      2,617      3,647       1,029
2004                                            232        557        788      3,872       3,084
2005                                            232        600        831      4,148       3,316
2006                                            232        661        893      4,385       3,492
2007                                            232        722        954      4,627       3,673
2008                                            232        785      1,016      4,782       3,766
2009                                            232        847      1,079      4,940       3,861
2010                                            232        916      1,148      5,076       3,927
2011                                            232        990      1,222      5,217       3,996
2012                                            232      1,069      1,301      5,367       4,066
2013                                            232      1,160      1,392      5,465       4,073
2014                                            232      1,254      1,486      5,566       4,080
2015                                            232      1,356      1,587      5,675       4,088
2016                                            232      1,466      1,698      5,794       4,096
2017                                            232      1,586      1,817      5,923       4,105
2018                                            232      1,715      1,947      6,062       4,115
2019                                            232      1,856      2,088      6,214       4,126
2020                                            232      2,009      2,241      6,378       4,137
2021                                            232      2,009      2,241      6,378       4,137
2037                                             232       2009     2,241       6378       4137
ERR=             43%
NPV @
12% =          17,582
This result is the sum of the net benefits of the individual components of the project, namely, 33/1 1kV
substation upgradation, the conversion of over head 3 phases and single phase LT lines to aerial bunched
cables, capacitors banks, the conversion of LT lines into I kV, and the metering arrangements.
To provide an indication of the economic viability of the specific investment components, the table below
disaggregates the analysis results for the four sub-projects. It should be noted that all sub-projects are
closely interdependent in achieving loss reduction targets, improving reliability and quality of supply, and
increasing sales volume. The net benefits and corresponding NPV are always positive.
Project Components                                             NPV@12%            ERR
Rs. Million
Upgrading and renovation of 33/1 IkV substation                         201         12.6%
Conversion of over head LT lines to aerial bunched cables             1,041        >100%
Capacitors banks                                                      5,500        >100%
Conversion of LT Lines into I IkV lines                              12,300          92%
Total Distribution Investment                                        17,600          43%
-49-



Sensitivity Analysis
The major risk associated with the distribution component of the project includes implementation delay in
the realization of loss reduction targets arising on account of slow procurement process, weaknesses in
project management and implementation teams. Other risks include cost overruns and lower than
anticipated level of energy savings. To analyze the relative importance of these risks on the net benefits of
the project and its main components, a sensitivity analysis has been carried out. The result of the
sensitivity analysis reported in the table below, demonstrates the robustness of the benefits of the project
and its components to a wide combination of adverse assumptions:
Scenario                                  NPV @12%           ERR
(Rs.Million)
Base Case                                       17,600       43%/o
Benefits -10%                                  14,064        36%
Costs -10%                                      15,822       37%
Benefits -20%                                  14,048        32%
Costs +20%                                      10,541       30%
Benefits -10% and Costs +10%o                  12,300        31%
Benefits -20% and Costs +20%                    7,014        22%
Delay 2 years                                   10,121       22%
Delay 2 years, Benefits -10%, and Costs +10%    7,345        20%
Delay 2 years, Benefits -20%, and Costs +20%    5,582        17%
Financial Rate of Return on the Project
The financial rate of return of the distribution investment component is equivalent to 26% with a NPV at
12% amounting to Rs. 8,940 Million. The above economic costs and benefits have been converted to
fimancial values to obtain these results. In particular, benefits have been valued at the present level of
average tariff of Rs. 2.12/kWh, assumed to remain constant in real terms throughout the period of analysis.
To calculate the benefits of additional sales, the average cost of supply of Rs. 1.812/kWh has been utilized
as the avoided cost of generation.
- 50 -



ATTACHMENT
The long run average incremental cost (LRAIC) was estimated and is presented in the following table:
Miarinal Cost                FY2001                                               LRAIC          Average          Average          Actual           Rato
Consumption          LRAIC            LRAIC          Revenue           Tariff           Tariff         Revenue          Tariff/
GWh             RsJkWh          UScJkWh          Rs Million       RsIkWh          USc/kWh         Rs.Million        LRAIC
High Voltage Industry              3,880         2.30             5.11               8,918         3.988            8.86            15,475          174%
MV Industry                         682          2.34             5.19               1,594         3.323           7.39             2,268          142%
LV Industry                          569         3.37             7.49               1,918         3.253            7.23             1,852          97%
LV Commercial                      1,307         3.46             7.69               4,522         4.286            9.52             5,604          124%
LV Residential                     2,696         4.12             9.16              11,112         2.031            4.51             5,475          49%
Tubewells                          3,196         3.64             8.09              11,633         1.024            2.28             3,273          28%
Other LV                             875         3.32             7.37               2,904         3.661            8.14             3,205          110%
Others MV                            212         2.88             6.39                 609         4.323            9.61              916           150%
Total                            13,419         3.22             7.16              43,210         2.837            6.31            38,067          ti%
Demand and Supply Projection Conditions
Rajasthan obtains electricity from four sources: (i) its owned hydroelectric and thermal power stations, (ii)
power stations shared with neighboring states, (iii) allocations from generating stations of Nuclear Power
Corporation (NPC), the national Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC), and (iv) purchases from the
Northern Regional grid under bilateral agreement and spot transactions. Over the last few years, the share
of purchase power has increased to about 50%. Rajasthan has been increasingly relying on more expensive
thermal power generation. In terms of electricity consumption, the annual average growth rate has been
equivalent to about 8% over the last five years.
|Past Supr iv Pattenn_                        ll_s__     
FY94         FY95         FY58         FY97         FY98
INSTALLED CAPACITY (MW)___                                                        _  _
Thermal                                            1,607        1,610        1,645         1,648        1,648
Hydel                                              1,036        1,058        1,062         1,092       1,107
Others                                               342          962          958         1,251        1,036
Total Capacity                                     2,985        3,630        3,665        3,991         3,791
PLANT LOAD FACTOR (%)                                                        _        __
Thermal                                             68%          50%           59%          65%          72%
Hydel                                               38%          46%          45%           45%          42%
Total                                               33%          28%   _      31%           30%          33%
ENERGY GENERATED (GWh)
Thermal                                            5,147        4,837        5,951         6,469        7,201
Hydel                                              3,382        3,936        3,976        3,915        3,652
Totai                                              8,529        8,774        9,928        10,384      10,854
AUXILiARY LOSSES -Thermal (%)                       7.5%         7.1%         7.5%         7.3%         7.5%
Gross Generaton (GWh)                              8,529        8,774        9,928       10,384       10,854
Auxiliafies consumption - Thermal (GWh)              439          437          525          560          616
Auxiliaries consumpton - Hydel (GWh)                 201          186          217          198          199
Net Generabon (GWh)                                7,888        8,151        9,186        9,625       10,039
Import (GWh)                                       7,512        8,273        9,986        9,531        10,940
Losses (%)                                        25.2%         24.8%        28.3%        24.9%        25.2%
Losses (GWh)                                       3,878        4,075        5,427        4,776         5,286
Elec. Sales (GWh)                                 11,522       12,348       13,744       14,380       15,692
Exchanges with other States                           36           63           41           44           48
51  -



Past trnd of Power Conrsumption                                                                                    Number of
IFY94        FY95            FY96           FY97          FY98       Consumers
Domestic                                        1,559          1,659           1,961          2,168       2,563      3.527,187
Commercial                                        S40           598              685           751          863       584,495
Public Lighting                                    60            61               72            77           95          5,604
Agrculture - Metered Supply                     3,522          1,004           1,045           981        1,013       261,216
Agriculture - Flat Rate                             -          2,734           3,297          3,589       3,815        248,321
Agriculture - Nursery & Poultry Farm                               -              24           167          314         45,985
Small Industnal                                   505           533              581           560          590        114,600
Medium Industrial                                 562           656              713           699          749          9,944
Large Industrial                                3,322          3,638           3.692         3,595        3,785          1,867
Public Waterworks                                 478           478              526           560          629         18,922
Bulk Supply to Controlled Stations                 28            30                             _                .
Bulk Supply to other Mixed Load                   271           277              319           341          344          6,765
Common Pool                                       138           148              168           164          1S0
Sale to Other States                              337           285              443           502          526
RailwayTraction                                   162           184              180           182          207              8
Total Units Sold (GWt)                         11286                          13,703         14.336      15,6t4      4,824,914
For the reform and non-reform scenario, two sets of projections have been derived based on the different
GSDP forecasts:
GSDP Pmjcctios                                   I        L   FYI                 FY       FM       I        '         YI           I   rt12
Refoe Sonarie          "%                          5         0        0                 70%       70       70%        %       7.0      70%       7
No RefonoScenraio      35       37%       3.6%     35%      35%       3.5.     55%      3,5%      3.%       5%       3.5      I        1.5% 
The following income and price elasticity have been included to derive an unconstrained demand forecast:
D_e_a       C i6wda &      PAb6        Atutan       AWk*-        A0E-  -        Snal        man         LUrs        PURb
Mxs Lt..a         L1t11i   - Mewd      - Fbt Rab    Nu'y &         Indolt      toAka       Inda        Waer-        Tonatn
PO*y ID Fbt 
In=*is    1.29        1.19            1.48        1.44         1.26         0.54          0.84         0.88        0.84        1.35          1.57
Plri      -40%         -40%           0%          -20%         -20%         -20%           -30%        -30%        -30%        0%            0%
Source: TERI (1997)
- 52 -



The resulting demand forecast for the reform scenario is:
Demand Forecast and Consumption under the Refonn Scenarlo (GWht
FY99      FY00      FY01     FY02      FY03     FY04      FY05      FY06      FY07     FY08      FY09      FY10
Domestc                              2,778     3,245     3,579    3,937     4.320     4,683    5,071     5,486     5,930    6,463     7.045     7,678
Commercial & Mixed Load              1,312     1,487     1,610    1,739     1,877     2,023    2,177     2,340     2,513    2,709     2,920     3,147
Public Ughting                          86       117      128       139       152      166       180       197      214       234       255      278
Agriculture-Metered                    971     1,163     1,280    1,402     1,602     1,813    2,035     2,268     2,512    2,804     3,130     3,494
Agriculture - Flat Rate              1,912     2,246     2,632    2,935     3,049     3,164    3,278     3,393     3,508    3,738     3,984     4,246
Agriculture - Nursery & Poultry to Flat  362     363      242       162      225       235       244      253       263       251       239      229
Small industrIal                       566      566       569       572      583       595       613      640       669       685       702      719
Medium Industrial                      673      673       677       680      701       722       765      826       909       948       990     1,033
Large Industrial                     3,842     3,842     3,861    3,880     3,958     4,037    4,158     4,324     4,497    4,600     4,704     4,812
Public Waterworks                      707       907      980     1,058     1,143     1,234    1,333     1,439     1,555     1,679    1,813    1,958
RailNayTraction                        188      261       287       316      347       382       420      462       509       559       615      677
Total Units wIthin the state        13,398    14,871    15,843    16,820    17,957    19,052    20,275    21,630    23,078    24,671    26,398    28,270
Common Pool                            144       144      144       144       144      144       144       144      144       144       144      144
Sale to Other States                   472      472       472       472      472       472       472      472       472       472       472      472
Unconstrained Demand                14,014    15,488    16,459    17,436    18,573    19,668   20,891    22,246    23,695    25,287    27,014    28,887
Losses                              42.00%    42.00%    40.50%    38.00%    35.50%   32.0O%    28.00%    25.00%    22.00%    20.50%    19.00%    18.00%
Total Demand                        14,014    13,850    14,116   14,582    15,173    15,815    16,992    18,674    20,346    22,047   23,751    25,647
Total Sales Forecast                13,398    13,234    13,500    13,965    14,557    15,199    16,376    18,058    19,730    21,431    23,134    25,031
Includes estimated load shedding
After income and prce elasticity (see table) and after loss elasticity of 0.5 (assumed reduction in consumption)
- 53 -



Under the no-reform scenario, the demand and sales forecast is:
Demand and Sales Fomeat under ttii NO Reform Scenarlo
FY99     FY00      FY01     FY02      FY03    FY04    FY05       FY06      FY07     FY08      FY09      FY10
DomesUc                                 2,778    2,612     2,738    2,866    2,997   3,133    3,276      3,425     3,581    3,744     3,914    4,092
Commerclal&MkbedLoad                    1,312    1.272     1,329    1,386     1,444   1,504     1,567    1,633     1,701     1.772    1,846     1,924
PublicLighting                            86        92       97       102      107      113      119       125      131       138       145      153
Agriculure-Metered                       971       968     1,019    1,073     1,127   1,184     1,244    1,307     1,373     1,443    1,516     1,593
Agricuiture-Flat Rate                   1,912    1,865     1,952    2,041     2,131   2.225    2,323     2.425     2,532    2,644    2,761      2,883
Agriculture - Nursery & Poultry to Flat  362       370      377       385      392     399       407       415      423       431       439      447
Small Industrial                         566       586      584       602      619      638      656       676      695       716       737      759
Medium Indusirial                        673       679      701       723      745     767       791       815      840       866       892      920
Large Industrial                        3.842    3,866     3,986    4,106     4,226   4,350    4,478    4,609      4,745    4,884     S,027     5,174
PublicWaterworks                         707       745      782       821      860     901       943       988     1,036     1,085    1,137     1,191
RailwayTraction                          188       200      212       224      236     249       263       278      293       309      327       345
TotalUnitswithintthe state             13,398   13,234    13,776    14,326    14,883  15,463    16,067    16,696    17,350    18,031    18,741    19,479
Common Pool                              144       144      144       144      144      144      144       144      144       144       144      144
Sale to Other States                     472       472      472       472      472     472       472       472      472       472      472       472
Total Unconstrained Demand after       14,014    13,850    14,392    14,942    15,500  16,080    16,683    17,312    17,966    18,648    19,357    20,096
Income and Price Elasticity
Loses                                 42.00%    42.00%    42.50%    43.00%    43.50%  44.00%    44.50%    45.00%    45.50%    46.00%    46.50%    47.00%
Total Sales Forecast                   13,398   13,234    13,499    14,042    14,262  15,463   15,951    16,086    15,963    15,823    15,684    15,546
The power balance under the reform scenario is:
Power Suonlv Protections under Refonn Scenario
EY       FY        FYOt    FW                  FY04      FY05      FYa      FY07      FY       FY3       FYO
FullyOwned tSharadThennWaStatlons               6.321    7.772     8.008    9,190     9.825   12203    12641    13,359    13,437    13A37    13.437    13,437
Fully Owned + Shared Hydel Statdons             4.341    3W        348           3     94      124D      12        a 948     34          A      i2A       .948
Power Purchases-Existing Plants                12099    12.099    12,03    12.099    120       120      120       120       12099    12.099    12.099    12.099
Power Purchases - RSPC                           -         _          3         4        4       355       816      966  966            966    _96         966
PowerPurchiaes-NewoCecnral PSUs                    2         2        2         0        2         2         2        2         2         2         2 '3
PowerPurchases-IPPs                                2         9        2         2        2         9         2        2         2        2         2        9
Grand Total Availabe (GWh)                     22761    23.819    24.0S    25.241    25J876   28.60     2903    30.371    30.449,   30449    3AM49    30.4i
Load Factor                                   72.67%    72.67%    72.00%    71.50%    71.00%    70.50%    70.00%    69.00%    68.00%    68.00%    68.00%   68.00%
Grand Total Available (MW)                      3,132    3,279     3,341    3,530     3,644    4,057     4,215    4,402     4,478     4,478     4,478    4,478
Demand (MW)                                     3,257    3,218     3,238    3,247     3,283    3,281     3,362     3,603    3.830    4,072      4,304    4,589
SuWusiJDeit (8A(M                               (125)       6e       104      283      361       776       852      799       647       406      174      (111)
Rreserves Margin                                 470       492      501       530      547       609       632      660       672       672      672       672
SurpiuslDelcIt(Ml4-                              *595     *432      -397     -247      -186      167       220      138       -24      -266      -497     -783
- 54 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
INDIA: RAJASTHAN POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Introduction
1.    The appraisal which follows considers the following aspects: (a) assessment of the current financial
position of the sector; (b) financial restructuring and transfer scheme; (c) distribution disagregation; (d)
financial projections; (e) risk factors; (f) impact on State finances; and (g) on-lending arrangements.
Further information is available in the project files in the PIP, the Financial Restructuring Plan and the
Financial Model.
2.     The conclusion of this analysis is that the utilities could be expected to turn around in about five
years, and in the longer term, will not need any subsidy from the Government to meet their financial
objectives. These objectives are to achieve, at a minimum, by year FY05, return on equity of 16 percent
for each utility. This can only be achieved with reform, successful privatization of distribution,
improvements in efficiencies, appropriate regulation, timely and adequate tariff adjustments and financial
restructuring. Given the unprecedented changes being planned in the sector, for a business of this large
size, a turn around time of five years from financial crisis is ambitious but achievable, provided that the
above-mentioned actions are implemented successfully.
3.     Given the critical financial position of the sector, the success of the reforn program will depend
partly on whether the financial restructuring package can be negotiated such that the major creditors and
lenders contribute to alleviating the burden in the transition period. In the financial restructuring workouts
of previous reforming states, the major burden of the restructuring cost has been borne by the state
governments, with major lenders (mainly owned by the Government of India) contributing with marginal
rescheduling of overdue and outstanding debt. There is a significant gap between the requirements of the
sector over the next 5-6 years, and the capacity of the government to provide these resources. Hence, the
viability of the preliminary financial restructuring plan drawn up by Rajasthan will hinge upon a judicious
sale of assets, successful negotiations with lenders, and support from the Government of India.
Assessment of Current Financial Situation
4.     The sector is suffering large cash losses and is in acute financial distress. Accumulated losses
without subsidy as of March 31, 1999 were Rs.22.4 billion, and financial losses in 1999 without subsidy
were about Rs. 11.3 billion. The sector is suffering from extremely poor liquidity because of high losses
although collections are higher than the SEB average at 98.5% of current year's sales (FY99).
5.    In order to generate cash needed for operations, RSEB has used sale and leaseback mechanism to
realize the value tied up in its existing assets- primarily its generating stations at Kota and Ramgarh- of an
amount of Rs 3696 million, Rs 1419 million and Rs 5,294 million in FY97, 98 and 99 respectively.
However as the newer assets have been sold, the sector's ability to raise more money by this process in the
coming years would be limited. Cash received from these transactions was used to fund operations, reduce
outstanding accounts payable and overdues on loans, obtain power purchase discounts, and prepay coal
freight charges in order to obtain preferential transport rates and service. The Board had thus been using
its scarce long term sources of borrowing to meet operating costs, debt servicing and working capital needs,
- 55 -



thus hastening its descent into a "debt trap". Table I presents a summary of the historical financial
performance of the sector.
6.      The primary causes of the financial crisis are the inadequate tariffs and system inefficiency. The
sector cross-subsidises domestic and agricultural customers by charging much higher tariffs to the
industrial and other HT users. As a result, with the consumption in the subsidized categories growing
rapidly, the burden on industrial segment has become unsustainable and growth in industrial connections
has slowed to almost zero in FY99 and the amount of captive generation available continues to grow. In
addition, the total energy loss in the system, which is believed to be at least 42%, including both technical
and commercial losses, has aggravated the problem. Further, adequate and timely tariff adjustments have
not been effected due to political expediency, and though the government has provided indirect support by
foregoing the debt service and providing more loans, this support has not been adequate. Subsidy
payments, which fall due, have either been made in the form of adjustment against long term Government
loans to the utility or have remained unpaid. This had left the Board with uncovered revenue deficits for
which have resulted in the necessity to raise finance on the commercial markets to meet cash flow
requirements.
7.      Current tariffs are inadequate. They were increased significantly in October 1999 by some 15%,
which included redressing some of the cross-subsidy within the system. However, according to current
estimates, in FY00 the Board would need an additional increase in revenue of 10 percent in order to cover
its operating costs, and 38 percent to cover all costs.
Table 1: Summary of Historical Financial Performance of RSEB (FY 92 - 99)
Financial Year                       FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97    FY98    FY99
Actual   Actual   Actual   Actual  Actual   Actual   Actual   Prov.
Operating Income (Rs msllion)        2,427     2,952    3,542    4,418     5,120     5,585     6,024    6,736
Net Income (Rs million)               618      650       701      771       808       632      654       658
Annual Subsidy (Rs million)          1,628    2,865     4,249    4,898     5,131     5,631    7,049    11,965
Subsidy as % of Revenue From Power    17%      23%      30%       28%      25%       22%       23%      39%
Sales
Return on Assets With Subsidy        3.2%      3.1%     3.0%      3.0%     3.0%      3.0%      3.0%     3.0%
Return on Assets Without Subsidy     -5.2%    -10.7%    -15.3%    -16.1%    -16.0%    -23.7%    -29.4%    -51.5%
Return on Assets Without Subsidy &   4.1%      0.4%     -3.1%     -1.9%/0    0.0%   -0.2%     -4.7%    -23.8%
Interest
Debt Service Coverage Ratio With      1.3      1.5       1.4       1.4      1.1       1.1      1.2       1.1
Subvention
Debt Service Coverage Ratio Without   0.7      0.5       0.2       0.4      0.3       0.3      0.2       -0.3
Subvention
Gross Receivables (Days)              73        62       69        79       81        83        72       76
Current Ratio                         0.4      0.5       0.7       1.3      1.8       2.1      2.3       2.4
Current Ratio (excluding subsidy      0.4      0.5       0.7       1.0      1.4       1.6       1.6      1.4
receivable)
- 56 -



8.     Cost recovery. The cash operating surplus available from operations has not been adequate to
meet the debt service obligations, since the average tariff realization has not kept pace with average cost of
supply, resulting in an increasing dependence on Government subsidies which have not been forthcoming.
Chart I below shows the trends in growth of average cost of supply, average tariff . An important factor
contributing to the high cost of supply is the high level of technical and commercial losses in the system,
currently estimated as at least 42 percent, because of which almost half the energy available to the system
is not billed. Another important reason for the high cost of supply is the significant employee costs because
of overstaffmg which has added to the cost of supply. Finally, because of political expediencies, the Board
has had to follow a very inefficient policy of supply regulation - it has supplied more and more electricity
to consumers who pay far below the average cost of supply, at the cost of high-paying consumers who are
also the cheapest to supply. This has led to an unfavourable change in the consumer mix away from the
high-paying consumers and towards the highly subsidized and more expensive consumers, leading to a
further worsening of the gap between average tariff and average cost.
Chart 1: Comparison of RSEB average annual tariff
(realisation) and cost of supply
3.00
2.50
2.00 -                                            -  Average
-01             tariff
.~1.50
Average
1.00 -      _   _    ~   -                           SCost of
supply
0.50-
0.00 -  .   .   .   .   . - .
FY 89 FY 90 FY 91 FY 92 FY 93 FY 94 FY 95 FY 96 FY 97 FY 98 FY 99
Note: Average tariff declined in FY99 since connections increased while tariff remained the same.
9.     Commercialfuncti6n. RSEB's collections are significantly better than most other SEBs in India
with collections in excess of 95%. Billing is computerised and carried out by private firms under contract
to RSEB. Collections are also carried out by outside agencies for the majority of urban locations.
10.    Employee liabilities. Employee Contribution towards Provident Fund is fully funded and invested
in securities till FY 99 as separate GPF Fund (both liabilities and investments are available, but not a
separate trust - After transfer scheme, these liabilities and investments need to be shifted to the Trust to be
created). Thus, there is no under funding on GPF account. However, Employers' contribution towards
Pension & Gratuity Fund has not been done fully in the past and the pension & gratuity were paid from
revenues. Thus the Board had significant amounts of unfunded liabilities on employee retirement benefits,
especially towards pension and provident fund
- 57 -



Financial restructuring and Transfer Scheme
11.    Rajasthan has prepared a financial restructuring plan that seeks to address the financial problems
of the sector and restore its creditworthiness, which is likely to take at least 4 to 5 years, through the
following main elements:
(a) clean up of the balance sheet of the Board before the transfer of the business to the successor
utilities;
(b) Government support in the transition period in the form of (i) cash subsidy to enable the
utilities to meet their operating costs, working capital, debt servicing and investment
requirements, (ii) retention of duties, debt service on GoR loans etc within the sector (iii)
guarantees, and (iv) assistance in negotiations with lenders and creditors;
(c) privatization of distribution business and generation assets and reinvestment of the proceeds of
divestiture into the sector.
12.    Balance sheet clean- up. The balance sheet clean-up which the Board and the Government have
agreed to, and which was effected through the notification of a transfer scheme in June 2000, entails the
write-off and provisioning for doubtful and obsolete assets, the recognition of liabilities that are either
understated or not reflected in the balance sheet, and the settlement of cross-dues between the Board and
the Government. More specifically, the clean up involves:
*  Recognition of unfunded staff terminal liabilities (pension and gratuity) estimated through actuarial
valuation of Rs 17,102 millions as long-term bonds issued by the successor entities backed by
State Government guarantee. These bonds will be discharged over the years to match the funds
requirements of the trust to be formed for paying pension and gratuity.
* Adjusting Subsidy receivables of Rs 22,079 millions against Government loan and equity, retaining
Rs 3000 millions Government equity in successor entities.
-  Instead of being settled immediately, the balance of the subsidy receivable of Rs 8,161 millions is
to be converted into bonds issued by GoR to the Transmission Company. These bonds (referred to
as Subsidy '2000' Bonds) will carry a nominal interest rate of 6% in order to cover inflation. The
amount of these bonds will be fixed when the annual accounts for FY00 are finalised.
These bonds will be redeemed by Government in 5 installments from FY 03 onwards. The
redemption is structured to allow GoR to adjustments the payments due against receipts from
electricity duty, debt service payments on Government loans and dividend payments by the
successor entities, if any.
*  Prudent provisioning of overdue receivables for sale of power of Rs 2,838 millions. The provision
covers for about 50% of receivables that are overdue for 3 years and above.
*  Prudent provision for contingent liabilities to the extent that they may devolve of Rs 590 millions.
Government will retain the balance contingent liabilities, which as on date of transfer are estimated
at Rs 1,560 millions.
*  Pending a detailed stores valuation, provisions for unserviceable O&M stores is taken as Rs 310
millions
*  Provisions for unrecoverable claims and unserviceable other assets to the extent of Rs 199 millions
- 58 -



To meet the above provisions and set-offs, the Financial Restructuring Plan adjusts Government loans,
Capital reserves, Consumer contribution and electricity duties payables. The balance requirement is
adjusted through set off of Government equity, retaining Rs 3,000 millions in the opening balance sheets of
the successor companies.
The following table summarises these restructuring adjustmnents.
Table 2: Restructuring Adjustments
Funds Required                        Rs Millions   Funds Utilised                       Rs Millions
Unfunded Staff terminal liabilities         17,102  Government of Rajasthan Loans             14,554
Set off of Subsidy receivables              22,079  Government Equity                         16,246
Provision for bad & doubtful receivables     2,838  Consumer Contribution                     10,040
Recognition of Contingent liabilities         590  Capital reserves                            2,165
Unserviceable stores                          310  ED payables                                   284
Other assets - Unserviceable and               199
unrecoverable
Accumulated losses                             171
Total Funds required                        43,289  Total Funds utilised                      43,289
GoR Restructuring Support (GoR            31,084
loans + GoR equity + Elec. Duty)
Note: The estimated closing balance sheet of RSEB (as on March 31, 2000) and the restructured balance sheet of RSEB after
the above adjustments are provided in Annex 5.1 of the project implementation plan.
13.    As a result of the above clean up, the sector inherits a relatively healthy opening balance sheet
which sets the basis for the quick restoration of its creditworthiness. Any amounts of payables
rescheduling, where lenders and creditors will be offered a variety of options to reduce the cash burden on
the sector in the transition period, will be additional to the FRP and allow further space for contingencies.
It should be noted that, since Rajasthan is not in default to any of its lenders there is less opportunity for
such restructuring than in some of the other States. The effort required in ensuring that it did not default to
its creditors led RSEB to raise significant amounts of finance by sale and lease back of assets and also by
issuing bonds. As a result the sector is heavily indebted. Little can be done to reschedule debts such as
bonds, without adversely affecting the utilities future capacity to raise finance, so these debts will have to
be serviced. Much of this debt is comparatively short term, with debt service reaching a peak in FY03/04.
The Debt will require service and has been allocated to the successor entities in relation to the assets
created. The financial projections show that the utilities are capable of servicing this debt, but the
Distribution Privatisation advisers will review the capital structure of the entities as part of their
pre-privatisation analysis.
- 59 -



14.    As per the provisional accounts, the provision for liability towards provident and pension fund as
of March 31, 2000 was Rs 4.2 billion, which is to be transferred to a separate trust, along with
corresponding investments made by RSEB in specified securities. In future the successor companies would
invest the provident fund accruals into this Trust fund, which would then assume the responsibility of
provident fund payments to future retirees. As noted above, the transfer scheme assumes that bonds for Rs
17.1 billion will be issued to the Pension and Gratuity Trust Fund to cover the existing and future pension
and gratuity liabilities for pensioners and serving employees. It is also envisaged that a small portion of the
proceeds of divestiture would be contributed to the pension fund.
15.    Government support. (Note:- This support does not include items such as the on-lending of the
World Bank power sector restructuring loan by the State Government). The preliminary financial
restructuring plan worked out by RSEB and their financial advisors, assuming their minimum investment
plan showed that, despite significant tariff increases and efficiency improvements, the government would
need to provide about Rs. 24.5 billion as net cash support in the form of subsidy to the sector over the first
4 years (FY 01 to FY 04), and about Rs0O.5 billion support through retention by the sector (non-payment)
of duties and debt service due to GoR. It is, however, clear that the finances of the government are not in a
good enough condition to provide this level of support (see separate section below on impact of reforms on
state finances). The government has therefore, consciously adopted a lower program of support to the
power sector, and has thus, agreed to provide Rs. 8 billion as net cash support in the form of subsidy in the
next 4 years in equal monthly cash installments and support through retention of duties and debt service
due to GoR of some Rs 10.5 billion. In addition the Governnent will reinvest the cash difference between
the amount of interest they are charged by GOI and the amount of interest that they charge to the utilities
for on-lending of the Bank's investment to the extent of Rs 1.04 billion. This will fall short of what the
sector requires. Thus there will be a requirement for some rescheduling of payables and, in addition, the
Government is committed to the sale of a partial stake in the generating company to raise the cash needed
to finance the sector through the transition period. The financial projections show that, under the
assumptions taken, the sector can manage without Government support after FY 05 and will be sufficiently
creditworthy by then to be able to borrow adequately from the commercial sources to finance itself.
16.   In addition to the above restructuring, the Government will contribute in the following manner to
the restructuring: (i) by ensuring that the various Govermment departments pay their electricity bills on time
in the future by making adequate budgetary provision and, if necessary, paying electricity dues directly
from the department's budgets; (ii) by providing guarantees to the issuance of trade bonds, bonds for
retirement liabilities and other borrowings for capital expenditure by the utility; and (iii) by providing the
utilities with assistance in negotiating the rescheduling of debts and payables, where necessary.
17.    Debt and payables rescheduling. The biggest challenge for the companies and the State
Government will be to fund the financial restructuring costs" i.e. fund the losses during the turn around
period, working capital requirements, and the debt service falling due in the near term. The companies may
be able to raise financing for investments but not for financial restructuring costs, since typically the
financial institutions and the multilaterals are willing to finance investments, but are reluctant to provide
loans for corporate financing needs. Rajasthan will issue bonds in order to raise this finance as it has
successfully done in the past.
18.    The elements of the financial restructuring plan have, so far, been agreed in principle but will need
to be negotiated and discussed with all parties. This financial restructuring plan will require strict financial
discipline on the part of the utilities; active participation of the Government; and co-operation of the
Government of India and will need to be implemented with a sense of urgency. Only through these actions
will it achieve its intended long term purpose of restoring creditworthiness of the sector and providing the
- 60 -



underpinning for a successful reform program.
19.    The sale of assets is a way in which the sector can bridge the gap between its funding requirements
and the amount of support available from Government. However, the resources in terms of assets to be
sold are limited. Sale of assets will provide only limited relief for the next two to three years. The
Government must achieve or accelerate the planned pace of power sector reforms and thus plug the revenue
leakages and inefficiencies; otherwise, this sale of assets will represent only a short-term reprieve. If the
assets are sold and the reforms are delayed, the sector will not be left with any options to meet its financing
gap.
20.    While selling the generation assets, care should be taken to ensure that this privatization is not
considered a "distress sale" by potential buyers, or that it does not in any way hamper the privatization of
distribution by creating escrows on the sector's revenue which threaten the working capital management.
Sale of generation assets shall, thus, be undertaken after due consideration to the strategic value of these
assets, in such a way as to realise the optimum value from these transactions, given the prevailing
circumstances. Again in view of the financial vulnerability of the sector the sale shall be structured in such
a way that any premium over book value, does not result in sharp increase in generation tariffs from these
plants in the short term. It is expected that this can be achieved through the structure of the transaction and
the PPA.
Distribution Disaggregation
21.   RSEB and the Government reviewed the options for configuration of the distribution business with
the aim of creating viable distribution companies which are large enough to attract private investment but
with the proviso that there be more than one in order to allow for future comparison and competition. To
this end RSEB developed, with their consultants, a model that was capable of disaggregating the entire
system down to the level of 'circle'. The model could envisage ninety different ways of combining the
circles into companies.
22.    The model was used to consider options based on the variation of key parameters such as tariffs,
level of Government support, contiguity, socio-economic factors, cultural and political acceptability and
technical constraints. In particular it was considered essential that variations in retail tariff, between the
distribution companies, were minimised and that Government support would not have to increase
significantly as a result of the option selected.
23.    The circles were analysed for variations in the level of losses; proportion of paying to subsidised
customers; concentration of industry, HT, agricultural and Government customers. Sales levels for each
circle were forecast taking into account the historic trends and likely future growth. Considering these
parameters, the options were narrowed to eighteen feasible combinations of circles into distribution
companies (discoms).
- 61 -



24.      The results showed that Government support and the retail tariff differential was significantly
higher for more than three discoms than for less than three. Indeed, there is a direct correlation between the
number of discoms and the requirement for Government support. However, bearing in mind the
requirement for there to be a future potential for competition and taking into account cultural and
administrative considerations the optimum configuration was for three discoms as shown in the diagram
below.
Diagrammatic representation of the Distribution company areas:-
23 0C0OW Scenrta I
25.      Table 3 shows salient operational features for the three discoms.
Table 3:- Distribution Company Paraneters for FY 99   JAIPUR           AJMER           JODHPUR            Rajasthan
DISCOM           DISCOM            DISCOM
Number of Distribution Circles                                   8                 8                 8               24
Revenue from sale ofelectricity (Rs Crores)                   1,060            1,103              785             2,948
Energy Sold (MU)                                              4,482            4,770             3,463            12,716
T&D Losses (MU)                                               2,879            2,725             1,770             7,375
T&D Losses (%)                                                 40%              35%               39%              38%
Collections %                                                  93%              95%               93%              94%
Average Tariff(Rs/unit)                                        2.23             2.19              2.11             2.18
Employees                                                    17,635           13,339             9,249           40,223
Consumers / Employee                                           102               132               164              126
Total Consumers                                           1,803,096         1,758,776        1,520,871         5,082,743
Total Connected Load (MW)                                     3,621            3,667             2,614            9,902
Domestic Connected Load (MW)                                   828               628              725             2,181
Agriculture Cormected Load (MW)                                977             1,341               793             3,110
Industrial Cormected Load (MW)                                1,275            1,393               714             3,382
Domestic Electrification                                       41%              39%               47%              42%
Population                                               19,602,092        18,604,289       15,317,007        53,523,388
% Villages/Towns Electri6ed                                    96%              95%               83%              92%
-62 -



26. Table 4 shows the opening balance sheet for the distribution companies:
Table 4 - Opening Balance Sheets  Rs (crore)                       Jaipur           Ajmer            Jodhpur
LONG TERM ASSETS
Gross Fixed Assets                                                               1,032             1,055              824
Accumulated depreciation                                                          425               425               343
Net Fixed Assets                                                                  606               630               480
Capital Expenditure in progress                                                    26                33                21
Investments (including GPF & Pension investments)                                   0                 7                 5
TOTAL LONG TERM ASSETS                                                            633               670               506
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash and Bank Balances                                                             48                13                22
Stock less provision                                                               15                20                18
Gross Receivables for Sale of Electricity                                         359               131                76
Provision for Bad & Doubtful debts                                                197                72                42
Net Receivables                                                                   163                59                34
Provision for Unbilled revenue                                                    156               144               122
Other Receivables                                                                 373               365               284
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                                                              755               601               480
TOTAL ASSETS                                                                     1,388             1,271              987
NET WORTH
GoR Equity                                                                         31                31                31
Grants & Capital subsidies                                                          2                 5                 5
TOTAL NET WORTH                                                                    32                36                35
LONG TERM LOANS
GoR Loans                                                                           0                 0                 0
Other Loans                                                                       542               607               358
TOTAL LONG TERM LOANS                                                             542               607               358
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Accounts Payable                                                                  186               141               223
Deposits from Consumers                                                           129               132                93
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES                                                         315               273               316
TOTAL STAFF TERMINAL & OTHER LIABILITIES                                          498               355               278
TOTAL LIABILITIES                                                                1,388             1,271              987
- 63 -



Financial Projections
27.    Financial projections of the consolidated and disaggregated state power sector were prepared based
on the opening balance sheet resulting from the transfer scheme described above. The financial
performance of the sector is driven by the following elements which form the framework for financial
restructuring: (a) tariff increases to the extent politically, economically and socially feasible, (b) reduction
in cross-subsidization through increases in tariffs charged from subsidized categories implemented in a
phased manner to avoid a tariff shock, (c) cash support by the Rajasthan Government, (d) efficiency
improvements in terms of reduction in technical and commercial losses; improvements in metering, billing
and collection; and in working capital management, (e) privatization of the distribution businesses and
generation assets, (f) investment in transmission and distribution, to the extent affordable, to rehabilitate
and strengthen the technical and commercial system, (g) institutional development by improving the sector
policies, systems, procedures and controls, and (h) in the initial years, use the contribution from the
Government primarily for funding losses, working capital, and counter-part funds.
28.    Power reforms will cause a burden on the exchequer in the near term (although not greater than
that provided for the last few years), but once the reforms are implemented successfully the flows will
reverse and the Government will start earning revenue from the sector (see paragraph 51 below on impact
of reforns on state finances). In the short term the sector will not be able to invest as much as it might
have hoped. By FY 2006 however, tariffs will have reached a level that covers full costs and further
required increases will on a par with or less than the domestic inflation. After FY 2005 therefore, the
sector will not need any Government support and will be sufficiently creditworthy by then to be able to
borrow adequately on the commercial markets. The financing gap discussed earlier can be partly met, if
the government is able to successfully privatize existing generation assets and invest the proceeds in the
sector. Summary results from the financial projections are presented in the tables 5 and 6 below. Detailed
financial statements of the sector and assumptions are available in the Project files.
- 64 -



Table 5: Projected Financial Performance of the Power Sector (FY 00 - 07)
FY 00   FY 01   FY 02   FY 03   FY 04   FY 05    FY06    FY07
(Values in Rs. Billion)                           _                     _
T&D losses (%)                       42.0%    40.6%    38.2%    35.7%    32.3%    28.2%    25.1%    22.0%
Cost of Supply (paise/unit)            392      410      414      424      424       427      431      440
(Post loss revision)
Avg. SoP tariff (paise/unit)           244      278      304      336       368      382      386      394
(Post loss revision)
Income (excluding subsidy)             285      320      347      380      413       428      433      441
(paiselunit) (Post loss revision)
Agriculture Tariff (paise/unit)         70       90      110      140       175      214      216      220
Industrial Tariff (paise/unit)         360      381      419      460       506      515      514      528
Tariff increase %                              10%       10%      10%      10%       2%       2%       3%
(Other than Agriculture)
Capital Investments                 11,203   16,176   15,473   12,745   12,638   14,347   15,614   17,795
(Rs Millions)
Return on net worth(%)                 0%       0%       10%      16%      16%      16%      16%       16%
Debt service coverage (with cash
subsidy)                           =
Generation                                      1.01     1.01     1.07     1.17     1.20     1.24      1.28
Transmission                                    1.33     1.22     1.34     1.91     1.16      1.11     1.00
Distribution                                    1.25     1.17     1.05     1.15     1.21      1.28     1.37
Debt service coverage (without
subsidy)                                                     I             _____
Generation                                      1.01     1.01     1.07     1.17     1.20     1.24      1.28
Transmission                                    1.33     1.22     1.34     1.91     1.16      1.11     1.00
Distribution                                  (1.85)   (1.05)   (0.28)     0.82     1.21     1.28      1.37
Self financing ratio - with subsidy
(%)
Generation                                     19%        9%       2%      65%      27%       3%      18%
Transmission                                  -21%        1 %      8%      26%      24%      27%       11%
Distribution                                   45%       19%      41%      31%      46%      44%      54%
Self financing ratio - without               -314%    -197%      -75%       8%      46%      44%      54%
subsidy (%) - Distribution
Net accounts (SoP) receivables                   36       43       47        48       48       49       50
(days)
Provision for Unbilled revenue                   44       41       36        32       30       30       30
(days)                                                              .
Total Receivables from sale of                   80       84       82        80       78       79       80
power (including Provision for
Unbilled revenue) (days)
Accounts payables - power (days)                 50       45       45        45       45       45       45
Accounts payables - fuel (days)                  17       17       17        17       17       17       17
- 65 -



Table 6: Financial Indicators *
Finandal bbdatom for RVPN                          Ps Crore
FY01      FY02      FY03       FY04       FY05        FY06       FY07       FY08       FY09        FY10
TOTAL INCOME                                          4,472      5,006      5.573      6,207      6,606      7,063       7.646      8,605      9,666      10,883
TOTAL COSTS                                           4,303      4,786      5,322      5,937      6,315      6,782       7,353      8292       9,318      10,507
Net Inorme before Interest and Depredation              280       352        401        436        473         480        513        558         626        689
NETINCOME                                                 0         0          5          10        11          12         13          14         15         16
TOTAL BORROWWNGS                                        354       303        227         216       244         349        547        440         373        380
CAPITAL INVESTMENT                                      289       305        248         289       328         456        606        623         632        647
TOTALDEBTSERNVCE                                        211       289        343         360        664        700        712         472        485        550
LONG TERM NETAssETS                                   1,947      2,117      2,214      2,338      2,483      2,741       3,127      3,505      3,859       4,192
TOTALCCURRENTASSETS                                   1,753      1,865      1,946      1,785      1,588      1,380       1,268      1,346      1,419       1,514
TOTALCURRENTLIABUTIES                                  1,537     1,613      1,659      1,778      1,907      2,032       1,927      2,089      2,327       2,366
TOTALLONGTERMiLIABILITES                              2,090      2296       2,424      2,257      2,071       1,969      2,363      2,651      2,833       3212
NET WORTH                                                73         73         78         88         93         99        105         112        119         127
Retum on Capital Employed(%)                           10%        12%        12%        13%        14%        15%         14%        13%        14%         14%
DebtServcaCoverageRabo                                 1.33       1.22       1.17       1.21       0.71       0.69        0.72       1.18       1.29        1.25
F,ncll Kdcators for RVUN                           Rs Crore
FY01      FY02      FY03        FY04       FY05       FY06       FY07        FY08      FY09        FY10
TOTALINCOME                                            1,945     2,325      2,727      3,410      3,660      3,882       4,099      4,204      4,218       4268
TOTALCOSTS                                             1,836     2,192      2,468      3,095      3,337      3504        3,633      3,729      3,855       4,017
Net Income before Interest and Deprecation              582       737        906       1,000      1,027      1,044       1,099      1,068        894        744
NET INCOME                                              109        133       259         315        323        378        466         475        363        251
TOTAL BORRIMNGS                                         832       805         309         21        143         99          51          7          0           0
CAPITAL INVESTMENT                                      985       850        292         140        175         81         52          54         56         58
TOTAL DEBT SERvICE                                      582       737         839        844        844        831        849         780        577        407
LONGTERM NETASSETS                                    3,416      4,024      4,154      4,056      3,925      3,693       3,413      3,111      2,803       2,493
TOTAL CURMENTASSETS                                     742       764         769        851        889        924        953         977      1,070       1242
TOTALCURFENTLIABIUTIES                                  982      1,049      1,026      1,126      1228       1,303       1,312      1,199      1,085         822
TOTAL LONG TERM UAEIUTIES                             2,906      3,335      3,234      2,802      2,447      1,986       1,492      1,089        807        807
NETWORTH                                                271       404        664         978      1,140      1,329       1,561      1,799      1,961       2,106
RetumwonCapitalEmpIoMd(%)                              14%        14%        17%        18%        18%        19%         21%        22%        18%         13%
DebtServoeCovrageRabo                                  1.37       1.20       1.22       1.28       1.30       1.32        1.35       1.37       1.85        1.83
Fmaneal Inicetora fhrJalpur DESCOM                 Rs Crore
FY01      FY02      FY03       FY04       FY05        FY06       FY07       FY06       FY09        FY10
Revenue                                               1,552      1,866      2,219      2,592      2,796      2,999       3,256      3,626      4,029       4,483
GoRSub"idy                                              461       359        241          21          0          0          0           0          0           0
TOTAL INCOME                                          2,013      2225       2,460      2,613      2,796      2,999       3,256      3,626      4,029       4,483
TOTALCOSTS                                            2,013      2225       2,456      2,606      2,788      2,988       3246       3,617      4,020       4,472
Net Incorne before Interestand Depecation               184        195       212         243        295        340        396         431        469         506
NETINCOME                                                 0         0          4           7          8         11         10           9         10          11
TOTAL BORROWINGS                                         33        93         178        229        200        209         185        187        207         228
CAPITAL INVESTMENT                                      106        122       236         271        306        332        366         382        398         416
TOTALDEBTSERVICE                                        134        155        204        229        258        271        287         316        358         399
LONG TERM NET ASSETS                                    663       701         844      1,007      1,184      1.366       1,557      1,738      1.908       2,065
Net SoP Recevables                                      217       282         339       407        443         433        525         572        624         683
TOTALCUERRNTASSETS                                      956      1,063      1,158      1,211      1,267       1,337      1,417      1,516       1,625      1,748
TOTAL CURRENT LABIUTIES                                 551        649        738        737        770        789        766         967       1,082      1,012
TOTALLONGTERMLA LJ11ES                                  989       987       1,057      1,183      1288        1,419      1,605      1,570       1,615      1,843
NET WORTI                                                79        128        207        298        393        495        603         718        836         958
Retum on Capital Empbyed (%)                           16%/       14%        13%/.      12%        13%        12"J.       13%        12%/       11%         11%
DebtSerVcoCoverageRatio(wkh subvenbon)                 1.37      1.25        1.04       1.07      1.14        1.25       1.38        1.38       1.33        1.28
- 66 -



Finandal lndicatrs for Ajnmr DISCOM               Rs Crore
FY 01     FY 02     FY 03      FY 04      FY 05      FY 06       FY 07      FY 08      FY 09       FY 10
Revenue                                                1,565     1,847      2,182      2,608      2,958      3201        3,503      4,081      4.562       5,102
GoR SuAsdy                                              481       415        326         135         0           0          0          0           0          0
TOTAL INCOME                                          2,046      2262       2,508      2,743      2,958      3,201       3.503      4,081      4,562       5,102
TOTAL COSTS                                           2,047      2265       2,507      2,740      2,953      3,197       3,499      4,072      4,552       5,091
Net Income betre Int&est and Depneciation               187       200        220        255        307         355        416        458        507         555
NEr INCOME                                                0         0           3          6         8           7          7          9          10         11
TOTAL BORROWINGS                                         72        124        199        238       226         251        258         248        254        264
CAPiITALINVESTMENT                                      132        152       293         337       380         412        455        474        495         516
TOTAL DEBTSERMCE                                        161       185        220         227       266         302        333        349         3814       422
LONGTERM NETASSETS                                      720       782        976       1,194      1,431      1,673       1,928      2,170      2,397       2,610
NetSoPRecervabies                                       114       178        235        304        342         384        430        482        539         604
TOTALCURRENTASSETS                                      800       898        988       1,062      1,142      1218        1,311      1,423      1,549       1,689
TOTALCURRENTUABIUTIES                                   524       600        682        727        818         877        817       1,055      1,174       1,096
TOTAL LONG TERM UA31UTIES                               896       911       1,005      1,130      1,226      1,347       1,605      1,566      1,639       1,902
NETrVORTH                                               100       169        277        399        529         668        818        973       1,134       1,300
Retum on Capital Emptyed (%)                           14%        13%        11%        10%        10%        10%         10%        10%         9%          9%
Debt Service CovemgeRatio (wit subvention)             1.16       1.08       1.00       1.12       1.15       1.18        125        1.33       1.34        1.33
Financal Indcator fbr JodWur DISCOM               Rs Crore
FY01      FY02      FY03       FY04       FY05       FY06        FY07       FY08       FY09        FY10
Revenue                                               1,109      1,314      1,549      2,053      2,298      2,527       2,809      3,174      3,575       4,031
GoRSubsidy                                              306       239         168         35         0           0          0          0           0          0
TOTALNCOME                                            1,415      1,553      1,717      2,088      2296       2,527       2,809      3,174      3,575       4,031
TOTALCOGSTS                                           1,415      1,552      1,715      2,064      2,291      2,520       2,801      3,165      3,566       4,020
Net Income before Interest and Depreciabon              131       140         151        170       201         230        269        292        320         348
NETINCOME                                                 0         0          3           7          7          8          8           9         10          11
TOTAL BORROWNGS                                          63        69          80        101        86         120         104        109         99         100
CAPiTALINVESTMENT                                        84        96         185        213        240        261        288         300        313        326
TOTALDEBTSERVICE                                        106        117        128        126        137        151        169         184        188        203
LONGTEiRMNETASSETS                                      526       554        665        791         929      1,071       1,221      1,363      1,495       1,618
NetSoP Recevables                                        73       119        160        214        245         278        315        357        404         458
TOTALCUiRRENTASSErS                                     619       694         764        849        888        952       1,032      1,126      1232        1,352
TOTAL CURRENT LUABILiTIES                               458       501         581        652        704        743        765         901        997       1,023
TOTAL LONGTERM LiABIUTES                                609       619        644         698        733        802        906         896        926       1,026
NETWORTH                                                 80       128        203         290       381         478        583        691        804         920
RelumonCaptal Employed(%)                              14%        13%        12%        10%        11%        10%         10%        10%         9%          9%
I Debt ServiceCoveraw Ratio WM subven8on)               1.24      1.19       1.18       1.35       1.47        1.52       1.59       1.61        1.73       1.7J4
* Full details of the financial forecasts are included in the FRP document and also in the PIP.
29.         Tariff The financial projections are based on the rationalization of the tariff structure to reduce
cross-subsidization and increase of tariff level to cover cost of supply. Rajasthan Government has
indicated its desire to adjust tariffs and reduce the degree of cross subsidization, in the initial years of
reform, at a pace, which is politically sustainable but simultaneously restores the financial viability of the
companies. Given the already high tariffs for industrial and commercial sectors prevailing in Rajasthan, it
is impractical to assume any large increase in industrial tariff without causing reduction in industrial
demand since the industries may move off grid (e.g. to captive power). The projections assume a phased
correction to this imbalance in the tariff structure. Thus, the tariff for all categories except agriculture is
assumed to increase at an average rate of 10% per annum while the agriculture tariff is assumed to increase
at 26% per annum on average, during the period FY 01 to FY 04. Overall, the projections assume an
average annual increase of some 10% in the initial years, dropping down to less than inflation by the end of
the period. The Regulatory Commission is already in place and will decide on tariff requirements of the
individual consumer categories in the future.
30.    The assumptions on the increases in agricultural tariffs are ambitious, especially given the political
sensitivities surrounding the issue of tariff increases. However, given the recent experience in Rajasthan,
- 67 -



where agricultural and domestic tariffs have been increased by about 30-40%, it is expected that the
perceived political risks associated with increasing agricultural tariff will reduce in the future.
31.    Efficiency Improvements. Reduction in transmission and distribution losses from the estimated
42.0% to 22% is expected during FY 2000 - 07. The rate of reduction is linked to investment, as well as
the pace of privatization of distribution and enforcement of performance standards by the Regulatory
Commission. In addition, improvement of skills, changes in organizational structure, systems, and
management processes, included in the institutional strengthening plan are likely to result in improvements
in financial and technical operations. Therefore these reductions though ambitious are considered
achievable. The current estimate of technical and commercial losses of about 42 percent over the earlier
stated levels of 25 percent indicates an attitudinal change and recognition of losses and leakages in the
system, but even this is likely to be an underestimate. Rajasthan will carry out an independent loss
assessment study to determine the actual level of losses during the course of this project.
32.    Subsidies and borrowings. To support the sector during the transition period, i.e., before tariff
increases and efficiency improvements reach a level where the revenue exceeds cost of supply, Governnent
will have to provide cash subsidies to the sector. The sector will need, at least, to be able to meet all its
cash operating costs, debt service, incremental working capital requirement and counter-part funding
requirement for the investment program. With the present assumptions on tariffs and efficiency
improvements, Government will need to provide subsidies till FY04. From FY05 all the utilities will be
able to earn profits without subsidy, generate internal resources and borrow from the market to finance
their investments. The capacity to borrow from the commercial market, which is somewhat constrained at
present, is expected to worsen as the sector hits a peak of repayments on it old debt in FY03/FY04 and then
improve by FY05.
33.    An important aspect of the future development of the entities would be the audit of the receivables
transferred from the Board in order to determine their quality which would be essential at the time of
privatization of the distribution business and in the absence of which the receivables are likely to be largely
discounted by the investors. The process of verification of receivables and assessing its quality for
collection is likely to take about a year. Once the receivables have been audited and classified, the
uncollectable amounts will be written off or the relevant provisions made. In addition, the utilities will also
start making suitable provisions every year in the future to reflect the true value of their current assets.
34.   Investment and Financing Plan. Rajasthan proposes to invest Rs 1 16 billion (US$ 2.3 billion)
over the period FY00 to FY07, including contingencies and interest during construction. More than 50% of
this will be invested in the distribution system which has been neglected in the past and requires substantial
investment for rehabilitation and reinforcement to improve the quality of power supply as well as meet the
load growth. The investment plan in the initial years is curtailed by the financing constraints that exist.
The investment level is expected to increase gradually thereafter as implementation capacity as well as
financing capacity improves. While these levels are considered feasible, the precise delineation of future
investments will be crystallized later.
35.    The financing plan for the future (FY 2001-2007) currently assumes that lenders such as LIC,
PFC and REC will continue to lend at their past levels, and that they will, in later years, be willing to
increase the level of their lending as the financial situation of the sector improves. Over this period
therefore, LIC will provide about 4.7 percent of the investment requirements or about Rs. 4.9 billion every
year. REC will provide about 6.0 percent while PFC will provide 6.7 percent, and other state and central
financial institutions will provide about 2.6 percent. Commercial borrowings from other sources are
expected to make up about 17.3 percent while the sector's own internal resources generation is expected to
- 68 -



provide the largest portion of 27.3 percent of total investment requirements in this period. The Bank will
provide about 35.4 percent, made up of the present loan, and also future additional loans.
36.    As has been discussed above, despite the above sources of funding, there will be a significant
financing gap in the near future. The investment program envisaged in the future, though at a minimum, is
still not easy to finance. The Government has indicated that it will not be able to provide the additional
financing required to finance this level of investments. It is thus envisaged that the financing gap will be
bridged through sale of generation assets. It is unlikely that, in the absence of substantial private sector
involvement in the ownership and management in the sector, the sector will be able to finance its future
investment requirements.
37.    Availability of Power. For the near future it is expected that investments in new generation will be
made by Central Generating stations (CGS) and in the medium to long term also by IPPs; with only small
amounts invested by the sector utilities themselves. The procurement policy assumes that Central
Generating Stations would be dispatched before drawing power from the IPPs since the CGS are currently
cheaper on average, more flexible to changes in demand and their payment terms are less restrictive than
IPPs. The demand is likely to grow at about 7 percent but most of it is expected to be from domestic and
agriculture sector. Due, in part, to the poor power supply, the State is not currently able to attract much
new industrial investment. The ability of the utility to meet the demand is also constrained by its ability to
invest in the transmission and distribution system. As a result, the power available from own generation
and central generating stations is likely to be adequate for the foreseeable future. Financial projections
show that IPPs are not able to be financed in the initial 5-6 years, and are hence, assumed to be deferred.
The finances of the sector will critically depend upon rationalization of its power purchases and supply
regulation. Agreement will be reached with the government that it will not direct the power utilities to enter
into power purchase agreements unless it is demonstrated that this power is required and that RERC will
allow the costs to be covered through tariffs to the consumers.
38.    Capital Structure. As part of the transfer scheme, previously unfunded staff liabilities will be
recognized and long-term bonds issued for funding these liabilities as well as for overdue liabilities towards
creditors. In addition, most of the investment program especially in the near term continues to be
debt-financed. As a result, the ratio of debt to equity in each of the utilities is very high in the initial years,
at about 16:1 in FY 00 (opening balance sheet), but then gradually reduces to more acceptable levels of
3.6:1 in FY 04, and then to 1.9:1 by FY 07. The high debt-equity ratio in the initial years makes the
utilities particularly vulnerable to financial distress if cash flows do not improve as expected, and can lead
to defaults to lenders in the initial years, particularly since the debt service coverage ratio (DSCR) is low in
these years. To address the issue of high gearing in the initial years, Government support would be
provided as subsidy and no dividend paid till companies are adequately capitalized. The projections do not
take into account the inflow of the proceeds from the privatization of distribution (due to the difficulty of
estimating these receipts) or any future infusion of equity by private distribution companies, even though
the govermment has expressed willingness to invest the proceeds back in the business. However, the
proceeds of generation investment are assumed as part of the financial restructuring plan. The Government
will provide some initial support to the Discoms by providing RVPN with subsidy to reduce the bulk
supply tariff to the Discoms.
- 69 -



Risk Factors
39.    The financial risks associated with this project are considerable. There is no easy, risk free, way to
take an organization as large as RSEB from the verge of bankruptcy to creditworthiness. Whichever path
is taken by the sector it is fraught with risk, particularly financial risk. All the measures, which can be
taken by the Government of Rajasthan and the power utilities to mitigate these risks, are being taken, but
still significant risks will remain. Further measures are being discussed with the Government of India,
particularly means of sharing the financial burden during the transition period. The Bank will continue to
work with the State Government, the generating companies, RVPN, and the Discoms to minimize the risks,
as the project progresses. However, the Government and the Bank are convinced that the risks are worth
taking, given the huge benefits possible from restoring the creditworthiness of the Rajasthan power sector
and reducing its burden on the State's finances.
40.    From the other state power restructuring programs, it is clear that one of the big risks, and one of
the bigger challenges to sustainability, is the continued poor financial condition of the new utilities for the
first few years of their operations. The new utilities in Rajasthan will be able to achieve financial
turnaround provided they are supported by Government in the following issues: (i) the financial
restructuring plan is negotiated with lenders; (ii) cash subsidy at levels that enable the utilities to cover their
costs during the transition; (iii) the Government agrees not to direct the power utilities to enter into costly
power purchase agreements unless it is demonstrated that this power is required and RERC will allow the
costs to be covered through tariffs to the consumers; (iv) generation is divested and the proceeds re-invested
in the sector; and (iv) most critically, the distribution business is privatized so that non-technical losses can
be reduced through the introduction of an incentive system rewarding efficiency, and a commercially
oriented management. The success of the reform program hinges on the successful and rapid privatization
of the entire distribution business in the state. The financial turnaround of the sector is most sensitive to
the assumption on rapid distribution privatization.
41.    The Government agrees that (i) Government will assist the utilities to negotiate and agree on their
respective financial restructuring plans; (ii) the amounts of Government support, both subsidy and equity,
for meeting the financial objectives of the power sector entities, will be provided, in cash, on a timely basis
until the companies become financially self sufficient; (iii) Government will support the utilities in
contracting power and signing PPAs along sound commercial principles; (iv) Government will provide the
necessary guarantees to the utilities to issue the bonds required in the financial restructuring plan for
employee and trade related liabilities; and (v) Government will make budgetary provision for the electricity
dues of its departments, undertakings and local government institutions; and ensure that these amounts are
paid to the distribution companies on a regular and timely basis. In addition, RVUN, RVPN and the
Discoms agree to support the Government in each of the above.
42.    Rajasthan faces several challenges. It has to ensure that quality of supply starts improving while it
raises the tariffs, at the same time making sure that its procurement of high-cost power does not lead to
increasing losses with every marginal unit of purchase. It has to start reducing the cross-subsidy,
gradually, and making the subsidies transparent and explicit to move to a regime of setting power tariffs on
commercial principles. The utilities will face ongoing risks relating to their ability to (a) charge adequate
tariffs to recover cost of supply of power in the face of increasing power purchase costs; (b) reduce cross
subsidies to agricultural and residential customers; (c) reduce non-technical losses i.e. revenue leakages
from the system; (d) collect its bills, and (e) bridge the financing gap. These risks are discussed further
below.
- 70 -



43.    Tariffs. Until the utilities' tariffs are increased to cover their costs, every additional source of
power purchase, especially the high-cost liquid fuel and other IPPs, will have to be reviewed critically to
assess the utilities' ability to pay for it. However, the situation with respect to obtaining regular tariff
increases is expected to considerably improve, as these issues will now be in the purview of the Regulatory
Commission. Providing that the utilities make a full cost filing on time every year; the Commission will be
expected to assess and allow the appropriate level of tariff increase. Until the distribution business is
privatized, the sector will face the risk of the government not allowing the utilities to apply for cost
reflective tariffs on political grounds. This is a substantial risk, especially because of the political
sensitivities surrounding tariffs and subsidies in Rajasthan. Government agrees that, as the majority
shareholder, it will allow the utilities to apply for tariff increases, which enable the utilities to meet their
defined financial objectives. RVPN and the Discoms agree to file a full cost-recovery annual revenue and
tariff filing (or multi year tariff, as required) with the RERC each December.
44.    Further, Rajasthan has a very large agricultural consumer base presently estimated to be
consuming 33 percent of the total energy supply (based on the traditional lower estimate for transmission
and distribution losses of about 25 percent). The present tariff regime of cross-subsidizing agricultural
consumers at the expense of industrial customers is no longer sustainable because any further increase in
the industrial tariff will strongly encourage further switchover to captive generation or drive industry away
from the state. Reduction in cross subsidy will also be addressed, over time, by the Regulatory
Commission.
45.    Loss reduction. RSEB has been perpetually cash strapped since so much of its potential revenue
goes in losses. Technical losses will be reduced by addressing the most critical investments in transmission
and distribution as part of this project. Reductions in commercial loss levels are expected to be achieved
only once the system is privatised as the private sector owners will be able to change the incentives within
the system. Thus, the financial turnaround of the sector depends, substantially, on the rapid and successful
privatization of distribution, without which sustainable efficiency improvements are not possible.
46.    Financial Restructuring Assumptions. There is a risk that the assumptions on which the financial
restructuring plan (FRP) is based may not materialize. Despite efforts to make the plan realistic, this is a
substantial risk and is being addressed by obtaining an undertaking from the Government on their active
participation in the plan, and also discussions with GOI on this issue. Forecasts will be modified in the
light of the actual financial restructuring measures taken after negotiations with lenders and suppliers. In
the mean time the utilities will be expected to operate within the financial parameters defined by the
financial restructuring plan and in particular within the level of investment and financing described in the
plan. Quarterly reports to the Bank will detail the financial position and show variations from the FRP
projections.
47.    Privatisation. There is a risk that the privatisation process in Rajasthan could be derailed by a
change in the political will in Rajasthan or by factors outside the control of the State such as the perceived
political risk in India in general. In addition, the transactions could suffer by going to the market at the
same time as other States, thus limiting the availability of bidders. To minimise this risk the schedule for
offerings will be coordinated with Government of India and other States. One issue, which can seriously
impact the prospects for privatisation is the creation of escrows on revenue earned from specific geographic
areas, consumers or types of consumer. RVPN and the Discoms have agreed not to create such escrows
during the transition period.
48.    Transition period. Successor companies face the challenging task of bringing about rapid changes
in the culture and business attitude of their organizations. The initial years are likely to be very demanding
- 71 -



on the management and the staff, with unsettling changes in the work environment to which the staff have
been accustomed, and changes in the policies, structure, systems and procedures during the development of
an increasingly commercial environment. With the attention of the senior management focused on the
management of change-process, it is likely that operational and financial performance of the emerging
entities may deteriorate initially. Recognising this, efforts will be made to anticipate this deterioration in
performance and limit its impact.
Impact on State Finances
49.    The power sector in Rajasthan has been dependent on support from the Government in the past.
Despite increasing cash support from the Government the financial situation of the sector has been
deteriorating rapidly. Chart 2 below shows the cash support from the Govemment over the period FY90 -
FY99 (actuals) and FYOO - FY10 (projections). As is evident the support proposed during the transition
support is set at levels simnilar to the average support provided in the past and is thus considered
reasonable.
Chart 2: Cash support from the Government of Rajasthan
450
400
350
300
250 -
200-
150 
100  L
50
FY90 FY92 FY94  FY96 FY98  FY00 FY02 FY04  FY06 FY08 FY10
- 72 -



Table 7: Projected Net Cash Support from the Government of Rajasthan and financing of the same.
Rs Millions                          FY 01      FY 02     FY 03    FY 04    FY 05        FY 06     FY 07      FY 08       FY 09      FY 10
OUTFLOWS FROM GoR
Subsidy Support required from GoR     12,474     10,132     7,347     1,913
Total Capital Support from GoR            0          0         0         0          0         0          0          0           0          0
Repayment of Subsidy Bond '2000                              600      2,500     3,000      3,000      1,985
World Bank Loans to Successor entities  1,341     4,693     4,921     5,149     5,389      6,773     8,848       6,158      6,431       6,719
of RSEB
TOTAL OUTFLOWS FROM GoR               13,815    14,825    12,868      9,562     8,389     9,773     10,834      6,158       6,431      6,719
INFLOWS TO GoR
Receipts from the Sector
Electricity Duty                       2,275      2,477     2,692     3,043     3,309      3,574      3,827      4,108      4,417       4,751
Debt service of GoR Loans                 0          0         0         0          0         0          0          0           0          0
Dividends                                  0         0         0         0        897      1,039      1,265      1,299      1,037        776
Total Receipts from the Sector         2,275     2,477     2,692     3,043      4,206     4,614      5,092      5,407       5,454      5,526
External Receipts
Gol On-lending of World Bank Loans     1,341      4,693     4,921     5,149     5,389      6,773     8,848       6,158      6,431       6,719
Total External Receipts                1,341     4,693      4,921     5,149     5,389     6,773      8,848      6,158       6,431      6,719
TOTAL INFLOWS TO GoR                  3,616      7,169      7,613     8,192     9,595    11,386     13,941     11,565      11,885     12,245
NET CASH SUPPORT                      10,199     7,656     5,255      1,370   (1,206)   (1,613)    (3,107)    (5,407)    (5,454)    (5,526)
REQUIREMENT FROM GoR
FINANCING PLAN FOR CASH
SUPPORT REQUIREMENT
Budgetary Support from GoR             2,104      2,208     2,520     2,208
Divestment Proceeds (Generation and
Distribution)                                    15,000     4,054
Bridge Financing                       8,199      5,656     3,255
Debt Service of Bridge Financing               (15,000)   (4,054)     (630)
TOTAL FINANCING                       10,199     7,656     5,255      1,370
- 73 -



Comparison with Business as Usual Scenario
50.    For the purpose of comparing the fiscal impact in the two scenarios the physical condition of the
system in both scenarios has been kept at the same level, i.e., the investment plan has been kept constant
across both scenarios. Chart_ below shows the cash support requirement from the Government of
Rajasthan in the two scenarios. The support requirement in the Business as Usual Scenario is much higher
due to the need for the Government to provide support for capital investments along with subsidies since
funding from commercial sources will be difficult to obtain. In addition system losses are unlikely to
reduce and may actually go up. In addition, the cost of borrowing will be much higher due to erosion in
credit ratings and defaults that will mount if the required level of cash support from GoR does not
materialize. In the reform scenario GoR proposes to keep the actual level of budgetary support during the
transition period (FY01 - FY04) at an affordable level of about Rs.2 billion per annum. The difference
between the cash support requirement and the budgetary support is to be provided by disinvestment in the
generation and distribution assets of the sector; this is a reasonable strategy for a reforming utility since the
proceeds from divestment are likely to be higher if the sector is perceived to be turning around.
Chart 3: Net Cash Support Requirement
3000 -
2500                                                        -. - Business
as usual
2  2000-                                                              scenario
.  1500-                                                          .&Reform
Q:  X00                                                               scenario
1000 --A ,              
500       -                        _ _- -Reform
0                                 _             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~scenano-
0-                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~budgetary
-S00 -                                                             impact
FY01   FY02   FY03   FY04   FY05   FY06   FY07
Onlending Arrangements
51.   The borrower for the loan will be the Government of India. The Government of India will on-lend
the proceeds of the Bank loan, under its standard arrangements for developmental assistance to the States,
and fully additional to Rajasthan's regular plan assistance. The Government of Rajasthan will on-lend the
proceeds to the utilities on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Terms for the Bank loan to GOI
would include standard variable interest rate, five years of grace period and a final maturity of twenty
years. The closing date of the loan would be June 30, 2005.
52.   The expected on-lending terms are an interest rate bf 12 percent per annum, five years of grace
period, and a final maturity of twenty years for RVPN, RVUN and state-owned Discoms.
- 74 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
INDIA: RAJASTHAN POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Procurement
A.    Institutional capacity. An assessment was carried out to determine the institutional capacity of RSEB
to undertake project procurement. RSEB had a Material Management Department, which procures,
stores and distributes transmission and distribution equipment throughout Rajasthan. RSEB's
procedures mainly involved national competitive bidding. However, using funds provided by PFC
under Bank financing, RSEB had followed International Competitive Bidding procedures, which it
intends to mainly employ for the procurement of goods to be procured under the loan. Thus, RSEB
had the institutional capacity to carryout project procurement for this project and this capacity will be
transferred directly to the successor entities. However, in order to update their knowledge on Bank's
current procurement documentation and procedures, RVPN and the Discoms will be deputing some of
their key officers to outside training institutes offering procurement courses such as the National
Institute of Financial Management [NIFM], Faridabad, or the Administrative Staff College of India
[ASCI], Hyderabad.
The prior review thresholds described at Paragraph D below have been decided upon after assessing
RSEB and its successor entities' capacity for carrying out project procurement satisfactorily.
B.    A General Procurement Notice (GNP) has been published in the UNDB. The first set of Specific
Procurement Notices (SPN) for both Distribution and Transmission items was published in July 2000.
C.   Procurement Methods.
1. All project activities financed under the Loan will be procured in accordance with Bank's Guidelines
for Procurement (January 1995, Revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and January
1999). Specific procurement arrangements are summarized in Table A.
2. Goods and Equipment (US$156.9 Million)
2.1   International Competitive Bidding (ICB): US$148.7 Million
RVPN and Discoms will procure most of the materials through ICB procedures to attract international
competition in order to elicit least costs. Contracts for purchase of Goods and Equipment valued at
US$200,000 or more would be procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedure in
accordance with Bank procurement Guidelines, with preference for domestically manufactured goods.
2.2    National Competitive Bidding (NCB): US$5 Million
Contracts for Goods and Equipment and other supplies valued at less than US$200,000 per contract,
equivalent would be procured on the basis of procurement procedures for National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) as described in paragraph E below, in accordance with Bank guidelines.
- 75 -



2.3    Shopping: US$ 2.2 Million
Isolated or small lot purchases or some immediate requirements of equipment, individually costing the
equivalent of US$50,000 or less to an aggregate ceiling of US$ 2 Million would be procured following
National Shopping Procedures. Items costing less than US$50,000 equivalent, which are not locally
available, would be procured following International Shopping (obtaining at least 3 quotations in two
different countries) in accordance with the Bank guidelines within the same aggregate ceiling.
2.4    Direct Contracting (US$ I Million)
It is envisaged that there will be need for Direct Contracting in some cases for computer software,
audio/video communications equipment, information education and communication (IEC) materials,
reference standard books and other materials, estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$ $50,000
per contract and also in exceptional cases with Bank's prior agreement as an extension of an existing
contract for goods of a similar nature (and such exigencies as defined in the Guidelines) of values less than
US$ 100,000 per contract, up to aggregate of US$ I million will be procured on the basis Direct
Contracting procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines.
3. Works (US$ 56.4Million)
3.1   International Competitive Bidding (US$5.0 Million)
Works including installation work, namely semi-turnkey contracts for the erection of transmission lines
will be procured following ICB procedures. All high value items such as conductors, power transformers,
instrumient transforrners, circuit breakers, control and relay panels will be procured separately by RVPN
following ICB procedures. Transmission towers, along with erection of transmission lines will be given as
a semi-turnkey ICB contract with free supply of conductors, procured seperately following Bank's ICB
procedures by RVPN. Similarly, sub-stations with all minor items of equipment [except for major items
listed above] will be also procured on a semi-turnkey basis.
3.2    National Competitive Bidding (US$11. 1 Million)
Civil and installation works such as substation, distribution works that are spread over large areas in the
State, and for which each contract value is less than US$ 5 million will be procured using standard NCB
bid documents and NCB procedures as described in paragraph E below, in accordance with Bank
guidelines.
3.3    Works, not Bank-financed (US$ 40.3 Million)
The erection and installation of a large portion of the transmission and distribution materials to be
procured under the loan, will be carried out by staff ofRVPN, Ajmer Discom, Jaipur Discom and
Jodhpur Discom..
4. Technical Assistance, Studies and Training, Information and Communication (US$8.2 Million)
4.1    Technical assistance, studies, training and information and communications campaign are
expected to be funded by the Bank (US$5.6 million) and by USAID (US$2.0 million). Expenditure related
to the information and commnunications program unit include design and printing of advertisements in
- 76 -



press, TV, radio, etc., as well as print leaflets for distribution in seminars/meetings organized for reporting
on the status and obtaining feedback on the reformn process.
4.2    Consulting services to be funded through the Bank's loan would be procured in conformity
with the Banks guidelines for the selection and employment of consultants by the World Bank borrowers
(January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999). Most (US$3 million) of these services will be
procured via QCBS procedures. However, specialist services (US$ 1.9 million) to advise Rajasthan on the
sector reforms will be procured using QBS procedures. Where the services of specialists are required to
advise Rajasthan on environmental and socio-economic issues, appropriately qualified consultants will be
contracted using Single Source or Individual Consultant procedures as described in the Bank's guidelines
(US$0.7 million).
D. Review of Procurement Decision by the Bank.
1. Procurement Planning.
RSEB had prepared a procurement plan for the identified works under the project, which have been
reviewed and approved by the Bank. Procurement of the identified works will be undertaken in
accordance with this procurement plan.
2. Prior Review
2.1    Goods and Equipment
All ICB packages and first two NCB packages would be subjected to prior review by the Bank.
2.2 Works
All packages for works estimated to cost the equivalent of US$300,000 or more will be subject to prior
review by the Bank as per procedures set forth in Paragraphs 2&3 of Appendix 1 to the Bank guidelines.
2.3    Technical Assistance, Studies and Training
The following would be subject to prior review by the Bank
(a) Terms of References for all consultants;
(b) Contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost more than US$100,000;
(c) Contracts for the employment of Individual consultants estimated to cost more than
US$50,000;
(d) All single source selection of consulting finns and organizations and individual consultants;
(e) Amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms, which raise the contract
value to US$100,000 or above;
(f) Assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; and
- 77 -



(g) Amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants, which raise the contract
value to US$50,000 or above.
3. Post Review
3.1    Works and Goods
Contracts below the prior threshold for Works and Goods shall be subject to post review as per procedure
set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix I of the Bank Guidelines.
3.2    Technical Assistance, Studies and Training
Contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than US$100,000 and contracts
for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than US$50,000 shall be subject to post review
provided that the TORs have been cleared with the Bank.
E. Procurement Procedures under National Competitive Bidding
With reference to the procedures for undertaking procurement on the basis of National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) all NCB contracts shall be awarded in accordance with the provision s of paragraphs 3.3
and 3.4 of the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published by the Bank in
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. In this
regard, all NCB contracts to be financed from the proceeds of the Loan shall follow the following
procedures:
[1]   Only the model bidding documents for NCB agreed with the governnent of India Task Force [and
as amended from time to time]; shall be used for bidding.
[2]   Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national daily newspaper, at
least 30 days prior to the deadline for the submission of bids.
[3]   No special preference will be accorded to any bidder when competing with foreign bidders,
state-owned enterprises, small-scale enterprises or enterprises from any given State.
[4]   There shall no negotiation of price with the bidders, even with the lowest evaluated bidder.
[5]   Except in cases of force majeure and/ or situations beyond control of the Borrower, extension of
bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior concurrence of the Bank [i] for the first request for
extension if it is longer than eight weeks; and [ii] for all subsequent requests for extension irrespective of
the period.
[6]   Rebidding shall not be carried out without prior concurrence of the Bank. The system of rejecting
bids outside a pre-determined margin or "bracket" of prices shall not be used.
[7]   Rate contracts entered into by DGs&D will not be accepted as a substitute for NCB procedures.
Such Contracts will be accepted for any procurement under National Shopping procedures.
- 78 -



F. Procurement Information
Procurement Information will be collected and recorded as follows:
(a) Prompt reporting of contract award information by the Project Management Unit (PMU) for respective
components.
(b) A comprehensive quarterly report by the PMU indicating:
(i) revised cost estimates for individual contracts and total cost;
(ii) review timing of procurement actions including advertising, bidding, contract award and
completion time for individual contracts;
(iii) compliance report by the Borrower within three months of the loan closing date.
G. Proposed Procurement Arrangements
The project elements, their estimated costs and proposed methods of procurement are summarized in Table
A and Al and Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts to be financed by the IDA /Bank.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method1
Expenditure Category          ICB           NCB ur M.BF.                          Total Cost
1. Works                          5.00          11.10         0.00         40.30         56.40
(5.00)        (8.90)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (13.90)
2. Goods                         148.70         5.00          3.20          0.00         156.90
(148.70)       (5.00)        (3.00)        (0.00)      (156.70)
3. Services                       0.00          0.00          5.60          2.60          8.20
Technical assistance and         (0.00)        (0.00)        (5.60)        (0.00)        (5.60)
Information/Communication
4. Refinancing PPF                0.00          0.00          2.00          0.00          2.00
(0.00)       (0.00)         (2.00)        (0.00)       (2.00)
5. Interest during                0.00          0.00          0.00         41.50         41.50
construction
(0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Front-end fee                  0.00          0.00          1.80          0.00          1.80
(0.00)       (0.00)         (1.80)        (0.00)       (1.80)
Total                         153.70         16.10         12.60         84.40        266.80
(153.70)      (13.90)       (12.40)       (0.00)       (180.00)
' Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
- 79 -



I Includes goods to be procured through national shopping or direct contracting consulting services,
services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, and technical assistance services.
This also includes repayment of PPF.
Notes: ICB Works number indicates the sub-projects to be financed with the help of the Bank loan during the time
slice period; ICB Goods number indicates the total investments in goods and materials for distribution and
transmission to be made by RVPN during the time slice; ICB Goods number (Bank financed) indicates the amount
of goods to be procured via ICB by RVPN and Discoms with 100% financing from the loan.
- 80 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant SSectfon   Me,tod
Expenditure    QC"BS      QS       SFR       LCS        CQ       Other    N.B.F.  Total Cost'
Category
A. Firms           3.00      1.90     0.00      0.00      0.20      0.00      2.00      7.10
(3.00)    (1.90)    (0.00)    (00)    (0.20)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (5.10)
B. Individuals     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.50      0.60      1.10
-I___ (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.50)    (0.00)    (0.50)
Total   3.00     1.90      0.00      0.00      0.20      0.50      2.60      8.20
(3.00)    (1.90)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.20)    (0.50)    (0.00)    (5.60)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
- 81 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract yalue                    ~~Conbaco &4*ect to
Expenditure CategOr"            U $                  Me_hod
1. Works                  All installation works          ICB             All ($5 Million) - about
above $5 Million                                   five packages
All installation works         NCB
below $5 Million                              All valued at $300,000 &
above ($8.9 Million) -
about 60 packages
2. Goods                All items valued $200,000        ICB             All ($149 Million) - about
& more                                         75 packages
All items between $50,000        NCB
& $200,000                                  First Two (0.3 Million)
Below $50,000      Shopping/Direct Contracting
Nil
3. Services                                      As per Bank Guidelines        $5.0 Million
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$168.2 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every six months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
The threshold limits have been fixed appropriately taking into account the capacity of the borrower in this
regard.
nThreshds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 82 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$milWin          Financing Percentage
Works, including installation and          13.90          80% of expenditures for works executed
erection of transmission lines and                       via (a) supply and erect procedures or (b)
substations                                                       via NCB procedures
Goods                                     156.70                     100% of CIF
100% of ex-factory expenditures
80% of other local expenditures
Consultant services                        5.60           100% of foreign and local expenditures
Refinancing of PPF                         2.00
Total Project Costs                       178.20
Interest during construction       0.00
Front-end fee         1.80            _                        _
Total                                     180.00     _
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursements for equipment contracts valued at less than US$200,000 equivalent; for civil works and
erection contracts at less than US$300,000; for services under contracts not exceeding US$100,000 with
consulting firms; for services under contracts not exceeding US$50,000 with individual consultants; and
for all staff training and studies; and information and communication contracts not exceeding US$ 50,000
would be made against statement of expenditures (SOEs), the documentation of which would be retained by
RVPN and the Discoms for inspection by supervision missions.
Special account:
US $ 25 million (initially US$15 million increasing to US$25 million once the cumulative disbursements
exceed US$50 million).
H.    Financial Management Issues
1.    Basis of Accounting
Rajasthan State Electricity Board followed Commercial Accounting System as prescribed under
Section 9 of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948. The detailed guidelines and Chart of Accounts are
contained in the Electricity (Supply) (Annual Accounts) Rules, 1985. The accounting principles
(standards) and policies are also defined in these rules and are mandatory for all state electricity
boards. The Board's accounting had well-developed audit trail. The Board's successor entities will
inherit this accounting system including all the elements described in the following paragraphs. The
successor entities will make improvements to these systems as noted below.
- 83 -



2.    Accounting and financial management
The basic accounting in the utilities takes place in 55 units spread over the entire state. These
accounting units prepare monthly trial balances. The compilation of Trial Balances takes place with
the help of a computer program. The accounting processes outside head office are manual. Though
units prepare trial balances every month, financial statements (balance sheet, profit & loss account) are
prepared by head office only at the year-end. The Board and its successor companies shall prepare
financial statements based on monthly trial balances consolidated by their respective head offices.
RSEB had been innovative in its financing. Unlike most SEBs it had not defaulted significantly on its
payments to creditors or its debt repayments. It had financed its cash flow through sale-and-lease-back
of assets or debt financing through the issue of bonds (both long term and short term). Control of these
transactions had resulted in a significantly better level of financial management and control within
RSEB than is seen in other Boards.
More detailed financial management information, which is integrated with the billing and collection
data will be required for the efficient management of the new entities. To this end new computerised
accounting systems will be introduced which are capable of aggregating and disaggregating data in
such a way as to produce management reports showing comparisons to budget and also to costing
information.
3.     Staffing
RSEB and its successor entities have 230 accounting officers, 593 supervisors and 1623 junior
accountants and clerks. Of the total 2640 accounts related staff, 1872 have a degree level qualification
and some five have professional qualifications. The Board had a cadre based accounting staff where
the minimum entry level qualification was graduation. Although the accounting staff is knowledgeable
about the utilities accounting practices and Government accounting, there is a lack of senior staff to
provide professional expertise for difficult issues. Thus the existing senior staff tend to be over-loaded.
Considering the importance of financial management in the context of the changes currently envisaged
for the sector, it will be essential that the successor companies induct further professionally qualified
and well trained financial management staff and also provide training to their existing staff.
4.     Billing and Collection System
Billing is decentralized to the level of the 410 revenue sub-divisions. For domestic consumers the
billing is done every two months whereas for commercial and industrial consumers the billing is done
monthly. The preparation of bills and consumers ledger is carried out by 4 private computer data
processing agencies. The collection is carried out by outside agencies (usually the local association of
government pensioners) for most of the urban centres and by the utility itself for the most of the rural
areas. The collection agencies deposit the amounts collected to the utility daily, either through a Bank
or a sub-division office. Data on the amounts collected and other master file data is provided to the
computer agencies each month, for updating the customer ledgers. The computer agencies produce
reports, which, amongst other things, show any accounts for which the periodic bill is exceptional.
This report is used to identify incidences of over or under billing. Both the computer agencies and the
collection agencies are paid a fee for the services that they provide. The Board was unable to reconcile
the agency billing information to the accounting control accounts. It is expected that the private
- 84-



investors will modify the billing and collection system according to their requirements. In the interim,
the new companies will review the entire billing mechanism to strengthen internal control through more
accurate and timely reconciliation.
5.    Budgeting System
The Board prepared annual budgets for revenue, expenditure, and capital at HO level. This budget
was then divided between the units. The Board did not prepare periodic statements giving details of
actual vs. budgeted amounts. However, in respect of capital expenditure, periodic comparisons of
actual to budgeted expenditure were carried out. The Board's successor companies shall prepare
quarterly statements comparing budget provisions and actual expenditures.
6.     Costing
The Board had a separate Costing Section at generating stations to prepare, periodically, cost
statements based on information collected from the accounting section. Since costing and accounting
records are not integrated, the costing information lacks timeliness. In order to ensure timeliness of
cost statements, with better reliability and also to avoid duplication, it is essential that the financial and
costing systems are integrated. These issues will be addressed by the new companies, after they have
begun operations and their respective managements have had time to determine the institutional
development needs.
7.    Inventory Management
Each Power Station and each Transmission Division has an independent store. Distribution Divisions
receive materials from Centralized Stores. Inventory records are manually maintained. Though orders
for centralized Distribution Divisions are placed by HQ, material is received by the various stores
directly. The stores verify the invoices and send them to Inventory Management & Control
Organization (IMCO). Payments are made centrally by Central Payment Cell (CPC). The Storekeeper
conducts semi-annual physical verification of stores. IMCO conducts annual verification. Considering
large investment in the inventory and large number of items, computerization of inventory records
would be highly beneficial and should receive priority. These issues will be addressed by the new
companies, after they have begun operations and their respective managements have had time to
determine the institutional development needs.
8.    Internal Audit
The Board had an Internal Audit Wing which reported to the Board through the Member Finance. The
internal audit section conducted mainly compliance testing. Concepts of Management Audit or
Operational Audit were not implemented. The successor entities should strengthen the internal audit
function by inducting professionally qualified managers and staff. To ensure independence, the internal
audit chiefs will report to the Chief Executive and submit reports to the respective Board of Directors
of each entity.
9.    External Audit
The Board was audited annually by the Comptroller & Auditor General of India (CAG). RSEB's
successor entities will review the items noted in its recent audit reports and take steps to further
- 85 -



improve their accounting policies to bring them on a par with Accounting Standards promulgated by
the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India that are mandatory in India. The external audit of
RVPN, RVUN and the Discoms will be carried out by independent auditors as appointed by the
Government of India on advice of the Comptroller and Audit General of India as per requirement of the
Companies Act 1956. Said auditors will have also have to be acceptable to the Bank.
Project Financial Statements to be prepared by the successor entities as per agreed Project
Management Report formats, will be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
and in accordance with the standards of auditing acceptable to the Bank. The audit of project
accounts would include an assessment of the adequacy of accounting and internal control systems,
ability to maintain adequate documentation for transactions, and eligibility of expenditures for Bank
financing. The audited Project Financial Statements together with the auditor's opinion on it -
including an opinion on the statements of expenses - would be submitted to the Bank not later than six
months after the close of each fiscal year. In addition, the successor entities will furnish to the Bank
annual audited corporate financial statements. The audit report on the Special Account maintained by
the Government of India would include a summary of special account transactions and the closing
balance held by the Reserve Bank of India. The audit report on the SA would be submitted to the
Bank not later than six months after the close of each fiscal year
10.   Loan Administration
The Board's accounting divisions prepared monthly Trial Balances as mentioned earlier - though
financial statements are not prepared until the year end. The Board also prepared annual budgets -
though statements reflecting budget vs. actual were not prepared. The basic systems to prepare Project
Management Reports (PMR) do exist though it would require fine tuning to generate timely and
reliable reports. In view of the unbundling of the Board and formation of new companies, RVPN and
the discoms (and RVUN should it make use of the loan) will prepare only selected PMR reports in the
first year and then they will prepare full PMR reports after one year. It is envisaged that disbursement
during the first two years of the first loan would be made using the traditional method of disbursement,
but that PMR based disbursement would be used from then onwards and for any subsequent loans.
11.   Agreed action plan
11.1  Immediate measures (to be implemented as soon as the Project is declared effective):
a)    Separate Bank Account: RVPN and the discoms shall open a separate bank account
where project funds will be deposited and from which project expenditures will be incurred.
b)    Separate Project Account Code: RVPN and the discoms shall assign a separate Account
Code to capture project related expenditures. The Account Code should have adequate sub codes to
capture expenditures by component.
c)    Dedicated Project Financial Manager: RVPN and the discoms will nominate or recruit
a dedicated finance professional who will be Tesponsible for project financial management in
general and, in particular, for preparing Project Management Reports (PMRs), coordinating with
Controller of Aid Accounts and Audit (CAA&A) and the Bank.
- 86 -



11.2   Short term measures
a)    Review of Billing and Collection Practices: RVPN and the discoms shall review the
control structure and introduce steps to strengthen the system in the short term before the
distribution companies are privatized. (by September 30, 2001)
b)    Preparaton of Monthly Financial Statements: RVPN and the discoms shall prepare
monthly financial statements based on monthly trial balances consolidated by the HQ Accounts.
(by March 31, 2002)
c)    Preparation ofBudget vs. Actual Statement: RVPN and the discoms shall prepare
quarterly statements comparing budget provisions and actual expenditures. (by March 31, 2002)
11.3   Long-term measures (commencing by September 30, 2002 and completed during the course of
the project)
In view of the unbundling of The Board and incorporation of new companies, it is preferable that the
new companies be in place and have the basic structure before introducing modem business systems or
revamping the existing legacy systems.
a)     Upgrading Financial Management Capacity. The companies shall induct further
professionally qualified and well trained financial management professionals at the middle
and senior level and provide training to existing staff to bring about improvement in the
financial management area.
b)     Upgrading Internal Audit Capacity. The companies shall strengthen the internal audit
function by inducting further professionally qualified managers and staff; and providing
training to existing staff. To ensure independence, the Head of the internal audit shall
report directly to the Chief Executive and submit reports to the Board of Directors.
c)    Introduce Computerized Integrated Financial Accounting Systems. For providing
relevant, timely and accurate infornation, the companies shall implement well designed
computerized financial accounting systems. The billing and collection data shall also be
integrated with the accounting systems so as have better internal controls. The
computerized system shall reflect Component-wise and Category-wise expenditures,
produce financial reports that show actual versus budgeted expenditures for the current
period and to date, and provide costing information. It shall also capture information
regarding the method of procurement so that the limits of procurement laid down in the
Procurement Schedule in the Project Agreement are properly monitored.
- 87 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
INDIA: RAJASTHAN POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Prject SChedul|                                    Panne         A; tual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       45                           82
First Bank mission (identification)              06/15/94                     06/21/94
Appraisal mission departure                      11/15/97                     03/07/2000
Negotiations                                     02/15/98                      11/27/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    04/01/98                     02/28/2001
Prepared by:
State Government of Rajasthan
Preparation assistance:
IBRD - Project Preparation Fund Advance; Japan Trust Fund
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Magdalena V. Manzo                Sr. Operations Officer, Task Leader
Anthony Sparkes                   Sr. Power Engineer, Accredited Procurement Specialist
Judith Plummer                    Sr. Financial Analyst, Accredited Financial Management Specialist
Lucio Monari                      Sr. Economist
Supriya Sen                       Sr. Financial Analyst
Sunil Kumar Khosla                Sr. Energy Specialist
Sameer Akbar                      Environmental Specialist
Mohammad Hasan                    Sr. Social Development Officer
Kari Nyman                        Lead Energy Specialist
Syed I. Ahmed                     Sr. Counsel
Natarajan Raman                   Sr. Procurement Engineer/Consultant
Rajesh Sinha                      Financial Analyst
Sameer Shukla                     Financial Analyst
Djamal Mostefai                   Lead Energy Specialist
Chandra Govindarajalu             Energy Specialist
Vikki Ziff                        Projects Assistant
Thelma L. Rutledge                Team Assistant
Deepti Sharma                     Prograrn Assistant
- 88 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
INDIA: RAJASTHAN POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan, report dated July 1, 2000
Financial Restructuring Plan, report dated February 2000
GoR Approved Financial Restructuring Plan, March 2000
Rajasthan Power Sector Reforms-Third Interim Report, April 2000
Terms of Reference for Consultant Services under Technical Assistance Program
Terms of Reference for Consultant Services under Technical Assistance Program - Sub-component:
Environmental Management)
System load flow studies and associated schematic diagrams
Transmission scheme feasibility reports
Economic Justification Report - RSEB, July 2000
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Project Concept Document - 1995
Aide Memoires
Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR), 1989
Country Profile of Financial Accountability (CPFA)
C. Other
The Rajasthan Power Sector Reforms Act, 1999
Rajasthan Power Sector Social Policy and Procedures, December 1999
Opportunities and Barriers for Development of Rural Energy Markets in India, State Report for Rajasthan,
Operations Research Group, 1996
Notifications declaring the Reform Act (June 1, 2000), and the Transfer Scheme (July 19, 2000)
Notification declaring (Conduct of Business) Regulations, effective (January 22, 2000)
Notification declaring the Miscellaneous Provisions Order, 2000
Notification declaring Powers & Functions of Secretary of RERC, effective (January 22, 2000)
Notification declaring the RERC (Tariff) Regulations, effective (April 11, 2000)
Memorandum and Articles of Association of Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Limited
And other Notices from RERC
*Including electronic files
- 89 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
INDIA: RAJASTHAN POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
1 5-Oct-2000
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions            disbursements'
Project ID     FY   Borrower                        Purpose                                        IBRD       IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.         Orig   Frm Rev'd
P045051        1999 India                       2ND NATL HIV/AIDS CO                                 0.00      191.00       0.00      165.07       4.57       0.00
P049301        1997 India                       A.P. EMERG. CYCLONE                                 50.00      100.00       0.00      95.50       95.71       0.00
P010503        1995 India                       AGRIC HUMAN RES DEVr                                 0.00       59.50       0.00      16.69       20.34       0.00
P010489        1995 India                       AP 1ST REF. HEALTH S                                 0.00      133.00       0.00      39.82       19.26       0.00
P045049        2000 India                       AP DPIP                                              0.00      111.00       0.00     103.25       -3.60       0.00
P049385        1998 India                       AP ECON RESTRUCTURIN                               301.30     241.90        0.00     401.16      104.38       0.00
P035158        1997 India                       AP IRRIGATION III                                  175.00      150.00       0.00     230.96       88.48       0.00
P049537        1999 India                       AP POWER APL I                                     210.00        0.00       0.00     145.78       52.78       0.00
P010522        1995 India                       ASSAM RURAL INFRA                                    0.00      126.00       0.00      77.39       49.46       0.74
P010455        1994 India                       BLINDNESS CONTROL                                    0.00      117.80       0.00      65.87       51.00       0.00
P010480        1996 India                       BOMBAY SEW DISPOSAL                                167.00       25.00       0.00      102.01      96.03       0.00
P043310        1996 India                       COAL ENV & SOCIAL MITIGATION                          0.00      63.00       0.00      32.95       24.79       0.00
P009979        1998 India                       COAL SECTOR REHAB                                  530.00        2.00     268.70      34.51      145.36     145.36
P009870        1994 India                       CONTAINER TRANSPORT                                 94.00        0.00      15.00      40.62       55.62      55.31
P010464        1995 India                       DISTRICT PRIMARY ED                                  0.00      260.30       0.00      91.91       64.77       0.00
P035821        1996 India                       DPEP II                                              0.00     425.20        0.00      195.57      18.91       0.00
P038021        1998 India                       DPEP III (BIHAR)                                     0.00      152.00       0.00     121.93       63.62       0.00
P036062        1997 India                       ECODEVELOPMENT                                       0.00       28.00       0.00      18.46       11.15       0.00
P043728        1997 India                       ENV CAPACITY BLDG TA                                 0.00       50.00       0.00      39.46       25.19       0.00
P010563        1995 India                       FINANCIAL SECTOR DEV PROJ. (FSDP)                  700.00        0.00     301.30      84.13        0.00       0.00
P010448        1994 India                       FORESTRY RESEARCH ED                                 0.00       47.00       0.00       11.25      30.29       0.95
P010566        2001 India                       GUJARAT HWYS                                       381.00        0.00       0.00     381.00        8.00       0.00
P035160        1998 India                       HARYANA POWER APL-I                                 60.00        0.00       0.00      26.35       23.35       0.00
P010485        1996 India                       HYDROLOGY PROJECT                                    0.00      142.00       0.00      71.30       74.47       0.00
P039935        1996 India                       ILFS-INFRAS FINANCE                                200.00        5.00       0.00      178.79     154.20       0.00
P067330        2000 India                      IMMUNIZATION STRENGTHENING PROJECT                    0.00      142.60       0.00      138.23       0.00       0.00
P010463        1995 India                      INDUS POLLUTION PREV                                143.00       25.00       1.64     141.63      131.02       4.66
P049477        1998 India                       KERALA FORESTRY                                      0.00       39.00       0.00      27.12        1.19       0.00
P010461        1995 India                       MADRAS WAT SUP 11                                  275.80        0.00     189.30      31.68      213.77       4.58
P050651        1999 India                       MAHARASH HEALTH SYS                                  0.00      134.00       0.00     122.87      130.47       0.00
P010511        1997 India                       MALARIA CONTROL                                      0.00      164.80       0.00      130.11      67.69       0.00
P009946        1992 India                       NAT. HIGHWAYS II                                   153.00      153.00       0.00       70.14      56.50      21.84
P009869        1989 India                       NATHPAJHAKRIHYDRO                                  485.00        0.00       0.00       80.50      80.50      19.95
P009972        2000 India                       NATIONAL HIGHWAYS III PROJECT                      516.00        0.00       0.00     516.00        0.00       0.00
P010561        1998 India                       NATLAGRTECHNOLOGY                                   96.80      100.00       0.00      185.33      67.56       0.00
P010496        1998 India                       ORISSA HEALTH SYS                                    0.00       76.40       0.00      70.37       19.04       0.00
P035170        1996 India                       ORISSA POWER SECTOR                                350.00        0.00       0.00     260.59      160.60       0.00
P010529        1996 India                       ORISSAWRCP                                           0.00      290.90       0.00      118.06      39.81       0.00
P010416        1993 India                       PGC POWER SYSTEM                                   350.00        0.00      75.00       37.46     112.46       0.00
P010457        1994 India                       POPULATION IX                                        0.00       88.60       0.00       38.03      29.15       0.00
P009963        1992 India                       POPULATION Vil                                      0.00       79.00       0.00      40.82       42.76       0.00
P045050        1999 India                       RAJASTHAN DPEP                                        0.00      85.70       0.00       78.83      16.17       0.00
P010505        2000 India                       RAJASTHAN DPIP                                       0.00      100.48       0.00      93.71       -2.96       0.00
P049770        2000 India                       REN EGY II                                          80.00       50.00       0.00      127.93       0.00       0.00
- 90 -



Difference between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions           and actual
disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                      Purpose                                     IBRD         IDA    Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Revd
P010410        1993 India                     RENEWABLE RESOURCES                              75.00     115.00      0.00      62.62     94.26       0.00
P010531       1997 India                      REPRODUCTIVE HEALTHi                              0.00    248.30       0.00     169.10     91.19      49.51
P044449        1997 India                     RURAL WOMEN'S DEVELOPMENT                         0.00      19.50      0.00      16.07      12.39       0.00
P009921        1992 India                    SHRIMP & FISH CULTUR                               0.00     85.00      50.02      14.58      62.95      14.34
P035825        1996 India                    STATE HEALTH SYS II                                0.00    350.00       0.00     182.62     153.49       0.00
P009995        1997 India                     STATE HIGHWAYS I(AP)                            350.00       0.00      0.00     264.64      79.64       0.00
P045600       1997 India                      TASTS RD INFRADEV                                51.50      0.00       0.00      17.24      14.24      14.99
P059501       2000 India                     TA for Econ Reform Project                         0.00      45.00      0.00      43.55       0.00       0.00
P010476        1995 India                    TAMIL NADU WRCP                                    0.00    282.90       0.00     136.73     112.76       0.00
P050658       2001 India                     TECHN EDUC III                                     0.00      64.90      0.00      63.65       0.00       0.00
P050637       1999 India                     TN URBAN DEV II                                  105.00      0.00       0.00      87.21      19.88      0.0u
P010473       1997 India                      TUBERCULOSIS CONTROL                              0.00     142.40      0.00     109.35      76.40       0.00
P055456       2000 India                     Telecommunications Sector Reform TA               62.00      0.00       0.00      61.38      -0.62       0.00
P035824       1998 India                      UP DIV AGRC SUPPORT                              79.90     50.00       0.00     114.50      48.44      0.00
P050667       2000 India                      UP DPEP III                                       0.00     182.40      0.00     164.60      -7.76      0.00
P035169       1998 India                      UP FORESTRY                                       0.00     52.94       0.00      33.86      10.07       0.00
P050657       2000 India                      UP Health Systems Development Project             0.00     110.00      0.00     103.32      -0.72       0.00
P035172       2000 India                      UP POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT           150.00       0.00      0.00     138.88       0.00       0.00
P010484        1996 India                     UP RURAL WATER                                   59.60       0.00      7.20      37.60      26.90       0.00
P050646       1999 India                      UP SODIC LANDS II                                 0.00     194.10      0.00     170.40      30.20       0.00
P009961       1993 India                      UP SODIC LANDS RECLA                              0.00      54.70      0.00       2.33       2.35       0.00
P009964        1994 India                    WATER RES CONSOLID H                               0.00    258.00       0.00      97.38      82.35       0.00
P035827       1998 India                     WOMEN & CHILD DEVLPM                               0.00    300.00       0.00     279.72      17.91       0.00
P041264       1999 India                     WTRSHD MGMT HILLS                                 85.00      50.00      0.00     118.25       5.41       0.00
Total:    6335.90     6564.32      908.16     7570.72   3375.59    332.23
- 91 -



INDIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
1 5-Oct-2000
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                      Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1997              20TH Century                   8.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993              20th Century                   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989              AEC                            6.76    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.76    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994              Ambuja Cement                  2.67    4.94    0.00    0.00    2.67    4.94    0.00    0.00
1992/93           Arvind Mills                   0.00   10.18    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.18    0.00    0.00
1997              Asian Electronic               0.00    5.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.50    0.00    0.00
1984/91           Bihar Sponge                   0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00
1997              CEAT                          19.80    0.00    0.00    0.00   19.80    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990/92           CESC                          21.00    0.00    0.00   46.90   21.00    0.00    0.00   46.90
1995              Centurion Bank                 0.00    4.67    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.67    0.00    0.00
2000               Chinai                        1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994              Chowgule                      12.63    4.58    0.00   19.38   12.63    4.58    0.00   19.38
1997              Duncan Hospital                7.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997              EEPL                           0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00
1986              EXB-City Mills                0.48    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.48    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986              EXB-STG                        0.31    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.31    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995              EXIMBANK                      11.37    0.00    0.00    0.00   11.37    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995              GE Capital                     6.25    5.00    0.00    0.00    6.25    4.39    0.00    0.00
1986/92/93/94     GESCO                          0.00    1.86    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.86    0.00    0.00
1988/94           GKN Driveshafts                0.00    0.33    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.33    0.00    0.00
1994/97           GVK                            0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
0                Gesco Corp. Ltd               0.00    1.18    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.18    0.00    0.00
1994/98/00        Global Trust                   0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.78    0.00    0.00
Gujarat Ambuja                0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994              HDFC                           0.00    0.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.50    0.00    0.00
1978/87/91/93     HOEL                           0.00    0.28    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.28    0.00    0.00
1990              Hindustan                      0.62    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.62    0.00    0.00    0.00
1987              IAAF                           0.00    6.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.98    0.00    0.00
1998              ICICI-IFGL                     0.00    0.14    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.14    0.00    0.00
1990/94           ICICI-SPIC Fine                0.00    2.79    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.79    0.00    0.00
1990/95/00        IDFC                           0.00   15.46    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.46    0.00    0.00
1998              IL&FS                          0.00    3.12    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.12    0.00    0.00
1990/93/94/98     IL&FS Venture                  0.00    0.60    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.60    0.00    0.00
1992/95           ITW Signode                    0.00    0.34    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.34    0.00    0.00
1981/86/91/93/96    India Direct Fnd             0.00    7.47    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.29    0.00    0.00
1996              India Equipment                0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986/93/94/95     India Lease                    0.00    0.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.30    0.00    0.00
1984/90/94        Indo Rama                      0.00    2.14    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.14    0.00    0.00
1993/94/96        Indus 11                       0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.50    0.00    0.00
1996              Indus Mauritius               0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996              Indus VC Mgt Co                0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00
1992              Indus VCF                      0.00    0.93    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.93    0.00    0.00
1992              Info Tech Fund                 0.00    0.64    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.64    0.00    0.00
1992              Ispat Industries               0.00    3.64    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.64    0.00    0.00
1992/94/97
Total Portfolio:      188.28   151.33    5.00    75.28   154.77   135.27   5.00   75.2i
- 92 -



Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2000              APCL                           7100.00     0.00   1900.00      0.00
1999              Carraro                       10000.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
2001              GTB SME Facility              20000.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
2000              IndAsia                           0.00     0.00  15000.00      0.00
2001              Internet Express                  0.00     0.00   5000.00      0.00
2001              Jetair                            0.00  15000.00     0.00      0.00
2000              SREI II                       10000.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
1999              Sarshatali Coal               30000.00     0.00   5000.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:    77100.00  15000.00  26900.00     0.00
- 93 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
INDIA: RAJASTHAN POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
POVERTY and SOcIAL                                              South      Low.
India      As     Incorome     Development dlamond^
Population mid-year Inifionsl                        997;5      1.329     2,417                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, uS$)                      440       440       410
GNP (Atlas metho  uS$ billions)                       441.8       581       988
Average annua growth, 1993.99
Pooulation (%)                                          1.?        1.9       1.9     GNGrs
Labor force (M J                                        21         2.3       2.3     GNP                               Gross
per    I-primary
most r#sent estimata (tatest yqr avaltabtf. 199099)                                  capita                        enrollment
Povertv I% of population below nati&nal povertv fine)    35
Urban oooutation fe% oftot#d Potuletion)                 28        28        31
Life expectancv at birth (voss)                          63        62        60
Infant mortalitv (per 1,000 live births)                 70        75        77
Chid malnutrition (% of chitdren under 5)                53        51        43                 Access to safe water
Access to imoroved water source (% of population)        81        77        64
Illiteracy (% ofDopulatbion ae 15+)                      44        46        39
Gross opimarv enrotiment % of schooi-agp Population)    100       100        96       -India            Low-incomegroup
Mate                                                 109        11O       102
Female                                                90         90        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS, and LONG-TERM TREND8S
1979     1989       1998      1S99
Economic ratto'
GOP (U5$ billions)                           150,1    290.5     419.1      447.3
Gross domestic investment/GOP                 22.8     24.1       21 8      22.9                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GOP              6.7      7.3       11.3      12 1
Gross domestic savings/GDP                    20.7     218        19.2      20.0
Gross national savinaslGOP                    22.2     21.4       20.8      221
Current account balanceGOP                    -0.5     -1.8       408       -0.8     Doesi
Interest payments/GOP                          0m3 1.1             1c1 12
Total debt/GOP                                11.9     26.0       23A4      22.9     Savings                       nesmt
Total debt servcelexports                     10.1     28.6       17.0      15,6
Present value of debt/GDP                            ..           20.1
Present value of debt/exports                   .                143.3         -
Indebtedness
197949  1989-S9      1998       199S   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GOP                                  5.7       5.8      6,8        6.5       6.4       -     India       Low-income group
GNP per caoita                       3.3       3.9      4.         4.9       4,7
Exports of goods and services        4.9      11.8     12.5        1.7       7,5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1999      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                           30
Aqriculture                                   36.8     31.6       29.1      27.7
Industrv                                      25.0     27.6       25.7      26.3     15
Manufacturing                               17.4     17.4       15.6      15.9        I  '_
Services                                      38.3     40.8      45.2       46.0      o -          9f      '  9    9 f9
Private consumption                           69.2     66.1      68.6       68.0     15
General government consumotion                10.0     12.2       12.3      12.0              -     GDI     _G DP
Imports of coods and services                  8.7      9.6       14.0      15.0
1979-89  1989-99      1998       1999     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average snnual growth)
Agriculture                                    3.4      3.3        7.2       1.3    40-
Industry                                       6.6      6.5        4.0       8.8    30
Manufacturing                                7.0      7.0        3.6       8.5    204-
Services                                       6.7      7.5        8.3       7.9
1 0
Private consumption                            5.5      5.2        3.2       2.9  o   0           _    ,    ,    ,    _
General govemment consumption                  7.8      5.9       14.5      10.3            9
Gross domestic investment                      5.7      6.2        4.3      11.5    10
Imoorts of goods and services                  6.5      8.8       -2.5      -3.6            -Exports    S-Impons
Gross national product                         5.5      5.8        6.7       6.8
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
^ The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) comDared with its income-grouw average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 94 -



India
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989      1998     1999      Inflation (%)
Domesdrc odas$
(% change)
Consumer prs                                  ..     6,2      13.2      4.6    10
implicit GDP deflator                      15.8      8.3       8.9      3.3
Government finance                                                              a
(% of GDP, khc/deAs cumn-t grants)                                              o
Current revenue                              ..   23.5        21.8     23.6            94   95   96   97   98    9
Current budget balance                       *-      0.4      -1.7    -0.01            -GDP denator '*'CPI
Overall surplus/defilit                      ..   -12.5      -10.6    -11.4
TRADE
1979    1989      1998      1999     Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                          ..  16,613    33,667   38,326    0o,0oo
Tea                                         ..    550        547      564
Iron                                        ..    557        380      374     4
Manufactures                                ..  12,730    26,870   31,314
Total Imports (cf)                           ..  21,219    41,858   55,385
Food                                        ..    714      2,543    2,459    20,00_
Fuel and energy                             ..   3,768     6,435   10,682
Capital noods                               .,   5,288     9,122   10,192        o N E W
ExportprLceindex(1995=100)                    ..    113        94        92
Import prie Index (1995=100)                  ..     89        92        90                I Exports    * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    ..    128         102      102
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979    1989      1998      1999     Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ mlllhns)
Exports of goods and services             9,980   21,201    47,484   54,047     0
Imports of goods and services            13,120   27,934    58,565   67,250
Resource balance                         -3,140   4,733   -11,081  -13,203                *        --
Net income                                  627    -798    -2,955   -3,133               E U I 'll" '
Net current transfers                     1,852    2,281    10,587   12,638    -1        5
Curent account balance                     -761   -5,249     3,449   -3,699
FinancnR Items (net)                        985    4,400     7,382    9,487
Changes In net rserves                     -224     850    -3,933   -5,788    -2
Mmo:
Reserves including gold (USS mniIons)     7,581    4,582    33.584   38,150
Conversion rate (DEC, focatUSS)             8.1    16.7       42.1     43.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989      1998      1999
(USS millions)                                                                  CompositIon of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed     17,898   75,407    98,232  102,626
IBRD                                      728    6,615     7,993    7,879
IDA                                     4,505   12,521    18,562   18,984                G: 4,329    A: 7,879
Total debt service                        1,282    6,955    10.001    10,527
IBRD                                      127     881      1,627    1,415                                  B 18,984
IDA                                        43     188      1,372      458
Composition of net resource flows                                                F: 42.241                     C 26
Official grants                           717     698       476       300
Officialreditors                          646    2,489     1,727    1,701                                   D:4,503
Prvate creditors                           13    2,870    -1,433     414
Foreign direct investment                  49     252      2,635    2,155
Potfoio equity                              0     168       342    3,026                              E: 24,664
Wodd Bank program
Commitments                               766    2,987     2,055      909     A - IBRO                   E - Bilaterat
Disbursements                             695    2,011     1.421    1,592     B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                       77     450      2,193    1,211     C-IMF                      G- Short-term
Net fbos                                  619    1,561      -772      381
Interest payments                          93     619       806       663
Net transfers                             525     942    -1,578      -282
Development Economics                                                                                           8/25/00
- 95 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
INDIA: RAJASTHAN POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Reform Policy Statement, 1999
1.    Power Scenario in Rajasthan
At the time of formation of the State in 1949 the installed capacity was a mere 13.27 MW and the
electricity supply was limited to the princely States and few towns. The Power Sector in Rajasthan
received impetus after the formation of RSEB on 1st July 1957 and planned growth in installed capacity,
transmission net-work and rural electrification took place with the state investing 28 - 30% of the its plan
outlay in the initial years in the Power Sector.
The State Grid, as on March 99, has access to 3356 MW of installed capacity. Of this 1302 MW is
exclusively owned and operated by RSEB whereas the state has a share of 949 MW in the inter-state
partnership projects, both hydel and thermal, and has an allocation of 1105 MW in the Central Sector
power stations. The transmission & distribution system covers a large geographical area of 3,42,000 Sq.
Kms., 2/3rd of which is desert with low population density, serving over 50 Lac consumers from different
categories. Electricity Sales have been growing at an annual average of 11 %. The unserved demand, is
significant as evidenced by a backlog of over 6 Lac applications in service connections.
At present Rajasthan State Electricity Board (RSEB), a vertically integrated State owned utility constituted
under the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948, is the sole supplier of electricity to the consumers of the state.
However, without Government's subvention, RSEB has not been able to achieve the rate of return of 3%
on net fixed assets after interest, as stipulated in Electricity (Supply) Act 1948.
Like most other States in the country, the power system in Rajasthan is characterised by the problems of
frequent service interruptions, high system losses, unexpected voltage and frequency swings, restrictions on
demand, poor cost recovery and heavy commercial losses. The State is also facing chronic power shortage
both in terms of peaking availability as well as energy availability to the extent of 36% and 11%
respectively. The State's power scenario is unlikely to improve in the next few years and shortages, both in
terms of MW and energy, would continue till the end of the 10th Five Year Plan.
2.    Policy Initiatives taken by the Government of Rajasthan
In 1991, Government of India opened the power generation industry to private sector investment in an
effort to mobilise resources for power generation. In 1993, the Governnent of Rajasthan decided to reform
its power sector with the objective of creating conditions for sustainable development of power sector and
improving efficiency and quality of service to the consumers by allowing private participation in the State
Power Sector, particularly in generation. This was followed by a Broad Reform Policy Statement, issued in
Sept. 1995, with the aim of attracting private investment and expertise to expand and improve electricity
services in the State and to enable the sector to gain access to capital market and commercial financing.
- 96 -



In the past almost exclusive reliance was placed on facilitating private power generation through
Independent Power Producers (IPPs) and transfer of selected existing generating stations to the private
sector adopting the international competitive bidding route. Letters of intent were issued for liquid fuel
based power plants of smaller capacity ranging between 50 MW to 166 MW having low gestation period
and Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) were signed for 2646 MW capacity. PPAs were also signed for
702 MW naphtha based and 500 MW lignite based projects. Though these two projects received the
techno-economic clearance of Central Electricity Authority (CEA), yet in neither case financial closure has
been attained. Thus there has been virtually no progress in regard to implementation of these projects. Slow
progress of private sector projects have given rise to the need to pursue the power generation projects in the
State sector with greater vigor, while continuing to support private sector initiatives in generation.
With this end, the State Govt. has decided to take up the 2x250 MW Suratgarh Therrnal Power Station
stage II in the state sector. Simultaneously, on the basis of the recommendations of Cabinet Sub-committee,
especially set up for this purpose, some of the PPAs, previously signed, have been reviewed with a view to
increase the prospects of their achieving quick financial closure.
Government of Rajasthan has also announced a policy to encourage generation based on non-conventional
energy sources, on 11th March 99, in which a number of concessions have been offered.
3.    Investment Requirements of Power Sector
In order to meet the expected shortage during the X Plan Period, installed capacity will be required to be
raised by 5000 MW. This would require an investment of about Rs.20, 000 crores in generation and an
equivalent amount in developing Transmission & Distribution system. With its limited resources and the
competing needs for investments in other sectors of economy and for welfare of the weaker & other
vulnerable sections of society, the State will not be able to support such a program without mobilising
private investment in a big way.
4.    Need for Reforms in Power Sector
The State Government is convinced that rapid and self-sustaining growth of power sector and its financial
viability is essential for a speedier and sustained socio-economic development of the State. Given the grave
difficulties being faced by the power sector in terms of investment, its management, and regulation,
Government of Rajasthan recognises the need to bring about comprehensive reforms in the power sector to
facilitate and attract investments in the power sector, bring about improvements in the efficiency of delivery
system and create an environment for growth in the power sector for the overall benefit of the people of the
state. A healthy, dynamic and growth oriented power sector will pave the way for rapid industrialisation of
the State and growth and stability in the agricultural production.
5.    Emerging Environment of Reforms
Recognising the need for reforms in the power sector, the Government of India has endeavored to evolve a
national consensus for reforms. Two conferences of Chief Ministers' was convened in 1996, towards the
end, leading to the adoption of the Common Minimum National Action Plan on Power. The Electricity
Regulatory Commission Act was enacted by Government of India in July 1998. More, recently, in a
conference of Chief Minister's in December 98, a Power Reform initiative was endorsed. However, a
number of steps are required to be taken at the State level to provide a comprehensive solution for
restructuring the power sector. In the recent past many States have initiated measures to reform the power
- 97 -



sector and to set up regulatory bodies. Orissa, Andhra Pradesh and Haryana have already enacted the
required legislation for supporting reforns. Many other states have already established the Regulatory
Commission or are in the process of doing so as also restructuring their power sectors.
6.     Objectives of Power Sector Reforms
The Power Sector reforms programme of the Government of Rajasthan will endeavour:
i.     To supply electricity to the consumers under the most efficient conditions in terms of quality and
cost in order to support the economic development of the State;
ii.    To take effective steps to enable the power sector to mobilise, from within the sector, adequate
financial resources for financing grid expansion requirements;
iii.    To create an operating and regulatory enviromnent conducive to investment and competition so as
to foster entry of private participants into power generation, transmission and distribution and to attract the
capital and expertise required to support power system upgradation, expansion and service quality
improvement.
7.     Agenda for Reforms
The Government of Rajasthan is fmnly committed to bring about comprehensive reforms in the power
sector to achieve the aforesaid objectives and accordingly, this Statement of its policy on Power Sector
Reforms Programme is being issued replacing the Policy Statements of 1995, revised in 1997 and 1998.
The main components of the proposed reform programme are:
i.     Establishments of an independent Regulatory Commission to regulate the functioning of the power
sector on sound commercial principles; to safeguard the interests of customers in respect of quality,
reliability and fair price for electricity; to set cost and efficiency based tariffs to ensure the creditworthiness
and viability of the power sector and to progressively eliminate tariff distortions and subsidies.
ii.    Segregation of the generation, transmission and distribution functions in to separate services to be
provided by separate autonomous companies.
iii.    Reconfiguration of the distribution system into distinct economically viable geographical zones
each served by an autonomous distribution company.
iv.    Corporatisation and Commercialisation of the emerging power sector entities to make the power
sector attractive for the prospective investors.
v.     Retention of the role of policy formulation with the State Government
vi.    Promotion of competition among various power sector entities.
vii.    Management of demand to conserve and promote efficient use of energy and ensure environmental
protection.
8.     Structural changes in the Power Sector
The power sector will be restructured to encourage functional specialisation, decentralisation, autonomy
and accountability in decision making; to facilitate & encourage private sector participation; to
progressively promote competition in different segments of the sector; and to ensure an effective, efficient
and independent regulation of the sector. The new power companies will operate within an independent
regulatory regime which promotes efficiency and makes the companies accountable for the quality and
reliability of the service provided to the customers.
- 98 -



The functions presently being performed by the vertically integrated RSEB will be segregated into separate
generation, transmission and distribution companies to be incorporated under the Indian Companies Act,
1956. Separate profit centres will be established within these companies to further promote productivity
and efficiency. To grant appropriate managerial and operational autonomy to the new companies, while
these are State owned, the Government will ensure that at least one fifth of the Directors are from outside
the Government entities, and that for each company the Directors are appointed exclusively on the basis of
professional merit.
The existing generation stations of RSEB will be grouped under a separate power generation company.
Transmission of power will be entrusted to a separate transmission company. Power distribution will be
assigned to a number of independent power distribution companies.
The State Government has decided to set up the Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory Commission (RERC),
under the Electricity Regulatory Commission Act 1998, enacted by the Government of India, for
establishing a regulatory framework which will seek to balance the interests of various stakeholders e.g.
customers, investors, lenders, suppliers, the government as the trustee of the public interest, the utilities,
and the people of Rajasthan.
The State Govermnent also intends to redefine its role in the private sector from an operator and regulator
of utilities to a facilitator towards greater investment and promoting productivity and efficiency. The State
Government will be focusing on broad policy formulation in power sector. With the reform programme the
State Government is confident of channeling a larger investment in power sector to rehabilitate and expand
the transmission and distribution system.
9.    Power Generation
The existing Power Stations and those under conmmissioning in the State sector, will be transferred to a
separate generation company to be registered under the Indian Companies Act, 1956. This company will
start its operation, as a wholly state owned company and the State Government may, at a later stage, invite
private sector participation in this company. The Company, like other IPPs will sell power to the
transmission Company for further sale to the distribution companies. This Company will be responsible for
generating from all the existing generating stations of RSEB and complete the projects under
commissioning by RSEB.
In future new power generation projects in Rajasthan will be mainly developed by:
i.    Independent Power Producers (IPPs) selected through international competitive binding (ICB);
ii.    Central sector generating corporations; or
iii.    By the generation companies itself or in Joint venture with private partners, other States or Central
undertakings
The Govenmment of Rajasthan may make investments in power generation for extension of the existing
power stations as well as to bridge the shortfall in the availability of power.
10.   Power Transmission
A State owned transmission company, to be incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956, will be entrusted
with the power transmission network of extra high tension lines including O&M of inter state tie lines, in so
- 99 -



far as they pertain to the state. The transmission company will be responsible for purchasing power from
generating company and various IPPs in Rajasthan, importing and exchanges of power from and with
Central power generation corporations, jointly owned projects, regional projects, other SEBs, other power
projects within or outside the country. The pooled power will be supplied to different distribution
companies. The Transmission Company will be the principal transmission utility in the State,
The Transmission Company will take over the entitlements and commitments undertaken by RSEB
regarding the procurement of bulk power and will fulfill them in accordance with its own corporate
objectives, subject to the directives of the Regulatory Commission. The Transmission Company will
dispatch the power on merit order basis, subject to the limitations of PPAs already entered into, so as to
avail the least cost power available in the grid.
11.   Power Distribution
The State will be geographically divided into a number of distribution companies to be formed on
considerations of viability and operational ease. These distribution companies will operate under a license
to be granted by RERC. They will approach RERC individually for fixing their retail tariffs, and amongst
the distribution companies, differential tariffs may progressively emerge based on relative costs and
performance.
These distribution companies though initially owned by the State Government will, in a phased manner, be
converted into joint ventures (JVC) where the private partners will hold majority shares and management
control including the obligation to bring in the required investments and to meet the performance
obligations under the license. The selection of the private partner will be done through a carefully designed
international competitive bidding process to ensure selection of a technically and financially competent
partner.
To motivate the employees, who are important stakeholders in growth of these companies, Government of
Rajasthan considers it desirable to invite the employees of RSEB and its successor companies, to
participate in the equities of these new companies. The entire process of forming JVCs and transferring the
distribution business to them would be completed by the end of 2004, although a more rapid schedule is
targeted.
12.   Regulation of the Power Sector
As stated earlier, GOR has already taken a decision to set up Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory Commission
(RERC) under the provisions of the Electricity Regulatory Commission Act, 1998 enacted by Government
of India. The Rajasthan Power Sector Reforms Bill, 1999 will be enacted to provide for restructuring of the
power sector. The Bill will also recognise the Regulatory Commission, being set up under Electricity
Regulatory Commission Act, 1998.
RERC will, as an autonomous regulatory authority, regulate power purchase and procurement process of
the transmission and distribution utilities. It will also determine tariff for electricity transmission and
supply, promote transparency, efficiency and economy in the operation and management of the power
utilities, encourage competition and help the power sector in Rajasthan to attract private capital for
development while ensuring a fair deal to the customers. The RERC will have three members each having a
fixed tenure and appointed by the State Government on the recommendations of an independent Selection
Committee as stipulated under the Act. It is also proposed to confer the power upon RERC to issue
licenses, to transmission and distribution companies, under the proposed Power Sector Reforms Bill, 99.
- 100 -



The Government of Rajasthan is committed to take all necessary steps to facilitate and ensure the
independent functioning of the RERC. The Government will also abide by the provisions of the Reform
Legislation with regard to the fixation of tariff by the comnmission and whenever the Govermment decides to
subsidise the supply of power to specific groups of consumers, it will pay the required subsidies.
13.   Financial Restructuring for Reforms
Given the present financial situation of RSEB, major financial restructuring is critical to enable the new
companies to start their operations on a financially viable basis. The financial restructuring will include
rationalization of tariffs, restructuring of the balance sheets of the functionally unbundled Power Sector
entities through identification and write off of and provisioning for doubtftl or non-perforning assets;
settlement of un-funded liabilities; and design and implementation of a suitable mechanism to clear the
accumulated debt and overdue commercial liabilities.
Presently the agricultural sector, and to a lesser extent the domestic sector, are highly subsidised, resulting
in annual revenue deficit of about Rs. 1000 crores. This shortfall is compensated by subsidies from the
State Govermment and long term borrowings from the open market and financial institutions. The reforms
programme aims to eliminate need for any State subsidies in a phased manner and make the power sector
not only self-reliant but a net generator of resources for the state economy over a period of time.
To meet the growing requirements of investrnent in power sector for improved availability of power, the
State Government undertakes that the resources generated as a result of the divestures of the existing
entities shall be ploughed back specifically for the development of the power sector.
14.   Power Sector Reforms Bill
In order to pave the way for the reform process, Rajasthan Power Sector Reforms Bill, 1999 will be
enacted to provide the legislative framework for the setting up and functioning of the autonomous
regulatory commission, segregation of specialized functions to the separate entities and creation of an
environment for the growth and efficient functioning of the power sector.
15.   Human Resource Development
The Rajasthan Power Sector Reform Bill will provide for safeguarding the interests of the employees of the
RSEB. It will ensure that any change in service conditions or rules will not be less favourable than those
existing today. The benefits available to the employees and their service conditions, are, therefore ensured
and protected. All the existing employees of RSEB will be absorbed in the new power utilities. Transfer of
employees will be based on a time bound transfer scheme to be prepared by the State Government.
With the anticipated growth of the power system, the personnel policies and employment conditions of the
companies would need to be much more progressive in attracting and retaining highly skilled staff and
providing incentives to the staff for constantly upgrading their skills. The staff should be among the
beneficiaries and not the losers of the reform program.
The reform process will be accompanied by training and other human resource development programs to
improve skills and work environment and to enable the employees to discharge their responsibilities and
functions in a more efficient manner under the commercially oriented companies. A key objective of
restructuring is to create a culture where customer service and commercial functioning are paramount. The
- 101 -



employees will have new opportunities to undertake greater responsibility, be accountable for delivering
results and have higher opportunities for career advancement.
16.   Intermediate Investment Plan
The Government of Rajasthan recognises that the process of reforming the power sector is likely to be long
drawn. In fact, it may take few years before the full benefits of the reforms are experienced. In the short
and medium tern, there is a dire need to address the most urgent needs of the sector, improve the quality of
power in the most critically affected areas, improve the interface with consumers and improve the safety
and working conditions of staff duly employing information technology tools to score radical benefits. An
intermediate Investment Plan will be developed and financed jointly by the State Government and external
aid agencies to address these investment requirements.
17.   Communication Strategy
The Government of Rajasthan is conscious that success of the reform process critically depends on its
acceptance by the stakeholders e.g. consumers, employees, investors, lenders, creditors, and above all the
people of the State. In addition to ensuring that all the technical aspects of the reform process are properly
addressed, the implementation strategy will use participatory approach to address and balance the genuine
concerns of the various stakeholders and will aim at building a broad and durable constituency for change.
T1he Government and the management of RSEB and its successors will continue and intensify the
communication campaign to educate and enlighten the stakeholders and public at large about the need for
reforms, its various components, implementation strategy, time table and the expected benefits to various
category of stakeholders. The communication efforts will necessarily focus on the various groups of RSEB
employees, end users- industrial, agricultural and domestic consumers, Government functionaries,
academicians, opinion leaders, non-Government organisations etc. This feed back during this process will
also help to improve the design and implementation of the reform measures.
18.   Demand Side Management
The reform programme will also focus on demand side management (DSM) with the objective to improve
efficiency in supply and end-use of electricity. All resources, including energy conservation and use of
non-conventional and renewable energy sources, will be considered in the process of power planning to
manage the power demand effectively and reduce the need for additional conventional generation capacity.
The main focus of the strategy for demand side management will be on:
i.    Introduction of tariff linked demand side management
ii.    Improvement of efficiency of agriculture tube wells and industrial installations
iii.    Launching of consumer awareness campaign on various energy conservation measures.
Various options to bring in demand side management measures will be explored and suitable policies will
be notified in consultation with the RERC. Energy efficiency and DSM programmes will be promoted
through developing bankable strategies and programmes in consultation with the stakeholders.
19.   Environmental and Social Aspects
The Government reaffirms its commitment to ensure a fair, efficient and transparent handling of all matters
relating to land acquisition and involuntary resettlement, including loss of assets and other negative impacts
- 102-



on Project Affected Persons (PAPS) resulting from various developmental projects, irrespective of sources
of financing. In this context, the State Government is formulating the Rehabilitation and Resettlement
Policy (R&R) for the people affected by the acquisition of land for various developmental projects.
The environmental aspects of power generation and supply under the reform programme will receive the
utmost attention of the State Government. Environmental impact will be fully integrated in planning and
implementation of all generation, transmission and distribution projects. The renovation and modemisation
of existing power generation stations, already undertaken, will minimise the adverse environmental impacts
on the surrounding areas. New projects will be developed in accordance with applicable environmental
standards and resettlement and rehabilitation policies. Reform initiatives such as reduction in transmission
and distribution losses, improved metering, billing and collections, improvement in energy efficiency, and
promotion of demand side management will have a positive impact on the environment.
20.   Implementation Strategy
In order to guide and closely monitor the implementation of the reform programme, the Government will
formulate a Project Implementation Plan (PIP) which will spell out clearly the implementation action, steps,
resources, responsibilities, milestones and schedules. The implementation plan will constitute the reference
framework for monitoring the progress in carrying out the reform programme.
A Reformn Guidance Committee chaired by the Energy Minister is being set up to guide the reform
programme. This will be in addition to the existing Steering Committee under the chairmanship of the Chief
Secretary. A Task force headed by Chairman, RSEB would operationalise the policy decisions taken by the
State Government, Reform Guidance Committee and Steering Committee and would coordinate and
monitor the implementation of the reform programme. A Reform Office, headed by Executive Director in
RSEB, to effectively manage the reforms process has been set up. Specialised working groups will be
formed to study various aspects of the reform process, prepare the blue print, set time schedules and
facilitate the implementation of the reform administration. Services of outside experts and consultants will
be engaged to further professionalise the process.
21.   Improved Consumer Interface
Consumers have often been the most neglected segment in the state owned and operated infrastructure
sector. Ensuring better quality of service and protecting the interest of the consumer is one of the key
elements of the reform process. With greater investment flowing into the sector and its effective regulation,
the availability as well as quality of power will improve benefiting all sections of the consumers. A
vigorous campaign to educate the consumers on their rights, to disseminate information on the regulatory
decisions and on the quality standards and mechanisms available for the redressal of consumer complaints
will be taken up.
An Advisory Committee with representatives from consumer, agriculture, industry, commerce, trade,
labour and licensees for transmission and distribution will be set up to advise the State Regulatory
Commission on major policy issues and quality of service provided to the consurners.
22.   Impact on the Development of the State
The Government of Rajasthan believes that the Reform Programme will lead to a quantum jump in the
productivity and effriciency of the Power Sector. The availability of ample power at competitive rates will
have a multiplier effect on the economy of the State through increase in investrnents and improved
- 103-



productivity of agriculture, industry and commerce. With the turn around and self-sustained growth of the
Power Sector, huge resources presently being spent on the Power Sector will be available for investment in
socially more desirable activities. In fact, the power Sector will become a major contributor to the finances
of the State through inter-alia, returns on equity held by the Government. The Government of Rajasthan
intends to use these funds for poverty alleviation and socio-economic uplift of the oppressed sections of
population through increased investments in programmes like education, health family welfare and welfare
of weaker section.
Govermment of Rajasthan is, thus, fully committed to bringing about comprehensive reforms in the power
sector in the State The Rajasthan Power Sector Reforns Bill 1999 will put in place the required legislative
framework. The institutional changes required to implement the reform process are already under
implementation. Given its clear commitment to the people of Rajasthan to provide quality power,
efficiently, reliably and at reasonable rates, the Government of Rajasthan dedicates itself to the task of
reforming, restructuring and restoring the credit worthiness of the power sector for the larger benefit of the
people of the State.
-104 -



Additional
Annex No.: 12
INDIA: RAJASTHAN POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Reform Program and Implementation Plan - A Summary
The power sector in Rajasthan is today faced with declining physical and financial health. Growing
shortages of electricity hampers the potential for economic development of the State. RSEB, being a
vertically integrated monopoly power utility, owned and operated by GoR, has many socio-economic
compulsions and commitments that are not always driven by commercial orientation. Specifically, tariff
setting is one area where the Board has been highly influenced by the policies and decisions of the State
Government. Tariff revisions are ad-hoc; tariffs for agriculture and domestic customers are highly
subsidised; and extent of cross subsidisation has reached unsustainable levels. Further, being a vertically
integrated utility the functional priorities get distorted particularly in the situation of resource scarcity. All
this has led to growing commercial losses of RSEB.
The demand for power in Rajasthan is expected to grow at about 6% to 6.5% per annum during FY2000 -
FY2007. Eliminating power deficits and meeting this potential demand is estimated to require new capacity
addition of about 1OOOMW during the next eight years. Total investments required in power generation,
transmission and distribution is estimated to be of the order of Rs 116 billion. Such level of investments can
not be financed under the present situation of low financial viability of RSEB and the growing resource
constraint faced by the State Govenmment.
It is against this background and with the objective to find solutions for the sustainable growth and
development of the power sector, that GoR has initiated the Reform and Restructuring of the Power Sector.
Implementation of the Reform Program
A. Reform Legislation
1. The Legislative Assembly of Rajasthan has approved the Rajasthan Power Sector Reforms Bill
on September 25, 1999. The Reform Bill has since then got the Presidential Assent, gazetted and
enacted. The Reform Act provides inter-alia for the following.
(a) The establishment and constitution of the Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory Commission
(RERC); proceedings, powers and functions of the Commission; and the selection procedures for
the Commission's Chairman and members
(b) Powers of the State Government
(c) Re-organisation of electricity industry by unbundling on functional lines i.e. Generation,
Transmission and Distribution Companies
(d) Licensing of transmission and supply/distribution of power and
(e) Tariffs and financial matters relating to the licensees
For full details, see Project Implementation Plan: IBRD Rajasthan Power Sector Restructuring Program Loan.
Rajasthan State Electricity Board. Jaipur, Rajasthan, India. May 2000.
- 105 -



B. Establishmnent of Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory Commission
1. Objective and functions of RERC
(a) Establishment of RERC is the first step towards the new industry structure in the power sector.
It is envisaged that there are segments of the industry that can not have free competition in
the immediate future - like the transmission & bulk supply and distribution & retail supply.
In these areas of natural monopolies proper regulatory mechanism would act as the
stimulator for an efficient operation of the utilities.
(b) The regulator in the power sector is going to be a quasi-judicial body drawing the current
executive powers of the state government and having judicial power to impose its decision. The
role of the state government is going to be limited to advising the commission on the matters of
policy involving public interest.
2. Selection of Commission Members
(a) The first step in the establishment of RERC was the appointment of the three members of the
Commnission (one Chairman and two members), in accordance with the procedures of selection
prescribed in the Electricity Regulatory Commission Act, 1998. A 3-member "Selection
Committee" was established and comprised of
(i) A Judge of the Supreme Court - Chairperson
(ii) Chief Secretary to the Government of Rajasthan - Member
(iii) Member of the Central Electricity Authority -- Member
(b) The Selection Committee called for nominations for the appointment of members of RERC
from general public, professional bodies, consumer organisations, and prepared a shortlist of
candidates for each post of the member. The draft terms and conditions of the services of the
members of the Commission had already been prepared and approved by GoR, and notified
through the official gazette. Other preparatory works i.e. advance intimation to professional
organisations, preparation of draft advertisement soliciting nominations, draft notification for
appointrnent of Selection Committee had been completed.
(c) The Selection Committee notified the names of the members and the chairman of the
commission on 31st Dec. 1999. The Chairman and one member of the commission took oath of
office on 2nd January 2000, and the third member was installed after four months.
3. Support for Establishment and Functioning of RERC
(a) GoR recognises that the establishment of RERC and initiation of its operations is critical to the
implementation of the reform program. To assist in the process of establishment of RERC, RSEB
constituted a Regulatory Affairs sub-group, under the Power Sector Reform office. The Working
sub-group has initiated several tasks required for establishing the Commission and commencement
of its operations. In the initial period of its constitution RERC would primarily concentrate on
finalising its personnel policies, appointment of staff, finalising its code of conduct and business
rules, developing and putting in place its systems and procedures for performing its regulatory
functions and preparation of institutional development plan. The sub-group has prepared the drafts
-106 -



of the various documents, which are being reviewed and finalised by RERC on its establishment.
C. Unbundling, Corporatisation and Commnercialisation
1. On July 19, 2000 RSEB was unbundled into new entities based on functional specialisation, namely
(a) Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Limited, which will own and operate the existing
power stations of RSEB
(b) Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Prasaran Nigam Limited, which would be responsible for
transmission and bulk supply of electricity in Rajasthan
(c) The distribution function was vested into three Distribution Companies, registered under the
Companies Act based in Jaipur, Jodhpur and Ajmer, respectively.
2. RSEB had constituted a Distribution Reconfiguration sub-group to initiate the preparatory work
required for delineation of boundaries of Distribution Companies, incorporating them and their
subsequent privatisation. For analysing and evaluating various DISCOM configuration options, circle
level data has been collected. Data collected included geographic and demographic information, details
of number of consumers, services in various categories, load growth, energy sales and revenue from
various consumer categories, assets and liabilities and other charges, sub-stations and distribution
transformer details, length of lines of various voltages etc. The Consultants PwC have developed
various DISCOM configuration options and their viabilities. The final configuration was decided by
the Task Force and approved in June 2000.
3. Corporatisation of New entities
(a) The Memorandum of Association (MoA) and the Article of Association (AoA) of the successor
utilities are in place. The Corporatisation agreement between the GoR and the utilities are under
preparation. These new companies on establishment will be Government owned companies and
Government might invite private sector participation at a later stage in the Generation Company,
through divestment of Government equity and/or induction of additional equity by private
investors. However, on their establishment on the Transfer Date, all the companies would
commence their operations on commercial principles as laid out in their MoA/AoA and
Corporatisation Agreements with GoR.
4. Transfer of Undertakings and Persomnel
(a) The most critical aspect of unbundling of RSEB and establishment of the new entities is
transfer of assets, liabilities ,personnel and proceedings from RSEB to the new entities. In
accordance with Section 14 of the Reform Act, immediately following the effectiveness of the Act,
the assets & liabilities and proceedings of RSEB were transferred to the State Government and
simultaneously transferred to the successor entities. All generating stations excluding Rajasthan
State's interest in interstate projects, along with land, buildings and associated equipment were
transferred to Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Limited. Similarly, the assets, liabilities
and proceedings of the transmission system were transferred to Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Prasaran
Nigam Limited and the respective distribution businesses to the Distribution Companies. The
details of the assets and liabilities proposed for transfer to the successor entities are to be provided
in the Transfer Scheme Rules. This scheme also provided for the opening balance sheets of these
entities. The transfer of assets and liabilities will be provisional for twelve months period to allow
- 107 -



for possible adjustments in transfer of assets and liabilities, if required. The GoR will finalise the
scheme before the end of this period.
5. Commercialisation of new Entities
(a) To ensure that the new entities in the restructured power sector operate on the basis of
commercial principles, it is important that there is clear distinction between the role of State
Government as a policy maker and as a shareholder of the new entities. This role of Government
will be clearly specified in the Corporatisation Agreement. The management of the new entities
shall be selected through a transparent process based on professional merit. It is important that new
corporate and work culture is set up in the new entities that would promote autonomy and
efficiency in operations of these new entities. Some of the important measures required to ensure
the commercial orientation of the new entities are described below.
Board of Directors: To grant appropriate managerial and operational autonomy to the new
companies, even while they are state-owned, the State Government will ensure that Board of
Directors are selected based on professional merit. The Board of Directors shall have fixed tenure
and the Board shall comprise of a sizeable number of professionals as part-time Directors. The
Chairman and other Directors will have a reasonably long tenure of office and will be selected in
accordance with a transparent process of selection.
Institutional Development Plan: Government recognises the need to strengthen the institutional
capabilities of the new entities to develop a new culture and operate in a new environment based on
commercial principles. The new institutions will develop comprehensive Institutional Development
Plans.
D. Private Sector Participation in Distribution
The Distribution Companies were incorporated, as Government owned companies on the Transfer
Date i.e., on 19th July 2000. The Distribution Companies will be subsequently made into Joint
Venture Companies either through divestment of equity to strategic private investors (who would hold
the majority share) or through induction of additional equity or through other appropriate modes. The
process of private sector participation in distribution business will be completed over next 2 to 3
years. The precise schedule of distribution privatisation will be finalised as the restructuring and
reform implementation progresses. The privatisation process i.e. selection of joint venture private
partner will be carried out through a transparent competitive process.
E. Human Resource Development
One of the key objectives of Government of Rajasthan is that the reform process be accompanied by
(a) smooth process of transition of the RSEB employees to the new entities;
(b) improvement in working conditions; and
(c) Skill up-gradation and training for employees for growth and career development. Success of
the reform program hinges on the change in the corporate culture of the new entities wherein
employees are provided with greater autonomy, responsibility, and accountability and there is
increased staff efficiency and productivity. The staff should be the gainers and not losers of the
reform and their career and growth opportunities, skill levels and compensation should improve.
This would be possible only when the companies become financially viable.
- 108-



F. Communication
The success of the reform program in the power sector will critically depend upon its acceptance by
the consumers, employees and the investors. The benefits of the reform program has to be widely
publicised, the fears and apprehensions addressed and the doubts clarified. An aggressive information
campaign is therefore essential to build an environment in favour of reforms.
G. Technical Assistance Program
Reform and restructuring program, being an extensive and complex program with multidimensional
aspects affecting various stakeholders, requires to be supported by adequate technical assistance from
national and international experts. GoR and RSEB have identified several key areas where technical
assistance is required for the implementation of the reform program as well as for institutional
development and capacity building of new power sector entities.
H. Reform Program Management
Power sector reform and restructuring program is being closely guided, managed, implemented and
monitored by GoR with support from the Reform Office now lodged at RVPN. The program is being
guided and supported from the highest level in the government, with the Chief Minister providing the
policy guide lines and reviewing the reform activities from time to time. Senior GoR officials and the
management of RSEB are closely associated with the implementation of the reform program. As a
part of the Project Preparation Fund (PPF) advance of IBRD, Technical Assistance program has been
prepared to seek expert advice from national and international consultants on the reform
implementation program. M/s. PricewaterhouseCoopers is currently assisting the Reform Office in the
reform management process. GoR has set up different Reform Working groups for smooth sailing of
the Power Sector Reform Program.
- 109 -



Additional
Annex No.: 13
INDIA: RAJASTHAN POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Project Eligibility Criteria
Project reports to be submitted shall establish compliance with the following eligibility criteria for projects
to be financed from the proceeds of the Bank loan. The approval of project appraisal reports is not a
condition to advance procurement or initial disbursement for bulk procurement items.
1.    The justification (in the context of the overall Rajasthan Power Sector Investment Plan) and
technical feasibility shall have been established to the satisfaction of the Bank.
2.    All clearances/approvals including environmental clearances shall have been obtained from the
relevant ministries, departments, agencies or other authorities of the Borrower and Rajasthan and
documented in the project report.
3.    An environmental assessment shall have been carried out, and an Environmental Management
Plan, if needed, based on the environmental assessment report and the Environment Framework and
Safeguards for Transmission Projects, and a plan for the handling of materials to be replaced in the
rehabilitation program, satisfactory to the Bank, shall have been prepared.
4.    Resettlement Action Plan, as deemed necessary, in accordance with the Social Policy and
Procedures, satisfactory to the Bank, shall have been prepared.
4.    Procurement plan shall have been prepared in accordance with the overall procurement strategy,
namely bulk procurement of main items, turnkey construction by prequalified contractors (except for those
owner-supplied main items).
- 110-



Additional
Annex No.: 14
INDIA: RAJASTHAN POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Social Assessment Framework '
SOCIAL POLICY STATEMENT2
As far as possible, the RSEB and its successor entities shall avoid Involuntary Resettlement. If displacement is
unavoidable for execution of the project, those displaced involuntarily, shall be resettled with a commitment
that the resettlers will get sufficient investment resources and opportunities to share project benefits, in order to
ensure that their living standards are maintained, if not improved, at the pre-Project levels.
Broad Principles of Resettlement & Rehabilitation (R&R)
(i) After their relocation and resettlement, all displaced families, as well as all families/persons who are
affected adversely by the Project, should recover at least their previous standard of living within a reasonable
time.
(ii) As far as possible, the hardship of the displaced persons/families involved in moving out from their
present habitat to a new place and way of living should be avoided.
(iii) The programmne of R&R of displaced families/persons should not have any adverse effect on social,
economic and environmental milieu of the host communities. Attempts will be made to address and redress the
grievances of the host community.
(iv) Special care will be taken of the socially and economically disadvantaged families belonging to Scheduled
Castes, Scheduled Tribes, marginal farmers, small farmers and landless labourers.
(v) Compensation for Land will be at its replacement value. For Project Affected Persons (PAPs) losing more
than 50 per cent of their land holding, Land against land option will be given subject to the availability of land
with the Government. Where Government is not available, willing PAPs will be assisted to purchase private
land using their compensation.
(vi) For the purpose of payment of compensation, the value of the houses, buildings and other immovable
properties acquired from the PAPs shall be determined at the relevant Basic Schedule of Rates and, as
mentioned earlier, no deductions shall be made therefrom. This will facilitate replacement of the property
acquired from the PAPs.
(vii) In order to maintain the social fabric and structure of the social groups, the displaced persons/families
will be rehabilitated or resettled in accordance with their preferences.
(viii) Adequate physical and social infrastructure and community services shall be provided to the displaced
persons/families at the new sites so as to equally, if not more than, offset the inconvenience caused in
For full details see Rajasthan State Power Sector Restructuring Project. Draft Social Policy and Procedures. Jaipur: Rajasthan State E]ectricity
Board, December, 1999.
2.
Rajasthan State Power Sector Restructuring Project: Draft Social Policy and Procedures. "Social Policy Statement," Section-3. Jaipur: Rajasthan
State Electricity Board, December, 1999.
- 111 -



rehabilitation/resettlement. However, efforts will be made to promote self relocation instead of rehabilitation
centres.
(ix) Rehabilitation centres shall be set up around or in the vicinity of the existing human settlements or
habitations, if required.
(x) To ensure that R&R process is smooth and painless, participatory committees of PAPs shall be set up,
preferably with the help of NGOs, which would, inter alia, provide counseling to them.
(xi) For construction of good quality infrastructure in relocation site, proper monitoring machinery will be set
up with representatives of PAPs.
Indi2enous People
In Rajasthan, indigenous people (tribal) are concentrated mostly in the districts of Banswara, Dungarpur and a
few blocks of Udaipur, Chittogarh and Sirohi districts. In these districts, if there is any significant adverse
imnpact on Indigenous People, an Indigenous People Development Plan shall be prepared for all the
transmission line projects to be undertaken. It will, inter alia, include the strategies for addressing the issues
pertaining to the Indigenous People based on informed participation of such people themselves.
- 112-



SOCIAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
The Obiectives of Social Impact Assessment
Social Impact Assessment (SIA) of the Transmission Line Project will be undertaken with the following
objectives:
(a) to verify the legal boundaries of the project area, to document the existing structures, land plots and other
physical assets within the project area
(b) to establish a cut-off date for entitlement in accordance with the policy to be developed
(c) to provide the socio economic baseline information required for the preparation of entitlement framework
(d) to have a preliminary assessment of the social impacts on the basis of data available
(e) to categorize PAPs based on the type and extent of impact
The Project authorities shall familiarize themselves with the Project area by visiting the sites. They will
coordinate with the other studies and exercises already done, or which are being done presently. These efforts
will enable them to assess the potential magnitude of social impacts.
Baseline Socio-Economic Surveys
The Baseline Socio-Economic Surveys generally help the Project authorities in acclimatizing with the area and
the people, their demographic and economic conditions, literacy, asset-holdings, social and cultural milieu,
social and economic vulnerability etc. Such surveys, especially in the tribal districts of Banswara and
Dungarpur and blocks of tribal concentration in Udaipur, Sirohi, and Chittorgarh districts will enable the
Project authorities to identify the magnitude of vulnerability of tribal people. Data on the consumption pattern
of all PAPs will also be collected.
The Baseline Surveys will help in ascertaining the magnitude of displacement, losses to PAPs, likely loss of
employment and income by some of the PAPs, and allow better targeting of disadvantaged and vulnerable
people or groups. Further, such surveys shall be of immense value in ascertaining the social cost, drawing up a
viable and practicable rehabilitation package and in preparing an Action Plan for implementing the same.
Finally, these surveys help in recording the aspirations and preferences of the PAPs which would eventually
help in carrying out the R&R programme.
The Baseline Socio-Econmic Survey would also enable the Project authorities to delineate the Common
Property Resources (CPRs) as well as the common facilities which people in the Project area are taking
advantage of. If there is acquisition of such CPRs, the impact of such deprivation may also be assessed by the
Project authorities.
The Baseline Socio-Econornic Survey is expected to yield such information which can be used as an input for
SIA, and further which shall provide an adequate recipe for drawing a meaningful, viable and practicable
R&R package.
Rajasthan State Power Sector Restructuring Project: Draft Social Policy and Procedures. "Social Impact Assessment," Attachnient-4.
Jaipur: Rajasthan State Electricity Board, December, 1999.
- 113-



Socio-Economic Surveys for Transmission Lines and Sub-Stations
For transmission towers, generally no land is acquired and, as such, only pilot/quick socio-economic surveys
may serve the purpose of yielding the desired baseline information. However, a full Socio-Economic Survey
will be carried out in the areas adjoining power lines proposed to be covered under this Project. Cooperation of
PAPs and NGOs will also be taken in the process of data collection from the households covered under the
Survey.
Timin2 of Socio-Economic Surveys
All socio-economic surveys will be conducted much before the initiation of the Rehabilitation & Resettlement
Action Plan (RRAP), such that their results are available to the Project authorities to prepare the RRAP at
least six months before any action for implementation of the RRAP is taken.
All socio-economic surveys will be awarded to such independent agencies, NGOs or individuals who are well
conversant with various socio-economic parameters to be studied in a given Project area. Selection of such
agencies will be done by the RSEB out of professionally qualified and experienced individuals or agencies,
having familiarity with the socio-economic matrix of different strata of people in Rajasthan.
- 114-



Additional
Annex No.: 15
INDIA: RAJASTHAN POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Environmental Policy for Transmission Projects
Environmental Policy
I.     Rajasthan State Electricity Board (RSEB) [and its successor (RVPN)] has decided that greatest
care must be taken while planning and executing the new transmission projects, so that environmental
conditions of the concerned area do not get degraded and if possible are improved. RSEB/RVPN is
committed to provide a clean environment, ecology and sustainable development in all its developmental
activities. All its transmission projects are, therefore, very carefully planned, following the stipulated
guidelines, to ensure that least possible, if any, adverse environmental impacts are caused and at the same
time reliability, security and economy are also not compromised.
Environmental policy of the RSEB/RVPN also stipulates the guiding principles to be followed
during operation and maintenance stages of the projects, which ensures safety against occupational
hazards, electrocution, fire hazards, accidents, sound pollution, electrical interferences and also ensures that
environment of the area is well maintained and, if possible, improved.
RSEB/RVPN also ensures that natural resources, natural habitat, cultural habitat, historical
monuments/ structures, etc. are conserved for the future generations.
II.    To achieve the above objectives, RSEBIRVPN has formulated its own Environmental Policy for its
transmission projects. The Enviromnental Policy of the RSEB/RVPN stipulates different guiding principles
for planning, construction, operation and maintenance stage of the project. The guiding principles are
strictly adhered to. At the same time reliability, security and economy are also to be ensured.
III. Guiding Principles for planning stage of the projects
A.    The basic principle is that of avoidance and of selecting the path of minimum resistance.
B.    Environmentally sensitive areas are avoided giving special importance to the fragile
ecosystems and their inherent bio-diversity.
C.    Right of way of the transmission lines is avoided through:
1. Natural features like high mountains with steep slopes and mounds of huge boulders.
2. Large lakes, reservoirs, erosion prone areas, swamps, low land prone to floods,
marshy places, large stretches of broken lands, irrigation wells.
3. Areas and structures having cultural, historical, tourism or religious importance.
4. Inaccessible Country side towns, villages, schools, hospitals and other establishments,
large play grounds.
5. Human habitations and areas which may have adverse social impacts involving huge
costs of rehabilitation and resettlement of affected population.
6. Natural habitats of important indigenous foreign species of birds, bird sanctuaries,
national parks.
7. Areas having big trees, gardens, orchards, plantations, protected or reserved forests
See Rajasthan State Electricity Board: Environmental Framework and Safeguardsfor Transmission Projects. July 12, 2000.
- 115-



8. As far as possible, crossing with telecommunication line and railway circuits which
may cause EMF interference.
9. Site of sub-station is selected avoiding all the features detailed in (iii) above. Further,
it is preferred that the land selected, as far as possible, is Govt. land or is barren,
waste, dry agricultural land of a private owner. It is also ensured that the land is
not prone to submergence and has drainage or erosion problems. Sites requiring
construction of new approach roads are avoided.
IV.    Guiding principles for construction stage of the project
A.    Construction activities are taken up, as for as possible, during the season when the harvesting
of crops has been completed so that there is no loss to the crops. If it is unavoidable to
execute some of the work during cropping season, then suitable compensation is paid for
loss & damage of crops.
B.    Cartage and storage of construction materials, tower parts and tools and plants are planned &
executed in such a manner that there is minimum loss to crops and agricultural land.
C.    Modem and best technologies are adopted and latest equipment are used to ensure least
pollution during construction activities.
D.    All safety measures are taken for ensuring that no accidents occur during construction activities.
E.    Best construction practices & norms are adopted to ensure safety, reliability and stability to
towers and sub-station structures.
F.     Due care is taken to prevent erosion and drainage problems due to construction activities.
G.    Normal level of the sub-station is kept at a level at least 500 mm higher than the Highest Flood
Level (HFL) and suitable drainage system is provided so that there is no water logging in
the area.
H.    The projects are normally located in plain areas where slopes would not result in great erosion
potential. However, for preventing erosion near tower pads, construction of retaining
walls, re-vegetation, stone pitching is done around tower pads. In sub-station switchyards
also, where erosion problems are expected, stone pitching is done. In some places, having
serious erosion problems, retaining walls are constructed.
I.     Special care is taken while designing and constructing structures in wet lands, river beds etc.
J.     Existing roads are used by RSEB/RVPN for access. No new roads are built for this purpose.
In river crossing and for streams with wide span extra high towers are used so as to give
adequate clearance from highest flood level. Towers footings are located on either bank
at locations safe from bank erosion. For tower locations susceptible to floods or under
cutting adequate protection such as revetment or retaining walls are provided.
V.    Guiding principles for operation and maintenance stage.
A.    Regular periodic inspection of the transmission line route and entire area of sub-station is
carried out and extra & undesirable vegetation is removed. Clearing operations are
done manually or mechanically and no chemicals are used for this purpose.
B.    Preventive mechanisms are established on all sub-stations for preventing all potential dangers
to safety and health of people, occupational hazards and for guaranteeing good environment
of the area.
C.    Fire fighting equipment's installed at all the sub-stations are always kept in working order.
D.    Preventive measures to prevent electrocution are taken. Safety equipment/mechanisms are
installed for this purpose.
E.    First aid kits are kept in order at all sub-stations to tackle fire & electrocution accidents.
- 116 -



F.     Oil seals are periodically checked to avoid oil leakage.
G.     Safe, efficient and advanced technologies are adopted for operation and maintenance activities
for ensuring economy and safety.
H.     Public awareness, regarding safety hazards is created through distribution of pamphlets,
through N.G.O s or direct public contact.
- 117 -



Ix



IBRD 29249
_ ~ 7 5HARYANA
SADULSHAHAR
GATNGANAGARE    - - -  -- -*-1
SHRIKARANUR              I   SA"-'
STIR,            -~~~~D111 DTGG-IGXIRGAIS14AOA,   -h-
PAIDAMPI,I`     EICJ *ItSIK  IHR
ESSINGHI NAGAR4\f     ~          .0AGR
)    \ /      StKHSWALI!!                             
AN     NUPRAWATSAREINDIA
PAKISTA     ESJLSARO\ EA                   ORA% R                    UjTTAR R                                                          RAJASTHAN  POWER SECTOR
RAWAMANDI_                               JOKHASA
P A    I ST A                 !    iFUGA                /         SRDAR6^)\    ,@z @.  l   /                                                                                           PREPSTRUCTURING   PROJECT
./31RSALPUR   A  LONKARANSHAR HARA                                      D ESA '                                                                                     HeI,4 POWRR  LINES-
RAJGA\\  <   +/ DEEDHANAW     *e  *DULAN9;IA N O H B    B  \;=ARATFU:    -   F<oAgmmUr                                G H     ERAOW      SES-
/"                                 \\ iTt_4 NAGAUR                                                                                              Frmbo a iaCOAS                                                            THERMALAPOWERHIO US ES'
{~~~~~~~O                                                                              \JCASERv o  HEV AR_  ~~JI  - 
22 kV POWER SIOES'
[                                   lGEENvSAHO  CA                         PhLA           -        EWA   SS.FUPA        KAROLI /                                                                     1 2 INTERNATIONALE OUNDARY
\    BATTOOi     t CHARNWAL A       \i MANO Ho  RlW                                                 1    AA4AHPU- 
N                                                                                                                 66~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OA TkV M POWER    HOUSES'
-SADSIN., I   ECHUPRADESH                                                                                                                                                                      2H20UNA  \ EUNDI  0    G  ADSUTAETINARE
\    MANNA      _ O          PU 8A0SESii SUMERAURX /7~    r  X:ANGAPUR HzIRENVS      .                                                                                                                   ATO MITONS  W  <TATIONS'
9       EGRANSDA   N        ARJ KS                                                                                                E
GAERRSANJ /APHTOA/ 'FEATANAGA    IPALITA    \  P"RiOU ES' *                                                                                                          n       ep         lo
H    AMADEC EX
ADEL  ~~CHGUHTANK       TN            H                    TA)0RB
X              LALGRE       I I ~~~~~~~~~.AME  SGSTATEEBOUEDARIE
,SA~~LA~        ~     TOICHOPAS  N                                                              S.PP
'i~SANH RE--UTEPRANS,E                                                    IGHEO          MALPURA         ~          AAT
0'                                 '~~~~~~~~~~~~~OH  S-AHE ElERNITIONAIL  OUNSAARY
RI    SARE
GADRAROACI                                                      'N                               4~~~~~~~~DUGAPUO                                                                                Th  bow rdo,-...olp,eorioi
- - - - - -       -       RAT -  -  SroWdoAoNA,pPALr he o4                                                                                                                                                                 o
AHORE  ~  ~     ~      AH                                              KGETAWA
ADEL  I*cHouFrrAN  A  PURA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DCMERUC



