E-374
VOL. 1
INDIA
Rajasthan State Power Sector Restructuring Project
Environmental Guidelines for Planning, Construction
and
Maintenance of Transmission Lines






INDIA
Rajasthan State Power Sector Restructuring Project
Environmental Guidelines for Planning, Construction and
Maintenance of Transmission Lines
1






INDLA
Rajasthan State Power Sector Restructuring Project
Environmental Guidelines for Planning, Construction and
Maintenance of Transmission Lines
Introduction
1.    The government of Rajasthan has decided to restructure it's power sector and create the
conditions of sustainable development, improved efficiency and quality of electricity supply
services in the state. These changes are set out in the recent Power Sector Reform Policy
Statement.  When the reform bill is passed, and recieves assent from  the President,
government of India, the Rajasthan SEB will be converted into an autonomous corporation
under the Indian Companies Act, 1956. New transmission lines and substations will be
included in the loan, and the environmental issues related to these transmission lines are
discussed below. Environmental analyses will be submitted for all subsequent projects as they
are prepared. The loan will include a technical assistance component, as described herein.
Legal and Administration
Land Acquisition:
2.    Under the Indian Telegraph Act, transmission towers can be erected on private land.
The ownership of the land is not acquired by the transmission company.
3.    RSEB follows the provisions of the Land Acquisition act of 1894 and the Rajasthan
Land Acquisition Act, 1953. Section 6 of the Rajasthan Land Acquisition Act stipulates that
the state government or any agency thereof (such as the Collector) can declare a certain track
of private land is required for a public purpose. The RSEB may submit a request to the
Collector for acquisistion of land for substations. Section 4 of the same act requires the state
government to publish a gazette notification regarding the acquisition of land. Under Section
5A of the same act, the interested or affected person is given the opportunity to record
objection to the land acquisistion within thirty days of the publication of the notice. The
District Collector then would enquire into the matter and may give the award.
4.    Under Section 5 of the Rajasthan Land Acquisition Act, the RSEB (or any public
agency) must have the land to be acquired surveyed in the presence of the Collector or his
nominee, and the owner of the land or the owner's authorized representative. RSEB would
also be required to make payment for damages. Under Section 11 of the Rajasthan Land
Acquisition Act, such payment is at the market value of the land on the date of notification
made under Section 4 (1). Section 16 of the Rajasthan Land Acquisition Act provides that the
Collector may take possession of the land after he has made the award, and payment has been
made.
2



5.    In case of urgency, the state government can issue a Notification under Section 17 of
the Rajasthan Land Acquisition Act, Subsection (1) and (4), to take over the land within 15
days of the notification under Section 9, irrespective of the compensation award.
Compensation is decided subsequently by the Collector as described above; but tender payment
of 80 % of the compensation is to be made immediately.
Forest Clearance:
6.    The Ministry of Environment and Forests (MOEF) has gazetted a statutory notification
called the Forest (Conservation ) Act, 1980. According to this act permission of MOEF is
required for use of any forest land for construction of power lines. In case forest land is
involved in a planned project, Rajasthan State Electricity Board (Rajasthan SEB) must show
that the power line routing involves a minimum of forest land and that alternative routes have
been considered. The application form for Forest Clearance (see annex 1) includes: project
description; detailed map; alternatives and reasons for rejection of alternatives; population
benefited; employment granted; details of flora and fauna in the area; density and other
specific details of vegetation; status as wildlife sanctuary, biosphere reserve, national park,
nature reserve; rare or endangered species; habitat for migrating fauna; vulnerability to
erosion; number of displaced families; scheduled caste/scheduled tribes involved in
displacement; rehabilitation plan; and details of the compensatory afforestation scheme. The
application includes a detailed route marked on a Survey of India map. The concerned
Executive Engineer of the Rajasthan SEB submits Forest Clearance applications to the
concerned Divisional Forest Officer. The locations of reserved and protected forest are
checked and marked on a map, and the Forest Clearance application in the required format is
prepared jointly by RSEB and the Forest Department.
7.    During the application review and approval process the review agencies comment on
the application, and can return it to Rajasthan SEB for required modifications. After review,
the application is forwarded to the Conservator of Forests, Government of Rajasthan. The
application requires a detailed opinion of the Chief Conservator of Forests/Head of Forest
Department with regard to: self sufficiency of the district in fuelwood and timber; the effect of
the proposal on rural fuelwood supply, the economy and livelihood of tribal and backward
communities; and a certification that all other alternatives for the purpose have been explored,
and the demand for the required area is the minimum with respect to demand for forest land.
Forest areas can be cleared and used only after payment for compensatory afforestation is
made as detailed in the Forest Clearance, and final approval is obtained thereafter from the
MOEF.
Aravali Range Envirommental Notification:
8.    The Ministry of Environment and Forests issued a Notification (May 7, 1992)
restricting certain activities in specified areas of the Aravali Range (Alwar District of
Rajasthan) which were deemed to be causing environmental degradation in the region. Among
the activities restricted in the specified areas are electrification, "laying of new transmission
lines." RSEB would apply to MOEF for clearance of any projects in the Aravali Range areas.
3



Crop Compensation:
9.    RSEB pays compensation to farmers whose crops are damaged during transmission line
construction. Normally, construction work on the line is done during the non-crop season;
however, when a crop is in the ground and any damage is caused, compensation is paid to the
farmer as decided by the revenue authorities of the government, such as Tehsildar.
Compensation applications are requested from the farmers in the subdivisions where work has
been carried out. The applications are verified by the Sarpanch or Patwari. The area of land
where the crop has been damraged is calculated and checked by the Governmental Subdivision
Officer in charge personally and the yield of the crop is calculated on the yield declared by the
Agriculture Department. The monetary value of the crop is calculated from rates declared by
the Market Committee, or the agency of the District, and compensation is paid to the farmers.
Indian Electricity Act and the Indian Telegraph Act:
10.   On finalization of the transmission line route, a gazette notification is published in the
state gazette concerning the right of way for the line, mentioning the revenue villages through
which the line will pass. This notification is issued to meet the requirements of the Indian
Electricity Act and the Indian Telegraph Act. Details of physical line clearances required
under the Acts are given in paragraph 27.
Power Telecommunication Coordination Committee:
11.  RSEB applies to the Power Telecommunication Coordination Committee to clear all
transmission line projects. Interference through EMF effects could occur where the planned
transmission lines would run in close proximity to telecommunications lines. The induced
voltages on the communications circuits are limited to prescribed safe values.
Telecommunications circuits are to be crossed at not less than a 60 degree angle, and guards
are provided at the crossings of telecommunications and power lines of voltages of 33 KV and
below. These approvals are issued only after the line survey work is completed.
Airort Authority:
12.  RSEB would apply to the Airport Authority for clearance if any power lines are
planned within 15 km of an existing airport; however, transmission lines are not routed in the
vicinity of airports.
RailUay Authority:
13.   RSEB would apply to the Railway Authority for clearance should any power lines be
planned that cross railways. In cases where planned lines would cross railways, detailed
applications, including maps, showing tower locations on either side of the railway and vertical
4



clearances are submitted. Railway lines are crossed at right angles to the extent possible. All
stipulations of the railway authorities are followed by RSEB, and the work is undertaken only
after obtaining approval, and under supervision of the railway authority.
Project Descriptions
14.   RSEB will prepare site-specific environmental reviews for all of the new transmission
lines and substations.
15.   Normally, tangent towers suitable for 2 degree angles are used for straight line
locations and towers suitable for 15, 30 and 60 degree deviations are used at the angle points.
Provisions for extensions are also kept, where required for adequate ground clearances. the
average span of the towers is ususally 330 meters. Tower foundations are cast to a depth of
about 3 meters in the tower footprint that varies from 3 x 3 to 6 x 6 square meters. RSEB uses
broad based lattice towers as conductor supports.
Justification of the Proiects:
16.   The transmission system has been planned for additional generating capacity. The
transmission lines and substation projects are planned for evacuation of an additional 2380
MW generation capacity by the year 2002. The following generation projects which may yield
benefit by 2002 are: Barsinghgar Linite project (2 x 250 MW), Kapurdi and Jalipa (2 x 300
MW), Solar project (100 MW), and small liquid fuel (780 MW).
Project Planning:
17.   RSEB undertakes the planning of transmission line and substation projects in the
following steps:
a) the Transmission Planning Department identifies requirements for transmission lines
and substations, these are then approved by RSEB, Government of Rajasthan, and GOI;
b) these requirements are passed on to the Chief of Construction, and tentative route
mapping is done on Survey of India topographic maps;
c) the routes are then walked by engineers, this is called the preliminary ground survey;
d) detailed route surveys are made, including profiles, control points, obstacle crossings
and avoidance of forest areas, habitations, cultural landmarks, etc.;
e) the surveyed route is approved by the concerned engineer of RSEB, at this stage the
applications are made for required clearances, such as forest and railway crossings,
5



technical compliance with the Electricity Act and Rules is reviewed and assured, and
the design features of the towers are prepared;
f) procurement actions are taken on the basis of the project report of the scheme,
simultaneously with the environmental evaluation;
g) materials are collected at convenient locations near to construction sites or stores;
h) the procurement. section informs the construction department of materials
availability;
i) the construction engineers draw materials and begin construction, the foundations for
the towers are put in, and subsequent operations are carried out.
Environmental Issues and Mitigation Strategies
18.   The issues below will be addressed during the conceptual design, and will be reassessed
during detailed design and route selection:
Resettlement and rehabilitation:
19.   There will be no resettlement, involving movement of homesteads, involved in the
above projects. A separate resettlement and rehabilitation policy and impact assessment
document has been prepared.
Transmission line rights of way and substation site impact_s on land use: agricultural. forest
areas. wetlands. wildlands:
20.   Most of the projects do not involve any forest land. The topographically level areas of
Rajasthan where the rights of way and substations are planned have been almost entirely
cleared for agriculture. There are no wildlands involved in the transmission line routes. If any
forest land is involved it would be such a small amount that habitat fragmentation and invasion
of exotic vegetation species would not be an issue. Forest Clearance requires alternatives for
least disturbance of forest areas be used. The applications for MOEF Clearances will be
made once the proposed routes are finalized. MOEF can reject the application, or require
modifications.
21.   RSEB does not acquire any land for laying the lines at the tower locations, and RSEB
allows cultivation beneath the towers and conductors. Should land owners register complaints,
the land under the towers would be acquired, and compensation paid as per the procedures
outlined above. The transmission line rights of way would not impact agricultural land uses
since the transmission company does not acquire ownership of the rights of way; furthermore,
compensation is paid for crop damages due to construction.
6



Access roads in remote areas. increase in hunting. exploitation of forest resources. induced
development due to new access corridors, human settlement and more extensive clearing:
22.    Existing roads are used by Rajasthan SEB for access, no new roads are built for this
purpose.
Clearing (erosion, loss of habitat) and control of vegetation in rights of ways. including
mechanical and chemical (herbicide) clearing operations. (chemical contamination of site and
rainfall runoff):
23.   Land use in the most of the areas of the transmission lines is agricultural. Use of the
rights of way for agriculture is allowed. Chemical herbicides are not used in right-of-way
maintenance.
Erosion during construction, and along access roads, substation and transmission tower sites:
24.   The projects are normally located in the plain areas of Rajasthan, where slopes would
not result in great erosion potential. Erosion is controlled by RSEB through the installation of
retaining walls, stone pitching, and revegetation.
25.   In river crossings and for streams with wide spans, extra high towers are used, so as to
give adequate clearance from the highest flood levels. Tower footings are located on either
bank at locations safe from bank erosion.  For tower locations suseptible to floods or
undercutting, adequate protection such as revetments or retaining walls are provided to protect
the tower footings.
26.   The following issues will be addressed during detailed route survey approval.
Potential electromagnetic frequency (EMF) radiation effects, radio noise and television
interference, and audible noise along transmission line routes, exposure of substation
operations personnel to potential EMF hazards:
27.   GOI regulations (Electricity Act) call for minimum  transmission line clearance
distances to address EME effects. The following table compares Indian and U.S. standard
clearances for similar voltage lines:
Transmission Line Clearance Standards Comparison
Indian Clearance                           U. S. Clearance
Standards                                 Standards
along roads, above                          building roofs,
11,000 volts,                             balconeys or
5.2 meters plus 0.3                      projections accessible
meters for every   I    _I_  to pedestrians    I
7



33,000 volts                                                                    ]
33 Kv                17 feet            34.5 - 69 Kv           16.6 feet
66 Kv                18 feet
132 Kv               21 feet              138 Kv               18.1 feet
220 Kv               24 feet              230 Kv               20.0 feet
Public access to substations, towers and other electrocution hazards:
28.   Rajasthan SEB will effect restriction of public access, by fencing and security of
substations. Towers have barbed wire anti-climbing devices and danger notices. Substations
are fenced, and the fences are grounded. Distribution transformers are fenced, and the smaller
installations are made on poles. All installations are made in accordance with the Electricity
Act, and inspected on a regular basis. A consumer safety program is included in the technical
assistance.
Analysis of Alternatives
29.   Alternatives selected by Rajasthan SEB were based on criteria of energy conservation
through improved efficiency of the transmission system, that is, reduction of system losses and
increased reliability of the system. Load management will be addressed under the technical
assistance. The transmission schemes chosen are double circuit lines, requiring narrower rights
of way. Routes and substation sites are selected for minimum impact on forest resources (a
statutory requirement), and minimal impact on crowded urban areas.
30.   Alternatives for substation sites: Land search for an EHV grid substation is discussed
with the local Patwari, Gram Panchayat and municipal authorities, as well as local influential
people. Three or four alternative sites are selected. Prefered sites are waste land belonging to
the government, or land that belongs to the Industry Department of Rajasthan or Local Self
Departments (municipalities, corporations, etc.). In case these types of land are not available,
proposals for acquiring private land are prepared and submitted to the revenue authorities (see
above). The best alternative is selected according to the following criteria:
* proximity to an existing 33 KV substation;
*  adequate distance from inhabited areas to permit easy and safe approach of high voltage
overhead transmission lines;
* easy access to a public road to facilitate transport of plant and equipment, as well as
proximity to a railway station;
' far away from municipal dumping grounds, low lying areas, burial grounds, tanneries, and
other obnoxious areas;
8



* sufficient distance from firing ranges of police and military;
* sufficient distance from airports;
* proximity of school, hospital and drinking water.
31.   RSEB has prescribed the fololowing areas of land to be acquired for the construction of
grid substations of various voltage ratings, along with the space for the construction of
colonies. The residential complexes are generally constructed to accomodate the total
complement of operations and maintenance staff.
Substation voltage    Area  of land  for Area  of land  for Total area (acres)
substation (acres)  colony (acres)
33 KV                                                         2.5 - 3.75
132 KV              4.38                 5.62                 10
220 KV               17.5                12.5                 30
40KV                 26.25               28.13                54.38
32.   Alternatives for transmission line routes: Three alternatives for each line are considered
in the preliminary route planning by RSEB. When selecting the route for a line, the G. T.
sheets of the Survey of India are used, and the route is tentatively chosen "as the crow flies"
between the connecting substations. If this route would have adverse social or environmental
impacts, two or three alternative routes are examined. To this end a preliminary survey of
social and environmental conditions in the area to be traversed is carried out, avoiding lakes,
reservoirs, erosion prone areas, forests, mountains, swamps and low lands subject to floods.
Mounds of large boulders, irrigation well series, and protected areas are also avoided, Care
is also taken to avoid inaccessible countryside, towns and villages, human habitations and
cultural resources. Safe distances are kept from police and military firing ranges, game and
bird santuaries. The prefered topography for the line routes is level land, where hills cannot
be avoided, the route is selected through the valleys and along the sides of the hills, rather than
over high points.
33.   Based on the route marked on the G. T. sheet, the route is physically surveyed. A
reconnassance survey is made first, then a detailed survey is carried out by the RSEB technical
personnel. During the detailed survey, care is taken to fix the turns and angles so that safe
clearances are maintained from sensitive locations (such as buildings) as per the Indian
Electricity Act and Indian Electricity Rules. After the detailed survey, levels are taken and the
line profile is prepared for spotting of tower locations with the sag template.
9



Technical Assistance
34.   A technical assistance component of the project will be provided. Under this technical
assistance the environmental management capabilities of the proposed Rajasthan public power
distribution utility will be developed. The objective of the technical assistance is to introduce
environmental management systems throughout Rajasthan public power distribution utility, it's
suppliers, and it's network of distributors. A draft terms of reference for the technical
assistance is attached. Activities of the technical assistance will include:
a)    Development of an organization and staffing plan for the environmental management
unit (based on comparisons with similar utilities on an international basis, as well as
industrial organizations operating within the environmental performance standards of
GOI;
b)    development of a staffing plan for hiring or retraining skilled environmental staff
(which will include a salary survey of environmental professionals and technicians in
the public and private sectors), together with the definition of services that could most
cost-effectively be provided by consultants;
c)    development of a financial plan for the environmental unit;
d)    development of a corporate environmental policy, including target objectives for
Rajasthan public power utility, it's suppliers (generators), distributors and consumers,
that can be monitored and audited;
e)    ensure that contractual obligations or other measures are put into place on privatized
generation and distribution to comply with Rajasthan public power distribution
utilities's environmental policies;
1)    development of systems to enable Rajasthan public power distribution utilities to meet
the requirements of relevant Indian (and where appropriate international) environmental
standards in a cost effective and efficient way;
g)    development of systems to ensure that actions recommended by the environmental
management unit are acted upon by corporate management in Rajasthan public power
distribution utilities and by it's suppliers and distributors, and define methods to
evaluate and monitor performance with respect to project implementation;
h)    development of an approach to consumer education in energy savings and a customer
advisory service;
i)    a co-ordinated in-country training program for staff of the environmental management
unit of Rajasthan public power distribution utilities;
10



j)    evaluation of alternative strategies for improving energy efficiency;
k)    establish an educational program to improve consumer safety;
1)    develop capabilities with respect to environmental auditing;
m)   undertake a study tour to assess environmental management systems associated with
international transmission and distribution systems;
n)    support Rajasthan public power distribution utilities's planning capability for new
transmission systems by developing environmental procedures (EIA) and establishing
criteria for evaluating direct and indirect environmental and social impacts associated
with new development proposals;
o)    undertake EIA's of selected routes and standardize approaches adopted on issues such
as land severance;
p)    development of a system of energy audits and energy efficiency, and set targets based
on demand side management.
Management of Polychlorinated BiphenvlIs (PCB's)
35.   Prior to initiation of power system rehabilitation under the loan, when electrical
equipment will be replaced, technical assistance will be provided to Rajasthan public power
distribution utilities for the environmentaly sound management of PCB electrical equipment.
The technical assistance will cover identification of PCB electrical equipment, management
and cleanup of transformer installations, discarded equipment, and the repair shops.
36.   Various components of the existing power systems are up to 30 years old. Since the use
of PCB's in electrical equipment was discontinued (in most countries) fairly recently, some of
the existing power system electrical equipment probably contains PCB's. Electrical equipment
is used until failure in RSEB transformer oil is reconditioned and reused; oil that cannot be
reused is sold to reconditioning contractors. Discarded electrical equipment is broken up and
auctioned. There is a separate disposal wing under the RSEB procurement section, in addition
to the transformer shops.
37. The PCB management technical assistance will address the following:
i) development of environmental guidelines which review GOI regulations concerning
the use, retrofitting, storage and disposal practices for PCB's and PCB electrical
equipment.
11



ii) The environmental guidelines will state which of the existing system electrical
equipment should be tested for PCB's;
iii) The environmental guidelines will detail how PCB electrical equipment and PCB's
would be tested or otherwise identified;
iv) The environmental guidelines will detail an environmentally sound PCB
management plan for safe storage and/or disposal of PCB's and PCB electrical
equipment. The PCB management plan should include specifications for safe handling
practices, including, personnel protective equipment and clothing, and the
environmental guidelines should provide details of safe transfer and secure storage
areas.
Monitoring
38.   The following monitoring plan will be adopted as a policy of Rajasthan public power
distribution utilities to track the effectiveness of mitigation techniques, and address recognized
problems in an appropriate and timely manner. Development of a system for bringing
environmental problems to the attention of management is included in the technical assistance.
Some of the items listed under the following monitoring program do not relate to the projects
proposed; however, these issues may relate to other Rajasthan public power distribution
utilities transmission lines. This regular scheduled monitoring program will consist chiefly of
visual inspections during construction and operation for:
3     erosion along access roads, substation and transmission tower foundations;
o     encroachment of settlements within rights of ways, encroachment of settlements within
protected areas via transmission line access roads, exploitation of forest resources in
protected areas via access roads;
o     vegetation clearances below transmission lines, and invasion of exotic species along
right of ways;
o     transformer fluid leakage and spills;
o     safe storage and disposal of PCB's.
12






AnnexI                   .     Annex 2
| Forest Clearance Appl.         Kishingarh Bas - Tijara






FORM                               AN- t
Form' for seeking prior approval under section 2 of the proposals by the State
Governments and other aulhorities. (See rule 4)
*s~~~ Wi$it4,*.tit! 1:   I 
;  1.   Projjct detalls:
(I)  Short narrative of the proppsal and projecl scheme for which the forest land
Is required.                     *
(11) Mnp showing tho roqulrodflorosl aroa, bouidriry of lrjoninIng lorost nnd liolil-
i    ,   wise break-up of the required forest area for difierent purposes (to be
s .,,     aultheinicatid by an olficar nol bolw tIho rank of Dopuly Connarvalor of
(1II) Total cost of the project:
(Iv) Juselllcnilon for locaIlng ilte prolact In tlho louto  nron qiving nhlumalivos
examined arid reasons for ltlelr rejoctlon.
!Xt §,,*;(v) Financlal and social benesfts.            .
(vi) Total population benefited.
(vii) Employment generated.
2. i  Location of the piviect I Scheme:
;.   (i)  Slate/Union Territory.
~~ .'i   (11)  District.
(iii) Forest Division, Foresl Block, companment elc.
3.    Item-wise break-up of the total land required for the project/scheme along with its
existing land use.
4.    Details of forest land Involved:
(1)    Legal status of the forest (namely, reserve. protected/unclassed. etc.)
(II)   Detalis or flora and fauna existing In loe area.
(iii)   Density of vegelatin.
(iv) Species-wise and diameler class-wise abstract of trees.
(v)   Vulnerability of the forest area to erosion, whether il forms a part of a
seriously eroded area or not.
-     (vi)   Whelher it forms a part of national park, wildlie sancluary, nature reserve,
- biosphere reserve, elc: and f so. detalls of the area Involved. (Specific
comments of the Chief Wildlife Warden to be annexed).
(vi() Item-wise break-up of the lorest land required for the projectlscheme for
different purposes.
(viiiJ Rare/endangered species of flora and fauna found In the arpa.
*    ( @lIx)   Whether it Is a habital or migrating fauna or forms a breeding ground for
(x    A them.r         at or Irt   a         o ra    breeding g n  for
(x) Any other significance of the area relevant to tlie proposal.



(l)  Total nurnberoffamilles involved In displacement.                         ;
(II) Number of Scheduled Casto/Scheduled Tribe families Involved In
.   dlipti,ic@mfonl. 
(Ill) fJplullntf rQlIi)DllltNlof) pnl#rt
6.    Details of cormponaitory allorostation scliono:
(I)  Detalls of 10ot1 lotes5 aneu WJdtieU1JotI tluaui nici ldloeillllotl fut otipillniinnlw1y
alforestalbn, its distance from adjoining lorest, number of patches, size of
each patch.
(II) Map showing non-forest/degradod forest aroa dontillod lor comiiponsalory
afforestatbon an adjoining forest boundarles.
(Ili) Detailed compensatory afforestallon scheme including species to be planted,
Implementing agiency, time schedule, cost structure etc.
(lv) Total financial outlay. for,compensalory aflorestation scheme.
(v) Certificates from compelent autholfhy regarding suitability of area Identified
for compensatory atforestation for alforestation and from management point
of view. (To be signed by an oflicer not below the rank of Deputy
Conservator of Forests).
(vi) Cerificate from the Chlef Secrelary regarding non-avallability Ql the non-
forest land for compensatory alloreslation (if applicable).
7.    Details regarding Transmission Lines (only for Transmission Line proposals):
-  (i)  Total length of the Transmission Line.
(II) Length passing through forest area.
(iii) Right of Way.
(iv) Number of Towers to be erected.
(v) Number of Towers to be erected in forest area.
(vi) Height of Transmission Towers.
8.    Details o1 Irrigation Hydel Project (only for Irrigation /Hydel Projects):
(I) Total catchment area.
(,i)  Total command area.
(.ii) Fwll Reservoir Level.
-o    C..{iv) High Flood Level.
*  (v) Minlimum Drawal Level.
(vi) Break-up of area falling In catchment area ol the project (forest land,
cultivated land, pasture land, human cultivation, others).
(viQ) Area of submergence at High Flood Level.
(vii) Area of submergence at Full Reservoir Level.



-   I                 (ix) Area of submergence at 2 melre below Full Reservoir Level.
* (x) . Area of submergence al 4metre below Full Reservoir Level (For medium and
(xl)major projects only).
(xl) Area of submergence at Mlnimum Drawal Lovol.
I..              (xil) Detailed catchment aroa treatment plan.
(xIll) Total lInancial oullays and delails regarding availability ol lunds for
Catchment Area Treatment Plan.
9.    Details regarding Road/Railway Lines (only for Roads/Railway lines proposal):
(I)  Length and width of the strip and forest area required.
-(i) Total length of the road.
(iii) Length of the road already constructed .
.-.   (lv) Length of the road passing through Ihe foresl.
10.   Details regarding mining proposals (only for minIng proposals):
(I)  Total mining lease area and forest area required.
v      ,.       (ll)  Perlod of mining lease proposed.
(iii) Estimated reserve of each mineraVore in the forest area and in Ihe non-lorest
area.
(Iv) Annual estimated production of mineraVore.
(v) Nature of mining operations (opencast/underground)
(vl) Phased reclamation plan.
(vil) Gradient of the area where mining would be undernaken.
(viii) Copy of the Lease Deed (to be attached only for renewal purposes).
(ix) Number of labourers to be employed.
(x) Area of forest land required for
(a) Mining.
(b) Storing mineraVore.
(c) Durffing of overburden.
I    I. et;(d) Storing tools and machinery.
(e) Construction of building power stations, workshops, etc.
(1) Township/housing coloriy
(g) Construction of roadiropewaylrailway lines.
I ! ;; -             (h) Full land use plan of forest area required.
R             ;; ... (xl) . Reasons why any of the activiles, referred to In (a) to (h) above under the
prolect for which forest land has been asked for cannot be
undenakervlocated oulside forest area.
* (xi) The extent of damage likely to be caused and the number of trees allected
on account of mining and related activities.
;(xlii) Dlstance of the rmning area from perennial water courses, national and State
IV); 1 highways, natinal parks, sanctuaries and blosphere reserves.
(xlv) Procedure for stocking of the topsoil for reuse.
i#:1;;i7t: -; lxv) Extent of subsidence expected in underground minIng operations and Its
*%!,,''ijLiV,t''-1; Impact on water, forest and other vegetation.
.'MV3,m.bsR.x~"            



11.  Cost-benefit analysis.
12.  Whether clearance from environmental angle Is required (Yes/No).
If, yes. whether, requisite details for the same have been lumished (Yes/No).
13.  Wholhor any work In vilation of the Act has been carried out (Yes/No).
It yes,
-   -   (1)  Details of the same Including dale of commencement.
(iI) Ollicers responsible for violation of tho Act.
(iii) Action takerVbeing taken against erring oflicers.
-              (iv) Wlotliur wolk in violatio of Ihlo Act Is still In progross.
14. Any other Information....
15.  Details of Certificates/documents enclosed.
16.  Detailed opinion of the Chief Conservator of Forosts/Head of the Forest
Department concerned covering the following aspects. nsmely:
(i)  Out-turn of timer, luelwood and other lorest produce from Ihe forest land
involved.
V     (ii) Whether the disirict Is sell-suflicient in timber and lueiwood. and
(iii) The effect of the proposal on
(a) Fuelwood supply to rural population
(b) Economy and livelihood of the tribals and backward communities.
(iv) Specific recommendations of Iho Chiel Conservator ol Forestslhead of the
forest Department for acceptance or otherw Ise of the proposal with reasons
thereof.
Certified that all other alternatives for the purpose have been explored and tile
domand lor the required area Is ithe minimum dumand lor forest land.
-                                            o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ignature of the aulhorised officer
of the State GovemmenV Authority
i -
; .        N.B.I.  While furnishing details of flora and fauna, the species should be described by
their scientific names.
X  '      N.B.2. 1f Ihe space provided above Is not sufficient to specify any information, please
attach separate details/doc4ments.
.                                          .                               (No. 5-5186-1-C)
R. RAJAMANI. Secy.
Footnote:
'* Ae";-  :- -    The orincipal rules were notified vide Number G.S.R. 719 dated the 20th July. 1981 ano
--    .~ .; subsequenly amended vide
k atw. . 4, j   (1) G.S.R. 14. dated the 28th December. 1987.
F.   i(2 G.S.R. 640 (E) dated the 26th June. 1989.



s  Annexg   2    I
Kishingarh Bas - Tijara






RAJASTHAN STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD
132 Kv Kishangarh Bas - Tijara Line
The route plan of the 132 Kv Kishangarh Bas - Tijara Line from the 132 Kv substation at
Kishangath Bas, to the proposed 132 Kv substation at Tijara, has been marked on the
attached large scale map. Land use areas are shown in various colors and include:
agricultural and uncultivated land, villages, roads, nallahs, hills, existing transmission lines
and canals/drains. Most of the information discussed below is illustrated on the survey
map of the route.
Description of the route:
The route of the line has been walked and surveyed by S. H. Bhawankhel, Junior Engineer
(TDC.lII: SD.II).  The right of way passes through irrigated agricultural and barren
government land of the Alwar District, and has been planned in such a way that no villages
are crossed.
There are no airports, bird or wildlife sanctuaries within 100 km. The ROW does not pass
through forest, wildlife or other protected areas; moreover, a certification has been
obtained from MOEF that the line does not pass through areas delineated in the Aravali
Range Notification (May 7, 1992). There are no areas of cultural importance along the
route. The total length of this line is approximately 16 km.
Environmental Issues and Mitieation Strateeies:
Concerning the Aravali Range environmental notification, RSEB has applied to the
local revenue authorities concerning the planned transmission line project Kishangarh
Bas - Tijara, and received a certificate that the transmission line project does not
infringe on the protected areas.  The MOEF Notification as well as the certificates
received from the concerned revenue and forest officers are attached.
The Power Telecommunication Coordination Committee has determined that the
Kishingarh Bas - Tijara line as planned would not interfere with existing
telecommunications lines, and has issued a letter stating that no protective measures
would be required on the parallel phone circuits (see attachments).
The issues below have been addressed during the conceptual design, and have been
reassessed during detailed design and route survey:
Environmental Issues                     Mitization Strateeies
Resettlement and rehabilitation          There will be no displacement of homesteads.



Access roads in remote areas, increase in No new access roads will be built. There is no
hunting, exploitation  of forest resources, forest land or wildlife protection area along the
induced  development due to new  access ROW.
corridors, human settlement and more
extensive clearing
Transmission line rights of way and substation  There is no wild life protection zone within 100
site impacts on land use: agricultural, forest km of the ROW.
areas, wetlands, wildlands
The ROW is not the first transmission line in
the area, and existing transmission lines in the
area have given no problem to migratory birds
during any part of the year.
The horizontal struts of the towers are fitted
with rough (sawtooth) strips to discourage
birds from roosting near the transmission lines.
The ROW passes through mostly agricultural
land. The loss of land use will be the tower
footings, which is very small. Cultivation is
permitted under the towers and conductors.
Impacts on cultural resources             There are no cultural or aesthetic resources
along the ROW. These places have, therefore,
not been shown on the map. There will be no
impact on cultural resources due to the ROW.
Erosion during construction, and along access The project is located in the topographically
roads, substation and transmission tower sites  level areas of Rajasthan, where the terrain is
flat.
No access roads will be built.
Clearing (erosion, loss of habitat) and control No chemicals are used by the RSEB  for
of vegetation in rights of ways, including  removing the grass/plants/vegetation which will
mechanical and chemical (herbicide) clearing  grow under the ROW   Clearing as needed is
operations, (chemical contamination of site done manually.  Any trees in the ROW  are
and rainfall runoff)                      topped to comply with the Indian Electricity
Rule vertical clearances. Any trees cut are
replaced by an equivalent compensation nearby.
Potential electromagnetic frequency (EMF) GOI regulations (Electricity Act) call for
radiation effects, radio noise and television  minimum   transmission   line   clearance
interference,  and  audible  noise  along  distances to address EMF effects. The ROW
transmission  line  routes,  exposure  of clearance from ground will be as per Electricity
substation operations personnel to potential Rules, (attached).



EMF hazards
Public access to substations, towers and other Rajasthan SEB will restrict public access, by
electrocution hazards                     fencing and security of substations. Substation
fences are grounded. Towers have barbed
wire anti-climbing devices and danger notices.
Distribution transformers are fenced, and the
smaller installations are made on poles. All
installations are made in accordance with the
Electricity Act, and inspected on a regular
basis. A consumer safety program is included
in the technical assistance.
Hazards to aircraft                       The nearest airport is 100 km from the ROW.
The ROW will not present a hazard to aviation
zones or approach routes to airports.



eirib4.a   ST    '-Ei  PLi)JI. 40   4UF  0jLpU4A&.3AuŽ.J
"AU                                                     1               i.  3 I. ?    l.U   rDT(JoV.J- D  a)I  i3. -N U3j  i..! A  ,9!.::, 4U Cr.. r -lXo   1
I B    all  T    O k-7 F-4 V?  fl 7 T  11t,1.1    T  Cd X LIT e IO             l 0z J .I  I: 0i s i .                                  5 F)*LUu
- - F AU     -g r!U                     ED q'..N                e     ..A mc -3 -   '.J -                      J..0j- -.                     -.
ul=~-Oclo-4d                       q -           4:.  E-   J. 0D T.                            T EA C'      .            2l C.Ilt-  j!
E4~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ SrJ El -A  n. Ir "1- -1  rt T V                         -1t5P  
Lj u-. A)E c3T   -0.1   _atLM           AI       LT       i_U       ,1 -)J.)j  - |*  Z >|. 1  .1 i; ! ,rJ1Ju !0 ! e D T I '       :t nK-  q -n
-AeLM  f k-    Sy 3E-.S   S             S  -3si-i * I  ]:- _   '
uJ rlLl ...... !.Q) .....pEi', =E3_! ppjE?   .1;: t        e           - ,       ....       .        ..........40 14=:  _?D1[1 fl  O' Sc+re."1(}4;!r  , C.  
_-_ B---! 3     A.   EJ L D 4.l!' .l    ._tr 6I C:*..... .          -H'' rE.t  p  .    :     C, r w:p   ..  ' , a -... l 7.4.:. E.)3[.... t -E   'u --I ,  t ::'J



ZFtWT41-49V/4390         .          .        t1i 26-5-95
.~W~ -1 32 0       'iT 4 IF  -thwn   M f
art     f4  I
79 /IANi'fl4'93 t4iTf  15*5*95
~qwQrT Ufn    l -5mtl ar¶, ir
F.Trr   tmiTZT  IT TET   %7 >      >   r<ltT
tR V4 W ( qcfqu 1 farz      wrtr II '  3flp
',eIf  7.-5-92 t qf'  t             3a-rz
tw          iF1m "qtm PT 9IZ 1 |Trcq J
I ,j I Tul  ql I 1 n



CCpy of thI  letter No. 3*.'200 d-.Ated fi..e.19 95 -from the office  o-F t'he
Te-h si1d&r   iLant7 ,c q isitionY s   ih -,a nga rhba s A ddr <-e--. d to thf-,e ,En
( TCf.'-I I :1 1 .2,-I- I :, .., RaEEB. *l1 Jt     
Jui:a-  Non Objetction cifxrtififtate-? under Noti-ficatioin diate-d
7.5. 1919.2 of the Central Gov(..rrnment for laying off
172 KV Vtishangar-hbas s    Til j       inef:.
Ref-         Your  J.et.ter No. R /255'' dated  _'2...7. 1-,95.
On   t 17 .e   subieCt Cited  above, it. is' to state   t  -±  Ih:R i
proposed 1`2' <v' K"isharnarhbas - TijAr-aR  line does not pass `t,hrough
the   restricted  specified  ar-3ea as specif.i(T.d  in  thE   notifi4ti iri.rn
dated 7 .5.?2 of th1e Central Gove-rnment. This information  is bZased
on   the repo:rt of co-nc--rned P,a4twari of Ghancha and Chamroda   ar-e ai
acde   available through y)oUr Mr,r. RK. 2huvneshwar, JEn.  This  N:c
objection certifie  is issuend to day onr d,ated '3.8.95.



TMM*A:532qMTV12~Tt    iFG
..l I ffW-9' ff-rE I     .,I,Id LG>,
tih-i fiT 7 -5*92 ~t 3r¶Euu 'c-4t  P 
S:  lUZ- 3¢
3f~1T ~I   IT O  TffW-fi  WF7  2 B 5?-    27/9A)2
£,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r <, ,
~~T?TR 3T    tAM ~f
*V TT4           er; Cq C;q
STrT :                     TT 3ri  NtF  251 ;127//92
104  .T-r zmA                            .
zu ~0 MI  aW  I   'TP4 q-VdlGw   ,   wf ae >
7 METTM    z 2%ee1t M@M   1n41Gs (tw  M   }
3**95    UIWT vw  I
f13f--/lcm I    0






/WSA'C 2
MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENT a
FORESTS NOTIFICATION
New  Delhi, the 7th May, 1992
(Under Section 3(1) and 3(2) (v) of the Environment
Protection) Act, 1986 and rule 5(3) (d) of the Environment
(Protection) Rules, 1986 restricting certain activities in
specified area of Aravali Range which are causing
Environmental Degradation in the Region.
S.O. 319(E) - Whereas a Notification under section 3(1)
and section 3(2) (v) of the Environment (Protection) Act,
1986 (29 of 1986) inviting objections against restricting
certain activities in specified area of Aravali Range which
are causing Environmental Degradation in the Region was
published in the Gazette of India, Part II-Section 3 Sub-
section (ii) vide S.O. 25(E) dated 9th January, 1992;
And whereas all objections received have been duly
considered by the Central Government;
Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by
sub-section (1.) and caluse (v) of sub-section (2), of section
3 or the Environment (Protection) Act. 1986 (29 of 1986),
read with rule 5 of the Environment (Protection) Rules,
1986, the Central Government hereby prohibits the carrying
on of the following processes and operations, except with
its prior permission in the areas specified in the Table
appeanded to this Notification:



i.  Location of any new industry including pansion
modernisation;
ii.  (a) All new mining operations including renewals
of mining leases.
(b) Existing mining leases in sanctuaries national
park and areas covered under Project Tiger and/or
(c) Mining is being done without permission of
the competent authority.
iii. Cutting of trees;
iv.  Construction of any clusters of dwelling units,
farms  houses,  sheds,  community  country
information centres and any other activity
connected vvith such construction (including
roads a part of any infrastructures relating
thoreto);
V.  Electrification (laying of new transmission lines).
2.  Any person who desires to undertake any of the above
mentioned processes or operations in the said areas, shall
submit an application to the Secretary, Ministry of
Environment and Forests, New Delhi, in the attached
application form (Annexure) specifying inter alia, details of
the area and the proposed process or operation. He shall
also furnish an Environment Impact Statement and an
Environmental Management Plan along with the application
and such other information as may be required by the
Central Government for considering the application.
3.  The  Central. Government  in  the  Ministry  of
Environmental and Forests shall, having regard to the
guidelines isstued by it from time to time for giving effect to
the provisions of the said Act. grant permission within a
period of three months from the date of receipt of the
application or where further information as been asked for
from the applicant, within a period of three months from
the date of the receipt of such information, or refuse



permission within the said time on the basis of the impact
of the proposed process or operation on the environment in
the said area.
4.  For seeking permission under this Notification, an
application in the prescribed form (see Annexure). duly filled
in. may be submitted to the Secretry, Ministry of
Environment and Forests, Paryavaran Bhavan, CGO
Complex, Lodi Road, New Delhi.
No. 17/1/91-PL(IA)
R. RAJAMANI, Secy.
TAB LE
Areas where carrying on the processes and operations
without permission is prohibited:
i.  all reserved forests, protected forests or any other area
shown as "forest in the land record maintained by the
State Government as on the date of this Notification in
relation to Gturgaon District of the State of Haryana
and the Alwar District of the State of Rajasthan.
ii  all areas shown as
a)  Gair Mumkin Pahar, or
b)  Gair Mumkin Rada, or
c)  Gair Mumrkin Behed, or
d)  Banjad Beed, or
-e)  Rundh.
in  the  land  records  maintained  by  the  State
Government as on the date of this notification in



relation to Gurgaon district of the State of Haryana and
the Alwar district of the State of Rajasthan.
iii. all areas covered by notifications issued under section
4 and 5 of the Punjab Land Preservation Act, 1900, as
applicable to the State of Haryana in the district of
Gurgaon upto the date of this Notification.
iv. all areas of Sariska National Park and Sariska
Sanctuary notified under the Wildlife (Protection) Act.
1972 (53 of 1972).



'._! :u vl; - ' r;-   iTH,`78, Z13TTH  QF;                . 13XOF  AINDIA,N   lY dty               IPARIT  l.I_     . 3(ii)]
1j7o.ccntmnl Oovcrnmcnt ini .tliloMinisry of 1.1n-                    (e) Ailcitial  silus vxsantinctl ttidtl 11[i  tumogu. rut g
Amenlt0anq  rorcsii. shtall, lhayinlj.  rcgnrd  to  the                       th1: Cila  ltoposed:
icIlin,W  lgcucd tr9>lc'koin"xw i,a. f:t*zieing                           2. Ui)jcctivc  of tite project
JeCCqtto 'IJie provisiutsjor1w tc sald Act; grrtit  Ilmmir   -
on.wiUiin;i  pcIodoll    moiis[oilii.aet                                3- (1)  -In ane l ICIUrrUiICJI1:|
I:ccipt of.the.applicationjor wlicrp f4ftitcr onCoril1tio'll                       A        tricul ure ziati:;
*d§:,l  n'ttskcd for fronim ,linp)iptfcnn)witlilln. a pcriotI!4 .laC   slecity)
Trtltce'riontihs froin'thti  dittc or sif-cti rccipt .or such:  ,                                                                  gr.i-
uitk'qatdon  or rcfuseperniissionl will;n:ilhc said tlaai                  (      i)N Avrl;iy of tltc  are;  idUting gria-
if'iI1   basis ,of llieinmpact of theprpposed .process or,                        ii l  '  ct   &  zillit c.
I.ptratiQidion Ailt      I envronincut, iq tfip:said  area.   :;i                 (ii)  F1 I Itikaiility  classilicalitilx of tile  plil-
flULtI~iii4uiW  ~ ~ 't .; ~'f~~'j used   ajid.
4:1 Fote seeldng pertmissilan run icr: .slis.'NNqtifica  nCc)   Potllti in sotrecs existisg .iin  ii    ki..
ih up jpllcation'innthe' prescribcrd, ji'(sec.AAnnexurc).  !1
1u1'P,tfllw.edin, may:.be sdbmltc  S  'the   Scetry,  ,                           rsdius.   .,
'Vi isftyIof Environinent and   rorpsts,i  Paryavaran                         (d) Dismnin r of tihe a.cnrcst Natiotiol ParTlSnS.--
tG :  o   Ix,L                      Ws~l~ , New.DR li
gitibYnnFu.CGO:  omriecx, i Lodi .oqd,   New  Derlli. .;stitaryll iosphlcre llescrvellNlollunicintsilicrilnge
a   I      1 .e3                         (c) ;         ';;rr ,t iWP   l:71tiRl-e.'Llsililt zcrvc  Fotest
:   '          :'    R.~~~JIv l4l   Ni,rScwcy.:                 ¢     ti:l  i:tzl         w;lf1        (x:IiSlvrz
*.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c !(lil  . '.  m i :-I  ',t'  ,r :  Ou-;)a.;t ti,,:i. n1icvi-o
fles
TABLE  ,' .'..  .                                 (C) Orcc      el ct c lan.
Ateas where carrying on of procosses nnd operntionis                         (g) conijlel Isuoyly  :,lforrcstutiott  plan.
witlhout porrnission 'is  jruhlilbitcd   ;      . .              Cliiatc &  Air Qu;tliy':
"";  r (i). all rescrvcd forcsts,         _ 1tected Ir]restr or any
otolher nrca rihown ns tfgrcqt is) AIe latld IC-                 (a)  Nl'iu anc at sIlc:
..cords maintninicd by till Statc Goveritntent                         (b) Max.  tin.lcast ati1iil teitipealiitc.
. *    ! ,    ' as11oi thIc date or tlhis jittifrlcni;oit In rclatinn
to Ourgnon D)istrict (f til,c State of  1itarywin                 (c)  Asntvlit air qu:.iit   dal:
anld tihc Alwar District o1 ttic Stute   of Ito-                 Id) Natial  & ciiweiitr:tih n          tIi'lisill    r st 1
j        *. Jatsthan.                         .      ..Ci Uaw!1 ;                          CUD,  C(2,   SU2, NOx .:lc.)   Irum
(ii) all arcas slhown as  (.-ie t                                             (hc 1p oject:
, ''~~1 z> sj § (a) Oair Mrntakin t.a!la[  'tr  *  \    p 5   *.             (a)  W:ac   tn,nv       aitce     sjitesitii Fae   wllad proutlti
*                                                               W:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~vtter ;tvaitabltily witd tt*nm;iid.
Cb pir Muimkioi Radg, or.., -.....
*  tb)  G\ir Mumkia,  or*.*             (b)  Leant sensoat water availatiliiy:
,;- ,(c) .Cair MunskiW IBchicd  oK   :                                      c                c
.~~~~~. .,  .                                       (C) Wme!  S(lltl-CC to heC 1,1111Ctl Vililt s}lic Stais (t
(d) *Banjad 13ced, or .     ".                                            ':i'ii liil,  lltcrq   (ltiveis, lnkt,  (clinamd,
(d) WVtc  Qtuality:          i*
*     q r: ie lanid rccords.;naninulucd by (lic-Statc Cov-
ernmcntl ns on  thc datc qf'tliis notiricatiu    in                     (c) Challi Cs o)scrmvC   inl (Illanity  itl tnIuality ot
n  ,,:oirelation-to. Gurgaion district of the State of Har-          .*nltc  ill the last.15 years ndtl prcscnt cltarg-
*.¢-yana and .thic Alwar. disttJqc  of. tile Statc'i            tit           i* ig . td cxtraction  dletails:
s.  1-                                    ? .    V      .Q  a-it (n)  (                           it 0   iltlt  . vr nc  wvaler to   '  mcld
tr ^;.(iii. all areas covctrd bi n    icalidnp 15suecl uitdcr                                             dclails              .
,,,, ', :, s    o v 4   er c    h r  Jr              lresr-                       01  nilil &  Qualily of waycr in clic Ic-
* -,,  ',' *yation Act, 1900, ns.pppl;c,ble to the State                                 cc ving  walcr body
'. of 1-aryana in lhc distf of.Gurgaon up to
the dale of this NotIficKion          .     ;                       (iii)  Ott t;iti   Or wastc m.vitcr to be  rcikscd
{ f   *        a,    @  : @ * *-                                  01  a~~~~~~~~~oi ndic antil lle type o( lnndl:.
Vi@  (iv) all arcas ofiSariska Nnilonat Pnrk- andl Saris-
anr                                                                 6. Solid W;d tcs
.,,^,  ;KProtection) Ac,           2.(53  n   192                        (o) Natta: &k  uluantity of solid wastcS- gvncratd:
| ,,   .-       *,                                                           (b)  Solid  wnslc disposal Imiettiodi
.5  4    . ,NNL,Ugrlz.
APPL~~~At1Q~~~ ~~              . ~7. Noise &k vibralioits:
4,5       : ..!~'   '-   r                +rofrLik    i;b cS *                              i of   nt ise tt   vibrations:
(~a)lNae:&o'.sddes  of11.4k           ',lP
SI).. ,'Location.o. tiof     p1ro1*                                              ;a_ v* in**    ....i'an ted St rtiJlhutlc-,Iia M'oi:iica tolor
_ . blal!tc.-ol lh~~~~~~~~~~~c lacHi, ,  .   ,t-,,  -Vlariml  lt mtii   Slalc l'litltilintil  Colillocl lle;ard.
-   er§":r.5Sp,Js|ict. rl'cllsil   :.  ' ,!          -' .   .  .*-        *'*(Jr(fl(l  'atC' llonrtf ittid th1 1rir rigaotidis    !ptl. 
. Location -Mop.: ...i .,                 ,      * .                Dcpil. Ill y 'ho conf:clet ortdnnta..



II4-..3(ii)J  ; .,'                        .  .'          *R tr:        at m 
#' lf^,"  i)#}  'r   etK ffwXr6 ?   lrqllQz. Xt A)   nt i j jt      MINISTRY  OP   NVIRONMENT  &TORESTS
@.4;*.;  e.    w gs   jg       -. *..                                                                       i i    * 
r.         - (;)'~rl~u  iln  q~r,p~ q-;~ ~ra  si~                   Ncw  Dcll i, the 711t  Mny, 1992  '*
^p.t.(q) gmrRa 3)a smrw   T- StFri elx gnt.                                                                   .,.
- .(wl)   R    r W   grm T f lr                              (Uiider Scclion 3 1) nd 3(2) (v) of tlhc Etnviron-
7- ,@       o                                               Ir cnt PIrotectioni)   ct, 1986  nnd rulc 5(3.)..(d) of
(IIe Envirotinient . 'rotection)  Iuics, 1986, sestrict-
('U) titM  WflX i7;r l     1                  *ting certain  oclivita S in   apecified  urca of Atavali
0() 0ft4w  Id    I         '                                Range which ore c using Enivirontiemitnl Degradation.
in tIhe Region.
('r) fRihdl   7i1q1    ni ;   'wFqisl' trw    qr6-*q t           .) S.O. 319(E).-'  lierens a Nobiication  under sec-
* . ,     .                     ^            .            .    lion 3(l)  ansd sect on 3(2) (v) of lho Environment
t j:  ::8~~~    Ulit.   ;it v$ q t rrea qq t..                      (Protcotibnt) Act, 1 86 (29 of 1986) inviting obojec-
tionis agninist sestri ting certain activitics in spccifed
:qfk w ;ran 'lf q ata ti       i a  qq       i41 sq-R        atea of Aravall 11 'ngc wIichi ore causinig Environ-
:' ,;      it' rq  wlq,                                         mental Degrndatios  h1 ibo tRegion was publisied in
S.                                                             the Gazetle of Indi, Part I-Section 3 Sub-section (ii)
;-^; *   9. X,Tr7;FQ)a   r   W ?ltVjr Ifi  ;                          vide S.O. 25 (E) d ted 9th Januniy, 1992;
,, ,,r ,,  ,wrflT  ~n'r 'iiw~it~   ~   ~     m'irt              Al'wil,crcn5 all  bjcemions recceived have bcen duly
* ,@'"  10. (¢) Vji   rYt dunr.   tlr          wrl    ul i iu         considered by the  'ittral Ooverimcibet;
Now, tlierefore, I I exercise of tlie pobeis con(erred
,. sn iwulr jwvr rxqm by sub-section (1)  and clause (v) of sub-section (2),
of scctioni 3  or tl   Environnmift (Protection)  Act,
I;   jlrU) qqhxvT imium lhd- rp-m.   qx   r.                    1986 (29 of 1986) reUd svitb rule 5 of tlhe Environ-
*     rTo:                   Ktr    mReit (Protectioni)  lutes, 1986, tlie CcntrnI Govern-'
*   n                     *i.tr  m pen't fiereby proltit its tlie carrying on or tie follow-.
ing processes anti  pcrnlions.  exccpt witll its prioe
(j)  Q".wvr ui4rl gq'  j,W.,r                                   permlission, hii thlie a enas specilicd in the Table append.
,                                      ,r                        cld to tihis Notific: lioni: 
; R    (tm)  wrtflqivt,,                                         (i) Localion ,    r nif y new Ititistrv incinidyi  eX-
-1980 eso      tS  rq         .    . rI panlslonjn odesiisation;
3 kv,  w traRtrii                                         '      (ii) (a) All r w  mining   operalions  includiin
',  .. qTIy In NM~ i RA                                                     rewals fo dmning Icascs.
: 13. qtr  $q1r h4vr q).                                                (b) Exislt ng tiiilig   leascs in sanctuaricsf
nanlioninl aIk ant nreias cce red wider Pro-
*   'AN * rrr  V  r>rr :                 ..-                              ject Tige   andlor
*1~~~~~~~~~~              ... ~~~~~~~~~~(v). Mini g Is being done withtout permis-
.... Yi n..                              ....  rx  It .                    sion of t e  competent autliority.
rqv k *   WP t  rO'xr  qt              (iii) CutLiog   f trees;
-    ;.   *    1.w ~( tyWT aQ  .  6,tt   r lIiO  Ur1l                   (;v) Codstruct on of any  clusters of  dweling
* ¢;0, fi.   .   t;st 3(r)    4* f aj 7, l, 9, 12  l  (tr)                   unlits, for ns bouses, sheds,  ommunity een-
;X;v   j  X * dlt 12 (lq) 4i                                               ic,     *G   JTIes, Ininto io C ed ilntitrsud laXonoy vlier actl-
vity con ected withi suchi construction (in-
t    *    t 3             1     t (). 4,  i  t   , ,                eluding    ads a part of any iafrastructurc
-I {;  dn    (; ir dsfe vr), 'rif t.:  Aql k* tas   l                     trelating i ereg o);
>;,ffi,,   ,      *  qak  Now U;q u$ j)           g t          i            j|(v) Electrific don (laying of new   transimissiot
* ~r ;:i qP    S    e15     *       .                     I      lines).
*-;!'!. 3 3 (), 3           (),   (, 4, s,              2. Any person   lo dcsircs to uindernakc any of ll
So 7U , 12 ('U) i12 (i) ntrai            k r   llr    above mentioncd   rocesses ore dperations In the seA:
ai : t   "  !  . *                 a nrens. shall submit nn npplication to thIe  Secrctary
,   .                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mlinistry of Environ mctt and Fo[csts, Ncew Dellti, 1;
,armr, otit, nx  npin, Rr " 6% qfxqngv t 4  tnf       file attacicil nppl7l ntioni fonu (Aninexure) specifyinr
,  , i  Z vu~it, u'ifttr ww t~a,   ' ' ti~i~t and '?orest Inter alln, tdetnils o  tle nren and tle proposed proces
or operation. tlie  hall also furnislh an Environnuen
**     ''    )ittt*W§X:,;t 4 4  9 n  * te M * t (t) Impact StateinetiI nd an Environmental Mnnagemer
. ***1 n ~ . .E BtA Rts z   Ghab rvs 1kg trla t tnvh  Plan along with thi  application and.such other lafor
-Ira ,i  :                                            mation as mav be rc9iqtirebtlv tle Central Goveft
, :-mnt tor consiicdri ig tlio upplication.
*.1



*,t'Ajnbieot noise level:                                     (tu) 1'topusni tor diver;oi of1?orest liund undeu
,).Noise &vibraiion con(rol menures proposed:                        Pore.s  (C nsCe  tl0l) Act, 1981) iticitidiag
*-    ,Denclit Cost. nalysi's
i) Subiidcnce probleni, if  lly,' witli  control              13.¶ChIg.enda;iuss of Ii C Slic Pollution Cmii-
measures:                            'rtl Board nadior (fie Sinla   )cpurlinent ulP Environ-
P,ower requlrement indicating source of supp y;                                               |
completo envirorun tanl details to be furni-                    *       .ature uf the Applilini
-shd scparately, if captfve power utub pro-                                        Alaos  tlii nuile, duoe   and
^>g; posed:.  *                                                     '                         tfull Postal address.
,Olotal labour force to be dcployed witht details    .
*t7u5.; ('     . '       .       :                        N.D.-
~ndezi       lt.i                the (::.-t-reo..  ,   A. 1icm  Nos. 3(c), 4, 5, 6 17," 8, 9, 10, 12(b) aud
.Endeuiiie licult  proitlctrns lii tti1 t(ec. 12(c) arc not apphicab   to  cuttig of tres.
ii    -JHealth.care systeIII propo4ed:                        11. lecl Nos. 3(c), 4, 7, 11 nuc lmM applisvble tu coti-
10.; (a) Number of families  an;populationlo  be                    struction of cluster of  ewelting uit, fnri,i  sieds,
aa4 population           ~~~cummuntly centre and. fly.otlier activity corntic-
t-  . ;.displaced:'                                         ted  with  suclh  constr etiou  including roads.
R(b   Reiabilitationl Master jlzun:                        C.  lteu  Nos. 3(b), 3(c) -3(c), 3(f), -4, 5,t6, 7,
l. Risk Oessment report:                                       .  9, 12(a) &  12(b) areu ot ipplicable to electrii.-
12; () Enviroininonital Ililpact Asscssalent Report:                                    .
;D. All iteins to I'e furnis ieI In case of minillg, in-
:..bjEviroluutnutut Manage:;scnt Plan: Prepar.                    dustry thenral poivci  transpott projects
cti . S per Guidelines of M EF issued   froau
,^. ., '   time  to: time.                                      1.. Nottihstandlng tic a ovcJ  uny iltcu(s) consider-
;t: (c)  Detailed *  CU¶ibllity  .~ejii~rt:                *          ed not applicabic mw   be so indicated uloiigwiti
;h;,t (c) Detailed  r-tasibility  ltepqrt:                            reasolls,  
4Ztt..%,- *J    | - 
149* '1,.  .
j-S-;_, '_ ,*'   ,    '     *                      .          ;        *~~~~~ I
El;ed by the '  i:. .*. Govt              . Ini        -         IP  
ti                                                dn                     1,,* r*I    .. s:                19....  92
.1.l  5 0.,-  '   ,. .        ,*. '-                                            '       'I          
s,, ~   ~                         .. ' -      ',,,;i-                    ,.       .,,,      
s;,, ,.t .          .   .,,., .  .                                                          I * 
1'''   149 01192     **.
*.,&; -,..  rrJinted by the Imlaaager, C1ovt. of ludia Pcesa, Ring Road, Ncv Delbic-I 10064
*                         lux~~~~~~~~cd i'ubifrUtcd by thcs Conliotter nr l'atIcmiclonM,,Deth .1 bOOS-. t992






ANNEXURE-III
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA.
POWER TELECOM CO-ORDINATION COMMITTEE
No.PTCC(T)/DV- 7233/ Raj-67 Dated 8.3.96
CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL TO THE ROUTE EXTRA HIGH
TENSION POWER LINE/TELECOMMUNICATION LINE.
Approval to 'the Power Telecommunication Co-
ordination Committee is hereby conveyed to the
route of:
132KV S/C Kishangarh Bas- Tijara.
E.H.T. line/Telecommunication line, particulars of
which are given in the Appendix-I.
The approval is for the route only and is
subjected to the following conditions:
1.   The approval  is based  on  the power  system/
telecom./system condition details as reported by
the power supply authority/Telephone Authority at
present. Any changes either to the transmission
lines or the Power system of the paralleling
telecommunications lines which are likely to alter
the low frequency induction from the estimated at
present should be. reported to PTCC for its prior
approval.
2.   Thet  power  &  telecommunication  authorities
shall be required to adopt such measures as may be
recommended   by  .PTCC   for   counteracting   any
interference that might arise when the EHT line is
in normal operating.
3.   Each crossing should satisfy the conditions be
laid down in para 8 of PTCC Code of practice for
crossings.
4.   The angle of crossings shall be 90 but in no
case less than 60
5.   The   power   line   shall   be   required   with
protective switch gear such that the duration of
earth fault current should be as short as possible
but never exceeding 0.5 seconds.
6.   The  power  line  shall  be  energised  within a
mutually   acceptable   time   after   completing   a
certificate from concerned DOT and/or Raiiway
Authority regarding completion of provision of all
protective measures as recommended by PTCC and also
under cnt-c:- tr tI%r%,nr-i frnm  t-b  nnT !nd /or R1v



ANNEXURE-III
Contd..p..2..
Authority maintaining the telecommunication system.
7.   The telecom. line shall be commissioned within
a   mutually   acceptable   time   after   completing
provision    of    all    protective    measures    as
recommended  by  PTCC  and  also  after  obtaining  a
specific cleairance from Power Authority if certain
measures as recommended by PTCC are to be carried
out on power system.
8.   The  later  entrant  in  the  field  shall  bear
entire cost of providing GD tubes and their fitting
as recommended by PTCC including the spares and/or
any other protecting measures as recommended by
PTCC.
9.   The route approval shall be subject to special
conditions as laid down under Appendix-II.
10. The power Authorities will ensure that the
provisions of code of practice for protection from
EIR are taken care of.
Sd/-
(Hubasi Ram)
For & on behalf of Central PTCC
D.E.T. PTCC, NEW DELHI.



APPENDIX-I
1.a)  Name of  the  power                 XEN(PTCC),
supply authority                     RSEB,Jaipur.
seeking approval.
b)   Reference No.& date             : RSEB/CE/T&C)/
XEN(PTCC)/JPR
F.448/560/ dt
22.6.91.
C)   Probable date of
energisation.
2.a) Name of the power line          : 132kV S/C Kishangarh-
Bas-Tijara.
b)   Route map No. & date.           :
c)   Operating voltage               :  132 KV
d)   Length of HT line               :  18 Kms.
e)   Number of circuit               : Single circuit
3.a) Names of paralleling
telecom. lines.
b)   Length of parallelism
4)   Average value of earth          :  8792 ohm-cm
resistivity in the region
5.   Whether L.F. Test necessary        -
6.   Fault current & induced voltages
---------------------------------------------------
S.No. Name of the telecom   Length   M.C.in F.C.in I.V.  in
line/circuits         paralle- Ohms    Amps. l VoltS
lism in
miles/Kms.



DET Alwar will make arrangements to provide
G.D. tubes in the telecom alignment noted below.
The G.D. tubes can be procured from CTS New Delhi,
as  per  the allotment  being  issued  separately  by
this office. The cost of the protection work will
be borne by the power department.
TIJARA-KISHANGARH  BAS ALIGNHENT:
')   One G.D. tube each on all wires at Kishangarh
bas and Tijara terminals.
ii) One G.D. tube each on all wires at four places
equally spaced between Kishangarh bas and Tijara
terminals.
II. No coxial cable is involved in the route as
intimated by SDE PTCC Jaipur vide his letter No.
RAJ PTCC/95-96/ EHT/9/6/ dated 29.2.96.
III) No railway line is involved in the power route
as intimated by XEN PTCC RSEB, Jaipur vide his
letter No. RSEB/CE(T&C)/XEN(PTCC)/ JP/F. 448/D. 81
dated 5.2.96.



VKubAnnex 3 
FKuch r- Sanjoo






RAJASTHIAN STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD
132 Kv Kuchera - Sanju Line
The route plan of the 132 Kv Kuchera - Sanju Line from the 132 Kv substation at
Kuchera, to the proposed 132 Kv substation at Sanju, has been marked on the attached
large scale map. Land use areas are shown in various colors and include: uncultivated
government land, villages, roads, nallahs, hills, existing transmission lines and
canals/drains. Most of the information discussed below is illustrated on the survey map of
the route.
Description of the route:
The route of the line has been walked and surveyed by Sh. Cholararn, J. E. (TCC - IH).
The line passes through barren government land, as well as irrigated and non-irrigated
agricultural land, and has been planned in such a way that no villages are crossed. The
nearest airport is 120 km away, and the nearest bird or wildlife sanctuary is more than 200
km distant. The ROW does not pass through forest, wildlife or other protected areas.
There are no areas of cultural importance along the route. The total length of this line is
approximately 22 km.
Environmental Issues and Mitifation Stratefzies:
The Kuchera - Sanju line does not lie in the specified Aravali Range area.
The issues below have been addressed during the conceptual design, and have been
reassessed during detailed design and route survey:
Environmental Issues                      Mitigation Strategies
Resettlement and rehabilitation           There will be no displacement of homesteads.
Access roads in remote areas, increase in No new access roads will be built. There is no
hunting, exploitation  of forest resources, forest land or wildlife protection area along the
induced development due to new  access ROW.
corridors, human settlement and more
extensive clearing
Transmission line rights of way and substation  There is no wild life protection zone within 200
site impacts on land use: agricultural, forest km of the ROW.
areas, wetlands, wildlands
The ROW is not the first transmission line in
the area, and existing transmission lines in the
area have given no problem to migratory birds
I during any part of the year.



The horizontal struts of the towers are fitted
with rough (sawtooth) strips to discourage
birds from roosting near the transmission lines.
The ROW passes through agricultural land. A
minimum area is used for foundation footings
of the towers; approximately 6 x 6 m. The
extent of the land covered under the towers will
total approximately 0.7 acres. Appropriate
compensation will be paid if crop damage
occurs during construction (see main text).
After construction cultivation is allowed under
the towers and conductors.
Impacts on cultural resources             There are no cultural or aesthetic resources
along the ROW. These places have, therefore,
not been shown on the map. There will be no
impact on cultural resources due to the ROW.
Erosion during construction, and along access The project is located in the topographically
roads, substation and transmission tower sites  level areas of Rajasthan, where the terrain is
flat.
Clearing (erosion, loss of habitat) and control No chemicals are used by the RSEB  for
of vegetation in rights of ways, including  removing the grass/plants/vegetation which will
mechanical and chemical (herbicide) clearing  grow under the ROW   Clearing as needed is
operations, (chemical contamination of site done manually.  Any trees in the ROW  are
and rainfall runoff)                      topped to comply with the Indian Electricity
Rule vertical clearances. Any trees cut are
replaced by an equivalent compensation nearby.
Potential electromagnetic frequency (EMF) GOI regulations (Electricity Act) call for
radiation effects, radio noise and television  minimum   transmission   line   clearance
interference,  and  audible  noise  along  distances to address EMF effects. The ROW
transmission  line  routes,  exposure  of clearance from ground will be as per Electricity
substation operations personnel to potential Rules, (attached).
EMF hazards
Public access to substations, towers and other Rajasthan SEB will restrict public access, by
electrocution hazards                     fencing and security of substations. Towers
have barbed wire anti-climbing devices and
danger notices. Substations are fenced, and
the  fences are  grounded.    Distribution
I transformers are fenced, and the smaller



installations  are  made  on  poles.    All
installations are made in accordance with the
Electricity Act, and inspected on a regular
basis. A consumer safety program is included
in the technical assistance.
Hazards to aircraft                       The nearest airport is 120 km from the ROW.
The ROW will not present a hazard to aviation
zones or approach routes to airports.



