Report No. PID5510
Project Name                     India-Rajasthan Power Sector Restructuring (@)
Project
Region                           South Asia Regional Office
Sector                           Distribution & Transmission; Electric Power
& Other Energy Adjustment
Project ID                       INPE38334
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
Implementing Agency
Address RAJASTHAN DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY
Department of Energy, State Government
of Rajasthan
Secretariat Building, Jaipur 302 005
Contact Person: Mr. C. S. Rajan, Secretary of Energy
Tel: 91-141-380 635
Fax: 91-141-380 635
Email: secenergy@satyam.net.in
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                October 13, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         March 15, 2000
Projected Board Date             November 14, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
India's Power Industry.India's power industry is characterized by
inadequate and inefficient power supply. Peak capacity and energy supply
shortages are estimated to be over 20 percent and 10 percent respectively,
and are expected to grow in the years ahead. The widening gap is partly
attributable to poor policies in the sector leading to inflated demand as
well as to insufficient investments in the first half of the 1990's and
the sector's continuing inability to implement investment plans. Plant
availability and efficiency are generally low, and system losses are high
throughout India's power transmission and distribution networks. Low
tariffs, heavy cross-subsidies, poor collection performance and outright
theft, combined with increasingly tight state budgetary resources have
constrained supply expansion and investment in upgradation of transmission
and distribution system. The financial performance of the sector as a
whole is unsatisfactory, with low or no returns and no contribution to
investment from internal resources. Commercial losses of the State
Electricity Boards (SEBs) have reached the equivalent of about US$3.2
billion or about 1 percent of India's gross domestic product (GDP). In
1991, in an effort to mobilize resources for generation capacity
expansion, the Government of India opened power generation to private
sector investments. However, private investments have not been readily
forthcoming without assurances of guarantees from the Government of
India. It has since become evident that in the absence of major
structural and regulatory reforms in the power sector at the state level,
which would enhance the financial viability of the sector, it would be
difficult to mobilize the resources to support investment needs of the
sector. Accordingly, the Government of India, with the assistance of the



Bank, has been encouraging states to undertake comprehensive power sector
reforms. India's state governments have clearly acknowledged the problems
with state-run utilities and a few states, including Rajasthan, have
initiated comprehensive reform program. Recognizing that actual
investments remain constrained by the lack of creditworthiness of the
SEBs, the Government of India encourages the states to adjust their power
tariffs and improve the performance of state utilities and advocates
sectoral reforms through national initiatives. The Government of India
enacted an Electricity Regulatory Commission Act in July 1998. This Act
provides for establishment of the Central Electricity Regulatory
Commission (CERC) and State Electricity Regulatory Commission(s) (SERC) at
the national and state levels, in an attempt inter alia to de-politicize
the tariff-setting process. The CERC has been established and the
commissioners appointed. It is responsible for approval of tariff for
central sector utilities, and tariff review/setting of multi-state
Independent Power Producers (IPPs).    In parallel, India's power
transmission and system operations are going through an extensive national
restructuring program.    To encourage private investment in the
transmission business, the Central Government enacted the Electricity Laws
(Amendment) Act 1998, in August 1998. This Act provides for the
establishment of a central transmission utility, state transmission
utilities and transmission licensees and thereby facilitates private
investment in power transmission. Finally, Electricity Bill 2000 is
proposed to be introduced which will create an enabling framework for the
states to restructure and rationalize the electricity industry.Main Sector
Issues in Rajasthan. For over 40 years, Rajasthan's power sector has been
dominated by the Rajasthan State Electricity Board (RSEB), a vertically
integrated state-owned utility formed in July 1957 under the provisions of
the Electricity (Supply) Act 1948. The state grid has access to 4,056 MW
of generating capacity of which 1,302 MW is fully-owned and operated by
RSEB. The system covers a large geographical area of 342,000 sq. km.,
two-thirds of which is desert with low population density. Annual per
capita electricity consumption is 284 kWh, lower than the average in
India. RSEB presently serves over 5.0 million customers of which domestic
and agriculture customers, account for 4.3 million. Apart from RSEB, two
other state-owned institutions are involved in the development of the
power sector, namely, the Rajasthan Energy Development Authority (REDA)
and the Rajasthan State Power Corporation Limited (RSPCL). REDA was
established in 1985 with the objective of promoting and developing the use
of non-conventional energy sources. RSPCL was established in 1995 with
the objective of developing power generation capacity within the state
from alternative sources of energy, including solar thermal, wind and
hydro.Rajasthan's power sector suffers from a severe shortfall in power
supply. Energy shortages have increased from about 7.8w in 1991 to about
15t in 1998, while the deficit in peaking capacity worsened from 14; to
nearly 23t during the same period.    Electricity sales grew at an annual
rate of 9t over the last decade with most of the growth accounted for by
consumer categories availing of subsidised tariff, i.e., domestic and
agriculture users. The share of industry in the total sale of power has
come down from 43t in FY1992 to 40t in FY1998. In contrast, the combined
share of domestic and agriculture has increased from 39t to 52t during the
same period. Unserved demand is significant as evidenced by a huge
backlog in service connections to about 380,000 customers. Due to funding
constraints, RSEB's generating capacity had not kept pace with the
increase in electricity demand, such that by mid-90s the share of power
-2 -



purchases from outside the State exceeded 509 of total grid availability.
RSEB's operations are marked by frequent service interruptions,
unacceptable voltage and frequency swings, high system losses and poor
cost recovery. Systems losses are estimated at 42%. Over the past
decade, cost coverage from revenue has been on a decline from 91% to 76%,
resulting in a revenue deficit of 24% in FY1999. In the last few years,
the finances of RSEB have been stretched to its limit due to the growing
revenue shortfall. This in turn has put pressure on the State Government
to increase its subsidy support to RSEB. The sector's deteriorating
finances impede the inflow of fresh capital investments needed for power
systems expansions and improvement. Causes. A root cause of this crisis
is the lack of management and financial autonomy of RSEB from the State
Government. This has led to the lack of commercial business orientation,
accountability and modern utility management practices in RSEB. State
influence prevails in tariff-setting, investment decisions, personnel
deployment, among others. For instance, RSEB has been directed by the
State to charge low tariffs to agriculture and residential consumers and
to undertake or continue unremunerative activities without proper
compensation.   Under such a politicized environment,    introducing the
management and operational autonomy and performance incentives needed to
improve electric service to consumers has proven difficult.Challenges and
Government Strategy. The real challenge facing the Government is to
reduce widespread poverty, arrest the high rates of unemployment, and
improve social development.    Deterioration in infrastructure, mainly
electricity supply, amongst other reasons, is cited as one of the major
deterrents in attracting investments into the state. Power shortages in
the rural areas not only affect agricultural production but also constrain
avenues for non-farm income-generating activities, aggravating poverty in
the rural areas. The unconstrained demand for electricity services in the
state in the next ten years is projected to grow at about 7.5 percent per
year.  While the grid had reached 90% of the villages, less than 40 % of
the population has access to electricity. Eliminating the power deficit,
through supply and end-use efficiency improvements, requires an additional
capacity of about 963 MW over the next seven years. The associated
investments are estimated to cost Rs. 30.6 billion for generation and a
minimum of Rs. 85.4 billion for rehabilitation and expansion of the
transmission and distribution system. Such level of investments cannot be
financed under the present conditions of deteriorating financial
performance of the power sector. Capacity additions from the IPPs, if
any, will also be constrained by the capacity of the sector to pay for the
power purchases. The need to restore the power sector's financial
viability through a comprehensive set of reforms has become an economic
and political imperative.To address the fundamental management and
operational problems, stem the financial collapse of the power industry
and ensure its sustainable development, the Government of Rajasthan has
decided to restructure the power sector. The objective is to create an
operating regime that fosters competition, efficiency and transparency, as
well as attract private finance, resulting in the overall improvement of
electricity services in the State. The State has issued a Policy
Statement on Power Sector Reforms Programme (see Annex 11) which calls
for inter alia:   (i)   The unbundling of the vertically integrated
monopoly power utility (RSEB) and functional separation of generation,
transmission and distribution into separate service companies, registered
under the Companies Act; (ii) establishment of a statutorily created
autonomous regulatory agency; and (iii) private sector participation in
- 3 -



generation and distribution business.    The legal basis for implementing
the reforms is the Rajasthan Power Sector Reforms Act 1999, which took
effect on June 1, 2000.    The financial framework under which financial
transformation of the sector is envisioned to take place during the
transition period FY2000-2004 is provided under a Financial Restructuring
Plan (FRP) approved by the State Government in March 2000.
2. Objectives
The development objectives of the proposed Rajasthan Power Sector
Restructuring Project are to: (a) support the ongoing power sector reform
process in Rajasthan leading to higher sector efficiency and financial
recovery; and (b) improve power supply by removing the critical
bottlenecks in the power distribution system.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Since 1993, the Bank has been extensively involved in a policy dialogue
with the Central and State Governments to promote systemic power sector
reforms at the state level. The strategy of Bank assistance to India's
power sector is to support long-term structural reforms, which would
transform the power sector from one which is heavily dependent on
government funding and thus lacking management autonomy, into a
commercially-oriented industry, independently regulated on principles of
economic efficiency. Through this project, Bank assistance will provide
as well as catalyze from other development lending agencies, inflow of
critical long term capital to support the much needed growth of Rajasthan'
s power sector until the reforms progress far enough to attract sufficient
volume of private capital. The Bank can also make available guarantee
instruments, and together with IFC and MIGA, foster private sector
participation in Rajasthan's power development. The Bank is also
discussing with the Central Government the use of its guarantee instrument
for IPPs in reforming states. The Bank's advisory capability will
facilitate implementation of the reform process. While supporting the
power sector reform in Orissa, Haryana, Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh,
the Bank has gained significant understanding and experience of these
reforms in the Indian context.      By drawing on these lessons and also
best practices learnt from the Bank's global experience in power sector
reforms, the Bank can help Rajasthan deal with the issues of design,
implementation and adaptation of its reform program.
4. Description
During the four-year reform transition period, FY2001-04, Rajasthan plans
to expand its transmission and distribution network in order to extend
electricity service to an additional 750,000 customers. Proceeds from the
proposed Bank loan would help finance schemes that would provide service
access to one third of these new consumers, with the balance of
investments to be financed from the utilities' own resources. A main
thrust of the proposed Bank support will be to help improve the
distribution system particularly in beginning the long process of reducing
the level of losses in the rural areas, improving system voltages and
supply reliability, and in investing in the metering required to
facilitate the privatization exercise.    In addition, the loan will
finance a number of activities that will improve the institutional
capacity of the new regulatory and utility entities to operate in a
changed business environment.    Specifically, financing of consultant
services would be provided for regulatory advice, privatization of the
- 4 -



distribution companies, institutional development of RVPN, environmental
performance management, development of off-grid renewable energy and
energy efficiency programs, among others. In addition, in order to create
greater awareness of and generate wider support for the reform program,
the project will finance information dissemination and communication
initiatives including coverage through media, advertising and public
meetings.   The following table provides a summary of the components to be
funded under the Project.
1. Loss reduction - at low voltage level
2. Transmission & distribution schemes including special equipment
3. Capacitor installation
4. System and consumer metering
5. Technical assistance: consultant services for institutional
strengthening of utilities and RERC; distribution privatization; reform
management; renewable energy and energy efficiency programs; environmental
management.
6. Information and Communication
7. Repayment of PPF Advance
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT               75.8
IBRD                     160
IDA
Total Project Cost       235.8
6. Implementation
Project investments and technical assistance activities will be
implemented over three-and-a-half years.Channeling of IBRD Assistance and
Onlending ArrangementsThe Borrower will be the Government of India, which
will onlend the proceeds of the loan under its standard arrangements for
developmental assistance to the states, and fully additional to Rajasthan'
s regular plan assistance. The Government of Rajasthan will onlend the
proceeds to RVPN and the distribution companies (Discoms) on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. To monitor project related
expenditure, RVPN and the Discoms shall each assign a separate account
code with adequate sub-codes to capture expenditures by component. The
companies shall each open a separate bank account ( Project Account) into
which the project funds will be deposited. Withdrawals from these
accounts will be only for meeting the project expenditure. All
disbursements from proceeds of the Bank loan, including those into the
Special Account, will be transferred into these project accounts.
Counterpart funds will also be deposited by the executing agency into
these accounts to ensure that the project implementation and disbursement
of the Bank loan do not suffer for lack of counterpart funds. Executing
AgenciesRVPN and the Discoms will be the executing agencies for the
transmission and distribution components of the project, respectively.
Part of the technical assistance may be extended to the Regulatory
Commission and Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Limited, the
generation company.    All contracts signed by RSEB, including for advance
procurement under the Bank project, will be transferred to and managed by
RVPN and the Discoms, respectively, as per the Transfer Scheme rules.
Project Monitoring and CoordinationThe Reform Guidance Group, was
established in August 1999, under the Chairmanship of the Honorable Chief
Minister, and with the Secretary of Energy, as secretary. In addition,
- 5 -



Rajasthan has set up a Steering Committee chaired by the Chief Secretary
with the Secretaries in charge of Energy, Finance, Agriculture, Industry
and Irrigation as member. In addition a Task Force chaired by the
Chairman of RSEB has actively supervised and provided guidance to the work
of the reform groups.    There are four working groups, which were
re-activated in April 1999, and 8 sub-groups formed in August 1999 to
support the various range of reform-based activities. A total staff
complement of about 50 directly participate in advancing the reform
agenda. Over 25 officer-level staff work full time in the Reform Office
and with the Project Management Unit (PMU); other staff work from within
RSEB's functional departments (e.g., Human Resource, Legal). Following the
restructuring of RSEB, the composition of the Steering Committee and the
Task Force will be modified to include the Chief Executives of RVPN, RVUN
and the Discoms. The role of these committees will also be revisited to
reflect the change in the role of the State in the governance and
regulation of the power sector. The Steering Committee will meet at
least once in six months or more often as needed. The Task Force would
carry out close review and monitoring of the program through quarterly
review meetings. The Reform office shall continue to exist till
restructuring measures are fully implemented, and there is need for
coordination of issues such as transfer of staff, implementation of
financial restructuring plan, privatization of distribution etc., that
cut across the boundaries of the unbundled entities. At the operational
level, each of the executing agencies will implement its own project
administration, institutional development and strengthening program. They
will also each set up a Project Management Unit to co-ordinate and
monitor the implementation of the investment schemes. Project
SupervisionGiven the complexity of this program, intensive implementation
review by the Bank is required. The Bank will supervise both the
implementation of the reform program and the execution of the project.
The program would be supervised with respect to the effectiveness of
regulation, adoption of competitive and commercial practices in the
industry, improvement in financial operation of the new utilities,
introduction of private management and owners, and extent of political and
public support for the reform process. Lessons learnt in other states
will influence the supervision strategy in Rajasthan. Project
implementation will be reviewed by the Bank through review and monitoring
of procurement actions, contract administration and site visits.     In
addition to the main quarterly supervision missions, additional support to
the client will be provided by the New Delhi office. The impact of the
Government's support to the power sector's financial restructuring on the
State's budget will be monitored through the Bank's dialogue with the
State on economic and fiscal restructuring. To the extent feasible, Bank
mission visits will be coordinated with other donors and the program of
review meetings of the Task Force. The executing agencies shall submit to
the Bank, progress reports as per agreed formats, every quarter.     A
mid-term review of the project will be carried out by the Bank and the
Government no later than two years after Loan effectiveness. A third
party review of the progress of project implementation by independent
consultants would be commissioned by the State Government, the results of
which will feed into the mid-term review. Accounting RSEB followed
accrual-based commercial accounting system, as described in Annex 6, and
this system has been transferred to the successor entities. Certain
modifications to the accounting system will be necessary for RSEB's
successors to be in compliance with the requirements of the Companies
- 6 -



Act. In addition, to make the financial, budgeting and accounting
systems meet the requirements of the emerging commercial environment in
which the new entities shall have to operate, RSEB's successor entities
will need to improve financial controls, professionalize the organization,
induct professionally qualified staff, upgrade the skills, and improve the
technology.AuditThe internal and external auditing arrangements are
described in Annex 6. In the future, the external audit of RVPN, RVUN and
the Discoms will be carried out by independent auditors as appointed by
the Government of India on advice of the Comptroller and Audit General of
India as per requirement of the Companies Act 1956.     Said auditors will
have also have to be acceptable to the Bank.      Project Financial
Statements to be prepared by RVPN and Discoms as per agreed "Project
Management Report" formats, will be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank and in accordance with the standards of
auditing acceptable to the Bank. The audit of project accounts would
include an assessment of the adequacy of accounting and internal control
systems, ability to maintain adequate documentation for transactions, and
eligibility of expenditures for Bank financing. The audited Project
Financial Statements together with the auditor's opinion on it - including
an opinion on the Statement of Expenses (SOEs) - would be submitted to the
Bank not later than six months after the close of each fiscal year. In
addition, RVPN, RVUN and the Discoms will furnish annual audited
corporate financial statements. The audit report on the Special Account
maintained by the Government of India would include a summary of special
account transactions and the closing balance held by the Reserve Bank of
India. The audit report on the special account would be submitted to the
Bank not later than six months after the close of each fiscal year.Project
management reports (PMR)The basic accounting systems for RVPN and the
Discoms to prepare PMRs do exist, but would require some changes to
generate timely and reliable reports. In view of the upheaval caused by
the unbundling of RSEB and formation of new companies, RVPN and the
Discoms will prepare only selected PMR reports in the first year of
project implementation and full PMR reports thereafter. It is envisaged
that disbursement during the first two years of the loan would be made
using the traditional method of disbursement, but that PMR-based
disbursement would be used thereafter.Co-Financing Some co-financing of
investments may be available from the domestic financial institutions,
notably Power Finance Corporation, Rural Electrification Corporation, and
Life Insurance Corporation.
7. Sustainability
Full implementation of Rajasthan's power sector reform agenda is expected
to result in a commercially viable power industry. A combination of
regular tariff adjustments, phasing-out of revenue subsidy, and loss
reduction would help restore the sector's creditworthiness and attract
investment funds from private and commercial sources to finance system
expansion and supply. Regulation by an independent Commission would
increase transparency in operating rules and tariff setting and improve
consumer awareness thus heightening accountability of service providers.
Entry of private financial and managerial resources is expected to result
in more efficient operation and more customer-oriented service.The planned
investments financed by this loan will reduce some bottlenecks to supply
and improve efficiency in selected areas. This will create a demonstrable
improvement in power supply to some consumers and help maintain support
for reforms. The investments, including those for inter-boundary
- 7 -



metering, will also pave the way for privatization of the Discoms. A
number of the upfront reform measures taken by the Government has brought
the reform agenda to such a point where moving forward on reforms is
easier than having to turn back.    Nevertheless, sustained political
commitment will be required throughout the transition period. It has
helped that the reform program to date has spanned the terms of two
political leadership in the State and has been made possible through
consensus-building.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Appraisal reports for all the India power projects prepared since 1993, as
well as the CAS reports have documented: (i) failure of the approach
developed in the seventies and eighties to support the revitalization of
the SEBs, and (ii) the need to adopt a new approach supporting only
in-depth reforms of the power sector, based upon up-front actions rather
than commitments and promises. The first loan (investment loan) based on
this new approach was approved for Orissa in 1996. There followed two
loans, using the new adaptable programme loan instrument, to Haryana
(1998) and Andhra Pradesh (1999) and an investment loan to Uttar Pradesh
(2000).The Bank's Operations Evaluations Department, in its June 1999
report "Meeting India's Energy Needs (1978-1998): A Country Sector
Review", has given a strong endorsement to this approach: "OED strongly
supports the South Asia Region's strategy for the (Indian) energy sector,
initiated in 1993, that concentrated all its power sector resources into
promoting SEB structural reform and only financed distribution system
upgrading. The strategy is highly commendable for its relevance to
India's development objectives, its efficacy in rehabilitating a
critically weakened sector, its efficiency in use of Bank resources, and
its mobilization of private sector resources. In light of the radical
institutional changes that are being implemented, the reform is likely to
be sustainable. OED deems this a best practice model that should be
emulated throughout the Bank's energy sector portfolio." The Government's
reform initiative has benefited greatly in form and substance from the
experience of Orissa, Haryana, Andhra Pradesh and, more recently, Uttar
Pradesh. The envisioned Bank support for Rajasthan is heavily based on
the lessons of our ongoing operations, as detailed below. Lessons
Learnt:a) The operations underway in Orissa, Haryana and Andhra Pradesh
have demonstrated the importance of establishing a clearly defined policy
agenda, including a detailed implementation strategy, which is endorsed by
the Government and political leaders. The policy agenda has to be
communicated and discussed widely, and its salient features unambiguously
stated. This clear enunciation of the long-term policy helps align the
Government's reform strategy with its vision and guides the future
interaction between the Bank and the state.b) Orissa, Haryana and Andhra
Pradesh have also shown that these difficult reform programs need
"champions", small core groups of reform agents, who understand the
complexities of reforms and manage the implementation of the program.
These states have a strong political leadership, which has provided a
clear mandate to the reform agents. They also had some very dedicated
Government bureaucrats and utility staff who have expertly managed the
reform process. These states have also shown the need to staff the new
utilities with qualified personnel having the requisite skills to manage
the transition and meet the new challenges posed by the new environment of
regulation, commercialization, customer-oriented service and private
participation. c) A correct sequencing of the legal, financial and
- 8 -



institutional aspects of the reform program is essential in order to
ensure a smooth but consistent implementation of the restructuring
process. The first step is to establish the legal basis of the reform.
The next step should ideally be sector restructuring to increase the
irreversibility, create the framework for further reforms and provide the
opportunity for securing the necessary skills to implement the program.
This should be accompanied by the establishment of a regulatory regime,
followed by change in ownership of the distribution business. It is
difficult for the State Governments to tackle all of the issues of reform
at the same time (for instance, addressing the concerns of staff,
industries, politicians, and consumers) and thus it is imperative that the
actions are prioritised and sequenced appropriately to achieve the desired
result.d) The experience in the other reforming states has also clearly
emphasized the critical need for financial restructuring and the
development of a track record for the State Government on meeting its
commitments under this financial restructuring. This track record becomes
particularly important when the reform program reaches the stage of
privatization of distribution. The Government's financial commitment has
been facilitated by the presence of the Bank's economic restructuring
program, e.g., in Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. e) It has also
become evident, that the 'demonstration effect' of the Bank support is
very important. This effect is brought about by quick implementation of
critically needed transmission and distribution investments, which target
specific areas to remove bottlenecks and bring about quality improvement,
which serves to demonstrate the benefits of, and thus increases acceptance
for, reforms. This facilitates the crucial process of adequately
communicating the rationale of the reform program to all the stakeholders
to build consensus and to enlist their support for difficult decisions.
Without Bank support, these supply improvements would not be demonstrated
until many years into the program as funds would only be available for
such investment after the financial improvements begin to bear fruit.
With Bank support, it is possible to pursue issues in parallel, such as
the need to implement difficult reforms such as tariff increases (required
to achieve efficiency improvements), alongside the need to quickly bring
about efficiency improvements in the system. Thus, as other State
programs have shown, the Bank's early involvement in power sector reform
plays a key role in demonstrating early gains, which helps increase
acceptance of reforms among a wider set of stakeholders.f) The earlier
operations have also demonstrated the need to take advantage of
opportunities as they arise with the aim of reaching a stage, after which
the reform program is, as far as possible, irreversible. Power sector
reforms involve a long and complex agenda, which invariably proves more
difficult to implement than initially expected. There is thus, a need to
balance the realistic requirement to provide sufficient flexibility to
exploit "windows of opportunity" and also to cope with delays. g)
Experience in Orissa, and now in the other states, has underlined the
importance of realism, flexibility and openness on the part of the
Regulatory Commission during the transitional phase. The Regulator must
be consulted and be prepared to discuss issues as they are identified,
given that the newly created utilities are encountering problems that they
are not completely equipped to deal with. This experience has also
highlighted the central role that the Regulator plays in reducing the
perceived regulatory risk for potential private investors in
distribution. These issues have been discussed with the Regulatory
Commission in Rajasthan, and are expected to be taken care of as the
-9-



regulatory regime develops further.These lessons have been integrated in
the proposed project design, and as with other projects, Rajasthan will
continue to learn and incorporate the lessons from the other operations as
those programs progress.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  Given the nature of major project components, there
are no significant environmental impacts identified or envisaged. Power
generation is not a part of this project. Except for a State-owned
solar-thermal power plant partly financed with GEF support, most of the
new generation capacity is expected to be financed by the private sector
or by central power utilities, which at the least are expected to adhere
to GOI environmental standards. This project supports investments only in
transmission and distribution systems and is expected to have a positive
environmental impact through improved efficiency in supply and demand side
management. However three issues which could be a cause for concern if not
handled properly are: (a) possible presence of PCBs (polychlorinated
bi-phenyls) in old transformers and capacitors (which would require the
preparation of PCB management plans); (b) provision of adequate safety
features in the design of lines and substations; and c) minimization of
any adverse environmental/ecological impact through proper route/location
selection. The project has therefore been categorized as Environmental
Category "B" .A programmatic approach has been adopted to address the
environmental issues associated with the project. For the first set of
investments under the project, an Environmental Analysis (EA) has been
undertaken. As part of the EA, the RSEB (now RVPN, the transmission
company) has prepared an overall Environmental Policy which will govern
all the remaining investments of the proposed project. The Environmental
Policy highlights the guiding principles for planning of transmission and
distribution schemes from the planning stage to operation and maintenance
in a way to ensure reliability, security, economy, and a cleaner and safer
environment. Key principles include: (i) avoidance of right of way
through environmentally and socially sensitive areas; (ii) minimizing
impacts during project construction activities in an environmentally and
socially sustainable manner by following good construction practices; and
(iii) ensuring environmental safeguards such as adoption of advanced
technologies, expertise and management techniques for mitigation of any
unavoidable negative impact arising during operations and maintenance.
The Environmental Policy is included in the document on "Environmental
Framework and Safeguards for Transmission Projects" prepared as part of
the EA.In addition to the Environmental Policy, the document on
"Environmental Framework and Safeguards for Transmission Projects"
includes chapters on detailed project description, existing policy, legal
and administrative framework, baseline conditions, assessment of
environmental impacts of transmission projects, investigation of the use
and disposal of PCBs, analysis of alternatives i.e. environmental
screening criteria for route selection, public awareness strategy, and
Environmental Management Plans (EMPs). The chapter on EMPs provides a
framework for preparing work-specific plans for mitigation, monitoring,
and institutional measures to be taken during construction and operation
to eliminate adverse environmental impacts, offset them, or reduce them to
acceptable levels. It also provides a listing of authorities responsible
for implementation of various activities during different phases of
- 10 -



project execution. The project also includes a TA component to improve the
environmental performance of the new companies formed after unbundling of
RSEB. It is proposed that this TA would be utilized to strengthen their
capacity to implement environmental management plans and mitigation
measures, as well as to undertake preparatory activities (e.g.
environmental audits and outline compliance programs) for
privatization/divestment of existing assets owned by formerly RSEB (now
the three distribution companies, the transmission company and the
generating company). The TA would also be used to develop the
institutional framework, along with the state environment authorities, to
strengthen the monitoring and compliance regime of new and existing power
generating plants. In view of possible future World Bank-funded assistance
for power sector reform in the state, the TA will also be used to more
carefully analyze the environmental impacts of the reform and
privatization process.See Annex 15 for further information.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Magdalena V. Manzo
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 458-1466
Fax:   (202) 522-2427
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending October
20, 2000.



