Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4594 IN
Rajasthan Project Agreement
(Rajasthan Power Sector Restructuring Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF RAJASTHAN
Dated February 27, 2001
LOAN NUMER 4594 IN
RAJASTHAN PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 27, 2001, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF RAJASTHAN, acting by its 
Governor (Rajasthan).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between India, acting by 
its President (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to lend to the Borrower 
an amount of one hundred eighty million dollars ($180,000,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Rajasthan agree 
to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B) 
the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be 
made available by the Borrower to Rajasthan as provided for in the Loan Agreement;
(C) 
by the Project Agreement of even date herewith among the Bank and 
Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Limited (RVUN), Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Prasaran 
Nigam Limited (RVPN), Jaipur Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (JAIPUR DISCOM), Ajmer Vidyut 
Vitran Nigam Limited (AJMER DISCOM) and Jodhpur Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (JODHPUR 
DISCOM), RVUN, RVPN, JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER DISCOM and JODHPUR DISCOM have undertaken 
Page  2
certain obligations towards the Bank as set forth in the Project Agreement; 
(D) 
the Bank has received a letter dated September 25, 2000 from Rajasthan 
enclosing a policy statement designed to restructure, reform and develop the power 
sector in Rajasthan (hereinafter the Reform Program or Program) and declaring 
Rajasthan’s commitment to the execution of such Program; and
WHEREAS Rajasthan, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the 
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Rajasthan declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall, 
subject to paragraph (b) hereof, carry out Part D.1 of the Project through its 
relevant departments or agencies and, shall cause RVPN, RVUN, JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER 
DISCOM and JODHPUR DISCOM as the case may be, to carry out the relevant activities 
under Parts A, B, C, D.2 and E of the Project, and shall cause RVUN to carry out the 
relevant activities under Part D.2 of the Project, all with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, 
and technical practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b) 
Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations 
under this Agreement, Rajasthan shall cause RVUN, RVPN, JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER DISCOM 
and JODHPUR DISCOM to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Agreement all the respective obligations therein set forth, shall take or cause to be 
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable RVUN, RVPN, JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER DISCOM 
and JODHPUR DISCOM to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be 
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
Section 2.02. (a) Rajasthan shall further onlend the proceeds of the Loan to 
each of RVPN, RVUN, JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER DISCOM and JODHPUR DISCOM under a Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement to be entered into between Rajasthan and each of RVPN, RVUN, JAIPUR 
DISCOM, AJMER DISCOM and JODHPUR DISCOM under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, which shall include, that RVPN, RVUN, JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER DISCOM and JODHPUR 
DISCOM shall pay interest on the principal amount so relent and withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate of not less than 12% per annum, and repay the 
principal amount so relent over a period of 20 years including therein a period of 
grace of  5 years. 
(b) 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, Rajasthan shall, in accordance 
with arrangements and procedures satisfactory to the Bank, make available to RVPN, 
RVUN, JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER DISCOM and JODHPUR DISCOM without setting off any amounts 
that may be due to Rajasthan from RVUN, RVPN, JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER DISCOM and JODHPUR 
DISCOM, the proceeds of the Loan within fifteen days of such proceeds being made 
available to Rajasthan by the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed under 
each Subsidiary Loan Agreement.  Rajasthan, shall, within five days of transferring 
the funds to each of RVUN, RVPN, JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER DISCOM and JODHPUR DISCOM, under 
their respective Subsidiary Loan Agreements, send to the Bank confirmation of such 
transfer, indicating both the amount and the date of such transfer. 
(c) 
Rajasthan shall participate with RVUN, RVPN, JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER DISCOM 
Page  3
and JODHPUR DISCOM in the negotiations referred to in Section 2.05 of the Project 
Agreement.
(d) 
Rajasthan shall provide financial support, in cash and on a timely basis, 
to RVUN, RVPN, JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER DISCOM and JODHPUR DISCOM in accordance with 
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank in order to enable RVUN, RVPN, JAIPUR DISCOM, 
AJMER DISCOM and JODHPUR DISCOM to achieve the financial and operational targets under 
the Financial Restructuring Plan. 
(e) 
Rajasthan shall take all such steps that may be required for the 
continued and effective functioning of the Regulatory Commission under the Reform Act.
(f) 
Rajasthan shall, as long as Rajasthan remains the majority shareholder in 
RVPN, JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER DISCOM and JODHPUR DISCOM, take all such actions as may be 
necessary or required in order to support each such company, in meeting their 
obligations set out in Article IV of the Project Agreement. 
(g) 
During the implementation of the Project, Rajasthan shall, within 30 days 
of the approval of the budget of Rajasthan, inform the Bank of the approved budget of 
the Regulatory Commission.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the 
Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. Rajasthan shall duly perform all its obligations under each 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Rajasthan shall 
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, 
abrogating or waiving any Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. Rajasthan shall take all such actions as may be required or 
necessary including the provision of consents under the Reform Act, in order to enable 
RVUN, RVPN, JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER DISCOM and JODHPUR DISCOM to perform their respective 
obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 2.06. Rajasthan shall make budgetary provision for all outstanding 
electricity dues of its departments, and ensure that these amounts are paid to RVPN, 
JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER DISCOM and JODHPUR DISCOM on a regular and timely basis.
Section 2.07. Rajasthan shall: (a) with the participation of JAIPUR DISCOM, 
AJMER DISCOM and JODHPUR DISCOM, no later than July 1, 2002, offer at least a majority 
of its equity in each such Distribution Company for sale to the private sector under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank with the objectives of divesting such 
equity and transferring management control in accordance with a program and timetable 
for divestment satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)
to the extent necessary to meet its obligations under the Financial 
Restructuring Plan, offer its equity in RVUN, in whole or in part, for sale to the 
private sector under suitable terms and conditions;
(c)
take all such measures as may be necessary or required for efficiently 
implementing the transactions resulting from such offer; 
(d)
where no tenders are received in response to such offer or those that are 
received are not deemed responsive by Rajasthan, revise the terms and conditions of 
such offer in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and take such other steps which shall, 
without prejudice to the interests of Rajasthan, JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER DISCOM and 
JODHPUR DISCOM, be adequate, to making such offer attractive for acceptance by the 
private sector; and 
(e)
utilize the proceeds from the divestment of its shareholdings in each of, 
RVUN, JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER DISCOM and JODHPUR DISCOM, to the extent necessary, to meet 
its obligations under the Financial Restructuring Plan.
Section 2.08. (a) Rajasthan shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views 
with the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project and the Program, the 
Page  4
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) 
Rajasthan shall promptly inform the Bank and the Borrower of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project 
and the Program, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by 
Rajasthan of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement. 
Section 2.09. Rajasthan shall:
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the Program and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about December 1, 2002, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project and the Program 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the Program and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c) 
review with the Bank, by February 15, 2003 or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient implementation of the 
Program and the completion of the Project, and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Bank’s views on the matter.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Rajasthan shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its 
operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b) Rajasthan 
shall:
(i) 
have the said records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this section for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each 
such year, the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, and accounts as well as the audit 
thereof as the Bank 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, Rajasthan shall not later than April 1, 2003 or such later date as the Bank 
shall agree, prepare in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank quarterly 
Project Management Reports for Part D.1 of the Project each of which for such Part of 
the Project:
(i) 
(A) 
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and 
projected sources and applications of funds for the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report; and
Page  5
(B) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan during the period covered by 
said report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the 
six-month period following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii) 
(A) 
describes progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report; and
(B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously 
forecast implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement and expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b) 
Rajasthan shall furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report prepared pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section for each such calendar quarter beginning not later than the 
calendar quarter ending on June 30, 2003 or such later date as the Bank shall agree. 
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Rajasthan 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Rajasthan thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America 
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD 
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C. 
 64145 (MCI)
For Rajasthan:
Chief Secretary to the Government
   of Rajasthan
Page  6
Jaipur, Rajasthan
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed under this Agreement on behalf of Rajasthan may 
be taken or executed by its Chief Secretary or by such other person or persons as 
Rajasthan shall designate in writing, and Rajasthan shall furnish to the Bank 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written. 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Joelle Chassard
Acting Country Director, India
STATE OF RAJASTHAN 
By /s/ C. S. Rajan
Authorized Representative
