Page  1
July 23, 1998
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Re:
Japanese Grant for DSM Planning in State Power Sector 
Restructuring Projects
Grant Number TF 025404
Dear Sir/Madam:
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant 
funds provided by Japan, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding four hundred 
thousand United States dollars ($400,000) (the Grant) to India (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient hereby confirms its request that the Bank 
carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the said 
purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon 
receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this 
Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Edwin R. Lim
Country Director 
India
AGREED:
INDIA
By /s/ Jitesh Khosla
Director
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
Date
September 19, 1998 
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist in the preparation of the Demand Side 
Management components of the power sector reform projects in Rajasthan, Haryana, 
Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Delhi and such other states as the 
Bank may agree (the Project States), which has as main objectives: (a) the preparation 
of programs of structural, institutional, regulatory, tariff and financial reforms to 
commercialize and develop autonomy in the state power generation, transmission and 
distribution activities; and (b) the implementation of priority investment programs, 
including Demand Side Management (DSM), to improve the efficiency of the state power 
systems (the Projects). The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given 
are as follows:
(i)
carrying out baseline assessment and analysis of alternative 
Page  2
options for preparing the initial design of Demand Side Management 
(DSM) and Energy Efficiency (EE) projects in the Project States;
(ii)
developing an enabling policy and regulatory framework for DSM 
investments in the Project States consisting of, inter alia, 
energy efficiency standards, policy provisions for delivery of DSM 
services by distribution companies, and removal of disincentives 
for private sector investments in DSM/EE projects; and
(iii)
carrying out overall planning and coordination, including 
reviewing and monitoring the progress of DSM activities.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services required for the 
Activities.
3.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient. The 
Recipient shall cooperate with the Bank to the extent necessary to permit the Bank to 
carry out the Activities promptly and effectively, and to evaluate the results of the 
Activities. The Recipient shall indemnify the Bank against any costs or liabilities 
incurred by the Bank as a result of claims against the Bank in connection with the 
Activities, except those resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of 
its staff or external consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by September 30, 2000.  
After that date, the Bank may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to 
assist in the carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of the 
Bank and shall be done according to the Bank’s applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in 
the territory of, India on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ personnel (other 
than nationals or permanent residents thereof) in connection with the Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the 
Activities. Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Bank may at any 
time suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the following events has 
occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its 
obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient or any 
other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the India, to 
make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit 
agreement with the International Development Association shall have been suspended. 
The Bank may also terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds if: (a) 
the Bank has decided, at any time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw 
its support to the Project; or (b) the Recipient has withdrawn its request for the 
Bank’s assistance in the financing of the Project. 
8.
The Bank is not an agent of, or trustee for, the Recipient and shall not have 
any fiduciary relationship with the Recipient. The Recipient shall have no right to 
any portion of the Grant that is not expended by the Bank pursuant to this Agreement.
