Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4594 IN
Loan Agreement
(Rajasthan Power Sector Restructuring Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated February 27, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 4594 IN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 27, 2001, between INDIA, acting by its President (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated September 25, 2000, from the 
State of Rajasthan (Rajasthan) enclosing a policy statement designed to restructure, 
reform and develop the power sector in Rajasthan (hereinafter the Reform Program or 
Program) and declaring Rajasthan’s commitment to the execution of such Program; 
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which Project forms the 
first phase of the Reform Program, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing 
of the Project;
(C) 
the Project will be carried out by Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam 
Limited (RVUN), Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Prasaran Nigam Limited (RVPN), Jaipur Vidyut 
Vitran Nigam Limited (JAIPUR DISCOM), Ajmer Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (AJMER DISCOM) 
and Jodhpur Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (JODHPUR DISCOM) with the Borrower’s and 
Rajasthan’s assistance; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement, in the Rajasthan Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank 
and Rajasthan, and the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank, RVUN, 
Page  2
RVPN, JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER DISCOM and JODHPUR DISCOM. 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“AJMER DISCOM” means Ajmer Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited a Company 
incorporated under the Indian Companies Act, 1956, as amended from time to time, for 
the purpose of engaging in the business of, inter alia, procurement, distribution and 
supply of electric energy in accordance with the Reform Act;
(b) 
“Distribution Companies” means JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER DISCOM and JODHPUR 
DISCOM, each incorporated under the Indian Companies Act, 1956, as amended from time 
to time each such company is individually referred to as a “Distribution Company”;
(c) 
“Electricity Act” means the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 of the 
Borrower, as amended from time to time; 
(d) 
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2), and (3) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(e) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(f) 
“Environmental Framework and Safeguards for Transmission Projects” means 
the document of that name dated July 12, 2000 prepared by RSEB and adopted for 
implementation by RVPN, and satisfactory to the Bank, for dealing with adverse 
environmental aspects resulting from implementing transmission projects; 
(g) 
“Environment Management Plan” means each EMP, satisfactory to the Bank, 
prepared by RVPN in accordance with the Environmental Framework and Safeguards for 
Transmission Projects for dealing with the adverse environmental impacts resulting 
from implementing the Project;
(h) 
“Financial Restructuring Plan” means the Plan dated March 21, 2000, 
approved by Rajasthan, RVUN, RVPN, JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER DISCOM and JODHPUR DISCOM for 
the purpose of ensuring, inter alia, that RVUN, RVPN, JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER DISCOM and 
JODHPUR DISCOM achieve the financial and operational targets set out in such Plan, and 
includes the Plan updated pursuant to Section 2.05 (b) of the Project Agreement;
(i) 
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the Fiscal Year of the Borrower, Rajasthan, 
RVUN, RVPN, JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER DISCOM and JODHPUR DISCOM beginning on April 1 of a 
calendar year and ending on March 31 of the following calendar year; 
(j) 
“Indian Rupee” and “Rs” mean the currency of the Borrower; 
(k) 
“Investment Plan” means the investment schemes included in the Project 
Implementation Plan; 
(l)
“JAIPUR DISCOM” means Jaipur Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited, a Company 
incorporated under the Indian Companies Act, 1956, as amended from time to time, for 
the purpose of engaging in the business of, inter alia, procurement, distribution and 
supply of electric energy in accordance with the Reform Act;
(m)
“JODHPUR DISCOM” means Jodhpur Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited, a Company 
Page  3
incorporated under the Indian Companies Act, 1956, as amended from time to time, for 
the purpose of engaging in the business of, inter alia, procurement, distribution and 
supply of electric energy in accordance with the Reform Act;
(n) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement among the Bank, RVUN, RVPN, 
JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER DISCOM and JODHPUR DISCOM of even date herewith, as the same may 
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(o)
“Project Implementation Plan” means the Plan dated July 1, 2000 prepared 
by Rajasthan, RVUN, RVPN, JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER DISCOM and JODHPUR DISCOM, for the 
purpose of implementing the Project; 
(p) 
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 3.02 of the Rajasthan Project Agreement and Section 4.02 of the Project 
Agreement;
(q) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
February 10, 1994, between the Borrower and the Bank;
(r) 
“Rajasthan” means the State of Rajasthan, a State of India, and includes 
any successor thereto; 
(s) 
“Rajasthan Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and 
State of Rajasthan of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to 
time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Rajasthan Project Agreement;
(t) 
“Reform Act” means the Rajasthan Power Sector Reforms Act, 1999, as 
amended from time to time, providing, inter alia, for restructuring of the electricity 
industry, rationalization of the generation, transmission, distribution and supply of 
electricity, private sector participation in the electricity industry, and the 
adoption of measures for the development and management of the electricity industry;
(u) 
“Regulatory Commission” means the Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory 
Commission established by Rajasthan under the Reform Act as referred to in Section 
2.02 (f) of the Rajasthan Project Agreement;
(v) 
“Resettlement Action Plan” or “RAP” means the plan dated August 20, 2000, 
prepared and adopted for implementation by RVPN, JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER DISCOM and 
JODHPUR DISCOM and any further RAP prepared by RVPN, JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER DISCOM and 
JODHPUR DISCOM satisfactory to the Bank, for dealing with the resettlement and 
rehabilitation of people if any, displaced or affected as a result of implementation 
of the Project; 
(w) 
“RSEB” means the Rajasthan State Electricity Board established under the 
provisions of the Electricity Act;
(x) 
“RVPN” means the Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Prasaran Nigam Limited, a company 
incorporated under the Indian Companies Act, 1956, as amended from time to time, for 
the purpose of engaging in the business of, inter alia, procurement, transmission, and 
supply of electric energy in accordance with the Reform Act;
(y) 
“RVUN” means the Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Limited, a company 
incorporated under the Indian Companies Act, 1956, as amended from time to time, for 
the purpose of engaging in the business of, inter alia, carrying out generation 
activities; 
(z) 
“Social Policies and Procedures” means the Social Policies and Procedures 
dated December 8, 1999, prepared by RSEB and adopted by RVPN, JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER 
DISCOM and JODHPUR DISCOM, and satisfactory to the Bank, for dealing with the social 
and land acquisition aspects of the Project;
(aa) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;
Page  4
(bb) 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means each of the agreements to be entered 
into by Rajasthan with RVUN, RVPN, JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER DISCOM and JODHPUR DISCOM 
pursuant to Section 2.02 of the Rajasthan Project Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement; and
(cc) 
“Transfer Scheme” means the Rajasthan Power Sector Reforms Transfer 
Scheme, 2000 notified by Rajasthan pursuant to the provisions of the Reform Act for 
purposes, inter alia, of transferring the assets, properties, liabilities, proceedings 
and personnel related to the generation undertakings of RSEB to RVUN, the transmission 
undertakings to RVPN and the distribution undertakings to JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER DISCOM 
and JODHPUR DISCOM.
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be a reference to each of RVUN, RVPN, JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER 
DISCOM and JODHPUR DISCOM, as appropriate.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred eighty million dollars ($180,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, in respect of the fee referred to 
in Section 2.04 of this Agreement and in respect of the refund of the Project 
Preparation Advance referred to in clause (b) of this Section.
(b) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, 
the first Interest Payment 
Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and 
including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the next following 
Interest Payment Date.
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this Agreement.
Page  5
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits 
in dollars for value the 
first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, 
for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next preceding 
the first day of such Interest Period), 
as reasonably determined 
by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) three 
fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) 
minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency loans or portions 
thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably determined 
by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April 
15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, 
shall cause Rajasthan to carry out or to ensure that RVUN, RVPN, JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER 
DISCOM and JODHPUR DISCOM, as the case may be, carry out the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
engineering, and technical practices, and shall take or cause to be taken all action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary 
or appropriate to enable RVUN, RVPN, JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER DISCOM and JODHPUR DISCOM to 
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to Rajasthan 
in accordance with the Borrower’s standard arrangements for developmental assistance 
to the States of India.
(c)
The Borrower shall release to Rajasthan funds equivalent to the amounts 
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account, including those deposited in the 
Special Account, promptly after such withdrawal. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works, and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
Page  6
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by RVUN, 
RVPN, JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER DISCOM and JODHPUR DISCOM pursuant to Section 2.03 (a) of 
the Project Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate 
accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; and
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this section and those for the Special 
Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each 
such year the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested, including a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the Project 
Management Reports or the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be 
relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals; and 
(iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as 
the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request. 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a) 
Rajasthan shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Rajasthan Project Agreement.
(b) 
RVUN, RVPN, JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER DISCOM or JODHPUR DISCOM shall have 
failed to perform any of their respective obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Rajasthan, RVUN, RVPN, JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER DISCOM or JODHPUR DISCOM will be able 
to perform their respective obligations under the Rajasthan Project Agreement or the 
Project Agreement.
(d) 
An event shall have occurred which shall make it improbable that the 
Reform Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out.
(e) 
Rajasthan or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any 
action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Regulatory Commission, RVUN, 
Page  7
RVPN, JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER DISCOM or JODHPUR DISCOM or for the suspension of 
operations of any of them.
(f) 
The Reform Act, the Transfer Scheme or the Memorandum or Articles of 
Association of RVUN, RVPN, JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER DISCOM or JODHPUR DISCOM shall have 
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the operations or the financial condition of RVUN, RVPN, JAIPUR DISCOM, 
AJMER DISCOM, JODHPUR DISCOM or the Regulatory Commission, as the case may be, or the 
ability of Rajasthan, RVUN, RVPN, JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER DISCOM or JODHPUR DISCOM as the 
case may be, to carry out the Project or to perform their respective obligations under 
the Project Agreement or the Rajasthan Project Agreement. 
(g) 
RVPN, JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER DISCOM or JODHPUR DISCOM shall have failed to 
obtain a license under the Reform Act from the Regulatory Commission or any such 
license is terminated or not renewed, or any such license is altered, varied, modified 
or amended in a manner that materially and adversely affects the ability of RVPN, 
JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER DISCOM or JODHPUR DISCOM to carry out the Project or to perform 
their respective obligations under the Project Agreement or any Subsidiary loan 
agreement. 
(h) 
RVUN, RVPN, JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER DISCOM and JODHPUR DISCOM shall have 
taken any action which has the effect of altering, varying, modifying, adding or 
otherwise changing the terms upon which any property, interest on property, rights, 
liabilities and personnel have been transferred to RVUN, RVPN, JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER 
DISCOM and JODHPUR DISCOM under the Transfer Scheme prepared pursuant to the Reform 
Act so as to affect materially and adversely the operations or the financial condition 
of RVUN, RVPN, JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER DISCOM and JODHPUR DISCOM, or their ability to 
carry out the Project or to perform their obligations under the Project Agreement.
(i)
Rajasthan shall have failed to release the proceeds of the Loan to, RVUN, 
RVPN, JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER DISCOM and JODHPUR DISCOM, respectively, or failed to 
provide to the Bank confirmation of such release, as provided for in Section 2.02(b) 
of the Rajasthan Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the events specified in 
paragraphs (a), (b), (e) and (f) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement with the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely that Subsidiary Loan Agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, 
have been executed on behalf of Rajasthan and, RVUN, RVPN, JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER DISCOM 
and JODHPUR DISCOM, respectively.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a) 
that the Rajasthan Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by Rajasthan and is legally binding upon Rajasthan in accordance with its terms;
(b) 
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by RVUN, 
RVPN, JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER DISCOM and JODHPUR DISCOM and is legally binding upon RVUN, 
RVPN, JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER DISCOM and JODHPUR DISCOM in accordance with its terms; and
(c) 
that each Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by Rajasthan, RVUN, RVPN, JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER DISCOM and JODHPUR DISCOM and is 
legally binding upon Rajasthan, RVUN, RVPN, JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER DISCOM and JODHPUR 
DISCOM in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  8
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, 
Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purpose of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary to the Government of India
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
New Delhi, India
Cable address: 
Telex:
ECOFAIRS 
953-31-66175 FINE IN
New Delhi 
953-31-61430 FINE IN
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America 
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD 
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s/ Adarsh Kishore
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Joelle Chassard
Acting Country Director, India 
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
Page  9
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Works  (including                           13,900,000
80%
installation)
(2)
Goods                                      156,700,000
100% of 
foreign expenditures
100% of local 
expenditures 
(ex-factory cost) 
and 
80% of local 
expenditures for
other items procured 
locally
(3)
Consultants’ services,                       5,600,000
100%
training, studies and
       information and 
       communication
(4)
Refunding of Project                         2,000,000
Amounts due 
pursuant
Preparation Advance
to Section 2.02 (b) 
of
this Agreement
(5)
Fee
                                      1,800,000
Amount due 
under 
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
TOTAL
  180,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of 
$3,000,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after April 1, 2000.
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: 
(a) 
goods and works under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent and 
$300,000 equivalent respectively, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower; 
(b) 
services under contract not exceeding $100,000 equivalent for employment 
of consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent for employment of individual consultants 
and all training and studies under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower; and
Page  10
(c)
information and communication contracts not exceeding $50,000.
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the 
Reserve Bank of India on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a) 
until the Bank shall have received:
(i) 
the first Project Management Report referred to in Section 3.02 
(b) of the Rajasthan Project Agreement and 
Section 4.02 (b) of the 
Project Agreement; and 
(ii) 
a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project 
Management Reports, withdrawals shall be 
made in accordance with 
the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b) 
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 3.02 (b) of the Rajasthan Project Agreement and Section 4.02 (b) of the 
Project Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the 
basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a) 
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 3.02 of the 
Rajasthan Project Agreement or Section 4.02 (b) of the Project Agreement;
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports.
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6. 
(a)
 If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment. Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
Page  11
be.
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account when withdrawals are not
made on the Basis of Project Management Reports
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount 
equivalent to $25,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $15,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Loan Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or 
exceed the equivalent of $50,000,000.
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation. On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested.
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account when Withdrawals are 
made on the Basis of Project Management Reports
1. 
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
Page  12
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2. 
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: 
(a) 
the amount so requested; and
(b) 
the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management 
Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not 
exceed the equivalent of $36,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) assist Rajasthan in implementing its 
Reform Program ; and (b) improve power supply by reducing the critical bottlenecks of 
the power system. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
 Reduction of Losses
The reduction of technical and non-technical losses through inter alia:
(a)
replacing the long lines at low tension with higher voltage transmission 
and distribution lines which have lower losses;
(b)
replacing bare conductors on low voltage lines with fully insulated 
bunched conductors; and
(c)
Installing of capacitors to eliminate the losses in the power supply 
attributable to low power factor.
Part B:
Transmission/Distribution System Reinforcement
Reinforcing the transmission and distribution system by: 
(a) 
constructing new substations;
(b) 
upgrading and expanding existing substations; and
(c) 
acquisition and utilization of hot line maintenance equipment, spares and 
tools.
Part C:
System Metering and Consumer Metering
Improving the system metering and consumer metering through:
(a) 
implementing a comprehensive program to install system meters; and
(b)
procuring and installing electronic meters.
Part D:
Technical Assistance
Page  13
1.
Provision of technical assistance to Rajasthan to implement the Power Sector 
Reform Program, assist in the institutional development of the Regulatory Commission, 
and carry out a socio-economic impact study.
2.
Provision of technical assistance to RVUN, RVPN, JAIPUR DISCOM, AJMER DISCOM and 
JODHPUR DISCOM for implementing the Power Sector Reform Program, institutional 
development, including improving environment management capabilities, and for 
implementing the Project.
Part E:
Information and Communication
Design and implementation of a public information campaign on the Reform 
Program, including use of media facilities, print communications, and organization of 
workshops.
*       *       *       *
      *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in dollars)*  
October 15, 2006
3,415,000
April 15, 2007
3,540,000
October 15, 2007
3,670,000
April 15, 2008
3,800,000
October 15, 2008
3,940,000
April 15, 2009
4,080,000
October 15, 2009
4,230,000
April 15, 2010
4,385,000
October 15, 2010
4,540,000
April 15, 2011
4,705,000
October 15, 2011
4,875,000
April 15, 2012
5,055,000
October 15, 2012
5,235,000
April 15, 2013
5,425,000
October 15, 2013
5,625,000
April 15, 2014
5,825,000
October 15, 2014
6,040,000
April 15, 2015
6,255,000
October 15,  2015
6,485,000
April 15, 2016
6,720,000
October 15, 2016
6,965,000
April 15, 2017
7,215,000
October 15, 2017
7,475,000
April 15, 2018
7,750,000
October 15, 2018
8,030,000
April 15, 2019
8,320,000
October 15, 2019
8,620,000
April 15, 2020
8,935,000
October 15, 2020
9,255,000
April 15, 2021
9,590,000
_____________________________
*    The figures in this column represent the amounts in dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the 
General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Page  14
Section I: 
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Part C:
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods and Domestic Contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part D:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000 and works, including 
installation estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $8,900,000 may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised nationally, in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2. 
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent per contract or less, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3. Direct 
Contracting
Goods including proprietary computer software, audio/video and communication 
equipment, reference standards/books, and information, education and communication 
(IEC) materials, estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 per contract, 
and with Bank’s prior agreement, and in exceptional cases, as an extension of the 
existing contract for Goods/Works of similar nature for value not exceeding the 
equivalent of US$100,000 in each case, both up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
the equivalent of US$1,000,000 may be procured in accordance with paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
Part E:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1. Procurement 
Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to each contract for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent 
Page  15
of $300,000 or more and each contract for goods awarded under Part B of Section I of 
this Schedule and the first two contracts awarded under Part C.1 of Section I of this 
Schedule irrespective of value, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II: 
Employment of Consultants
Part A: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof, applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services under Parts D and E of the Project, 
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely 
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1. 
Quality Based Selection
Services of consultants for complex or highly specialized assignments under Part 
D of the Project that meet the requirement of paragraph 3.2 of the Consultancy 
Guidelines may be procured under contracts in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.2 through 3.4 of the Consultancy Guidelines.
2. 
Single Source Selection
Services of consultants under Parts D and E of the Project which are estimated 
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed the equivalent of $200,000 may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services of consultants under Part D and E of the Project that meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $500,000 may be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Page  16
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
