PPAR    Project Performance Assessment Report
PPF     Project Preparation Facility
RERC    Rajasthan Electricity Regulating Commission
RES     Renewable Energy Source
RPSRP   Rajasthan Power Sector Restructuring Project
RSEB    Rajasthan State Electricity Board
RVPN    Rajasthan Transmission Company
RVUN    Rajasthan Generating Company
SEB     State Electricity Board
SERC    State Electricity Regulatory Commission
SPN     Supervision Development Objective (rating)
TA      Technical Assistance
USAID   United States Agency for International Development



Fiscal Year
Government:              April 1-March 3 1




Director-General, Evaluation                                 : Mr. Vinod Thomas
Director, Independent Evaluation Group (World Bank)          : Ms. Cheryl Gray
Manager, Sector Evaluations (IEGSE)                          : Ms. Monika Huppi
Task Manager                                                 : Mr. Peter Freeman
 IEGWB Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and independence in evaluation.

About this Report
       The Independent Evaluation Group assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank's self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank's work is producing the
expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the
dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, IEGWB annually assesses about 25 percent of
the Bank's lending operations through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those
that are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for
which Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons.
       To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEGWB staff examine project files and other
documents, interview operational staff, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government,
and other in-country stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and
in local offices as appropriate.
       Each PPAR is subject to internal IEGWB peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. IEGWB incorporates the comments as
relevant. The completed PPAR is then sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to
the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to
the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

About the IEGWB Rating System
      IEGWB's use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and .a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to
 lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEGWB evaluators all apply the same basic method to
arrive at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion
(additional information is available on the IEGWB website: http:lhorldbank.orglieg).
      Outcome: The extent to which the operation's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to
be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevance of objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project's
objectives are consistent with the country's current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to which
the project's design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project's objectives
were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiency is the
extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital
and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to adjustment
operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
      Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
expected outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High
Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loanlcredit closing, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possible ratings for Bank Perfomance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and
agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
performance and implementing agency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
                                                                   iii



Contents
Principal Ratings ................................................................................................................. v
Key Staff Responsible.........................................................................................................          v
                                                                                                                                        ..
Preface............................................................................................................................... vii
Summary ............................................................................................................................ ix
1 . Background and Context...............................................................................................               1
    The Power Sector in India............................................................................................... 1
    The Power Sector in Rajasthan ....................................................................................... 3
2 . The Project ...................................................................................................................... 5
    Project Objectives ........................................................................................................... 5
3. Implementation ............................................................................................................... 7
    Safeguards....................................................................................................................... 8
4 . Monitoring and Evaluation ............................................................................................. 9
    Implementation ............................................................................................................. 10
    Utilization ..................................................................................................................... 10
5. Project Outcomes .......................................................................................................... 11
    Financial Recovery of the Power Sector - Negligibly Achieved .................................. 17
    Other Project Outcomes ................................................................................................ 22
6. Ratings .......................................................................................................................... 25
    Relevance of Objectives and Design ............................................................................ 25
    Efficacy ......................................................................................................................... 26
    Efficiency ...................................................................................................................... 26
    Overall Rating ...............................................................................................................     27
   Risks to Development Outcome ................................................................................... 27
   Bank Performance ......................................................................................................... 27
   Borrower Performance .................................................................................................. 29
7. Lessons......................................................................................................................... 30
   Learning the Lessons from Similar Projects ................................................................. 30
  Lessons from the Design and Implementation of the RPSRP ...................................... 31
Annex A . Basic Data Sheet............................................................................................... 33




This report was prepared by Robert Lacey. Consultant. who assessed the project in June. 2009. Peter
Freeman was the Task Manager and Romayne Pereira provided administrative support.
Principal Ratings
                                                                        - -
                                                                       - -    -



                                 ICR *                      ICR Review *                      PPAR
Outcome                  Moderately Satisfactory             Moderately                     Moderately
                                                            Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory

Risk to               Moderate                                    High                       Substantial
Development
Outcome
Bank Performance Moderately Satisfactory                    Unsatisfactory               Moderately
                                                                                        Unsatisfactory
Borrower                Moderately Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory
Performance
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department. The ICR
Review is an intermediate IEGWB product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.




Key Staff Responsible
                                                        Division Chief/
Project              Task ManagerLeader                 Sector Director                 Country Director
Appraisal            Magdalena V .Manzo              Alastair J. McKechnie               Edwin R. Lim
Completion               Rohit Mittal                   Salman Zaheer                    Fayez S. Omar
                                            vii


Preface
         This is the Project Performance Assessment Report for the India: Rajasthan
Power Sector Restructuring Project (Loan 4594-IN), for which the World Bank approved
a loan of US$l80 million equivalent on January 18,2001. At appraisal, the total project
cost (excluding interest during construction) was estimated to be US$221.5 million, with
US$39.5 million provided from the resources of the State of Rajasthan and its power
utilities, and US$2 million in a grant from USAID. At project closure, US166.2 million
(92.3 percent) of the total loan amount had been disbursed and the balance of US$13.8
million was canceled. The final total project cost was US$221.3 million.

        The project was selected for assessment because of the important lessons it
provides for the design and implementation of projects supporting the ongoing process of
power sector reform in India, especially at State level. There were also considerable
differences in project outcome ratings between the Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) and IEG's ICR Review which merited further analysis. The PPAR will, moreover,
provide input to IEG's evaluation of the World Bank Group's experience with safeguard
and sustainability policy over the past decade. IEG gratefully acknowledges the
contribution of the local environmental consultant, Mr. A.K. Roy, concerning this aspect.

        IEG prepared this report based on an examination of the relevant Project
                                                                                               '
Appraisal Document (PAD), ICR, legal agreements, project files and archives, as well as
other relevant reports, memoranda and working papers. Discussions were also held with
Bank staff in both Washington DC and New Delhi. An IEG field mission visited India in
June 2009, conducted site visits, and discussed both the project and the effectiveness of
Bank assistance with relevant officials and stakeholders in Rajasthan and New Delhi. The
mission appreciates the courtesies and attention given by these interlocutors as well as the
support provided by the New Delhi office of the World Bank.

       Following standard IEG procedures, copies of the draft PPAR were sent to
relevant Central and State Government officials for their review, and responses received
have been incorporated.
Summary
        This is the Project Performance Assessment Report for the India: Rajasthan
Power Sector Restructuring Project (RPSRP, Loan 4594-IN), which was intended to
support the restructuring and reform of the power sector in the Indian State of Rajasthan.
The performance of the State's power sector prior to 2000 was characterized by a sharp
demandsupply imbalance, frequent outages, and inadequate coverage. The sector was a
major fiscal burden due to high distribution losses, low earning capacity, poor cost
recovery and heavy debt reliance. In 1999, the Government of Rajasthan (GOR) initiated
a reform program beginning with the unbundling of the Rajasthan State Electricity Board
into five separate entities - a generating company, a transmission company, and three
distribution companies. Private sector participation in generation was envisaged, and the
distribution companies were destined for privatization. The program was to be
implemented against the background of India-wide power sector reforms aimed at
introducing greater efficiency through competition, commercialization, market
liberalization, and increased private sector participation. The Rajasthan project was not
an isolated case, but was the last in a series of five state power sector restructuring
projects, the first of which (for Orissa) was approved in May, 1996.

        The project, approved on January 18,2001, had the following development
objectives (PDOs): " to (a) support the ongoing power sector reform process in
Rajasthan leading to higher sector efficiency and financial recovery; and (b) to improve
power supply by removing the critical bottlenecks in the power distribution and
transmission system." This was to be achieved through investments in the transmission
and distribution systems, the establishment of a fully functioning regulatory commission,
the satisfactory implementation of a financial restructuring plan, and private investment
in the distribution sub-sector.

        Taking account of the progress made towards achievement of the PDOs, and the
assessments of relevance, efficacy and efficiency, IEG's overall project outcome rating is
moderately unsatisfactory. While the relevance of the objectives was substantial, design
relevance was modest. The design failed to take adequate account of political realities in
Rajasthan, and major risks were underestimated or even ignored. The preparation team
envisaged a long term engagement of the Bank in Rajasthan's power sector, involving
several follow-up operations which did not, in the event, materialize. Project design was
over-ambitious, and the objectives were out of proportion to the financial resources made
available. Major risks were underestimated or not taken into account at all. Intermediate
targets (especially projected tariff increases and privatization of the distribution
companies) proved unrealistic. The covenant in respect of the privatization of the
distribution companies was especially unrealistic.

        While the attainment of the objective to remove critical distribution and
transmission bottlenecks through investments has permitted a better quality of supply to a
larger number of consumers, efficiency gains must be set against the serious failure to
achieve financial equilibrium. Distribution losses, although lower than they were, are still
nearly 27%, which is high by international standards. Collection and billing efficiencies
are quite impressive, but were already doing well in this area before the project, and so
limited credit can be claimed for this aspect. Demand/supply imbalances remain, and still
lead to power shortages especially during peak demand periods. The regulatory function
is weak and subject to political interference.

 The financial recovery objective has not been achieved. Afier the first financial
restructuring plan (FinRP) failed, a second plan was elaborated in 2003 following the
dropping of the covenanted objective of private investment in distribution. Although this
plan was predicated on more modest tariff adjustments, these too proved unattainable,
and a third plan began to be implemented in November, 2005. The ICR's cautious
optimism concerning this third FinRP was based on a better performance than the plan
predicted in FY05 and reduced losses in FY06. However, the respite was short-lived -
losses rose again in FY07 before soaring to unprecedented levels in FY08 and FY09. In
the latter year, they were 2.5 percent of the State's GDP. By March 2009, accumulated
losses amounted to US$73 for every Rajasthani. The build-up in unpaid subsidies had
reached almost US$2 billion by the same date. Financial weakness on the scale recently
recorded will, sooner rather than later, undermine the gains from project-financed
improvements, through lack of funds for investment and maintenance.

        The main causes of the power sector's persistent and worsening financial
weakness can be summarized as (i) failure to adjust tariffs adequately (or, indeed, at all
since December, 2004); (ii) highly subsidized power for agriculture, the financial
consequences of which were exacerbated by prolonged drought; (iii) higher growth of
demand than of supply from Rajasthan's installed generation capacity, forcing greater
reliance on expensive purchases from India's wholesale market; and (iv) sharp increases
in power purchase costs. The Regulator's credibility has also been adversely affected by
political interference in tariff determination.

       The Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) design was, moreover, of poor quality.
There were few quantitative indicators and no systematic translation of broad project
objectives into measurable targets. M&E improved considerably during implementation.
Overall, IEG rates the quality of M&E design and implementation as modest.

         The Bank performed diligently in supporting the transmission and distribution
companies' implementation of the project-financed investments, advising on the wider
investment program, and building the entities' technical and managerial capacity.
Supervision of the financial aspect was, however, much less impressive. By mid 2004,
experience from the other four state power sector restructuring projects, as well as from
Rajasthan itself, strongly indicated that a financial recovery would be unattainable so
long as the issue of subsidized power for agriculture remained unaddressed. As this is a
national issue, with strong political economy overtones, resolution is likely to be long
term. An opportunity was missed to restructure the project and remove the financial
recovery objective rather than embarking on a third FinRP. With the more limited and
realistic goals of improving the availability and quality of electricity supply in Rajasthan,
the RPSRP could have succeeded. IEG's overall rating of Bank performance, taking
account of design and supervision, is moderately unsatisfactory.

     The GOR's early reform efforts were commendable, and its failure to sustain
momentum must be seen in the context of national political economy issues. The
transmission and distribution companies performed well, not only in implementing the
project-financed investments, but in continuing their enhancement and expansion
programs after project closure. The Borrower rating, overall, is moderately satisfactory.

         While it is unlikely that there will be backtracking on the unbundling and other
institutional changes already achieved, or on the determination to complete the pilot
feeder renovation program in rural areas successfully, the key condition for longer term
sustainability of the improvements is the financial recovery of the sector. There is little
realistic prospect for this in the short-to-medium term. In the longer term, the State's
ambitious investment program could lead to reduced power purchase costs, while at a
national level the momentum of power sector reform is being sustained, albeit at a slower
pace. Overall, IEG assesses the risks to development outcome as significant.

      A number of important lessons can be gleaned from the design and
implementation of this project:

       A thorough analysis should be made of the political economy of the reform
       program to be supported by the project, at both State and national levels. This
       should be done not only through extensive consultations at both a local and
       national level, but also through a realistic appraisal of national policies - such as
       those determining power subsidies to agriculture - which affect project outcomes.
       These should be addressed at the level of country policy dialogue. A careful
       assessment of international trends in power sector private investment in
       developing countries should also be part of the exercise.

       Risks to project outcome should be carefully analyzed and taken into account.
       In particular, attention should be paid to climatic hazards and to subsidy
       regimes in other States and their likely impact on the political viability of
       proposed reforms.

       Covenanted objectives should reflect a realistic judgment of the leverage
       accorded by investment projects on complex policy issues, and of factors
       outside the control of the project.

       More systematic monitoring of experience in other, similar projects (particularly
       in the same country) would have helped to avoid the repetition of over-ambitious
       design apparent in the five State power sector restructuring operations in India.
       Even though convincing evidence may not have been fully available at the
       preparation stage, the opportunity should have been taken during implementation
       to restructure and simplifl the project.

       Such monitoring would facilitate a clearer and more objective assessment of
       progress towards achievement of the project development objectives during
       supervision missions. It is noteworthy that in the case of all five State power
                                    xii


sector restructuring projects in India, Implementation Status and Results Reports
continued to rate progress towards the development objectives as satisfactory,
when it must already have been obvious that certain objectives were highly
unlikely to be attained.




                                 Vinod Thomas
                                Director-General
                                   Evaluation
1. Background and Context

The Power Sector in India

1.1     Awareness of key developments in India's national power sector is essential in order
to fully understand the sector's evolution and remaining challenges in the State of Rajasthan.
At the time of the Rajasthan Power Sector Restructuring Project (RPSRP)'s preparation in
the late 1990s, India's power sector was characterized by inadequate and inefficient supply.
Peak capacity and energy supply shortages were estimated, respectively, at about 20 percent
and 10 percent. Demand was inflated by inappropriate pricing policies, while supply was
held back by insufficient investments and implementation bottlenecks. Distribution system
losses, both technical and non-technical, were very high, in some states in excess of 50
percent, while transmission losses were also high by international standards. The sector's
financial performance was highly unsatisfactory with low or zero returns and no
contributions to investment from internal sources. Commercial losses of the State Electricity
Boards (SEBs) had reached almost one percent of India's GDP at the time1.

1.2    Among the actions taken by the Government of India (GOI) to address these
challenges, the following are the most relevant to the evolving situation in ~ a j a s t h a n ~ :

        The Electricity Regulatory Commission Act of 1998 provided for the establishment
        of a Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (CERC) and State Electricity
        Regulatory Commissions (SERC) in an attempt to rationalize the tariff setting process
        and reduce political interference in it.
        The Electricity Act of 2003 brought together structural and regulatory reforms
        designed to foster competitive markets, encourage private participation, and
        transform the role of the state from provider to regulator. The Act directed the
        unbundling of SEBs and the creation of SERCs. In addition, it provided for open
        access for both producers and consumers across State boundaries and promoted
        power trade. The Act's stipulations were further developed in the statements of
        National Electricity Policy (2005), National Tariff Policy (2006), and Integrated
        Energy Policy (2007).
        Thanks to actions by the CERC and the GO1 bulk power tariff reforms have improved
        grid discipline on a national level, encouraged more efficient use of generating
        capacity and fostered the development of a wholesale power market operating across
        State boundaries. The publicly owned pan-India transmission company,




' Project Appraisal Document
 Government of India: Ministry of Power: "Status of Power Sector Reforms," October, 2007.
           POWERGRID, has become a profitable and well managed enterprise with a
           substantial resource mobilization capacity3.
           An intensive rural electrification campaign has brought power to an increasing
           number of villages, though the percentage of rural households with access to
           electricity is still only 44 percent.

     1.3 Despite these reforms, a major demand-supply mismatch remains. At the end of
    March 2009, the peak deficit was 11 percent and the energy supply deficit just over 10
    percent.4 Inadequate power supply was cited as the most severe constraint faced by Indian
    enterprises.' There are a number of reasons for this. First, although supply has increased
    significantly faster than in the past, demand has rown much more rapidly than foreseen
    thanks to India's improved growth performance.!      Second, although private investment in
    generation and transmission capacity has started to pick up, it has been much slower to
    materialize than anticipated, mainly because the electricity utilities at State level, which are
    the main off-takers, are not creditworthy. Moreover, the regulatory risk, again particularly
    in the States, is regarded as high. Third, public sector project implementation remains
    constrained by technical limitations in the main government equipment supplier, delays in
    clearances for hydro projects, and poor sequencing in project planning. Fourth, the
    emphasis on boosting the rural economy has placed especially heavy demands on the State
    transmission and distribution networks, increasing their activities in areas where their costs
    are higher and their compensation lower7. Fifth, although significant power sector reforms
    have been made during the past decade, progress has been slower than expected and highly
    variable, particularly at State level; some States are yet to apply, even partially, the
    directives of the 2003 Electricity Act.

    1.4 Recognizing that India's power sector performance lags seriously behind that of its
    main international competitors, the GO1 has embarked upon an ambitious investment and
    institutional development program known as "Power for All by 20 12." It involves, inter
    alia, a substantial increase in generation capacity (to 200 GW compared to a current 147
    GW), relying as much as possible on private investment; expansion and improvement of
    transmission and distribution networks; and revamping the ongoing Accelerated Power
    Development and Reform Program, which will provide incentive and investment funds to
    State power utilities to reduce their technical and non-technical losses, and improve
    services to consumers.


3
    World Bank: India: Fifth Power System Development Project (PI 15566), Project Appraisal Document.
 It should be noted that these figures reflect the slowing of demand growth due to the international recession. A
year earlier, at the end of March 2008, the peak deficit was 16.6 percent.
    Investment Climate Assessment, 2007
 Between 2004 and 2008, India's GDP grew by 8 percent per year in real terms, but electricity generation grew
by only 4.9 percent.
'                                                                                          --
 Delivery costs in rural areas are higher, while rural consumer pay tariffs well below cost for which the
utilities should receive a subsidy from the State governments. However, this subsidy is frequently inadequate
and in any case rarely fully paid. This is certainly a major issue in Rajasthan.
The Power Sector in Rajasthan

 1.5    Rajasthan, with a population of 56.5 million, is among the poorer States in India with
a per capita income of US$7 10 in 2008, compared to a national average of US$ 1,0168. In
terms of area, it is India's largest State. It covers 342,269 square kilometers, roughly
equivalent to the size of Germany. The State encompasses most of the inhospitable Great
Indian Desert (Thar Desert). The economy is primarily agricultural and pastoral. Wheat and
barley are cultivated over large areas as are pulses, sugar cane and oilseeds. Cotton and
tobacco are significant cash crops. Rajasthan is the largest wool-producing State in India and
the second largest producer of oilseeds. Agriculture relies heavily on irrigation - the
northwestern part of the State is irrigated by the Indira Gandhi Canal, and in recent years
pumped groundwater has become increasingly important elsewhere. The main industries are
mining, agro-industry and textiles. The State is the second largest producer of polyester fiber
in India. Important chemical plants are located near the city of Kota in western Rajasthan.
Mining and quarrying activities include marble, lignite, copper, and zinc, while the State is
the second largest cement producer in India. More recent sources of growth are information
technology (IT) and tourism. Rajasthan is now among India's preferred destinations for IT
companies, and North India's largest IT park, covering 12 square kilometers, is located near
the State capital, Jaipur. Five years ago, less than one-third of tourists visiting India went to
Rajasthan; the figure now exceeds two-thirds.

 1.6    Until 2000, Rajasthan's power sector was dominated by the Rajasthan State
Electricity Board (RSEB), a vertically integrated utility formed in 1957. The State had access
to just over 4,000 MW of generating capacity, of which 1,300 were fully owned and operated
by RSEB. The system covers a large geographic area, of which two thirds is desert, with low
population density. In 1998, per capita electricity consumption was 302 kWh, lower than the
average in India. Electricity sales were growing at an annual average of 7 percent, while the
estimated energy supply deficit was 15 percent (up from 7.8 percent in 1991), and the peak
deficit 23 percent, both well above national averages. The sector had over 380,000
outstanding applicants for electricity, most of whom had been waiting for years, and whose
needs could not be satisfied due to lack of generation capacity. Only 40 percent of the
population had access to the power network, and inadequate power supplies, due mainly to
funding constraints, had become a major drag on the State's economic development.
Operations were characterized by long service interruptions, unacceptably high voltage and
fkequency swings, over-loaded transmission lines and substations, and technical and
commercial system losses of over 40 percent.g Financial performance was characterized by
low earning capacity, poor cost recovery, heavy debt reliance and tight liquidity. Inadequate
investments were the result of the policy of successive governments to charge low tariffs to
residential and agricultural consumers.lo


* Government of Rajasthan: Directorate of Economics and Statistics; Government of India: Ministry of Finance:
Census of India, 2008.
     It is generally accepted that losses under the RSEB were underestimated.
'O   Project Appraisal Document
  1.7 In May 1999, the Government of Rajasthan (GOR) issued a policy statement
  outlining the reform of the power sector. In June 2000, the Power Sector Reform Bill was
  passed by the State legislature. This bill provided for the restructuring of the sector, and in
  particular the unbundling of the RSEB into five entities - a generating company (RVUN), a
  transmission company (RVPN), and three distribution companies. The Act also
  strengthened the role of the Rajasthan Electricity Regulating Commission (RERC).

 1.8 The Bank played a significant role in supporting these reforms through its policy
 dialogue with the GOR and power sector entities. Its engagement in Rajasthan was not an
 isolated exercise. It stemmed from more widespread Bank support for improved power
 sector performance at the State level through unbundling of the State Electricity Boards,
 enhancing service quality, especially in rural areas, creating independent regulatory
 systems, strengthening payment discipline, and financial recovery. By the time the RPSRP
 was appraised, similar projects were already ongoing in four other states - Orissa, Haryana,
 Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. Rajasthan was to be the last. Their approval and closing
 dates and outcome ratings are summarized in Table 1.1.


Table 1.1 The Five Bank-Supported State Power Sector Restructuring Projects

Name of          Approval     Date of       Outcome Rating           Outcome Rating
Project          date         Closure       (according to ICR)       (according to IEG ICR
                                                                     Review)
Orissa PSRP      05/14/96     06130104      Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory
Haryana          0 1115/98    12131/00      Unsatisfactory           Moderately
PSRP                                                                 Unsatisfactory
Andhra          02118/99      0813 1/03     Satisfactory             Satisfactory
Pradesh
PSRP
Uttar Pradesh   04125100       12131104     Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory
PSRP
Rajasthan       0 1118101     06130106      Moderately               Moderately
PSRP                                        Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory

 1.9 The objectives of the five projects were similar, though not identical. In all five,
 power sector technical and financial recovery was the anticipated result of unbundling and
 prospective privatization. While technical progress has been variable, in none of the five
 has private sector participation in distribution or transmission materialized, nor has
 sustainable financial recovery been achieved.
2. The Project
Project Objectives
2.1   The development objectives (PDO) of the RPSRP, as stated in the PAD and Loan
Agreement, are as follows:

 "(a) to support the ongoing power sector reform process in Rajasthan leading to higher
sector eflciency andJinancia1recovery; and (b) to improve power supply by removing the
critical bottlenecks in the power distribution and transmission system. "

2.2     This was to be achieved through: (a) the establishment of a fully functioning
electricity regulatory commission; (b) the satisfactory implementation of a financial
restructuring plan, resulting in the financial recovery of the five successor companies to the
                     05
RESB by ~ ~ 2 0"; and (c) private participation in distribution by having strategic investors
in place by end-2002. Investments in the transition and distribution systems would result in
improved voltage levels, reduced outages and technical losses, and increased energy
availability in the service areas affected by the investments. The investments financed by the
project (some of them pilot schemes) were intended to be only a relatively small fraction of
the total investment to be undertaken by the utilities, and especially the distribution
companies benefiting from private investment, over the life of the project.

Project Components and Costs

2.3     Project components, with their costs at appraisal and closure, are shown in table 2.1,
while table 2.2 shows the financing. With regard to the latter, the project was able to utilize
US$166.2 million of the total loan amount of US$180 million. The balance of US$13.8
million was cancelled.




l 1 The financial years referred to in this report are, unless otherwise indicated, those of the Government of
Rajasthan, i.e. April 1-March 3 1.
Table 2.1 Project Components and Costs

Component          Description                                                    Cost (US$million)     Closure cost
                                                                                                        as percentage
                                                                                                        of Appraisal
                                                                                                        cost
                                                                                  At          At
                                                                                  Appraisal   Closure
A. Loss           A. 1. Procurement of transformers and distribution materials    46.7        52.5      112
reduction         to replace poorly planned distribution systems, especially in
                  rural areas, characterized by inefficiently lengthy, low
                  tension lines, with more frequently spaced, smaller
                  transformers, power factor correcting capacitators, and high
                  tension lines capable of carrying larger loads with small
                  conduction losses.
                  A.2. Replacement of bare conductors on low tension lines by
                  insulated aerial bunched cables to reduce non-technical
                  losses
B. Transmission B.1. Expansion and improvement of the networks to supply          153.0       148.2     97
and distribution about one-third of the additional 750,000 consumers
system            expected during the project period, incorporating (a) new and
                  improved 33,000 volt (33kV) substations and lines to reduce
                 technical losses and improve system reliability; and (b) new
                  and improved 220 and 132 kV substations, along with new
                  and extended associated transmission lines.
                 B.2. Maintenance (long delayed) and modernization of
                 existing substations.
C. System and    C.1. Replacement of 300,000 error-prone, easy-to-interfere-      13.6        14.8      109
consumer         with mechanical meters by modern, accurate, tamper-proof,
metering         static (electronic) static meters.
                 C.2. Inter-company boundary metering to measure power and
                 energy exchanges.
                 (2.3. Metering to record and allocate the aggregate energy
                 used by the consumers connected to each of Rajasthan's
                 8,400 11kV feeders.
D. Technical     This component aimed to strengthen the capacity of the           7.7         5.6       73
assistance       regulating and operating entities to adapt to the new business
                 environment. Consultancy services were to be provided for
                 (a) management of the reform process; (b) institutional
                 development of the transmission company and the RERC;(c)
                 the formation of joint venture distribution companies; (d) a
                 socio-economic study of the impact of the sector reforms; (e)
                 off-grid renewable energy development for remote areas of
                 the State; ( f ) management of power sector impacts on the
                 environment; and (g) demand-side management and energy
                 efficiency initiatives which were to be cofinanoed by a
                 USAID grant of US$2 million.
D. Information   This component aimed to support a public information             0.5         0.2       40
and              campaign to increase public awareness and acceptance of the
dissemination    sector reform program. It was to finance strategy, media
                 campaigns, and the organization of workshops and meetings
                 with the general public.
TOTAL                                                                             221.5       221.3     100
 Table 2.2
 Project Financing (US$ millions)

 Source of funding               Type of                 Appraisal Actual Percentage of
                                 financing                                appraisal
  Borrower's own                                          60.0      32.7   59.0
  resources
  Local commercial banks Loan                        24.8        25.0 100.8
  USAID co-financing           Grant                  2.0         1.2    60.0
  IBRD                         Loan                 180.0       166.2    92.3
1 TOTAL                                           1 266.8     1 225.1 1 84.4
  Notes: The total financing requirement include IBRD's fiont end fee of US$1.8 million and,
  at appraisal, interest during construction, which was estimated at US$45.1 million.
  Source: ICR


 3. Implementation
 3.1     No significant problems arose during implementation of the investment components.
 The procurement and installation of meters was successfully completed. This, in turn,
 enabled the distribution companies to identify the 100 worst 11kV feeders, which were made
 the initial target of a Feeder Renovation Program applying the "LT-less" concept12.~he
 targets for the reinforcement and expansion of the transmission and distribution systems were
 exceeded.

3.2     Although procurement was generally satisfactory, some issues arose. Complaints and
delays were caused initially by differences between the procurement procedures of the
former RSEB and those applicable in a Bank project. Several of the 55 packages prepared
during appraisal and launched after approval contained lot sizes that were too large for Indian
manufacturers, who were both the most likely source for much of the equipment, and often
the only interested bidders. Arranging smaller packages so as to ensure such firms are not
impeded fiom tendering would not hamper international competitive bidding, since
international suppliers would be at liberty to bid for an entire package of lots. Mis-
procurement was declared for a total of $2 million worth of minor works (since Bank
procedures had not been followed), and this amount was canceled from the loan.

3.3     Client agencies, especially the transmission company, reported to IEG that the
technical assistance (TA) provided under the project was useful. The State had already made
considerable progress with the reform program prior to appraisal - in particular, the
unbundling of RSEB was largely complete. The TA was, therefore, able to build on this to
provide a variety of benefits in the form of institutional strengthening of the unbundled
entities and design of new systems and procedures.


12
  That is, the systematic replacement of long, low tension lines by low loss, high voltage lines augmented by
appropriately sized and more frequently located transformers.
  3.4 Two closely linked issues which rapidly arose during implementation were the multi-
  year drought in Rajasthan and the covenanted privatization of the distribution companies13.
  The former had a strongly deleterious impact on the sector's financial situation,
  discouraging private participation in distribution. Prevailing conditions in both the Indian
  and international markets had, moreover, become unfavorable to the privatization of
  distribution assets. The Rajasthan counterparts wanted, nevertheless, to continue pursuing
  the goal with a rewording of the Project Agreement to the effect that they would endeavor
  to achieve it by project closure. However, the text they proposed was not enforceable as a
  covenant, and the covenant was, therefore, deleted. In the opinion of the supervision team's
  legal adviser, "one of the objectives of the Project is to assist in the implementation of the
  power sector reform program and the program includes several aspects in addition to
  privatization of distribution. Therefore, deleting the privatization covenant will not
  materially affect the project objectives. Hence, the decision to delete the covenant may be
  made at the level of the Country Director." This conclusion was, in IEG's view, justified
  because, first, private participation in power distribution elsewhere in India had not resulted
  in improved transparency, accountability, or efficiency; and, second, Rajasthan's power
  sector had introduced alternative forms of private participation such as out-sourcing of
  billing, metering and the operation and maintenance of sub-stations, while attempting to
  encourage franchising in rural areas. Moreover, the objective had become unattainable.
  IEG considers, however, the inclusion of the covenant in the first place to have been
  inappropriate.

  Safeguards
  3.5 The project was selected as one of about 30 case studies providing input to an
  evaluation of the application, efficacy and efficiency of World Bank safeguards policies.
  These policies aim to prevent and mitigate undue harm to people and their environment,
  increase project efficacy and development impact, and provide a platform for stakeholder
  participation in project design and implementation.

  3.6 Design. The project was placed in Environmental Category B. Environmental
  Management Plans (EMP) were prepared in line with the Environmental Framework and
  Safeguards Management Plan agreed with the Bank during appraisal. A beneficiary survey
  was also planned.




l3 The covenant (Section 2.07 of the Project Agreement) states that "Rajasthan shall [with the participation of
the three distribution companies], no later than July 1 2002, offer at least a majority of its equity in each such
distribution company for sale to the private sector under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank with the
objectives of divesting such equity and transferring management control in accordance with a program and
timetable for divestment satisfactory to the Bank."
3.7      Implementation. Supervision missions kept regular track of compliance with
environmental safeguards. The environmental management framework developed at
appraisal was used for all the major transmission schemes financed under the project. The
same framework has been incorporated by the transmission company into their project
planning and implementation. The ICR suggests that there was room for improvement in
monitoring and reporting of EMP implementation at the level of individual investments, but
the company has since addressed this, and in early 2008 obtained IS0 9000 certification.14
Outside the transmission company, the Bank's environmental safeguards appear to have had
little impact on the sector and there is no capacity to ensure continuity. The ICR states that
"the Distribution companies are working on ... integration of environmental management
measures in their project planning and implementation." However, there is no Environmental
Unit in the companies to assume responsibility for this.

3.8     No resettlement was associated with the project, but there was a relatively small
amount of land acquisition for new and expanded substations. Although compensation was
paid, this was done in accordance with India's social policy legislation (which, inter alia,
does not provide for compensation for non-title-holders) rather than World Bank safeguards
policy. This was considered acceptable by the Bank's supervision team since there was no
resettlement associated with the project. The planned beneficiary impact survey has not yet
been carried out, and there appears to be little intention to do so. This is unfortunate, since
lessons from other States show that communication with all stakeholders is important for
building consensus for reform. Bank supervision missions did not include any social
development experts and, de facto, stopped monitoring this safeguards dimension in the last
two years of implementation.



4.       Monitoring and Evaluation
Design
4.1     Project preparation took place between 1998 and 2000, before it was common
practice in the Bank to give serious attention to Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) in all
sectors, but even by the standards of that time design was weak. There is no systematic
translation of broad project objectives into quantifiable targets, with a clear causal chain and
hierarchy between them, and no analytical framework for assessing the achievement or
otherwise of objectives. Indeed, quantifiable targets are few and far between, being confined
to progress in metering and annual collections. For example, goals such as "loss reduction"
or "improved revenue generation" are included in the performance indicators table in the
PAD without any measurable indicator attached to them or any way of assessing the extent to
which achievements might be attributed to the project. There are no indicators of the quality
and reliability of power supply, or of the independence or predictability of regulation. Except
for (with hindsight, highly unrealistic) assumptions of a 26 percent annual increase in

14
  According to the ICR, the transmission company was aiming for IS0 14001 certification,but the IEG mission
was informed that IS0 9000, which they have obtained, is considered adequate for the purpose of
environmental impact analysis.
agricultural, and a 10 percent annual increase in non-agricultural, tariffs, the PAD contains
little quantified discussion of tariff policy and there are no tariff-related performance
indicators.

Implementation
4.2     The weakness of M&E design reflects in part insufficient baseline data. These were
impossible to define at appraisal due to the unbundling of the sector, and it was agreed in
negotiations that they would be finalized during the first few months of implementation. In
the event, it took almost two years for the distribution companies to collect the information
since data could only be made available through boundary metering15which was installed by
the companies following their creation. As time went on, the timeliness and quality of the
data collections improved. Additional indicators were added at the Mid Term Review
(MTR).

4.3      Although the ICR contains some usefkl statistics on the implementation of
distribution and transmission improvements, as well as on the sector's financial performance,
its log-frame makes little further use of the data collected. The latter contains four
development objective indicators and one intermediate indicator, reflecting the model in the
PAD. All are general and largely non-quantified. Further research by IEG was, therefore,
undertaken to determine State-wide progress of such key indicators as number of customers,
percentage of coverage, quality of service and regulatory performance.

Utilization

4.4     During project implementation, the data base of indicators for managerial and
financial planning services gradually improved, although there was no electronic data base or
management information system. A consultancy contract for establishing such a data base
and system was designed before project closure but implemented afterwards. The system was
ready for use by the end of 2007. While it is being used for internal planning purposes within
the transmission and distribution companies, including for decision-making concerning
further system improvements, there is room for improvement in dissemination. The quality of
the websites of the State Energy Department and of the five power companies is variable.
The transmission company's site contains reasonably up-to-date technical and financial
information. The distribution companies' sites, by contrast, contain relatively little technical
or financial data and the general information that is there is somewhat out-dated. The
Department's website contains little data after 2006.

4.5    The IEG mission was, nonetheless, provided with extensive information which not
only shows that it exists but that it is available at least for internal utilization and planning
purposes. Overall, IEG rates the design, implementation and utilization of M&E as modest.


'' Boundary metering is provided to ensure an accurate measure of energy crossing the boundary between the
jurisdiction of one Distribution Company and that of another. This is required for accurate billing and for loss
management and monitoring within each network.
5. Project Outcomes
5.1     This Section reviews the outcomes of the project in accordance with its development
objectives - (a) to support the ongoing power sector reform process in Rajasthan leading to
higher sector efficiency and financial recovery; and (b) to improve power supply by
removing the critical bottlenecks in the power distribution and transmission systems. For
greater clarity and ease of analysis, the sub-objective of higher sector efficiency is considered
together with removing bottlenecks to improved power supply rather than with financial
recovery. These are closely connected and directly related to the physical investments and
associated enhancements which the project supported. The financial recovery objective is
considered separately. The overall assessment of the project outcome is given in Section 6
which discusses ratings.


Removal of Critical Power Supply Bottlenecks in Distribution and Transmission and
Enhanced Sector Efficiency - Substantiallv Achieved

       Distribution

5.2      The project was successful in assisting Rajasthan to address systemic bottlenecks and
inefficiencies in the distribution system, which led to poor service quality for existing
customers through overloading and impeded the expansion of the system for new consumers,
notably in the rural areas. These bottlenecks also contributed to substantial inefficiencies,
especially high technical and non-technical system losses. Specifically, the project supported
the initial stages of the Feeder Renovation Program (FRP) and its associated metering plan,
targeted especially to rural areas. During the project's implementation period (2001-2006), a
total of just under US$106 million was spent on the FRP (including metering), of which the
project contributed US$67.3 million, or about two-thirds. Between project closure and March
3 1 2009, the State and the distribution companies went on to invest a further US$53 1 million
on the program, reducing the project's share to just over 10 percent. By that latter date, the
FRP had reached 73 percent of the State target number of new rural feeders, while the
number of villages benefitting had reached its target of 36,494. Progress in the program's
implementation is shown in Table 5.1, while the project's direct contribution to distribution
system investments is shown in Table 5.2.
Table 5.1: Rajasthan: Progress in Implementation of Feeder Renovation Program
(FRP)




Distribution        No. of small                  Aerial bundled cables           Capital expenditure
company             transformers                  (ABC) utilized (km.)            on FRP (Rs. millions)




* Project closure
Sources: 2006 data fiom ICR; other information fiom distribution companies.

5.3      The main focus of the project was in insulated aerial bunched cables (ABC) l 6 and in
the rehabilitation and extension of the 33111 kilo-volt (kV) substations. In all other
distribution related items, it was directly responsible for less than 15 percent of the
expansions (Table 5.2). In IEG's view, however, the project's favorable impact on the
program's development was much greater than might be suggested by its small share of the
financing and of most of the physical investments. It was the main source of funding for a
pilot program in eight districts in which 100 of Rajasthan's worst feeders were located. Prior
to the pilot, the project had also financed the procurement and installation of meters on about
98 percent of Rajasthan's 8,400 11kV feeder lines. This enabled the distribution companies
to attribute losses and identify the worst feeders for the pilot program. The pilot
demonstrated that the "low-tension-less" approach could be successful. It enabled the
distribution companies to understand and resolve the numerous and complex technical
problems involved, and the difficulties of managing the extensive FRP.Based on the lessons
fiom this experience, the three companies began to implement the FRP proper, starting with
1,125 feeders. Most of these had been completed by project closure. The project thus played
a key role in justifying the concept of the FRP and laying the groundwork for the installation
of the remaining 7,705 feeders.




l6 These make illegal consumer connection impractical - an important consideration, especially in remote rural
areas.
Table 5.2: Expansion and Enhancement of Rajasthan's Distribution Network and
Related Facilities Financed by the Project and from All Sources During Project
Implementation (2001-2006)

Facility                     Unit             Financed by Total             Percentage
                                              the project expansion         financed by the

New and capacity-           Numbers           583
augmented 3311 1 kilo-
volt (kV)substations
                          Mega-volt           814
                          amperes
                          (MVA)
33 kV lines               Kilometers          580
33 kV ca~acitator banks   MVA                 175
11/04 kV substations      Numbers             13,800
11 kV lines               Kilometers          5.950
Low tension lines         Kilometers          2,950
Meters                    Numbers             51 1,100
Aerial-bunched cables     Kilometers          10.000
Source: Distribution companies


5.4     The ICR anticipated that the costs per feeder of the expanded program would be
lower than those of the initial phases given that the distribution companies renovated the
worst feeders early on. This diminishing unit cost has not yet materialized - the cost per
feeder of the first 1,145 feeders was Rs.4.25 million while the subsequent 5,327 feeders cost
Rs.4.59 million each (although this does represent a small decrease in real terms). The ICR,
however, also noted that construction standards need to be improved if the FRP is to produce
sustained results. The IEG mission was informed that higher standards are now being
applied, and this may account for part of the unanticipated higher unit costs.

5.5    The project financed a major portion of the inter-company boundary metering which
was completed during implementation. The original target of 750,000 electronic static meters
was well exceeded, and nearly 4.5 million had been installed by project closure. The
expansion of metering has continued since, especially in the rural areas, where an additional
1.2 million were installed between 2006 and 2009.

5.6     The implementation of the feeder renovation and metering programs had already
resulted in a 30 percent drop in average distribution losses, a 30 percent increase in billed
energy, and a reduction in the rate of transformer burn-outs of 10 percent or more by project
closure. The financial return on the FRP is, therefore, substantial. The ICR calculated, and
IEG confirms, that the capital and operating expenditures in the first phase of the program
would be paid back within a maximum period of 3.5 years.
     5.7 While these results are encouraging, distribution losses, at 26.8 percent, remain high
     by international, if not by Indian, standards17.

     Transmission

     5.8 Rajasthan has accomplished a major reinforcement and expansion of its transmission
     system since 2001. The growth in &e extra high voltage (EHV) network is particularly
     impressive (Table 5.3).

Table 5.3: Growth in the EHV Network of Rajasthan's Transmission Company Since
2001

Facility                     Unit                           As on              As on             As on
                                                            3/31/01            3/31/07           5/31/09
400 kilo-volt (kV)           Kilometers                     287                620               1,358
lines
400 kV substations    Number                                 1                 4                 4
400 kV capacity       Megavolt-amperes                       1,065             2,955             2,955
                      (MVA)
220 kV lines          Kilometers                            6,353              8,418             9,420
220 kV substations    Number                                39                 54                65
220 kV capacity       MVA                                   7,255              10,405            12,155
132 kV lines          Kilometers                            9,94 1             12,017            12,853
132 kV substations    Number                                175                259               28 1
132 kV capacity       MVA                                   7,420              11,830            14,469
Source: Transmission Company

5.9     Although transmission was the largest component of the project (US$148.2 million
out of US$221.3 million), it financed only a small proportion of Rajasthan's total program
(Table 5.4). The main focus of the project was on the rehabilitation and extension of the 220
kV and 132 kV substations where it funded 3 1.3 percent and 45.3 percent of the
improvements. However, IEG shares the transmission company's view that the benefits of
the project were, once again, more than the share of financing would imply. The high
standards of the procured materials and construction work served as a model for the
company's main expansion program, and a great deal was learned about procurement and
asset management as a result of the experience of working with the Bank.




17
  In 2007, the latest year for which comparative data is available, Rajasthan's losses of 30.1 percent were lower
than the 35.3 percent Indian national average of States which had carried out sector unbundling reforms. The
averages for the other reforming States which had received Bank support were: Maharashtra 39.5 percent,
Andhra Pradesh 18.6 percent, Haryana 3 1.6 percent, Orissa 39.6 percent, and Uttar Pradesh 45.5 percent.
Table 5.4: Expansion of Rajasthan's Transmission Networks Financed by the Project
and from All Sources during Project Implementation (2001-2006)

Facility             Unit                      Financed by            Total               Percentage
                                               the project            expansion           financed by the
                                                                                          project
220 kV lines       Kilometers       49                                1,790               2.7
220 kV substations Number           800                               2,550               3 1.3
and extensions
22 kV capacity     Mega-volt        100                               1,450               6.9
                   amperes (MVA)
132 kV lines       Kilometers       272                               1,536               17.7
132 kV substations Number           586                               1,295               45.3
and extensions
132 kV capacity I MVA             1 275                              1 1,800             1 15.3
Source: ICR and Transmission Company.

       Overall Sector Outcomes

5.10 Since project approval, Rajasthan's power sector has seen considerable expansion and
improvement, though key challenges - notably power shortages and acute financial weakness
-- remain. An overview is given in Table 5.5. The main outcomes of the investments in
improved transmission and distribution have been (i) improved voltage levels (27 percent
since 2001); (ii) reduced transmission losses (24 percent down); reduced distribution losses
(30 percent down), increased net availability of power (plus 65 percent), thereby providing a
more reliable and higher quality service to a consumer population which has risen by 47
percent. Also noteworthy are the 58 percent increase in installed capacity (Table 5.4) and the
quadrupling of energy sales.

Table 5.5: Rajasthan: Installed Generating Capacity (MW)

A. By Source of Supply          2001 Percent 2009 Percent Percentage increase 2001-
                            I           I           I
                                                            2009
                                                            --  I
                                                                                   -.

State generating company    1   1,302 1 32.1 2,382 1 37.1 1 82.9




Total                       1 4,056 1 100.0         1 6,426 1 100.0            1 58.4
B. By Source of Power
Thermal                         2,598        64.1       3,837        59.7        47.7
Hydro                           1,116        27.5       1,394        21.7        24.9
Nuclear                           342         8.4         469         7.3        37.1
RES                             n.a.          0.0         726        11.3         n.a.
Total                           4,056       100.0       6,426       100.0        58.4
Sources: PAD and Rajasthan Department of Energy.
    5.1 1 Despite these improvements, Rajasthan still faces a serious demandlsupply
    imbalance. Peak demand has risen by 72 percent since 2001, while over the same period
    per capita electricity consumption more than trebled from 302 kwh to 932 kwh per year.
    Between 2001 and 2006, net availability kept pace with peak demand, but since 2006, the
    latter has outstripped the former by 5 percent. The persistent imbalance is principally
    attributable to (i) higher than anticipated demand growth; (ii) continuing high distribution
    losses especially in rural locations; (iii) reduction in hydro output due to climatic factors;
    and (iv) the long time required to bring new generation capacity, whether public or private,
    on stream. The imbalance has two main negative consequences. First, while load shedding
    has considerably diminished since the early years of this decade, it still occurs, especially
    in periods of maximum demand just before the monsoon. The distribution companies no
    longer have scheduled blackouts. Although, in one sense, this indicates an improvement,
    commercial and industrial consumers complain that the unscheduled interruptions to power
    supply which now occur are more damaging for their operations. Second, Rajasthan's
    power utilities are forced to purchase increasingly expensive energy from India's interstate
    wholesale market.
'
    Table 5.6: Rajasthan: Growth in Electricity Infrastructure, Demand and Supply
    2001-2009

Financial year                                        FYOl          FY06          FY09

Number of consumers                                  5,601,438      6,721,5 13    8,257,866
Number of agricultural and rural consumers           2,012,274      2,670,841     3,044,922
Percentage rural and agricultural                    35.9           39.7          36.9
Peak demand (MW)                                     3,547          4,822         6,101
Net ilistalled capacity (MW)                         4,056          5,453         6,426
Gross energy availability (MU)                       22,498         35,496        78,350
Energy sales (MU)                                    13,923         21,682        52,695
Net energy availability (MU)                         23,580         3 1,803       38,871
High tensionllow tension ratio                       0.86           0.95          1.09
Distribution losses (%I                              38.1           40.2          26.8
Transmission losses within State (%)                 5.8"           4.6           4.4
Kutir Jyoti connections (number)**                   124,034        259,248       789,758
Peak deficit (%)                                     -1.2           -13.2         -12.7***
Enernv deficit (%)                                      O
                                                     -1 .           -3.7          -3.1***
Notes:   * FY02
         ** Kutir Jyoti is a Central Government financed program supporting the connection of rural
        households who live below the poverty line. In April 2005, it was subsumed under the Rajiv Gandhi
        Grameen Vidyutikaran Yojana (RGGVY) rural electrification program.
        *** FY08 (FY09 data unavailable).
Sources: GOR Department of Energy, power sector companies.
Financial Recovery of the Power Sector - Negligiblv Achieved

5.12 The project objective of financial recovery has not been achieved. After a period
in which it appeared - as reported in the ICR - that financial losses were starting to come
down, they exploded once again fiom FY07 onwards to higher levels than ever (Table 5.6).
In FY09, the annual deficit of Rs.45.8 billion (about US$1 billion) amounted to 2.5 percent
of the State's GDP, while the accumulated loss of Rs.190.7 billion (US$4.2 billion) was
equivalent to Rs.3,376 (US$73) for every Rajasthani, or roughly 10 percent of avera e
annual income. This is the highest deficit ever recorded for the State's power sector.F8

Table 5.7: Rajasthan: Financial Losses of the Distribution Companies Since Unbundling (Rs.
millions)
Financial      As per     As per FinRP of As per FinRP of             Actual Accumulated
year           PAD        August, 2003         November, 2005                 Actual
                                                                               Losses
200 1          12,480      8,200                 8,200                  8,200    8,200
2002           10,130     12,910               12,190                 12,190 20,390
2003            5,730     15,880               15,830                 15,830 36,220
2004             1,710    15,170               17,330                 17,330 53,550
2005              -230     9,700               23,230                 20,140 73,690
2006              -240     8,500               15,300                 16,290 89,980
2007              -250     2,390               12,050                 17,410 107,390
2008              -270    n.a.                   7,420                37,510 144,900
2009              -300    n.a.                   5,570                45,820 190,720
2010              -330    n.a.                    -240                n.a.    n.a.
201 1          n.a.       n.a.                  -2,310                n.a.    n.a.
2012           n.a.       n.a.                  -6,820                n.a.    n.a.
Notes: I . FinRP = Financial Restructuring Plan
       2. Negative$gures indicate surplus
       3. Losses are before subsidy
       4. ActualJiguresfor FY08 and FY09 have still to be audited and are, therefore,
       provisional.
Sources: ICR and distribution companies.

5.13 For greater clarity, it is useful to divide discussion of the sector's ongoing financial
weakness into two periods - project implementation between 200 1 and 2006, and the period
since project closure in mid 2006. According to the financial restructuring plan (FinRP)
contained in the PAD," and described in that document as "conservative," the distribution

'*The financial losses are focused on the distribution companies. The tariffs between the transmission company
and the generating sources (whether in or out of State) are regulated in a way which allows both roughly to
break even. Only the distributing companies are not permitted to pass on their higher costs to the consumer.
l9 This was based on a FinRP prepared and approved by the GOR in March, 2000. The plan provided for a
clean-up of RSEB's balance sheet, offset cross debts between the GOR and RSEB, and canceled remaining
debts, thereby liberating the five companies created through the unbundling fiom any debt overhang.
companies were to break even in 2004 and be rapidly privatized. These expectations were
predicated on (i) real tariff increases for agricultural consumers of 26 percent per year and for
other consumers of 10 percent per year for the period 200 1-2004; (ii) a rapid decline in
distribution losses, which were to reach 22 percent by FY07; and (iii) financial support from
the GOR in the form of a one-time restructuring grant of Rs.3 1.1 billion, plus a further Rs.
24.5 billion in ongoing subsidies during the transition period.

5.14 In fact, none of these conditions materialized. There was some improvement in non-
agricultural consumer tariffs, which were increased by 13.6 percent in FY02 and by a further
10 percent in FY05 (Table 5.7). However, this fell far short of what had been expected at
appraisal. Agricultural tariffs, which apply to almost 40 percent of the State's total number of
consumers, rose gradually from an average of about Rs.0.55 per unit in the late 1980s to
about Rs.0.95 (roughly two US cents) per unit after a final adjustment in December 2004,
since when they have not been increased. During project implementation, Rajasthan was
struck by a series of droughts or poor monsoons. Together with low ground water, these
substantially increased farmers' power needs by requiring both greater pump capacity and
more irrigation to save crops. The GOR reacted to the drought with (i) a rapid, and
previously unplanned, expansion in the number of heavily subsidized agricultural
connections; (ii) additional hours of below-cost power for all connected rural consumers in
order to save crops; and (iii) a directive to the distribution companies after December 2004,
to base collections on the previous rather than the revised tariff for a period pending the
determination of additional subsidies. In addition, intensified anti-theft and stronger policing
measures, which were meant to accompany the technical improvements to the distribution
system, were not applied. It should, however, be noted that the drought was not the cause of
the continued financial difficulties faced by Rajasthan's power sector; rather, it aggravated
the consequences of a policy stance favoring heavy subsidies for agricultural consumers that
existed, and continues to exist, independently of it.2oThe political leverage exercised by the
farming community in Rajasthan is extremely important, particularly by the richer farmers
who use more electricity and who are the principal beneficiaries of State power subsidies.
The political difficulties in adhering to a more rigorous tariff policy were exacerbated by the
practice in neighboring States of providing free power to rural consumers.




20Project Appraisal Document; interviews with Distribution Company and GOR officials The average costs of
delivering power to rural consumers was about Rs.7 per unit in FY09, while the average tariff was about
Rs.0.95. The actual subsidy disbursed falls far short of filling this gap (see paragraph 5.20 below).
Table 5.8: Rajasthan: Average Non-Agricultural Consumer Electricity Tariff
Adjustments (percent)

Financial       Foreseen in      Foreseen in FinRP,         Foressen in FinRP,           Actual
year            PAD              August, 2003               November, 2005
2001            10                0                          0                             0
2002            10               13.6                       13.6                          13.6


2005           2              12                            10.2                         10.2
2006           2               5                             0                            0
2007           3               8                             0                            0
2008         n.a.            n.a.                            0                            0
2009         n.a.            n.a.                            0                            0
2010         n.a.            n.a.                            8                           n.a.
201 1        n.a.            n.a.                            0                           n.a.
2012         n.a             n.a.                            0                           n.a.
Sources: PAD, ICR and distribution companies.

5.15 Distribution losses, rather than improving, in fact worsened during the first years of
project implementation, and peaked at 42.6 percent in FY03 (Table 5.8). Moreover, the
finances of the distribution companies were adversely affected by the increasing tendency of
industrial consumers, whose distribution losses were minimal, to invest in their own captive
generation in response to the unreliability and increasing cost of publicly-provided power.
Regarding the financial support from the State, this also failed to materialize to the extent
required. The consequences of Rajasthan's fiscal weakness were, in fact, foreseen in the
PAD. Unlike the Governments of several other reforming States, the GOR did not have the
capacity to shoulder the major part of the costs of transition towards creditworthiness, and
had little room for rescheduling debt and payables. Given the gap between the requirements
of the sector during the first six years of project implementation, and the financial capacity of
the Government, it was clear that "the financial viability of the [FinRP] hinged upon new
investments by private shareholders in the distribution business" (PAD, p. 20).
Table 5.9: Rajasthan: Transmission (T) and Distribution (D) Losses (percent)
Financial T&D losses as T&D losses as          Distribution losses as Actual
year         foreseen in    foreseen in 2003 foreseen in 2005          distribution
            PAD             FinRP              FinRP                   losses
200 1       40.6            42.0               n.a.                    37.2
2002         38.2           39.5               n.a.                    40.0
2003         35.7           40.9               n.a.                    42.6




2010        n.a.             n.a.                 23.9                           n.a.
201 1       n.a.             n.a.                 21.6                           n.a.
2012        n.a.             n.a.                 20.0                           n.a.
Note: ActualJigures for FY08 and FY09 are provisional.
Sources: PAD, ICR, transmission and distribution companies

5.16 It soon became apparent that the FinRP approved at appraisal was unrealistic. A new
plan was approved by the GOR in August, 2003. It envisaged a break-even point by FY07,
and hinged upon (i) a reduction in distribution losses to 28 percent by FY07; (ii) increasing
the agricultural tariff to 50 percent of the cost of supply (i.e. to roughly Rs.2.5 per unit at the
time); (iii) non-agricultural tariff increases of 12 percent, 5 percent and 8 percent in FY05,
FY06 and FY07 respectively; (iv) annual financial support of Rs.4 billion fiom the GOR plus
allowing the distribution companies to retain the sales tax on electricity through FY 12; and
(v) allowing the generation and transmission companies to break even through FY05 and to
earn a return thereafter.

5.17 The preconditions for the success of this FinRP were not met. Agricultural tariffs
were not increased, while non-agricultural tariffs rose by only 10.2 percent. Distribution
losses remained stubbornly high at over 40 percent in both FY04 and FY05. Accordingly, the
FinRP was further revised by the GOR in November, 2005. This time, the emphasis was
switched fiom tariff increases (in particular, no augmentation of agricultural tariffs was
assumed) to enhanced efficiency and reduction of technical and non-technical losses. The
plan foresaw a sector break-even point in 20 12 with substantial improvement already
apparent in FY09. No further revisions have been made, and this plan remains theoretically
under implementation.

Developments since Project Closure

5.18 The ICR, which was issued in January 2007, states that, while the financial state of
the sector is still unhealthy, the 2005 FinRP was being implemented and that the deficit was
beginning to fall. Indeed, the FY05 shortfall was less than that foreseen in the FinRP, and the
FY06 loss, which fell by about 20 percent to Rs. 16.3 billion, only slightly more. As noted,
however, the respite was short-lived - losses rose again in FY07 before soaring to
unprecedented levels in FY08 and FY09.

5.19 The major reason why the sector's financial situation has deteriorated so markedly in
the three years following project closure is the increased cost of power purchased by the
distribution companies which they have been unable to pass on to consumers. Between FY07
and FY09, the average power purchase cost fiom all sources rose by 3 1 percent from Rs.3.53
to Rs.4.63 per unit. According to the companies' management, this alone accounts for nearly
three-quarters of the Rs.83 billion increase in the accumulated deficit during the three years
ending in March, 2009. Much of the rest is the rising commercial debt servicing burden,
which almost tripled to Rs. 16 billion over the same period.

5.20 The increased cost of power reflects a combination of factors. First, due to climatic
conditions, Rajasthan has been forced to rely less on its installed hydro capacity and more on
relatively expensive thermal and renewable energy source (RES) power. The shares of each
source in 2001 and 2009 are shown in Table 5.5. However, the figures in the table show
theoretical capacity; because of drought conditions actual take-off from the hydro stations
has been considerably less. Second, the demandlsupply imbalance, especially at the peak, has
increased markedly since FY06. This has forced Rajasthan to purchase power on the Indian
wholesale market at prices that have been driven up by the general power shortage in the
country. At times of national peak demand, which coincide roughly with maximum demand
periods in the State, the ruling price has been as high as Rs. 15 per unit, and has averaged
Rs.8 per unit over the past two years. According to the State's Energy Department, as much
as 5 percent of total power consumption has to be acquired in this way. Third, much of the
increased generating capacity within the State that was foreseen in the Tenth National
Development Plan (2002-2007) failed to materialize due to perception of high financial and
regulatory risks, delays in bidding procedures and obtaining clearances, and slow
implementation. This is important because, while the cost of purchase fi-om in-State
generating facilities has also increased, it is, at about Rs.2.7 per unit in 2009, only 60 percent
of the overall average unit costs incurred by the distribution companies.

5.21 Distribution losses, while improving, are still high by international standards and
continue to impact negatively on distribution company finances. This is especially so in rural
areas. In most urban zones, losses are at or below 15 percent, indicating an average loss for
rural consumers of between 40 and 45 percent. Nonetheless, the improvements due to the
FRP have benefited the distribution companies substantially - without them, accumulated
losses would be at least Rs.40 billion higher according to company management.

5.22 There is a significant fiscal dimension to the power sector's financial crisis. In each of
the FinRPs, the GOR was supposed to grant subsidies to the distribution companies to
compensate them for inadequate tariff adjustments and to help them finance the transition to
commercial viability. At first, the support was provided in a timely manner. However, since
the onset of the drought in 2002, the Government proved unable to sustain its payments in
full. From FY02, the accumulated shortfall in subsidy payments rose fiom Rs.6.9 billion to
Rs.55.2 billion in FY06. According to sector and GOR sources, it had reached about Rs.80
billion by the end of FY09. This is entered in the distribution companies' balance sheets as
"receivables" and is an asset. In fact, there is no possibility of the GOR ever being able to
pay this debt. Experience in other States (for example, Gujarat, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh,
Uttar Pradesh) suggests that if the debt were to be written off as a one-time loss, this would
not adversely affect the utilities' ability to raise commercial funds.

5.23 In the short-to-medium term, there would seem to be little realistic perspective of a
financial turnaround for the sector, and the objectives of the 2005-2012 FinRP are virtually
unattainable. Given India's growth prospects and electric power requirements, it would seem
unlikely that energy costs will fall significantly nationwide. As for tariffs, the massive
subsidization of agriculture electricity consumers is a fundamental national issue which
remains to be addressed. In Rajasthan, it was a major topic of debate in the recent General
and State Elections; the newly elected Chief Minister declared in June 2009, that agricultural
tariffs would not be raised during his five-year term of office.

Other Project Outcomes
5.24 The project pursued a number of other objectives, which were to reinforce the two
primary ones - strengthening of the regulatory function, further liberalization and
commercialization of the power market, improved financial management of the utility
companies, and increased private sector participation in distribution. Outcomes have been
mixed.

5.25 Regulation. On the one hand, the RERC, which was established by an Act of the
State's Parliament in 1998, has been strengthened. IEG confirms that it is fully-staffed and
functional. The staff display good technical proficiency and there have been, to date,
relatively few losses of key professionals. The Commission has autonomy of funding and
manages its own budget. Its deliberations are complex and lengthy and involve public
hearings. It has a good website. In these respects, the TA provided under the project has been
fruitful. On the other hand, the RERC's ability to regulate the sector is in question. Its
credibility has been undermined by four years without any consumer tariff adjustments and
of mounting losses by the distribution companies. Adjustments have not been recommended,
or even considered, by the Regulator, because the companies have been instructed by the
political authorities not to file tariff increase requests. A further issue concerns the
membership of the Commission. The 1998 Act establishes three Members - a Chairman, a
Technical Member, and a Finance Member. All three offices have been simultaneously
occupied relatively rarely. For several years consecutively there were two Commissioners at
a time, and occasionally only one. Even when all three are in office, as of June 2009,
questions are raised concerning the degree of independence enjoyed by the RERC.

5.26 Liberalization of the power market. In 2005, the RERC issued regulations permitting
open access and trading in electricity, making Rajasthan the first State in India to introduce
this liberalizing measure. In 2006, after the Government of India notified a change in tariff
policy under the provisions of the 2003 Electricity Act, the RERC specified surcharge and
wheeling charges21for open access transactions. It has also established transmission charges
(currently Rs.0.26 per kilowatt-hour) to facilitate transactions through the power exchange.

2'A wheeling charge is an amount charged by one electrical system to transmit the energy of, and for, another
system or systems.
The intention is for consumers to benefit by enabling them to buy fiom whomever and
wherever they wish. However, the opportunity has been used mainly by owners of captive
generating plants selling surplus power, and few consumers have yet sought to purchase
power from outside the grid. The reasons are the costs and restrictions attached to open
access: (i) a surcharge22must be paid on power not purchased fiom a distribution company;
(ii) bill paying becomes considerably more complex and difficult to understand. Instead of
the simple, uniform, unit charge from the distribution companies, consumers purchasing
power from elsewhere are supplied in blocks of fifteen minutes. Any consumption over and
above what is scheduled would be charged at the marginal price currently ruling in the
wholesale market. Most companies would need to hire specialized staff to manage this
complex scheduling and billing process; (iii) all power acquired must be for own use and
cannot be resold;23(iv) most consumers in urban areas are satisfied with their current
arrangements to purchase from the distributing companies whose service quality has
improved in recent years; and (v) even were a customer dissatisfied with such arrangements,
shelhe would need to have a fairly large undertaking to support the costs of open access, and
would likely prefer in such circumstances to acquire captive plant, any surplus from which
could then be sold under the legislation. The fact that open access legislation has benefited
only captive plant owners, all of whom sell to the highest bidder inside or outside the State,
has caused some controversy at times of power shortage in Rajasthan.

5.27 Financial management of thepower utilities. Partly thanks to the TA provided under
the project and partly to the informal interchange with Bank staff during supervision
missions, the transmission and distribution companies have notably improved the quality of
their financial management. Recruitment of qualified professional staff helped the companies
to cope with the transition fiom the Electricity Board system to corporate accounting.
Incremental improvements continued throughout project implementation and, as a result,
annual financial statements, asset registers, cost records, trust accounts etc. are produced and
audited in a timely fashion. Real efforts have been made to follow audit recommendations.
While some key financial decisions relating to debt management24remain centralized, most
accounting functions have now been decentralized. Individual companies have autonomy
concerning investments, borrowings, and expenditures. Nevertheless, IEG's assessment
indicates further room for improvement. Public access to audited accounts is de facto limited
- the latest set of full accounts available on line is for FY03. The accuracy of some of the
non-financial data published (for example, on the number of villages benefiting from the
rural electrification program) is viewed with skepticism by private sector and NGO
observers. As noted in paragraph 3.17, a study of the social and economic impact of the
reform program has not yet been carried out. Finally, while there has been a great
improvement in the collection and use of financial and technical data for M&E purposes, the


22 The surcharge was fixed at Rs.0.91 per kilowatt-hour in 2007 but has been reduced by 20 percent each year
thereafter to stand at Rs.0.36 in FY2010. Access charges are published on the RERC website.
23 Purchasers are prohibited fiom constructing any distribution facilities, though they may possess their own
dedicated line for receiving the power they have bought.
24
  The debts of the RSEB were very costly to service. Since unbundling, about Rs. 76 billion worth have been
successfully rescheduled leading to savings of about Rs.6.5 billion.
Enterprise Resource Package, which was stated in the ICR to be under preparation, has not
yet been completed, still less applied.

5.28 An important dimension of the financial management of utilities is the efficiency of
bill collection. Rajasthan has traditionally had a good collections record, especially by Indian
standards - the RSEB's average during the three years preceding unbundling was allegedly
95 percent, though distribution company officials question the reliability of these figures. The
collection efficiency of the distribution companies was adversely affected from FY03
through FY06 (Table 5.9) because (i) the GOR decided in November 2002, in view of the
drought, to defer collection of minimum charges from agricultural consumers; (ii)
agricultural consumers were billed at the revised tariff (in accordance with the tariff order of
December 2004), but collections continued to be based on the previous tariff pending a
review of agricultural tariffs and subsidies by a GOR committee; and (iii) non-payment by
local and municipal authorities in rural areas. These issues were resolved from FY07
onwards.

Table 5.10: Rajasthan: Collection Efficiency of the Distribution Companies

Company         Average     FY02        FY03     FY04       FY05      FY06       FY07       FY08      FY09
                FY99-
                FYOl
RSEB            95
Ajmer                     101.5      98.2  96.5             96.4       94.0      100.0      98.0      97.0
Jaipur                     99.5      99.6  99.4             98.6       97.4       99.0      99.0      99.0
Jodhpur                    98.8      97.9   96.3            95.0       93.8      100.0      97.0      97.0
All            95         100.1      98.6   97.6            96.9       95.3       99.0      99.0      98.0
companies
Notes: 1. Figures for FY09 are provisional
Sources: PAD, ICR and distribution companies


5.29 Private Participation in Distribution. The suppression of the covenant of a majority
stake for strategic investors in the distribution sub-sector by 2002 was partly justified by the
fact that progress had been made in introducing private participation in distribution in other
ways, notably through the outsourcing of billing and collection, and the introduction of
franchising in the rural areas. Billing has been entirely outsourced as has collection in most
urban locations. This has, indeed, been successful as the degree of collection efficiency
indicates. Any implication that this is largely attributable to the project is, however,
erroneous. Outsourcing in urban areas was already very widespread under the RSEB before
project implementation began, as the following quotation from the PAD indicates: "Billing is
computerized and carried out by private firms under contract to RSEB. Collections are also
carried out by outside agencies for the majority of urban locations" (page 57).

5.30 There is now a major question mark over the fbture of the policy to encourage
franchising in rural areas. Very little interest has been expressed for a number of reasons: (i)
few entities possess, or can afford to acquire, the necessary expertise; (ii) collection of utility
bills in rural locations is difficult, time consuming and, at times, physically hazardous; and
                                                       25


(iii) franchising terms in Rajasthan are unattractive, especially given the risks involved. The
franchisee is paid a fixed sum for collecting the revenues which accrue to the distribution
companies25.A target loss level is usually built into the contract, with bonuses and penalties
attached to lower and higher losses respectively. There is a risk that the penalty would exceed
the fee. The distribution companies and the GOR are exploring other possibilities, including
giving responsibility for billing and collection to village councils.26




6. Ratings
Relevance of Objectives and Design
         Objectives

6.1      The project's development objectives - improved power supply trough removal of
critical transmission and distribution bottlenecks; enhanced sector efficiency; and financial
recovery - were, and remain, substantially relevant. They are consistent with the aims of the
GOR's Policy Statement of 1999 which laid out the power sector reform program as an
essential precondition for the achievement of fiscal sustainability. They are also'highly
relevant to the 1998 CAS goals of reducing infrastructure bottlenecks by promoting power
sector reform, involving independent and technically competent regulation, operation of
commercially viable utilities in a competitive market, and creation of an enabling
environment for private investment in the sector. These concerns were continued in the 2004
CAS, with others added to which the project is also highly relevant - in particular, reform of
power distribution as the first priority for improving the commercial performance and
financial viability of the power sector. The latest CAS - covering the 2009-2012 period -
aims to create a well-regulated but competitive enabling environment, enhancing private
sector participation in infrastructure development. However, as noted below, development
objectives were too broad and ambitious given the realities of the political background in
which the project would be implemented. Project outcomes were determined by factors over
which neither the Bank nor its client exercised any control.

         Design

6.2    Design relevance is rated as modest. While design was of a good technical standard,
and focused on the sector's principal technical, institutional and financial constraints, it was
over-optimistic in terms of what could be achieved within the framework, and with the
leverage, of a single investment project. The covenanted objective of offering a majority

25 This is different fiom the fianchising model in operation in other Indian States under which the franchisee
takes over the management of distribution assets for a designated time in an earmarked zone under a lease
arrangement. Most zones chosen are those combining high consumption levels with high aggregate technical
and commercial losses.
26Under Indian law, since 2007, fianchising is mandatory for rural electrification schemes under the RGGVY
(see Table 5.4). Franchisees could be NGOs, users' associations, cooperatives or individual entrepreneurs.
private sector stake in the distribution companies to private investors by July 2002 was
especially unrealistic. Two key risks -- a severe, prolonged drought and rising power
purchase costs -- were not taken into account at all. Others, such as the strength of resistance
to tariff increases, were under-estimated. Overall relevance of objectives and design is rated
as modest since, in IEG's view, the adverse consequences of design shortcomings outweigh
the substantial relevance of the project's objectives.

Efficacy
6.3     Improvements in transmission and distribution have enabled increased power supply
at a higher quality to a considerably larger number of customers. Efficiency improvements,
while significant, have been less impressive. Although distribution losses have been reduced,
they remain, at just over 26 percent, high by international standards. Billing and collection
efficiency have been slightly enhanced, but were already at a satisfactory level before the
project began. A serious demandlsupply balance persists, particularly during peak periods.
The regulatory function, while technically satisfactory, is institutionally weak and subject to
political interference. Taken together, the objectives of improving power supply through
removal of critical transmission and distribution system and enhancing sector efficiency have
been achieved to a substantial extent.

6.4     Financial recovery has been negligible, and continued financial weakness threatens to
undermine the gains fiom system investments. With hindsight, it is clear that it should never
have been included as a PDO, and there was certainly a strong case for dropping it through a
restructuring at the MTR stage, since, by then, the experiences of similar projects in other
Indian States were becoming clear. As an investment operation, with the limited and realistic
objective of improving the availability, efficiency and accountability of electricity supply in
Rajasthan through strengthening the transmission and distribution systems, the RPSRP would
have succeeded since this objective has been substantially achieved. As it is, the overall
efficacy must be rated as modest.

Efficiency
6.5     The ERR for the investments financed by the project is estimated at closure to be 22
percent (39 percent for the distribution component and 18 percent for the transmission
component). These rates are somewhat lower than the overall ERR of 35 percent calculated
in the PAD, but remain well in excess of the estimated 12% opportunity cost of capital. The
ERR is, moreover, based on a conservative value of Rs.2.5 for each unit saved through loss
reduction. However, the ICR and the PAD are not measuring the same things. The rate of
return in the PAD refers to the sector wide reform program and State-wide investments in
improved transmission and distribution. For the ICR, it was felt, justifiably, that a State-wide
analysis would have limited comparative meaning since there had been so many changes in
the power supply scenario - in particular, many large industrial consumers had moved fiom
the grid to captive power while successive droughts caused the utilities to provide more hours
of supply to agriculture. The high level of economic efficiency must be set against the failure
to achieve financial equilibrium. Overall, efficiency is rated as substantial.
Overall Rating
6.6     With relevance and efficacy rated modest, and efficiency substantial, IEG's overall
rating is moderately unsatisfactory. The sector's financial weakness threatens to undermine                          .
the project's important technical achievements.

Risks to Development Outcome
6.7     The main risks to the positive outcomes of the project - enhanced transmission and
distribution systems - stem from the financial precariousness of the sector, and in particular
of the distribution companies. On a technical level, the utilities are demonstrating their ability
to manage the transmission enhancement and the FRP together with the corresponding assets.
At closure, the transmission and distribution companies provided the Bank with their detailed
plans for operation and maintenance of the Bank-funded plant and equipment along with that
funded from their own resources. These plans were judged to be satisfactory. However, the
high financial losses of recent years pose a question mark over the ability to fund adequate
maintenance and supplementary investment, even though the losses have not, to date, caused
a significant slowdown in FRP implementation.

6.8     The key condition for longer-term sustainability is the financial turnaround of the
sector. As noted in paragraph 5.19 of this report, there is little realistic prospect for this in the
short-to-medium term since it depends, inter alia, on reducing power purchase costs through
substantial investments in new generation and on a resolution of the agricultural tariff issue.
Prospects are not, however, entirely negative. In Rajasthan it is unlikely that there will be
backtracking on the unbundling and other institutional changes already achieved, or on the
determination to complete the FRP successfully. There is, moreover, an ambitious investment
program in new generation facilities within the            At a national level, the momentum of
power sector reform is being sustained, albeit at a slower pace than originally envisaged, and
there are indications that States will be encouraged and assisted in the continuation of their
restructuring programs. Overall, the risks to development outcome are assessed as
signwcant.

Bank Performance


6.9    The project was not reviewed by the World Bank's Quality Assurance Group prior to
approval. The ICR team judged it moderately satisfactory at entry. In IEG's view, however,
Quality-At-Entry is rated as moderately unsatisfactory. On the one hand, the PAD contained
a thorough and useful diagnosis of the technical and institutional issues facing the power

27
   For the 11' Five Year Plan Period, ending in 2012, it is anticipated that the net installed generating capacity
of the State will increase by 4,260 MW or by 66.4 percent. 3,570 MW of this are to be within the State and 690
MW from central allocation. With the exception of 440 MW of nuclear power, all this will be thermal. Of the
in-State additional capacity, 2,490 MW will be in the public sector and 1,080 MW in the private sector.
Previous experience has shown similar plans to be over-ambitious and subject to considerable delays. However,
all of the total increase in capacity is said to be "under construction."
sector in the wake of unbundling. The technical solutions it proposed, as reflected in the
investment components of the project, were well designed. Implementation arrangements,
though complex, were appropriate. The PAD acknowledged that sector reform would be a
long term process, and envisaged a series of Bank operations to support it, totaling some
                                                ~.
US$1 billion, and continuing beyond 2 0 0 6 ~This perception did not, however, impede an
over-ambitious design. Project-financed investments affected directly only about ten percent
of the State's distribution and transmission investments during the implementation period.
The project goals of sector-wide loss reductions and a financial turnaround sufficient to
attract private investors were thus out of proportion to the leverage offered by the Bank loan.
The goal of offering strategic investors a majority stake in the distribution companies by the
end of 2002 was especially unrealistic, and the relevant covenant was dropped during
implementation. The PAD suggests that the reforming zeal in Rajasthan was such that the
Bank's relatively small financial leverage would be inconsequential. Nonetheless, even with
unwavering political will, the targets were likely to take very considerably longer to achieve
than the time foreseen for the project's implementation.

6.10 The political economy of the State of Rajasthan was misread; too much weight was
placed upon the ability of sector reformers to achieve what they promised and intended,
while too little attention was paid to the immense political power wielded by the State's
richer and larger farmers, and to the nationwide adherence to heavily subsidized agriculture.
Insufficient account was taken of national and international trends in the power sector -- by
the time the project was prepared, fast-track reform of the power sector in India was already
running into serious trouble, and the country had reverted to a more gradual approach.
Monitoring and evaluation design was inadequate even by the standards of the time.

6.1 1 The PAD also underestimated, or failed to take into account, significant risks to the
project's outcome, which in the event materialized. One key risk, that of a severe drought,
and the reaction of the State Authorities to it, was not addressed at appraisal. This risk was,
nonetheless, highly pertinent.29Others, such as the strength of resistance to tariff increases
and the weakening of the political will to continue with the reforms, were rated as
"substantial" while, in retrospect, they were clearly high. The risk that the regulatory agency
would not allow sufficient tariff increases was classified as "moderate;" this overestimated
the regulator's de facto independence. The need for parallel economic reforms, especially
with regard to State fiscal policy, and possible Bank support for them, was discussed in the
PAD, indeed it was a lesson learned from other projects, but its absence was not a risk that
was clearly identified in the risk matrix.



28 These did not materialize because Rajasthan financed the bulk of transmission and distribution investments
fi-om its own resources (including commercial borrowing), while, in generation, the State is relying principally
on thermal projects for which it would have been difficult to obtain World Bank financing.
29
   A drought increases demand for groundwater-based irrigation and hence for electricity to power the pumps.
At the same time, water availability for hydro-generationis reduced, so that power production costs rise. The
financial consequences for the power sector were exacerbated still further by the State Government's reaction to
the drought, including the decision not to raise rural sector electricity tariffs (see paragraph 5.13 below of this
report).
Supervision

6.12 With four utilities as implementing agencies and a very large number of
procurements, this was a complex and difficult operation to supervise. With regard to the
technical components, the Bank did a good job of supporting the agencies, and in particular
the distribution companies, with implementation. Although most of the innovations used in
the FRP were known to the client, this knowledge was largely theoretical. Not only were the
project-financed pilot feeders and metering a model for the client-executed extension of the
program, but the companies informed IEG that the informal advice of Bank staff during
supervision missions was extremely useful. Monitoring of the financial dimensions was less
impressive. While the failure to achieve financial turnaround could not reasonably have been
tackled at the level of regular supervision missions, given its complex political economy
dimensions, more consistently realistic ratings of development objective (DO) achievements
would have been useful. Of the ten Implementation and Status Results reports (ISRs) through
November 2005, eight rate DO progress as Satisfactory. The two exceptions are in late 2002
and late 2004, when it became evident that financial recovery was not being achieved. These
exceptions were just before the preparation of the two revised FinRPs; after the new plans
were put in place, ratings reverted to Satisfactory. Only in the last two ISRs, of April and
June 2006, is DO progress assessed as Moderately Satisfactory, the same rating that was
given for outcomes in the ICR. Finally, as noted in paragraph 5.29 above, an opportunity for
restructuring and simplifLing the project at the MTR was missed. Supervision is rated as
moderately satisfactory and overall Bank performance as moderately unsatisfactory.

Borrower Performance
6.13 The GOR performed well at the preparation stage, and took bold steps to restructure
the State's power sector. Its later failure to sustain the reform momentum must be seen in the
broader political context of India-wide power-supply subsidies to agriculture, the onset of the
drought, the strength of the large farmer lobby in Rajasthan, and the policy of neighboring
States to supply agriculture with fiee power. Without addressing national political economy
issues, it would have been unrealistic to expect the GOR to have acted differently. IEG rates
government performance as moderately unsatisfactory.

6.14 The transmission and distribution companies did a good job, not only in
implementing the project-financed investments, but in continuing their enhancement and
expansion programs after project closure. They have also built up significant new capacity in
both financial and technical fields including asset management and procurement. There is
still room for improvement, notably in areas like M&E and public disclosure, but
management is aware of these shortcomings. The distribution companies cannot be blamed
for failure to file timely requests for tariff adjustments since they were ordered to desist by
the political authorities. Implementing agency performance was satisfactory. Overall, IEG
rates Borrower performance as moderately satisfactory.
7.        Lessons                               BOX 1

                                                Selected Lessons from Power Sector Restructuring in Four Indian States
Learning the Lessons                            Subsidized power supply to agriculture is a deeper public policy issue and not a
from Similar Projects                           mere sectoral issue. The problem of subsidized power supply to agriculture and
                                                resistance to metering is embedded in distorted agricultural policies and political
                                                economy factors. Both the Bank and India have to recognize that sustainable
7.1      The RPSRP was not an                   improvement in power sector requires addressing this complex economic and
                                                political problem stemming from the agriculture sector. National consensus of the
isolated exercise: it was the                   political parties is necessary for a meaningful solution. While there is growing
latest in a series of five Bank                 awareness and recognition of this issue, the progress is likely to remain modest in
                                                the next few years. (Andhra Pradesh ICR)
projects supporting State level
power sector restructuring (see        Financial restructuring of the power utilities is akin to a bankruptcy proceeding
                                      where burden sharing by various stakeholders is required. The GOAP provided
paragraph 2.4 above). The PAD         substantial support for financial restructuring, but the support from financiers and
(page 6) states that: "The project    suppliers of power (central PSUs) was delayed. It was only recently in 2003 that
                                      the GO1 finalized a securitizationscheme to restructure the overdue liabilities of
has been designed drawing from        the state power companies to reinforce reforms. Until the full cost recovery
the lessons learnt from               through tariffs is achieved by the utilities, timely and full payment of subsidy
                                      support by the state government will be important to ensure adequate cash flow
implementation of similar              for the utilities to enable them to operate and maintain the power system. (Andhra
programs in India (Orissa,            Pradesh ICR).
Haryana, Andhra Pradesh and           The financial crisis of the power sector is so deep and the reforms initiated by
Uttar Pradesh) and in other           Haryana so comprehensive (and disruptive) that it would be difficult (if not
                                      impossible) to capture, over the initial two or three years of a reform program, and
countries, adapted to local           through standard financial covenants (profitability and financial performance of
realities." This statement raises     the utilities) any meaningful improvements. (Haryana ICR)
an important issue concerning         The scope and nature of reforms pursued under a loan should be consistent with
the extent to which, or at least      the lending instrument and firmly grounded in a realistic appreciation of the
                                      Bank's relative leverage in a given situation. This operation was an investment
the speed with which, the Bank        loan in which, by definition, disbursements were determined by contract
does in fact learn from negative       implementation and as such, ill-suited to serve as drivers of a contentious and
                                      challenging reform program. Reform expectations in this case were unrealistically
experiences in other projects.        high given the relatively short period of project implementation and even more so
With regard to worldwide              relative to the Bank's limited contribution to the utility's overall investment
                                      program. (Uttar Pradesh ICR)
trends, a World Bank Board
Discussion paper3' notes that:        Government should provide financial support for the subsidies made necessary by
                                      its policies. In particular, the subsidies of favored groups of consumers should be
"Following the post- 1997             sufficient to avoid creating pressures to increase cross-subsidies from other
downturn in private investment,       consumers (Box 14: "Lessons from Orissa" from Besant-Jones op. cit., page 53).
reforming countries have
experienced particular difficulty in attracting and retaining private investors to their
distribution businesses." Concerning the other four projects in India, the outcomes of three of
them were rated as Unsatisfactory by their respective ICRs (table 1.1 of this report) mainly
because of failure to carry out the necessary reforms needed to turn sector finances around
and attract and retain private investors.

7.2     It could be argued that at the time of project preparation, in 1999 and 2000, the fill
extent of the world wide aversion to private investment in power distribution in developing
countries was not yet apparent. Moreover, none of the other four similar State power sector
restructuring projects in India had yet closed. The latest information available to the RPSRP



30 "Reforming Power Markets in Developing Countries: What Have We Learned," by John E. Besant-Jones,
Energy and Mining Sector Board Discussion Paper No. 19, September, 2006. The quotation is on page 48.
appraisal team on the status of these projects was in the Supervision Reports which indicated,
in all cases, a much more favorable situation than that which was later to prevail at closure31.

7.3     The same cannot be said regarding the knowledge available to the RPSRP's
supervision team at the time of the MTR held in June, 2004. By then, international trends
were clear, three of the four State restructuring projects had closed, and the other was to close
within six months. Lessons fiom their implementation (Box 1) were available. From these
lessons, and from experience to date with the RSPRP itself, it was clear that achievement of
financial recovery was beyond the reach of the project and even highly unlikely to be
achieved over a longer time period (say, by 2012). Indeed, with hindsight, it should not have
been included as a PDO in the first place. In Rajasthan, as in the other four States, the
preconditions were not present. These include (i) a nationwide resolution of the issue of
power subsidies to the agricultural sector; (ii) a willingness by various stakeholders to share
the financial burden; (iii) sufficient fiscal strength on the part of the State government to
ensure full and timely payment of subsidies; (iv) recognition that financial recovery is a long
term process; and (v) consistency between the reform goals and the Bank lending instrument
supporting them. Opportunity could have been taken at the MTR to restructure the project
and remove the objective. It is true that such a restructuring would have required Board
approval, and this might have been difficult to obtain based on the experience of this project
alone. Backed, however, with the lessons fiom the other four projects, a much stronger case
could have been made.

Lessons from the Design and Implementation of the RPSRP
        A thorough analysis should be made of the political economy of the reform program
        to be supported by the project, at both State and national levels. This should be done
        not only through extensive consultations at both a local and national level, but also
        through a realistic appraisal of national policies - such as those determining power
        subsidies to agriculture - which will impact on project outcomes. These should be
        addressed at the level of country policy dialogue. A careful assessment of
        international trends in power sector private investment in developing countries should
        also be part of the exercise.




31The latest Supervision (SPN) Development Objective ratings available at the time of appraisal of the
Rajasthan project and the ICR ratings at closure were as follows:
                                                     SpN                        -
                                                                                ICR
Orissa PSRP                                          S                          U
Haryana PSRP                                         S                          U
Andhra Pradesh PSRP                                  S                          S
Uttar Pradesh PSRP                                   S                          U
Risks to project outcome should be carefdly analyzed and taken into account. In
particular, attention should be paid to climatic hazards and to subsidy regimes in
other States and their likely impact on the political viability of proposed reforms.

Covenanted objectives should reflect a more realistic judgment of the leverage
accorded by investment projects on complex policy issues, and of factors outside the
control of the project. In India, the recent appraisal of a new proposed operation in
Haryana indicates that this lesson has been learned.

More systematic monitoring of experience in other, similar projects (particularly in
the same country) would have helped to avoid the repetition of over-ambitious design
apparent in the five State power sector restructuring operations in India. Even though
convincing evidence may not have been fully available at the preparation stage, the
opportunity should have been taken during implementation to restructure and simplify
the project when justified.

Such monitoring would facilitate a clearer and more objective assessment of
Development Objectives during supervision missions. It is noteworthy that in the case
of all five State power sector restructuring projects in India, ISRs continued to rate
DO progress as satisfactory when it must already have been obvious that certain
objectives were highly unlikely to be attained. These "satisfactory" assessments were
all that was available to the team preparing the Rajasthan project.
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet


Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                   Appraisal        Actual or        Actual as % of
                                    estimate     current estimate   appraisal estimate
Total project costs
Loan amount
Cofinancing
Cancellation




Project Dates
                                         Original                    Actual
Initiating memorandum                   02/26/1997                  0212611997
Negotiations                            04/05/2000                  11/27/2000
Board approval                          07/04/2000                  01/18/2001
Signing                                                             02/28/2001
Effectiveness                           03/12/200 1                 03/12/2001
Closing date                            06/30/2005                  06/30/2006
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
                                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget only)
           Staff Time and Cost               No. of staff weeks    I USD Thousands (including
          Stage of Project Cycle                                   I travel and consultant costs)
Lending
                 FY95                                                         91.46
                 FY96                                                        120.81
                 FY97                                                        102.15
                 FY98                                                         89.01
                 FY99                                                         60.82
                 FYOO                                                        164.45
                 FYOl                                                        111.04
                 FY02                                                          0.00
                 FY03                                                          0.00
                 FY04                                                          0.00
                 FY05                                                          0.00
                 FY06                                                          0.00
                 FY07                                                          0.00
                                   Total:                                    739.74




SupervisionflCR
               FY95
               FY96
               FY97
               FY98
               FY99
               FYOO
               FYOl
               FY02
               FY03
               FY04
               FY05
               FY06
               FY07


                                     Total        205
Mission Data
          Name                Title              Unit   Responsibility/pecial@
Lending
Syed I. Ahmed        Lead Counsel             LEGMS
Sarneer Akbar        Sr. Environmental        SASES
                     Spec.
Mohammed Hasan       Senior Social            SASES
                                              -
                     Development Spec
Sunil Kumar Khosla   Sr. Energy Spec.         SASEI
Magdalena V. Manzo   Sr. Operations Off.      TFO
Lucio Monari         Lead Energy              LCSEG
                     Economist
Kari J. Nyrnan       Lead Specialist          ECSSD
Judith K. Plummer    Sr. Financial Analyst    SASEI
Natarajan Raman      Consultant               SASEI
Supriya Sen          Sr. Financial Analyst    SASEI
Sameer Shukla        Sr. Energy Spec.         ECSSD
Rajesh Sinha         Sr. Financial Analyst    SASEI
Anthony E. Sparkes
                     Consultant               SASEI
SupewisionnCR
                     Sr. Procurement Spec.    SARPS
Sushi1 Kumar Bah
                     Sr. Financial
Manoj Jain
                     Management               SARFM
                     Specialist

Manvinder Mamak
                     Sr. Financial
                                              SARFM
                     Management
                     Specialist
Rohit Mittal
                     Financial Analyst        SASE1
Judith K. Plummer
                     Sr . Financial Analyst   SASE1
Anthony E. Sparkes
                     Consultant               SASE1
