Document of
The World Bank                  r14V  J
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No P-3158-NEP
REPORT AND RECOMNENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR A
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(Technical and Vocational Training)
December 3, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Nepalese Rupee (NR)
Since September 19, 1981
US$1.00        =      NRs 13.2
NRs 100        =      US$7.58
FINANCIAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
First Project -    Technical Education Project, Credit No. 772-NEP
IOE           -    Institute of Engineering, Tribhuvan University
MOE            -    Ministry of Education and Culture
M              -    Million
NESP           -    New Education System Plan
PIU            -    Project Implementation Unit
UNDP           -    United Nations Development Programme



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NEPAL
SECOND EDUCATION (TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING) PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:         Kingdom of Nepal
Amount:            Special Drawing Rights (SDR) 12.5 M
(US$14.3 M equivalent)
Terms:             Standard
Project           The project is designed to increase the supply of skilled
Description:    craftsmen with basic engineering skills and of civil, elec-
trical and mechanical engineering technicians needed to
implement Nepal's development programs. The project would
also assist the establishment of national skills standards
applicable to all training institutions and incorporation of
these standards for appointment and promotion in the public
service. The IDA credit would help finance facilities
and equipment for the Institute of Engineering of Tribhuvan
University to establish a new training center at Pokhara in
the Western Development Region which would: (a) expand
certificate level training programs initiated under the First
Project; and (b) intitiate a one-year craft level training
program. Related staff training and specialist services
would be partially financed by a grant from the United
Nations Development Programme.  Three studies would also be
carried out through the Ministry of Education to develop
project proposals for investments in primary, secondary, and
non-formal education. The project faces no special risks,
although achievement of project objectives will depend on the
capacity of the project agencies to execute the construction
program, the availability of the required training person-
nel, and the tailoring of public service standards and in-
centives to the practical needs of the country.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost of Project:
US$ Millions (Equivalent)
Local    Foreign    Total
Civil Works & Furniture                3.31       1.90        5.21
Architect Services                      0.37      0.04        0.41
Equipment                               0.43      2.42        2.85
Staff Salaries & Operating Costs    1.05         0.13         1.18
Specialist Services & Fellowships   0.43         2.47         2.90
Studies                                0.45      0.15         0.60
Base Costs                        6.04      7.11       13.15
Contingencies
Physical                          0.54      0.55        1.09
Price                             2.01      1.25        3.26
Subtotal                          2.55      1.80        4.35
Total                                   8.59      8.91       17.50
(net of Taxes and Duties)           (7.93)   (8.91)      (16.84)
Financing Plan:
US$ Millions (Equivalent)
Local    Foreign    Total
IDA                                    7.52      6.78        14.30
UNDP                                    0.37      2.13        2.50
Kingdom of Nepal                        0.70       -          0.70
8.59     8.91        17.50
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
US$ Millions (Equivalent)
IDA FY              1982  1983  1984  1985   1986   1987  1988
Annual              0.06  0.93  4.13  4.67   3.88   0.28   0.35
Cumulative          0.06  0.99  5.12  9.79  13.67  13.95  14.30
Staff Appraisal
Report:         No. 3558-NEP, dated November 16, 1981



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND REQO)1ENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO TllE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING)
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Kingdom of Nepal for Special Drawing Rights (SDR)
12.5 M (US$14.3 M equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a Second
Education Project (Technical and Vocational Training). The United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) is expected to provide a grant of US$2.5 M
equivalent for related technical assistance and training.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report, "Nepal - Policies and Prospects
for Accelerated Growth" (Report No. 3577-NEP) was distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors on October 15, 1981. The principal findings of the report and
recent developments are described below. Country data are shown in Annex I.
3.        By almost any standard, Nepal is one of the least developed coun-
tries in the world. Per capita income is estimated at $140 (1980) and health
and education standards are well below the average for South Asia: life
expectancy at birth is about 44 years, infant mortality is 150 per thousand,
and adult liberacy is only about 20 percent. The population, estimated to be
14.3 million (1980), is growing at a rate in excess of two percent per year.
About 95 percent of the population live in rural areas.
4.        Population density with respect to arable land has reached alarming
levels and is threatening to overwhelm the resource base of the economy.
Cultivation has been extended beyond economically feasible and ecologically
safe limits in the Hills, and together with denudation of forests to meet
housing and fuel needs, soil erosion has become a critical problem. Firewood
and water have become more difficult to obtain as the forests are reduced and
springs and streams dry up. This degradation of the agricultural base has
made even the present low level of living standards difficult to maintain,
and instances of food shortages and malnutrition have become commonplace.
5.         Agriculture accounts for nearly 60 percent of Nepal's GDP and 75
percent of merchandise exports, and provides the main source of livelihood
to over 90 percent of the population. Crop production accounts for about 60
percent of agricultural output, livestock for 30 percent, and forestry for
ten percent. Rice is the predominant food crop (planted on about half the
total cropped area), followed by maize, potatoes, wheat and millet; cash
crops (oilseeds, jute, sugar and tobacco) are grown on about ten percent of
the cropped area. About 25 percent of total rural incomes arise from non-
agricultural activities. Cottage industries are one of the more important
of these, engaging over one million people on a part time basis, and provid-
ing basic consumer goods in the many small isolated markets where such goods
would otherwise not be available.



- 2 -
6.       Apart from agricultural land, Nepal's only other important exploit-
able resources are hydropower and tourism. The exploitation of the vast
hydropower resources, however, beyond that required to satisfy the country's
own power demand, will depend crucially on Nepal's ability to enter into
complex financial, exploitation and export agreements with neighboring coun-
tries. The tourism sector, based on Nepal's magnificent landscape and rich
cultural heritage, has been dynamic though it still accounts for only about
one percent of GDP.
7.       When Nepal started its modernization efforts in the early 1950s,
there was virtually no economic or administrative infrastructure, and initial
development efforts were necessarily concentrated on establishing a foundation
for future development. Investments in the transport sector absorbed a large
part of development spending. The Fifth Development Plan (1975/76-1979/80)
marked a shift in development objectives; acceleration of economic growth,
employment creation and raising living standards of the population became
major plan objectives. Development expenditures rose fairly rapidly during
this period and there were substantial shifts in the composition of spending
away from transport to agriculture, power and social services. GDP growth,
however, barely kept up with that of population, and while it was inevitable
that per capita income growth would remain slow in the early stages of devel-
opment, the continued economic stagnation since the mid 1970s is disturbing.
8.        Part of the reason for the stagnation lies in factors beyond Nepal's
control. The difficult topography and poor resource base are obviously im-
portant in retarding growth. Nepal's landlocked position, long open border
with India and the dependence of its overseas trade on transit through India
create additional disadvantages. While Nepal benefits from the proximity
of a vast potential market for Nepalese goods, the ability to pursue inde-
pendent economic policy measures is circumscribed. Furthermore, industrial
development faces the competition of a far larger and more efficient indus-
trial sector in India.
9.        At the same time, factors within Nepal's control have also contri-
buted to the stagnation. Problems with project implementation have been
encountered by Government and donors in most sectors of the economy and
have constrained the growth of the development effort; public sector capi-
tal formation grew at an average of only 5.5 percent per annum in real terms
during the 1970s. In addition, the expected returns on those investments
which did take place, often did not materialize because necessary comple-
mentary investments or current spending were lacking, and because of mana-
gerial deficiencies. A good example is the agriculture sector, where out-
put stagnated despite considerable investments in irrigation, a virtual
doubling of of the irrigated area and a 40 percent increase in fertilizer
use between 1974/75 and 1979/80. In the past, insufficient attention was
paid to bringing water down to the farm level and this was compounded by
inadequate support services such as extension and research, by the lack of
timely supplies of improved seed, fertilizer and other inputs such as credit,
and by the lack of farm-to-market roads. Recent major irrigation projects
financed by IDA and the Asian Development Bank are now addressing some of
these problems by taking more comprehensive and integrated approaches.



10.       Although Government revenue efforts have improved considerably
over time, revenues have by now only reached the equivalent of about nine per-
cent of GDP, which is low by international standards. With limited domestic
resources, current expenditures have been squeezed in an effort to generate
savings for investment spending, with the result that the efficiency of total
spending was lowered. Furthermore, while about one quarter of total budge-
tary expenditures (regular and development) was being financed by the rest of
the world in 1974/75, this proportion rose to close to 40 percent by 1979/80.
11.      The disappointing economic performance has been accompanied by a
widening trade deficit. Import payments have grown while the trend in export
*          earnings has been sluggish due to declining rice exports.  The deterioration
on the trade account has been partly covered by increased tourism receipts
and remittances, which together with foreign assistance in the form of grants
and concessionary financing have generally ensured that the overall balance
remained in surplus.  But even so, foreign exchange reserves have declined
from being equivalent to about one year of imports in 1974 to six months in
1980.
12.      The poor monsoon in 1979 resulted in foodgrain production falling
by 13 percent in 1979/80 and GDP declining by one percent.  With the virtual
elimination of rice exports at a time when Nepal's oil bill was rising the
overall balance of payments surplus declined sharply in that year and Nepal
drew SDR 10.5 million (US$13.8 million equivalent) from the IMF under the
Compensatory Financing Facility in September 1980. Better weather in 1980
resulted in agricultural production recovering in 1980/81. Together with
the favorable impact this had on other sectors of the economy, GDP is esti-
mated to have grown by six-seven percent in 1980/81. But the trends remain
disappointing; average GDP growth for 1979/80 and 1980/81 combined is likely
to be only 2.6 percent, that is, very little increase in per capita terms.
13.       On September 19, 1981 Nepal unified its exchange rate with the US
dollar at NRs 13.2 = US$1; the exchange rate with the Indian rupee was un-
changed at NRs 145 = IRs 100. This is the latest in a series of steps to
reform Nepal's exchange rate system, which began when a complex system of
multiple exchange rates and trade restrictions for overseas trade was re-
placed with a dual exchange system on March 31, 1978. A basic rate of NRs
12 = US$1 applied for invisible and capital transactions as well as for
imports of petroleum products, fertilizer, and cement. A second rate ap-
plying to all other merchandise trade was set at NRs 16 = US$1, which was
*          subsequently changed to NRs 14 = US$1 on February 21, 1980.  The September
1981 measures devalued the basic rate by nine percent but resulted in a six
percent appreciation for most overseas merchandise trade. The latter could
adversely affect the balance of overseas trade.
14.       During the past two to three years economic policy making has
been delayed by political developments. Following disturbances in 1979,
a referendum was held in May 1980, which reaffirmed the existing partyless
system, with suitable reforms. The constitution was amended in December
1980 to provide, among other things, for direct election of members of
parliament; general elections were held in May 1981, though they were boy-
cotted by many opposition groups. The previous Prime Minister and Finance
Minister have retained their portfolios in the post election government.



- 4 -
15.       These political activities slowed down preparation of the Sixth
Plan (1980/81-1984/85) and the Plan was only published in January 1981.
The Plan reflects Nepal's determination to search for ways to overcome
stagnation and as a set of objectives, it was endorsed in draft form by
members of the Nepal Aid Group at its January 1980 meeting. The strategy
to shift investment into more productive sectors, which was initiated dur-
ing the Fifth Plan, is continued and emphasis is given to alleviating some
of the factors that limited past growth. The Plan's principal objectives
are to increase production at a faster rate, to increase productive employ-
ment, and to meet basic minimum needs in food, fuel (firewood), drinking
water, health services, primary education and rural transportation. The
strategy: (i) accords high priority to developing agriculture, small-scale
industries and Nepal's abundant water resources; (ii) stresses soil con-
servation and population control; and (iii) emphasizes full utilization of
existing infrastructure and alleviation of absorptive capacity constraints.
The development strategy also calls for full involvement of- the private
sector in agriculture, manufacturing, trade, tourism, construction and
transport operations.
16.       Achieving the Plan's objectives will require quick-yielding sec-
tor programs to generate growth in the short to medium-term as well as human
resource development programs to lay the foundation for sustained growth in
the longer term. Program targets must also be made consistent with overall
financial and implementation capacity, but at the same time vigorous measures
are needed to remove administrative and domestic financial constraints. The
Government has been considering the actions required to overcome the adminis-
trative constraints. A full list would include a slowing down in the growth
of government employment and the proliferation of public sector agencies;
an overhaul of the present incentive system, including substantial salary
increases for senior officials; a reduction in the high rate of turnover
in top appointments; and a more professional approach in the management of
public enterprises.
17.       There also is considerable scope for easing the financial con-
straints and the Government plans to improve revenue administration, oper-
ate public enterprises more efficiently and to raise public utility charges
over a period of years. Selective increases in indirect taxes would also
provide substantial additional revenues, while phasing out fertilizer sub-
sidies and streamlining rice subsidies could yield substantial savings.
18.       Nepal has received substantial external assistance in the past.
Aid commitments averaged US$160 million per year during the Fifth Plan,
and, according to current indications, could average about US$300 million
per year during 1981/82-1983/84. Foreign assistance is expected to account
for about 53 percent of total development spending during the Sixth Plan
period. However, even this level of foreign assistance would not provide
the Government with sufficient resources to meet increasing consumption
demands. Additional aid, either through financing a higher proportion of
total project costs or in the form of commodity assistance, could provide
budgetary support to meet pressing recurrent expenditure requirements, par-
ticularly in the social sectors. The Nepal Aid Group was formed in 1976 to



- 5 -
assist in the overall coordination of financial and technical assistance
efforts; and the Group now accounts for some 70 percent of all aid dis-
bursements, The Group has met three times at plenary meetings under the
chairmanship of the Bank to discuss overall external assistance needs;
local Aid Group meetings in Kathmandu are also held to discuss and coor-
dinate sectoral development strategies. The next plenary meeting is to
be held in Paris in December 1981.
19.       Foreign aid disbursements grew by 29 percent annually during
the Fifth Plan period; only about 40 percent of disbursements were from
foreign borrowing, the remainder being grants. As of December 31, 1980,
official foreign debt outstanding was US$177 million, of which US$144
million was due to multilateral agencies. These loans were obtained on
a highly concessional basis and the grant element of total aid remains
in excess of 90 percent. As a result, debt service payments were only
US$4.0 million during 1980, equivalent to less than two percent of ex-
ports of goods and services.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NEPAL
20.       Bank Group operations in Nepal began in FY70 with an IDA credit
of US$1.7 M equivalent for a telecommunications project. Since then, 26
additional credits have been approved, bringing total IDA assistance to
Nepal to US$303.1 M equivalent, net of cancellations. In view of Nepal's
many development needs, this assistance has been for projects in a wide
variety of sectors. Six of these sectors account for 87 percent of IDA
credits by amount: irrigation/agriculture (US$110.2 M for nine projects);
water supply and sewerage (US$46.8 M for three projects), power (US$40.8 M
for one project); telecommunications (US$21.7 M for three projects); high-
ways (US$19.2 M for two projects); and rural development (US$19.0 M for two
projects). The proposed credit would be the second in FY82, bringing the
total amount of IDA assistance to Nepal to US$317.4 M equivalent, net of
cancellations. No Bank loans have been made to Nepal. IFC made its first
investment in Nepal (US$3.1 M) in a hotel project in Kathmandu in FY75.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Group operations as of Septem-
ber 30, 1981, and notes on the execution of ongoing IDA projects. It shows
certain delays in the implementation of these projects, particularly during
the initial periods. These delays have been largely due to Nepal's limited
technical and managerial capabilities.  In order to assist Nepal in coping
with this constraint, considerable technical assistance is being given by
Bank Group staff, including our Resident Mission in Kathmandu. As a result,
improvement in the rate of disbursements is being realized; during FY81,
US$27.7 M equivalent were disbursed compared to US$65.1 M equivalent dis-
bursed during the entire previous ten years. Project completion reports
have been prepared for three projects - First Telecommunications (Credit
No. 166, US$1.7 M equivalent), First Highways (Credit No. 223, US$2.2 M
equivalent), and Tourism (Credit No. 241, US$3.2 M equivalent). All three
projects faced unexpected engineering and design difficulties, delays in
implementation of two to four years, and institutional improvements were
less than anticipated; however, all three generated acceptable rates of
return.



- 6 -
21.        Bank Group lending to Nepal has so far been at a modest level
compared to the country's need for external assistance. The international
community has shown considerable interest in Nepal's economic development
and, to date, shortage of funds has not been a bottleneck. The main con-
straint on the utilization of increased aid has been Nepal's limited ab-
sorptive capacity, affecting the pace of project preparation and imple-
mentation. The Bank is assisting the Government in project preparation
through the Technical Assistance Credit (Credit No. 659-NEP, US$3.0 M
equivalent) and by acting as Executing Agency for a number of technical
assistance projects financed by UNDP. The Bank Group has also addressed
the problem of absorptive capacity through its role in organizing the Aid
Group for Nepal (para 18).
22.        The Bank Group's current strategy places major emphasis upon the
directly-productive sectors (particularly agriculture) and the development
of complementary infrastructure, including feeder roads (particularly con-
necting the Hills to the Terai), communications and hydroelectric power.
Preparation of projects in irrigation, cash crops, manpower development
and hydropower is under way.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Development Strategy and Manpower Implications
23.        Over the past decade, the shortage of trained technical manpower
has been an important factor preventing the full implementation of development
programs. Due to the slow development of training and education infrastruc-
ture, Nepal continues to face severe shortages. The total stock of techni-
cians in science, engineering, agriculture, forestry, and health sectors at
the beginning of the Sixth Plan period (1980/81-1984/85) was calculated to
be about 20,000 persons; projected demand for additional technicians during
the Sixth Plan period is estimated at nearly 19,500 positions, calling for a
near doubling of technical manpower. Domestic institutions are expected to
produce about 15,000 persons and another 1,000 are expected to return from
foreign training programs, leaving a position shortfall of about 3,500 tech-
nicians. The actual shortfall is likely to be even greater, as the additional
technical staff will be added in stages and not be available to work over the
course of the full five year program. Given this shortfall, implementation
of the Sixth Plan will be constrained, especially in the crucial areas of
agriculture, construction and health.
24.        In view of these constraints, the Government is giving high prior-
ity to expansion and full use of existing technical institutes, as well as
to intensifying efforts to send students abroad for training. While the
Government has stated its willingness to consider hiring foreign technicians
financed by foreign assistance to alleviate some of the shortfall, this is
not likely to be fully appropriate for the type of work likely to be most
seriously affected--agricultural extension, construction engineers and sup-
ervisors, and basic health services.



-7-
The Education System
25.       The acute manpower shortage in technical fields reflects the his-
torical neglect of education in Nepal. At the end of the Rana regime (1951),
which opposed schooling of the general population, less than one percent of
the school age population (only 10,000 children) were in school. Since then,
however, enrollments have expanded rapidly. By 1980, about one million
children (80 percent of the relevant age group) were enrolled in primary
*          schools; enrollments at lower and upper secondary schools increased 97 per-
cent and 58 percent, respectively, reaching about 340,000 at lower and about
110,000 at upper secondary levels. About 37,000 students are enrolled at
X          tertiary levels at Tribhuvan University.  The latest literacy figures indi-
cate that literacy has now been achieved by about 20 percent of the total
population.
26.       This significant progress was achieved under the New Education
System Plan (NESP) which the Government adopted in 1971 to help overcome the
deficiencies in the education system. The major thrusts of the NESP are
to enlarge access to basic education, improve teacher training and reorient
education away from academic and theoretical subjects toward practical acti-
vities more closely related to the needs of development. Under the NESP,
the Government assumed greater responsibility for financing of education,
providing free textbooks to all primary school children and paying all pri-
mary teachers' salaries, and 75 percent of lower secondary and 50 percent of
upper secondary teachers' salaries.
27.       However, the growth achievements of the NESP were not matched by
comparable qualitative progress in the education system. Primary education
suffers from excessive dropout and repeater rates, with the result that only
about 30 percent of entrants complete the three year primary cycle and com-
pletion takes an average of about 6.5 student years. Furthermore, the three
year primary cycle has been found to be inadequate to achieve permanent
literacy and numeracy, and poorly prepares students for further schooling.
In recognition of these problems, the primary cycle has recently been ex-
tended to five years. Only about 60 percent of entrants to the secondary
cycle complete the course, and even these students are generally deficient
in mathematics, science, and English. In recent years, the average success
rate in the School Leaving Certificate has been around 30 percent. Signi-
ficant disparities also exist in access to education opportunities based on
sex and region. In 1979/80, females accounted for only about 27 percent
*          of total primary enrollments, though  this itself represents significant
progress over the situation in 1974/75 when females represented only about
17 percent of primary enrollments. The proportion of primary school age
children enrolled also varies widely by location, with only about 60 percent
enrolled in the Far Western Region compared to 98 percent in the Western
Region.
Technical Education and Vocational Training
28.       Under the NESP, vocational training was to be introduced into all
secondary schools and all post secondary technical training assigned to
Tribhuvan University. Due to inadequate numbers of trained vocational



- 8 -
teachers and shortages of suitable training equipment and materials, the
National Education Committee has now reconsidered this policy and is recom-
mending that secondary schools revert to general secondary education with
vocational training to be concentrated in separate technical schools. The
Government is now seeking donor support for about five such schools to help
overcome the shortage of staff and equipment. These schools will be managed
by a newly established Directorate of Technical Education in the Ministry of
Education and Culture. The Department of Cottage and Village Industries and
the Department of Labor also provide some semi-skilled training courses.
29.       Local capacity in Nepal to train senior engineering technicians
has been limited. Almost all of the senior engineering technicians in Nepal
were trained abroad, usually under Government or aid scholarships. The num-
ber of places available for Nepalese students at foreign institutions has
fluctuated widely and has been declining in recent years. In addition,
foreign training has not been specifically related to Nepalese conditions
and problems, and foreign-trained technicians are generally reluctant to work
outside the Kathmandu Valley. Junior engineering technicians are currently
being trained locally, but the overall quality of training is generally poor
and the numbers insufficient to meet demand. The average annual output of
additional trained manpower which would be required over the 1979-86 period
has been calculated to be over 600 certificate level civil, electrical and
mechanical engineering technicians and over 900 trades level construction,
electrical and mechanical craftsmen. The existing training system could meet
only about half of the certificate level demand and abouL 25) percenL uf the
trades level demand.
30.       There are few career development prospects for non-degree technical
staff in the civil service. While there is a prospect for these non-gazetted
staff to be promoted to the first stage of the gazetted class, any further
advancement requires a degree. Skills training programs for craftsmen and
for technicians are recognized under public service standards only if they
are certified to be equivalent to one of the recognized academic programs
which lead to academic qualifications. This equivalence to academic qualifi-
cations has permitted and encouraged qualified technicians to pursue higher,
more academic studies after their skills training or to seek an office job,
thereby losing their technical skills to the workforce.
31.       Donors are supporting several programs in Nepal to upgrade the
quality of the existing technical and vocational training programs and to
expand their output, including overseas training for project implementation
staff in development projects in other sectors. The first IDA-assisted
project in this sector was the Technical Education Project (US$5.7 M, Credit
No. 772-NEP of April 14, 1978). This First Project is strengthening the
existing certificate level training program for electrical and civil engineers
at the Pulchowk Campus of the Institute of Engineering (IOE), near Kathmandu,
and upgrading its programs to include diploma level civil engineering as
well. Cofinancing from the United Kingdom is provided for the large staff
training and specialist services requirements. Implementation of this project
is progressing satisfactorily. The Asian Development Bank is supporting a
similar certificate level program for electrical, civil, and mechanical



- 9 -
engineers, plus a three year trades level course at the Dharan Campus of IOE.
The Association is also assisting with the training of certificate and dip-
loma level technical staff for the forestry sector. Under the Community
Forestry Development and Training Project (US$17.0 M, Credit No. 1008-NEP of
May 22, 1980), the Institute of Forestry Hetauda Campus is being upgraded and
a second campus established at Pokhara to deal specifically with Hill fores-
try training. The United States Agency for International Development is
cofinancing this part of the project and providing technical assistance and
staff training, as well as expanding in-service training within the Ministry
of Forest. Under the Mahakali Irrigation Project (US$16.0 M, Credit No.
1055-NEP of September 29, 1980) about 80 students are being trained abroad
*          in civil and mechanical engineering.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
32.       The proposed project was prepared by the IOE, with the assistance
of consultants financed under the First Project. The project was appraised
in November, 1980. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C., in October,
1981; the Nepalese delegation was led by Mr. T. B. Prasai, Secretary, Minis-
try of Education and Culture. Annex III of this report contains supplementary
project data. A report entitled "Nepal - Staff Appraisal Report for a Second
Education Project (Technical and Vocational Training)" (Report No. 3558-NEP,
dated November 16, 1981) is being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors.
Objective
33.       The proposed project aims to increase the supply of skilled crafts-
men with basic engineering skills and of civil, electrical and mechanical
engineering technicians needed to implement Nepal's development programs.
Another major objective of the proposed project would be the improvement of
the relevance and quality of all trade skills training throughout the country
through the establishment of national skills standards, which would be incor-
porated into public service standards for appointment and promotion. The
career prospects for non-degree technicians in the public service would be
enhanced through the introduction of appropriate career structures. Projects
for the further development of the education sector would also be prepared.
*          Description
34.       The main components of the project would be:
(a) Construction, furnishing and equipping of an IOE training
center at Pokhara to provide per annum 160 trained crafts-
men and 96 technicians;
(b) Establishment and staffing of a National Skills Testing
Authority and establishment of revised public service
standards and career development structures for non-
degree technical staff; and



- 10 -
(c) Studies to develop project proposals for investments in
primary, secondary and non-formal education.
IOE Training Center of Pokhara
35.       The proposed project would finance the establishment of a new
IOE training center at Pokhara, in the Western Region of Nepal. The site
was selected to provide better access to technical training programs for
candidates from the relatively less well served areas of the Western and
Far Western Regions. In view of the scarcity of accommodation in Pokhara
and in order to permit enrollment of students from beyond Pokhara, board-
ing for 400 students (90 percent of total full enrollment) and for all 45
teaching staff would be provided on campus. The project components for the
establishment of the Pokhara center would be implemented by a Project Imple-
mentation Unit (PIU), to be established along lines similar to those used
for the First Project (Section 3.06(a) and Schedule 4 of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement (DCA). In order to expedite completion of the civil
works, the Government has obtained the services of IOE Consultancy Services,
which has already completed the detailed design and bidding documents for
civil works; this group is also expected to supervise construction. IOE
Consultancy Services performed satisfactorily in similar services under the
First Project.
36.       Teaching Programs.  At the certificate level, the civil and elec-
trical engineering programs would be modeled after those already designed
under the First Project, to which would be added a suitable program for
mechanical engineering. The certificate programs would be of two and a half
years' duration, including six months remedial teaching in science, mathema-
tics and languages. The crafts level courses would be of one year duration
and would be designed with the assistance of consultants under the project
to minimize the academic nature and maximize practical training. The crafts
level program would be made up of 80 percent practical work (workshop and
laboratory), and the certificate program would consist of 60 percent prac-
tical work. Satisfactory outline curricula have been prepared. About 90
months of specialist services would be provided to assist the PIU and the
center staff with curriculum development, procurement, and workshop planning
and supervision. To ensure close links with relevant industrial concerns
and Government departments which would employ the graduating students, a
Center Advisory Committee (including representatives from these bodies as
well as the center's teaching staff) would be established within six months
of the opening of the center; the Committee would annually review the demand
for upgrading skills of practicing craftsmen, advise on curricula and assist
in graduate placements (Section 3.07(a) of the draft DCA).
37.       Admission Policy.  In selecting trainees for entry to both the
craft and certificate level programs, the center would employ criteria satis-
factory to the Association, including inter alia a system of skills aptitude
testing which would be developed in consultation with the Association (Section
3.07(b) of the draft DCA). For entry to craft level programs, the minimum age
would be 15 years, with completion of grade seven; entry to the certificate



- 11 -
program would require a School Leaving Certificate, which is granted after
satisfactory completion of grade ten. The center would also adopt the Gov-
ernment's quota system to attempt to increase the number of students from
remote areas without lowering the agreed entry requirements.
38.       Staff Recruitment.  Under the project, the center would need
to recruit five senior administrators, 45 teaching staff and 22 technicians
for workshop, laboratory and general maintenance. A detailed plan of staff
recruitment and training would be prepared and furnished to the Association
by March 1, 1982 (Section 3.11(a) of the draft DCA). The IOE would provide
adequate renumeration and incentives to all staff employed by the center
(Section 3.06(b) of the draft DCA); the pay scales are expected to be those
established by the University Service Commission. Suitable senior adminis-
trators, with appropriate academic and administrative experience, can be
spared and recruited from other IOE campuses, without disrupting the other
ongoing activities. Due to the attractive IOE salary scales, supplementary
benefits and other conditions, serious difficulties are not anticipated in
recruiting the other teaching and technical staff.
39.       Staff Training.  All teaching staff would be trained overseas in
pedagogy and additional trade skills; the 22 lecturers about eight months
each, nine senior instructors about 15 months each, and 14 instructors about
12 months each. The 22 technicians would also each receive overseas train-
ing of six months each in practical skills and maintenance. The two depart-
ment heads and the librarian would need longer training periods of about 22
months each, perhaps leading to fulfillment of academic requirements for
higher degrees. The chief of the center and the division chief for property
management and procurement would each undertake study tours of institutions
similar to the proposed center.
40.       Implementation.  The project would be implemented over a period of
about six and a half years, including a two year period of startup operations
after completion of physical facilities. A suitable site has been selected
and a topographical survey prepared by IOE Consultancy Services. It would
be a condition of credit effectiveness that the land required for the con-
struction and operation of the center is available to the project agencies
for purposes of the project (Section 6.01(a) of the draft DCA). The Govern-
ment would take all action as shall be necessary to acquire title to the land
for the project by March 1, 1982 (Section 3.05 of the draft DCA). Power
supply for the center would be provided by the 132 Kv grid line passing near
*          the site, financed under an Asian Development Bank transmission project.  The
Government would take all steps necessary to ensure that adequate electric
power is made available to the center (Section 3.01(b)(ii) of the draft DCA).
To ensure proper use of the facilities and equipment, a maintenance and repair
workshop would be established with properly trained personnel and funding to
carry out the maintenance program (Section 3.12(a) and (b) of the draft DCA).
The Government would furnish to the Association by March 1 of each year of
implementation beginning March 1, 1982, an estimate of project funds required
in the following year (Section 3.01(a) of the draft DCA).



- 12 -
National Skill Testing Authority
41.        The project would assist with the development of national skill
standards and skill tests for skilled craftsmen in the principal electrical,
construction and mechanical crafts. The use of uniform and practically-
oriented skill tests would help to influence the quality of all skill train-
ing throughout the country by establishing a minimum acceptable standard,
which would be determined by the actual skill attainment of the trainee, not
an evaluation of the curriculum or the duration of the training. A secret-
ariat to service a national skill testing authority would be established by
January 31, 1983 (Section 3.08(a) of the draft DCA). The staffing and train-
ing plan for this office would be prepared and furnished to the Association
by August 1, 1982 (Section 3.11(b) of the draft DCA). Suitable skill stan-
dards and tests in the principal electrical, construction and mechanical
crafts would be developed, in consultation with the Association, by January
31, 1984 (Section 3.08(b) of the draft DCA). About 16 months of study tours
to visit other trades programs would be provided to assist in the design and
establishment of skill standards and tests. By January 1, 1985, a National
Skill Testing Authority would be formally established (Section 3.08(c) of the
draft DCA).
Public Service Promotion Structure
42.        By January 1, 1984, the Government would develop and furnish to
the Association for review a plan to improve career opportunities for the
craftsmen and technicians in the public service; such a plan would be imple-
mented by January 1, 1985 (Section 3.09(b) of the draft DCA). By January 1,
1985, the expected date of the opening of the center, the Government would
recognize the skill tests developed by the secretariat of the National Skills
Testing Authority for appointment and promotion purposes in the public service
(Section 3.09(a) of the draft DCA). About 32 months of study tours to visit
other public service commissions and about 12 staff months of specialist
assistance would be provided for the development of such a career structure.
Related Studies
43.        The planning and development arm of the Ministry of Education and
Culture (MOE) would continue its efforts to improve programs for nonformal,
primary, and secondary education. The project would assist MOE to explore
possibilities for expanding nonformal education and introducing new manage-
ment and supervision techniques, taking into account communication problems,
economic and budgetary constraints, and the need for improved quality and
equity of access. The MOE would also utilize the results of an earlier
feasibility study for primary education (financed under the First Project)
to prepare a primary education project. The two studies and the preparation
would be carried out by consultants whose qualifications, experience,and terms
of conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association (Section
3.02 of the draft DCA). While most of this work is expected to be done by
local consultants, about six months of outside specialist assistance would be
provided to assist with this work.



- 13 -
Monitoring and Evaluation
44.       A joint monitoring and evaluation system would be established for
the proposed center as well as for the Pulchowk Campus financed under the
First Project. In addition to the straightforward input/output monitoring
established for the First Project, this monitoring and evaluation system
would assess the socio-economic background and quality of entering students
and the internal efficiency of the training programs. A tracer study would
o         be included to ensure that the training programs are geared to meet indus-
try's need and appropriate incentives maintained to keep the trainees em-
ployed in their field of specialized training. The IOE would have prime
*         responsibility for conducting the monitoring for both projects.  A detailed
plan for the proposed monitoring and evaluation system would be furnished to
the Association by January 1, 1984 (Section 3.10(b) of the draft DCA). The
results of the annual evaluation exercises would be forwarded to the Asso-
ciation promptly upon preparation for five years following the first output
of graduates from both centers (Section 3.10(c) of the draft DCA). Technical
assistance has been included under the project to assist with the design and
implementation of the monitoring and evaluation system.
Technical Assistance and Training
45.       Implementation of the proposed project would require specialist
assistance in a number of fields as well as training for nearly all project
staff. The services and training are described in the respective sections
of the project description and are summarized below:
Consultant        Overseas
Services         Training
(months)         (months)
Pokhara Center                             90                709
Trades Tests                                12                16
Public Service Structures                    -                16
Studies                                      6                -
108               741
The UNDP has indicated agreement in principle to finance most of these
activities, for a total of US$2.5 M equivalent.  It would be a condition
of credit effectiveness that the UNDP project agreement had been signed by
all parties (Section 6.01(b) of the draft DCA).
Cost and Financing
46.       The total project cost is estimated at US$17.5 M equivalent,
including contingencies and US$0.66 M equivalent in taxes and duties.
The cost estimates are based on October 1981 prices. Foreign exchange
costs are estimated at US$8.9 M equivalent or about 51 percent of total
project cost. The proposed credit of US$14.3 M equivalent would cover
all foreign exchange costs (excluding those to be financed under the



- 14 -
UNDP project) and about US$7.5 M equivalent of local costs, amounting to
about 85 percent of total project cost excluding taxes and duties. UNDP
would provide US$2.5 M equivalent for technical assistance and training
programs, about 15 percent of total project cost excluding taxes and duties.
The Government would contribute the balance of US$0.7 M equivalent. The
cost of individual consultant services is about US$7500 per month, including
fees, travel and local allowances. The cost of consultant services under
the UNDP program were calculated at standard UNDP proforma costs.
47.       The recurrent costs (mainly salaries and consumable training mate-
rials) generated by this project when fully operational would amount to about
NR 4 M per annum in 1980 prices, which is equivalent to about 3 percent of
Tribhuvan University's 1980 budget. The additional expenditures could be
accommodated, without undue financial difficulty to the Government, within
the feasible growth in education expenditures. The Government would operate,
maintain, and repair the facilities and provide adequate and qualified train-
ing and support staff as required for the efficient utilization and operation
of the facilities in the future (Section 4.03 of the draft DCA). Retroactive
financing of up to US$300,000 is proposed to cover the cost of the detailed
design work undertaken by the IOE Consultancy Services, which have enabled
early startup of the bidding and construction phases of the proposed project.
Procurement
48.       Total civil works and furniture for the project would cost about
US$7.27 M equivalent, including professional services and contingencies.
Past experience in Nepal has shown that contracts for this type of civil
works below US$800,000 and for furniture below US$250,000 do not attract
foreign bidders. Therefore, contracts for civil works and furniture below
these values (totalling about US$3.05 M 1/ equivalent) would be awarded on
the basis of local competitive bidding, following procedures satisfactory
to the Association. Civil works and furniture contracts exceeding these
values (totalling about US$4.22 M 1/ equivalent) would be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding. Only prequalified contractors
would be allowed to bid for civil works contracts. There would be a 7-1/2%
margin of preference for local civil works contractors in bid evaluation
under international competitive bidding.
49.       Contracts for equipment which cannot be grouped into packages
for bulk procurement of at least US$50,000 equivalent (about US$0.40 M 1/
equivalent) would be procured under local competitive bidding procedures,
satisfactory to the Association. Contracts for equipment in excess of
US$50,000 equivalent (about US$2.81 M 1/ equivalent) would be awarded on
the basis of international competitive bidding. Local equipment and furni-
ture manufacturers would receive a margin of preference in bid evaluation
under international competitive bidding of 15% of the c.i.f. price of com-
peting imports or the actual customs duty, whichever is lower. Since timely
delivery of consumable training materials (about US$0.3 M 1/ equivalent)
1/   Including contingencies.



- 15 -
is critical, such materials would be procured locally on a regular basis
following either local competitive bidding procedures or solicitation of
at least three competitive price quotations. Off-the-shelf items of equip-
ment, furniture, and consumable training materials not exceeding US$20,000
equivalent for each contract (totalling about US$590,000 1/ equivalent) and
direct purchase of books and instructional printed matter (about US$0.25 M 1/
equivalent) would be purchased following solicitation of at least three com-
*        petitive price quotations.
Disbursements
50.       The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed on the basis of
(i) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 90 percent of local expenditures
for civil works and furniture, including building materials; (ii) 100 per-
cent of foreign expenditures, 100 percent of local expenditures ex factory,
and 90 percent of other local expenditures for equipment, books, journals,
and instructional materials; (iii) 100 percent of professional and consul-
tant's services; (iv) 80 percent of staff salaries, allowances and other
operating costs; and (v) 100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100 percent
of local expenditures ex factory and 80 percent of other local expenditures
for consumable training materials. Disbursements against category (iv) and
against small local expenditures under category (v) may be made against
statements of expenditure. The documentation for such expenditures would be
retained by the Government and made available for inspection by Association
representatives during the course of project supervision. Requests for
disbursement against other categories would be fully documented.
Audit
51.       Project expenditures would be recorded in accordance with appro-
priate accounting practices. Accounts and financial statements for each
fiscal year would be audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable to
the Association and furnished to the Association not later than nine months
after the end of each year (Section 4.02 of the draft DCA).
Benefits and Risks
52.       The proposed project would help to eliminate one of the critical
bottlenecks to implementation of development plans in Nepal--the shortage of
technical staff. Under the project, the capacity to train craftsmen and
*         technicians would be increased so that by 1986 the additional annual output
from project institutions would represent about a 68 percent increase for
craft level and about a 33 percent increase for certificate level over the
*         annual output of existing training programs.  With these increases, nearly
all of the forecast average annual additional demand for electrical and mech-
anical engineer certificate holders would be met, but a large gap would still
be left for civil engineer certificate holders and for all types of crafts-
men. With the establishment of the center, the regional distribution of
training opportunities would also be improved. In addition to the expanded
capacity, the project would improve the quality of training programs through
1/   Including contingencies.



- 16 -
the provision of better trained instructors, improved administration, and the
establishment of well designed and equipped workshops and laboratories. The
introduction of a one year craft course would represent a significant reduc-
tion in the cost of craft training, establishing a model which could be fol-
lowed for improving training at other centers. The development of national
skills standards and recognition of skills tests would provide a guide post to
rationalize the training curricula in other training programs and reinforce
improvements in the quality of skill training. By establishing a more promis-
ing career structure for technical staff in the public service, the project
would enhance the attractiveness of technical careers and reduce some of the
incentives now diverting trained technical staff to pursue higher academic
qualifications or office work.
53.       Achievement of project objectives would depend mainly on the capa-
city of the project agencies to execute the construction program, the avail-
ability and adequate training of the required personnel, and the tailoring
of public service standards and incentives to the practical needs of the
country. Since project construction and staff training are to be managed
by the same IOE project director, utilizing some of the same PIU staff and
the IOE Consultancy Services which have all performed well under the First
Project, physical implementation and marshalling of staff for the training
program should face no particular difficulties. The existing attractive pay
scales for IOE staff enhance the capacity to recruit well-trained staff. To
ensure that adequate incentives are given to craftsmen and technicians, the
project would assist with the establishment of a National Skills Testing
Authority to develop and employ national skills standards and tests and with
the improvement of career structures in the public service.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Kingdom of Nepal
and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
55.       Special conditions of the credit are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Additional conditions of credit effectiveness would be that: (i) land
for the Pokhara center is available to the project agencies for the purposes
of the project (para 40); and (ii) the UNDP project agreement for technical
assistance had been signed (para 45).
56.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
57.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
December 3, 1981



- 17 -                                               ANNEX I
Page 1
TABLE 3A
NEPAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
NEPAL                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVXEAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                     -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            140.8                                 MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      40.2               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       ASIA & PACIFIC        ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   50.0        70.0      130.0/h            232.3                1136.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        4.7        15.6       13.8              499.4                1150.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  9327.1      11415.8   13963.0/i
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 3.1           3.9        4.9               17.3                  40.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       21.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         44.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2130
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        66.2        81.1      99.2               153.6                 373.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    243.5        286.8      339.5              360.3                2382.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          39.1        42.0       42.5               37.4                  39.8
15-64 YRS.                          57.4        55.0      54.5                59.2                  56.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.5         3.0       3.0                 3.5                   3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.2         2.0        2.2/f              2.1                   2.3
URBAN                               4.2         4.3       4.6                 3.4                   3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      45.9        44.8      42.1                27.7                  29.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      29.0        23.2       19.9               10.2                   7.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.0         3.0        3.0                2.5                   1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..        37.4     146.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          0.7/c     4.3/c              20.4                  44.1
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)          106.0       101.0      83.0               107.1                 123.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OP
REQUIREMENTS)                    93.0        96.0      91.0                98.6                 112.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           50.0        51.0      48.0                56.9                  62.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         9.0         9.0       9.0                14.2                  19.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      34.6        29.1      24.8                14.6                   4.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    36.9         40.6      44.0                57.7                  64.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              ..       152.0/d       ..               89.1                  50.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                *-         2.0       9.0                30.1                  45.9
URBAN                              47.7        53.0      81.0                65.8                  68.0
RURAL                                ..          ..       5.0                20.1                  34.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         1.0       1.0                17.6                  53.4
URBAN                                *-        14.0      14.0                71.0                  71.0
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..                4.8                  42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          72867.9     51655.1/e 35253.2/e            3857.7                4428.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..     70905.57i 53538.2              6411.8                2229.7
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            8188.8      6951.5    6294.1              1132.8                 588.5
*                        URBAN                             283.2        329.8     354.8               322.3                579.6
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..             5600.5                1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..         5.5
URBAN                               5.4          ..
RURAL                                ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..          ..
URBAN                               2.0          ..         ..
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..          ..         ..
URBAN                              30.2          ..        ..
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..



-18 -                                                    ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                             Page  2
NEPAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
NEPAL                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE5RAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)L-
MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        ASIA & PACIFIC        ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  10.0         26.0       69.0                85.9                  99.8
MALE                  19.0         43.0      104.0                94.4                  100.6
FEhALE                 1.0          8.0       31.0                64.5                   98.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   6.0         10.0      14.0                 38.0/aa               53.5                                4
MALE                  11.0         16.0       22.0                34.67a                 58.4
FgMALE                 2.0          3.0        5.0                18.0/'a                48.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)   0.2            6.0        7.0                 3.8                  21.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             33.0         22.0      33.0                 32.8                  34.2
SECONDARY                           32.0         21.0      25.0                 19.9                  31.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          9.0/        14.3       19.2                52.8                  86.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.2          0.4        ..                  1.7                  12.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.0          4.8       15.0                35.3                 174.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..           ..         ..                 3.7                  50.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    0.8          2.4        7.4                14.6                 106.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..         ..                 3.4                   4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       4813.2       5566.2    6678.8
FkiALE (PERCENT)                    40.5         39.2      38.5                 29.3                  37.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               94.6         93.9       93.2                69.8                  50.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   2.0          2.1       2.0                 14.1                  21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 51.6         46.8       47.8                39.7                  40.2
MALE                                  61.5         58.8       57.7                51.5                  49.8
FEMALE                                41.8         38.6       37.6                23.3                  31.1
ECONOMiC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.8          0.9        1.0                 1.1                    1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..      35.3
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..             ..      59.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..       4.6
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..       8.0
PUVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      95.0                134.1                 248.6
RURAL                                 ..           ..      45.0                111.6                 193.7
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..                  ..                 249.8
RURAL                                 ..           ..      41.0                   ..                 234.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      55.0                 41.7                  21.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..      61.0                 51.7                  32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/aa  China included in total only.
/b  lJnless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Est-imate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Government Programs only;  /d 1971-73;  /e Personnel in government services only;  If Estimated annual
0rowth ratc for 1970-79; /l_ 1962; /h 197910S estimated at 140.0; /i 1979/80 ..ti.atod at 14300.



-19-                                                                 ANNEX I
Page 3
DEFINITIONS OP SOCIAL INDICAISRS
Sores   Although lth  date are drun Iroc scor..Ersgeeriiyjudged the coot  tcheitttive and reliable, it shou..o  h  I.     ..IiIld aloe he cored chat tbey may It  be inter
feieuhytoeprei d   lbeooee.   h   ake  eadardid defitir-n  end  ooe...Pt. coed by differet roottieirs Ic o'eletieg  the date.  Thr darn ore, cc
rhels,i      sI-it   ecieeder  of megoitode, indinto treds   teohuroteri-e certain mJer diffPerecoen between counttrie.
The t refee-  greop  arey (1) the some o-_cr  gro-p o-f the oobj- roe retry end (2) a reentrY groop with occehat higher average intone then the .e...trp group
of thefsebjeo   enty(xcp   o  "Capital Surlu  Oil Esperteo" gcoop wher  'Middle Incom  torch Afric  ond Middle lust  iso~ho-  hoonono of srno
soi-etarl  a ffinitins).  On che reference:  goop dare the  verges eve population we.ighted arich.teeinos for suoh  eiouo   n   he   nywe
I'derit c othe coe-ntrie  Sn a greo  ha   aafrto niao.Snetecvrg f ruItrio. among the indctosdopend nte arnlability of dart
anI  ontoioe   etio  cos  h               teoried Snrlting" average  oforincar to  -noher.  These I argen ore on.lyIueuicsaing  the value cf
ens indicato  atatiesnr  the ...o.r  en d reference  groops.
LAME AREA (cho-nad sq.)Peplatioc, peH.ytlOd-cca,ohr  n   oe-Pplre    ttl
Tetal - Totl-   ecea encmpiin   ed -cee and inlend waters.                                        oraP n  rr l) diide  by t-ic reaperti-e  teur  -of hpital.  hteds1
foel ulcoal - niat   fagiot orlurauedcmorrlyc   e-asrl                                            vllble Sc poblic end privete general and rpecinhierd h.pita.  and re-
fer crop   pasture , metie  end kitchen gerdeon or to lie fallow   1978 dote.             h.bilitetlo   cntr.   Hoepicto  reetahlinn-nt  Peccaretly  troffed
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)   GNP pel ..pit.                                      hyat lroc  rr  hyotiiec. Enrohlirhmennn pruvidicg peinoipelly.. oute-
ISP PER CAPITA (5$) - lOfP per  c pita esniecats at currrot make t picr*a          dialcer cr0 c         -lelded.  cralh-     pnn    burete, include hmalth
related by saecneso  cehdc  WrdSo  Atin  (1977-79tasic; 16,                                         dmdclcner   o   emnnl  oteffad hyb                  pynco   (her bya
19 .,ad 1979 fee                                                                                eio niscer _toe,.   mld If  err.) which offer in-patient are
P                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~doreen and prov ide e limited cone. of nedico1 f-ciitirn.  Per  tain
ilEtRG  COSUNPOPTIONt Pin CAiPITA -  eA-..I coososprio  of  -catriel c_egy (cool                    tioel  lporIer  urban hospitals include WHO.ltyittipa1/gensra1 hoepitale,
and ligeire, petroleu, naturl1 gs and hydro-, -o'I"e  and geothra  slr-                           ed rue1 hespitag loe  oc. toruS1 h.rpitle and ordiel1 end mateciry
scicity) it tilogr-.ofe 1ee   qivalot Pet .. Pita; Sifo, 197t, and 1979                           corners   Opecialioad bapinals ar  iecOndd onyune  total.
dete.                                                                                           Edteioser pSaita1 Sod - Ten    ..he o. f adoinsi.. to o  disohergen
Proc hospitals divided by the cober of lode.
POPUIATION ANl VILdi. STATISTICS
Total Perelatio..  Mtld-Y-e  (thoosondo) - An of July 1; 19h0, 1970, aed 1979                 SlOUING
dnts.                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Averege Sloe of HS..nehold )rrsaon  ,oo huteoi)-L ca,  te,  n  rrl
Schan Po pluir tieret of tor..)  - Satic of urban to torel populno;Ahueodcrneoo     ru   firiiul   h   hr   iring qnter
dlffo...et defiritio.  of ocher uramy affert norper-bility of data                              rod their mir crab.  A hoarder It lodgr map orcy ret be intlodd Is
umong  _oncirn; 1960, 1970, ard 1979 dnta.                                                      the heosehold P. or  rtiatirel porPOsOt.
"P"patile  Pr"Icto..                                                                            Average nuber of  ...oo  per room  Ico   ohe.b          "ePrra  - A-verosre
Pouain _nve  lOP) - Cu-ero  ypulotion proJertioro ore bha..d on 1980                    bet of pert..r Per rEn  icl  uhr  andrurl:  unop,ird corvetieme
tonal population by ege aud  -c  and thrir scotlcyedfriiyrcr                                 d-ellSoge, r;eupati-ly.  Dtweitgteorlud pncr -et rnteto..rrtren  end
ProJoatin Parumetec  Per mortalitY corer  -ocyi.e of thre, Ieecao-uoeoidpre
ing life enpecto...yart btrrh icteule..ig etch  o...cry's per rapjtic  on                  A....n to Electticlty (terrot of doelliore) - ntatl. crEb.adcoa
leve,  aod' f scal  life enpecrurcy stehilicieg at 77.5 per.  The pact-                       Ccnvrtictal dwellingsio ei otih cyin livin  q_otorn n  pctrentoge
etor_ Per fert ility rote alto hove nhree leel-      nsui   decline In                        of total, orbas, and rorel dwellicgrvon.prnivsly.
fertility arording te inoe      fee   end petfnyplnigeromce
Poceuristhenaugd or   ithen .ale  cbinaticer of motality                         EUICATION
uod fertlt  teads  e  prjcinporpe .Adjusted E-roi...ot hetico
ScatumaIr -y coruIetio  - In. a  tetior.ecy popultian thero is no groth siore                   Primary chool - tore. male nod femle - Gross total, eels end femal
the birch rte In equal to the death race, cod also the ago  t-teunr  c-                         enrollent of oil egor at rho prisucy O-rvel onPncartge  of cespoetico
mains_oon 'rhi. to cotev-d onlY afcr fertilitp runes d.elire tc                                 primary echool-age poplati..; normaly i-olodes abilde-  oged 6-il
the  rylcn   -tlee  of unit net r_pr_dcio  rare, when each gEorrotiee                           Vra-  hut adluntd for diffecent 1engthn of primary  d...ntien; fee
of woecpl.r.. itself enatly.  The.stationarly  popult Ir . sir   rue. rutrias with onoe-oa  ndnnatior ect1iet may ..o..d 155 pe-tet
euticated on the basis of She projeoted ohe-ateriurtos of the pupalartce                        sinc  some yp.Pl  lur  bow or above the off i.i.1 ocuel age.
to the yea  20100, acd the rote of dcrlice of fertility rtet to replete-                      S.eodary nrheol - toral, male and fnle - Computed no ahe9'; noc-dacy
moor leve.                                                                                      education requiter  tr leant fou  yearn of oppro-ed primacy ins..terien;
Teer  -coinropouatoni  teethed - The year ehe. nttioary popolatium                                provider   . ge-ro,   nti   -l,o  t-eh-r taicing irstructiome for pupTh.
oiee has bee  reaced.                                                                           usualIly of 12 to 17 y-r of a, go; ..r.. ponds ...ao  .eu....ae generlly
Poculorioc tosseriy                                                                                  _m dleded
Per no. he.-   Mid-yea  popolariee Per oq.r. kilc..etor (100 hoat.ere) at                       Ve..etiunl  roimet(reract of -scdary) - Venrticnal iateaiteti.
total are; lht  1970 and 1979 dote,icud   ohnnl  industrial,o  ocher progr                                                                               which epeccts iodrpad-
pces.t s.urclrrlln   - Compoted en ehov  for agrioulnu-l lend                                     ealy c   ndpo ot   fareayinstitutions
Illy; 19601, 1970 ard 1978 deca.                                                              Pocil-teauherraIo-priar. d seonar  - Total stadets e-riIed  n
,popletice hen Se pnrre  cecet)   Childrc  (0-14 poets), working-age (lb-                           pri_ary and e-rcoAcy level  divided by numbers of teac.hers is the
h4 yearn)  . ad ceticed (65 pot  an d ovr)a  prrnagsof cid-peo  Peru-                              ...tseperdigise.-
lotion; 1960, 1970, and 1979 dut,.                                                              Adult literay rote (retretd   - Litltecredu1to  (bIs to road end wits)
Peculation Proeh Rate (corect 1- ttcl - Annul grenth rtes. of tota  mid-                            oep-err.rtoge of total edlt pryolatton aged 15 peors and ever.
peerppleic P       oe 19t00-hP, 1960-70G, and 197 0-709.
?Peclto   ec  St   cret-ra-Ana  growth ree   fobnpp-                                          CONSUMPTIOt
incoe  i cc 1910-65' I9H0)0,ard 1970-7-9.                                                   P.....nget tare (per rh.....d ppceletio) - Penesger cats . eprise motor
Crude Birth hRoL (per th..e.d) _ Annual lIve births Per tho...a.d of eld-peac                     era seating loss thee eight Pe.se.n; extinden aeben-r, be-re.. end
popolorion; 1960, 1970, end 1979 dora.                                                          cilitecyvehi'lon.
Crude leech  aRn  "pet theuse..d) - Annual Ideetha p00 thnonod.of ceid-yeor                     Radio Renivers (per theusand rp-2inro) - All rtpe  of rerv            fotor radio
popolotien; 1960, 1970, an  1979 data.                                                          braad_ets to g--rrl public Per thooead of Ppepolarion; ocludee e-
tress Reproductier hre - Av-rge nuber of daughters e  oa   ill bea  io                            lire,ood re...iv-rn in conrisad Sc yearn when  -gistrotlo   of radio
her.- ccl roprd-tci- period if the  oporie..... pre....c ego-opecifit P cc              -       setee   in effect; data for recen t yours nay rot be capr            .oe
rilityrareo;uIs..lly fiv-year. .v..g.  en..ding in, 1960, 1970, and 1979.                       mont countries abolished liremiog.
Pam:il'y Ple-nino - Arepoort-, A..ueI (thrsado.       AnnualI cubor of ....eptors               TVg  .i-cover  (caP hosndLeuolot  - TV rece-ivers fee broadcas.t to
of  irth-cotroli deices undrensieo   e InefoIY pleneing pregros.                         .    gorl  peblic per thoasomd  popeltien; enaludro unlioeso.d TV receivers
Pemily Pl.ianiOL er   pecn  of nrI.d coer -1 Peretgeo    aridinco tisnd in year  when registration of TV nets  e  it  ffst.
women of child-bentla.g age (15-44 y-er) who non hirth--tr-1 devious to                       leesoperer Cio lonto  (perth ..uua  pouoir              heen the. ert       ir-
publicotior devtrd primarily to reocdinggeneral cent.  It to eo...ideeod
POOP ASD NftTfSITION                                                                                to he "daily" if itappooroa   boat. four tictoaeek
laden of Poed Pro,ducio  pe   ep        1969-;7.1-1100  -  edno of Per- capita at-..I           Ciem    AwoI Atteadar-- per Cpite Per Year- cased anthe  obor of
produotniao   l f oo .d c ciin   Pen trirn ecolde  nee..d ard feed d                            tnkr  sl  duing the pea, includingamnistodvenciro
Iseo   aedryear heals.  C-rmdities coerpimry goods (eg.uarecad mobile orion.
tea ael  noaoded).Agrat  pr-d_tior of each conty Is hosed orLABOR FORCt
nationl avrg rdror  rcewights;                     I     tl I   1I t-                                                 hP. 1R   l  -Pi961-hi, 19).ad179daa  Ttcel laboPrc(hnd) - tocuneically attIve peese, ioloding
Percaton ouPpp1  of alre   preoof _eurnnsL                    omae   rcamd  ocsaduepipdbtrnulg heucenive,  tradnts, etc.,
roregy oqivalent of cot food sopplten urileble in coetry Per raPine                           r    igpopuIlaion of all eges.  Definitiom   in wart see neon trims aer
per dy.  Avilable oupplica  -ocyrIo  dpm i  prad-ttic,  iports loon                           out comparable; 1960, 19)0 codf 19)9. dare
oports, erd charger in crock.  Setoupliten enlode enima  ed  noodo,Pel troro..or) - Prom   labo   fresP"rr" Ia t.f cre  inho  fern..
q_rt itiro used So food pru...s.ing, and looses to dintribetioo. Requir-                    Aheioultu   (eren)- Sobe  force Sn iteio,tfcrestrp, hurting urd
neote eeoc  stimated b  PAO basedon phyniologicel IrdsPo   ._rmI no-                 fieig an p.eretage of Itotal lao  Peter.; 1960, 1979 and 1979 dote.
vity en,d hreith consider.ingcrrumra   omooue  body weigher, ago                            Iedstey (portent) - labor force ir  imieg, ocrucru-tee, sasfoettaig
end 00dintriboro o_f Popuarn   cod ul e  10 percet for wanes at                                rd teiec itycp  wutor a d gee s  pore enrage of total lobor feces; 1960,
houcehold leve; 1961-hi, 197,  and177"dote.                                                   1970 endt`19i79 data.
a,                      ~~~~~~~Per caPita  _pply ofP prtein (Sten  P_t dny)-Per"nroc  fprrPita                          Particirot itnSt teort            otl   al,cd lcal  - Pottlipotios c
cot opp o f feed Per day.  Net supply of food is dcfi md asaoe   c-atvty rate  acecoPute  en itelmle  ad femal  lebor foree
qiranen tsfrnlaunies ceoublished by USDA prc-idr fer n.inr                                  pOtro.tages uP toruS, male and Pale  popltto_ of nllage   --pwtvo
ellIwence of hij -rc  of total protein Per day end 20 gram  of erim1 aed                      1960, M9O, and 19)9 dots.  These are base.d cm ILO's paticipetien cores
pulo :.p,otl, at which 10 gram   el-ld be urinal protein.  Thre  ned-                         reflecting ng.-... .cearrure of the popolutio, and meg time trod.  A
erde  r  loe    'he   hs  of75 grams of total prorcir  r   3  rm  oP                          men otimote  are fret natioml- -ooo..
ei-al protein an      - evrge fr rho norld, propo...d by PAP in the Third                  Eroes.ictperdercy Satlo - htco              uoirudr1 n   5edee
Worl..1d Prold Survy;  P91961-hi, .:190 -ed.197P7.date,                                        to  thetoru  lahe force.
Prarrprtein  apyfa  aimaad plr-Pecteio supply of fend do-
rivod fIo  -=icalo ad pulses ingrcpe  day; 1961-hi, 19)0 aod 1977~dota.                   pINCOE DoISTRIBoTION
ibld _oe    4  itraity Sane (ret theusad)   A--ua  deaths par theerd S                   Perto-c tc ofPrivor Ite          b hth Incath a. ofitd) - Sreived by rich-s
ege group 1-4 y-ar, to children In nbio age group; for  ar developing non-,peret icet1  proret,  o                                          Spretod olret  0peco
ttries dta derived fran litfn toblee; 1960, 1970 and 1979 data                                  of bo---oholds,
HEAL.TH                                                                                         POVERTY TARGET GOUSPS
Lifa Emperteoy en Sirth (yeerni - Avera ge nuber of pnorn of life raining                       The fo11nIg cettere  ore very appronicao  ense  of poverty level,
orbie;  90. 1979 ad  9)9 dta.                                                              and should b  interpreted wth  ...drel   eoir
iefant MKrtality Sate (pee tho.....d)   A ..oual deorhe of infects order cu  pac                Etimatod Abrolote Povety Ir=m  lar     (PS) ocorit) - erhe end rurl-
If ago per theustd lIve birtho.                                                                 Aboolutepoverty tiona level i.tObet Inca  leve  be-o  s,hio  o miat1
Acme n  info   ater (ercen oPR P"ucln-   te.ta,adrua                      u-etitienlydequete  diet pins ersetie1 ...fo  requireat  is set
her of peaple (rual  ubn,ne  rrll) with rua.o.b. ...... to oaf rafrdbe
wutoc supply (icaladee trmattd sorfoceatero or untreetd bet  -nocta-.tad                      PEtimatdbSlcv   oet lcs  ee   0$ o   apc)-ura-n   aa 
wae   ubo   hrfromprtece   oo n,orre   n-senr    el)a                                   Rura  re-lative povrt  ntn  lvlior-third of avroge pin  capita
pcmtgee oPfttheIr. teeptiv- popolatiens.  Pr an orb. eaea a public                          p.....nI inca  of the coutry.  Urban leve  is derived frmthe rural
foantai  or ttndpcotl.eotod not mar  them 200 maer  Prom a hbee map be                    leve  with adjuatmet for higher coot of living in eranarna
denldedn being withim  reasonble access.oftht hece   iturl mmnP                                   tird PopulationSlnAslt Peor   om   ee  pr                       t) - urbe
-Isnbeacoswud imply thee the h...enif. or . mebers of the ho...ehaid                  an   ua       rta   fpplto    ohradrr l)  b   r   asl
doorhece to spend o dispreportieoate pnrt of che dey in fetching thr                        peer".        Pte':.L
Access to  ert E-    epo.. Iperenor of porulation - rIta  l.uban, sd cocc  -
cner_ ofpeople (roni, orhen, and   -Ira   aervd by           l..r.t dtopuel n
pe-eeteges of thelcreperi-e popelinle.  Saret  diape..simay inclade
the celnined diapesl  slob or without t-ta...at, of bar macrr                                                                        Ecnmced  tonal Dete Dtinien
sad w_ete-wte  by  _nter-ber_  syta  or tho' use of p.it privies end sIe                                                        Erornic tA-lyst  and S'cjerti... Depacteet
Peenlotio  -c Physicion - Poplotien divided by nuber of prac.ticing physi-
toosqmlfte   ru  nmdical eehcola-nuoivs-ity lovo.
.Penlation Pet Sorsieg Person - Population divided by nme   Ppatue
male end fair grdmeet acee  prectinelloueea, od ceieno  crss



- 20 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS - NEPAL
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1980:  US$140 a/
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1980                                                 ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH, 1960-1979
(%, constant prices)
US$ Mln. 
GDP at Market Prices                    1,989        100.0                                 3.1
Gross Domestic Investment                 268         13.5
Gross Domestic Saving                      148         7.4
Current Account Balance (exc.
official grants)                         -72         -3.6
Exports of Goods, NFS                     241         12.1
Imports of Goods, NFS                     361         18.1
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1979/80
Value Added
Value Added                Labor Force b/             Per Worker
US$ Mln.       _               Mln.                         US$
Agriculture                             1,065         57               6.9       93                 155
Industry                                  251         14               0.1         2              1,696
Services                                  543         29               0.4        5               1,468
Total/Average                     1,859        100               7.4       100                251
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
Rs. Mln.
% of GDP
1976/77       1977/78        1978/79        1979/80        1979/80
Current Receipts                         1,302.2        1,559.3        1,791.6        1,852.9           7.8
Current Expenditures                       784.1          815.0          982.1        1,078.9           4.5
Current Surplus                            518.1          744.3          809.5          774.0           3.2
Capital Expenditure                      1,486.4        1,792.9           61.5        2,346.6           9.6
External Assistance (Net)                  538.1          830.7          989.4        2,293.2           5.5
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1976       1977        1978       1979        1980           1981
-(mid-April) c/
(Million Rs outstanding mid-July)
Money and Quasi Money                               2,524      3,223       3,772      4,512       5,285          6 097
Bank Credit to Government                             480        750         966      1,129       1,258          1,254
Bank Credit to Public Enterprise                      567        511         869      1,080       1,131         1,190
Bank Credit to Private Sector                         716        864      1,072       1,332      1,917          2,382
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP                    14.5       18.7        19.3       21.1        22.1            ...
General Price Index (1974/75 = 100)                  99.3      102.0       113.3      117.3       128.7          146.4 (March)
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                                  -0.7        2.7        11.2        3.5         9.8           12.4 d/
Bank Credit to Government                            67.8       66.3        28.9       16.9        11.4          -6.2 e/                       l
Bank Credit to Public Enterprises                   -0.4        -9.9        70.1       24.3         4.7            3.0 e/
Bank Credit to Private Sector                       -8.6        20.7        24.1       24.3        43.9           28.8 e/
Note:  All conversions to US dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
a/ World Development Report 1981.
b/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
c/ Estimate.
d/ March 1981 vs. March 1980.
e/ April 1981 vs. April 1980.
not available



- 21 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                MERCHANDISE EXPORTS 1979/80 a/
US$ Mln.      %
1977/78    1978/79    1979/80
(Millions US$)
Exports, f.o.b. b/                       88.8         108.5        95.1             Agricultural products                    67.2       70.7
Imports, c.i.f. b/                      209.7        244.7       294.3              Manufactures                             27.9      29.3
Trade Balance                      120.9       -135.2      -199.2                  Total                               95.1      100.0
Services, net                            47.6         65.6        91.6
of which:  Tourism                     30.2         41.8        54.0              EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1980
US$ Mln.
Transfers, net                           25.1         30.1         36.1
of which:  Private Remit.              18.3         25.5        29.6              Public Debt, inc. guaranteed               176.7
Indian Excise Fund         25.1          3.0         3.1              Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Current Account Balance            -48.2        -39.7       -71.7             Total Outstanding & Disbursed              176.7
(exc. grants)
Official Grants                          23.9         42.9        63.2
official Capital, net                    22.7         36.0        48.1
Private Capital, net                    -10.4          9.7       -37.4              DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1979/80 c/
Change in Reserves                  12.0        -48.9        -2.2             Public Debt, inc. guaranteed               1.5
(- Increase)
Gross Reserves (mid-July)               140.6         179.8       187.0
Net Reserves                            131.6        151.0        153.2             IBRD/IDA LENDING, (June 1981)(Millions US$)
IBRD        IDA
Fuel and Related Materials
Imports of which:  Petroleum           18.6         16.7        30.2              Outstanding i Disbursed                             92.8
Exports of which:  Petroleum            -            --          --               Undisbursed                               ----     203.8
Outstanding, incl. undisbursed                     296.6
RATE OF EXCHANGE
From October 1975               From March 20, 1978
Through October 1975           through March 20, 1978           through September 19, 1981            Since September 19, 1981
US$1.00 = NRs 10.56            US$1.00 = NRs 12.5               US$1.00 = NRs 12.00                   US$1.00 - SRs 13.20
NR 1.00 = US$ 0.095            NR 1.00 = US$  0.08              NR 1.00 = USS  0.083                  NR 1.00 = US$  0.076
a/ Customs basis.
b/ Payments basis.
c/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
not applicable
South Asia Programs Department
September 1981



- 22 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NEPAL
A.   STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1981) Ia
US$ Millions
Amount (less
cancellations)
No.   Year       Borrower           Purpose                  IDA    Undisbursed
Three credits fully disbursed
373   1973    Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation                    7.1        0.3
397   1973    Kingdom of Nepal  Telecommunications II         5.5        1.3
470   1974    Kingdom of Nepal  Water Supply and
Sewerage                11.8        2.2
505   1974    Kingdom of Nepal  Settlement                    6.0        4.1
600   1977    Kingdom of Nepal  Kulekhani
Hydroelectric           40.8        5.2
617   1976    Kingdom of Nepal  Rural Development             8.0        4.1
654   1976    Kingdom of Nepal  Groundwater                   9.0        1.8
659   1976    Kingdom of Nepal  Technical Assistance          3.0        0.7
704   1977    Kingdom of Nepal  Second Water Supply
and Sewerage              8.0       5.1
705   1977    Kingdom of Nepal  Industrial Development
Corporation              4.0        3.2
730   1977    Kingdom of Nepal  Second Highway               17.0        8.0
772   1978    Kingdom of Nepal  Technical Education           5.7        5.2
799   1978    Kingdom of Nepal  Telecommunications III   14.5           14.4
812   1978    Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation                   30.0       24.2
856   1978    Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation                   14.0       12.5
939   1979    Kingdom of Nepal  Second Rural
Development              11.0      10.9
1008  1980    Kingdom of Nepal  Forestry                     17.0       16.8
1055  1980    Kingdom of Nepal  Mahakali Irrigation          16.0       15.8
1059  1980    Kingdom of Nepal  Third Water Supply           27.0       27.0
1062  1980    Kingdom of Nepal  Grain Storage                 6.2        6.2
1093  1981    Kingdom of Nepal  Babai Engineering             3.5        3.2
1100  1981    Kingdom of Nepal  Agricultural Extension   17.5           17.5
1101  1981    Kingdom of Nepal  Hill Food                     8.0        8.0
Total Outstanding /b                      296.6
Total Undisbursed                                    197.7
/a   No Bank loans have been made to Nepal.
/b   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (as of September 30, 1981)
Amount of US$ Millions
Year     Obligor       Type of Business              Loan   Equity   Total
1975   Soaltee Hotel      Hotel                      2.70    0.43       3.13
(Pvt) Ltd.
Total commitments now held by IFC            2.27    0.43      2.70
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Credit No. 373 - Birganj Irrigation Project US$6.0 million Credit of
April 18, 1973; Effective Date: July 9, 1973;
Revised Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is nearly completed and final disbursements for com-
pleted works are expected shortly. Crop yields achieved in irrigated areas
are promising. Water charges are now being levied in a limited area, and
farmers' acceptance is satisfactory. A project completion report is being
prepared.
Credit No. 397 - Telecommunications Project II US$5.0 million Credit of
June 20, 1973; Effective Date: September 11, 1973;
Revised Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Due to organizational problems, lack of continuity in senior
management, and delay in obtaining expert assistance, there have been delays
in procurement and the project is about two years behind schedule. Good
progress is now being made with the assistance of experts and consultants,
provided by the United Kingdom, and a new General Manager. The project is
now proceeding satisfactorily and present estimates are for completion by
mid 1982, two years behind schedule.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the projects in execution and, in particular, to report any problems
which are being encountered and the action being taken. They should
be used in this sense on the understanding that they do not purport to
present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project
execution.



- 24 -
ANNEX IT
Page 3
Credit No. 470 - Water Supply and Sewerage Project US$11.8 Million
Credit of May 8,1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978; Revised Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
After a long mobilization period the project is now progressing
favorably with all major works nearing completion. The Closing Date was
delayed to allow time for completion of the ongoing contracts after this
monsoon period.
Credit No. 505 - Settlement Project US$6.0 million Credit of August 14,
1974; Effective Date: February 20, 1975; Closing Date:
July 15, 1982
Project implementation is far behind schedule. By the Closing
Date, it is expected that only about one third of the originally planned land
will be cleared and less than half of the originally planned number of
families will be settled.  Due to continuing doubts about land use, timber
clearing, and timber export policies, the Project will be closed on schedule,
with an estimated US$3 M undisbursed.
Credit No. 600 - Kulekhani Hydroelectric Project US$40.8 million Credit of
January 9, 1976; Effective Date: May 18, 1976; Closing
Date: Deecember 31, 1982
Construction progress in the main civil works has been satisfactory
and on target. Reservoir impounding commenced June 9, 1981. Generator No. 1
is scheduled to be commissioned in November, 1981. The revised estim?'te of
project costs, excluding taxes and duties, is now US$109 million which is
some 60% higher than the estimate of US$68 million at the time of appraisal.
The increases in costs are due to a number of factors, and the risk factors
inherent in a major project which is remotely located. Cofinanciers are
providing additional funds to cover the foreign exchange cost overrun. An
IDA supplemental credit of US$14.8 million and an EEC Special Action Credit
of US$3.0 million equivalent were approved by the Executive Directors on May
10, 1979.
Credit No. 617 - Rural Development Project US$8.0 million Credit of
April 30, 1976; Effective Date: July 16, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Until recently progress had been satisfactory, with almost all
planned project actions being implemented ahead of schedule. However, the
uncertainties regarding the referendum and election aggravated some of the
usual difficulties in the administration. Disbursements had been lagging
due to delay of project authority in submitting disbursement applications.
Interministerial cooperation is good, and at the district level, sound and



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
practical development plans have been produced which are fully suppported and
understood by project farmers. Shortage of middle-level staff in the project
area for construction supervision and agricultural extension may hinder
project implementation. However, arrangements have been made for more effi-
cient deployment of existing staff and for special training of farmers as
part-time agricultural assistants. Under the associated Bank-executed UNDP
technical assistance project, the assistant to the Project Coordinator and
the Irrigation Advisor have completed their assignments.  Follow-up assis-
tance is being arranged under the Second Rural Development Project.
Credit No. 654 - Bhairawa - Lumbini Groundwater Project US$9.0 million
Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: November 16,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Drilling of tubewells is in progress. Over fifty of the planned
63 production wells have been constructed. Progress of all civil works is
very slow due to the weakness of local contractors. Project implementation
is over two years behind schedule. Construction of the 11 KV transmission
lines is proceeding more expeditiously and consequently, pumps and motors
should be installed soon in the completed tubewells.
Credit No. 659 - Technical Assistance Project US$3.0 million Credit of
September 16, 1976; Effective Date: November 16, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Studies for the agricultural extension and research project, a
silica-lime brick factory, an airborne magnetometer survey, an agricultural
manpower survey, cottage industries and the grain storage project have been
completed, while studies are in progress for river control for the
Sunsari-Morang Irrigation Project, the upgrading of mechanical workshops for
irrigation projects, electrical accessories and leather goods, and cash crop
development.
Credit No. 704 - Second Water Supply and Sewerage Project US$8.0 million
Credit of May 27, 1977; Effective Date: February 28,
1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
f
There have been serious delays in procurement but bidding of major
contracts is now practically completed and the overall progress is expected
to be more satisfactory in the future. Due to delays in bid evaluation and
receipt of bids which are not fully responsive to the tender document, con-
tracts for the supply of pipes and construction of reservoirs have been
retendered.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Credit No. 705 - Nepal Industrial Development Corporation Project US$4.0
million Credit of May 27, 1977; Effective Date:
February 17, 1978; Revised Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The UNDO-financed policy advisor completed his assignment and the
accounting and information systems advisor took up his post in February 1980.
To date, subprojects for about US$42.2 M have been approved by IDA. Progress
in implementation of the credit has deteriorated due to shortages of com-
plementary local currency resources. Accordingly disbursement have continued
to lag.
Credit No. 730 - Second Highway Project US$17.0 million Credit of
October 19, 1977; Effective Date: December 23, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Although the project remains about two years behind schedule,
recent major improvements in the Borrower's management give rise to the
expectation that project performance will improve and that substantial com-
pletion may possibly be achieved by the Closing Date of December 31, 1982.
Good progress is being made in the construction of the Tulsipur feeder road
and significant improvement has been achieved in the organization of work on
the Thankot-Naubise Road.
Credit No. 772 - Technical Education Project US45.7 million Credit of
April 14, 1978; Effective Date: July 11, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Good progress towards implementation has been made. Contracts have
been signed for all civil works packages, including external works; however,
equipment tendering is behind schedule. Construction is underway for all
buildings. Contracts for about 75% of the equipment have been awarded. A
second batch of fellowship students have completed their programs and tech-
nicians are starting their program shortly. A team of educational experts,
financed by ODA, have begun work in the field and a program of cooperation
with Paisley College of Technology, Scotland, is progressing satisfactorily.
Credit No. 799 - Third Telecommunications Project US$14.5 million Credit
of August 22, 1978; Effective Date: February 27, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
ODA is financing the telex equipment and the satellite earth sta-
tion. Project consultants have been appointed. Procurement actions have
been initiated, but expected to be about two years behind schedule.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Credit No. 812 - Sunsari-Morang Irrigation and Drainage Development Project
US$30.0 million Credit of July 7, 1978; Effective Date:
November 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
In July 1980, a landslide in the catchment area caused a major
flood in the Kosi river, causing a considerable erosion and endangering the
Chatra Main Canal. Emergency flood protection works were carried out. As a
result of this event it was agreed that river training works are not viable.
The sediment control studies are expected to be completed by mid-1981.
Rehabilitation work on the Chatra Main Canal and procurement of construction
equipment are ongoing. Local consultants are completing designs for the
first 12,000 ha of the irrigation system and international tenders will be
invited to submit bids for construction.
Credit No. 856 - Narayani Zone Irrigation Department - Stage II Project
US$14.0 million Credit of November 27, 1978; Effective
Date: January 8, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation is proceeding steadily, although slower than
anticipated. The major constraint is the weakness of local contractors.
Construction is now on-going in five of the six irrigation blocks. Procure-
ment of construction and O&M equipment is underway. The project is at least
two years behind schedule.
Credit No. 939 - Second Rural Development Project - Mahakali Hills
US$11.0 million Credit of August 9, 1979; Effective Date:
January 15, 1980; Closing Date: February 28, 1985
The Project Coordinator has been appointed, but project activities
are approximately two years behind schedule. The administrative arrangements
for coordination have not been completed since the transfer of responsibility
to the Ministry of Local Development.
Credit No. 1008 - Community Forestry Development and Training Project
US$17.0 million of May 22, 1980; Effective Date:
September 19, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The Community Forestry Development and Training Project has been
established. Satisfactory work is progressing for construction of nurseries
and plantings in the first year work program. Training of forest assistants
*           is underway and 31 forest officers have been sent on foreign study tours.
Fifteen associate experts and volunteers, plus the silviculturist and
socio-economist have taken up their posts under the technical assistance
component. Delays in the release of funds has hampered both vital capital
and promotion works. The coordinating committees have not been established
and staffing of the CFAD and field posts is not satisfactory.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
Credit No. 1055 - Mahakali Irrigation Project (Stage I) US$16.0 million
Credit of September 29, 1980; Effective Date:
February 27, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The engineering consultants have been appointed and are commencing
work. The Mahakali Irrigation Board has been established and the Project
Manager, senior roads engineer, and agricultural development officer have
been appointed.
Credit No. 1059 - Third Water Supply and Sewerage Project US$27.0 million
Credit of September 29, 1980; Effective Date:
August 31 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The engineering consultants have been engaged. ODA assistance in
training and laboratory operations is continuing.
Credit. No. 1062 - Grain Storage Project US$6.2 million Credit of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: August 3, 1981;
Closing Date: September 30,_ 1984
Arrangements are nearly completed for employing the engineering
consultant. NFC has assumed management responsibility for the Rice Exporting
Companies and the Project Management and Coordination Committee have been
established.
Credit No. 1093 - Babai Irrigation Engineering Project US$3.5 million
Credit of March 26, 1981; Effective Date: June 5, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Consultants have been appointed and works have been initiated.
Credit No. 1100 - Agricultural Extension and Research Project - US$17.5
million Credit of April 6, 1981; Effective Date:
July 8, 1981; Closing Date: July 15, 1987
The technical assistance agreement has been signed and recruitment
of advisers is underway. The project coordinator has been named. The first
shipment of fertilizer under the project has been made.
Credit No. 1101 - Hill Food Production Project - US$8.0 million Credit
of April 6, 1981; Effective Date: May 28, 1981;
Closing Date: July 15, 1987
The project coordinator has been appointed and project activities
scheduled to begin in FY1981/82. The first shipment of fertilizer under the
project has been made.



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
NEPAL
SECOND EDUCATION (TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING) PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:    Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
24 months
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
Institute of Engineering, Tribhuvan University
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date
of the first mission to consider the project
April 1979
October/November 1979
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
November 1980
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
October 1981
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
March 1982
Section II:   Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
*         Section III:  Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) Land for the Pokhara center had been made available
to the project agencies for the purpose of the
project (para 40); and
(b) The UNDP project agreement for the technical assis-
tance had been signed (para 45).



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
Other Conditions
(a) The center would apply entry qualification criteria,
including a system of skills aptitude testing, devel-
oped in consultation with the Association (para 37);
(b) The secretariat for a National Skill Testing Authority
would be established by January 1, 1983 and suitable
skill standards and tests would be developed in con-
sultation with the Association by January 1, 1984
(para 41);
(c) By January 1, 1984, the Government would develop a
plan to improve career opportunities for craftsmen
and technicians in the public service, and implement
the plan beginning January 1, 1985 (para 42); and
(d) By January 1, 1985, the National Skills Testing Autho-
rity would be established and the Government would
recognize the skill tests for purposes of appointment
and promotion of craftsmen and technical staff in the
public service (para 42).



--_2ffit                                     8~~~~~~~~2                                            54086
CHINA
INDIA                      7C9                 .                                                                                                                                            NEPAL
30'                                                                                                                       101 
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT    30-
TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING
*   Er   IPROJECT CAMPUSES
~~~~~~FI4                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ CITIES AND TOWNS
-    MAIN ROADS
0)  /  (                                                                                                              j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-r-~~~~~~~~~ ~~ RIVERS
/                                                                                   (          i i-                                                                   ADMINISTRATIVE  ZONAL B OUNDARIES
'> /                    0      0    t. -                                                                                                                               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIRES
Par,, I                                             i~~~~~~~~~~~~AV,---C,0j
[)HW\      AOIF;          71  j<               (   F:Ro _K     A             1      8N  A   K   I
Cl F "                                       ___Xk                                                                                                                                  I 
(eovmno  ,here  /'rs  P  T        SECC   I  U         PRO ECT   P KHARAt 7
boundanes Ahowm on Ahs map  1/   /   ~   t-\  gt2    _                                            28' -
dho toa {p V hon Ehe preard hf the\                                                                                                   V7                       /        /                      _              IBRA AG                           .
the cooemen,e of the regad sers of                                                                                                                    .             /_    _                          ?        *-        -4      .#f\.\              .,_
m  oraccepeanceof suchboundalles KILOMETERS < \ / t/ | N D I A S j g /, X O~~IR                                              I N1~  ICT
The    h- 26  o2 ao/7d bho                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2-
o     do -cc-planc of ooh P0 h
0   350-   d,  h.-  ,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             p
t     j.dO                                          021gl~.       0 2  0 6        o 10           2     4     6



