Document of                                k
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3558-NEP
NEPAL
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING)
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Education and Agricultural Institutions Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



EXCHANGE RATE
1 US$ = 13.2 N. Rupees
FISCAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15
SCHOOL YEAR
January - November/December
GLOSSARY
DEO      -   District Education Officer
IOE      -   Institute of Engineering, Tribhuvan University
IECS     -   Institute of Engineering Consultancy Services
LSC      -   Labor Supply Center
NESP     -   New Education System Plan - Introduced in 1971
NEC      -   National Education Committee - the highest policy
making body in the Ministry of Education -
advisory to the Minister
PIU      -   Project Implementation Unit
PSC      -   Public Service Commission
SLC      -   School Leaving Certificate
UNDP     -   United Nations Development Programme



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NEPAL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING)
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   THE EDUCATION SECTOR ................       ..1.................. 
A.    Socio-Economic Background ........... ..1...........             I
B.   Education Sector Development and Issues ........                  2
C.   Technical Education and Vocational Training ........              5
D.   Education Policies ........................   .. .                7
E.   Education Finance .........................              .        8
F.   Manpower Requirements for Skilled Workers ..........              9
G.   Bank Strategy and Lending for Education ............   10
II.   THE PROJECT .....................................   11
A.   Project Objectives           .................................   11
B.   Project Components           .................................   12
C.   The Western Region Center ......         ....................   13
D.   The National Skill Testing Authority and
the Public Service Promotion Structure ........ ...   15
E.   Education Project Studies ......         ....................   16
F.   Technical Assistance .......         ........................   16
III.    PROJECT COST, FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION
AND DISBURSEMENTS .       .....................................   17
A.  Project Costs                  .       .        .............  17
B.   Project Implementation          .............................    23
C.   Procurement ........................................    25
D.   Disbursements and Auditing ....... ..................   27
IV.   BENEFITS AND RISKS ......................................    28
A.    Benefits .........................................              28
B. Risks ..................                                           29
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED ........................    29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
ANNEXES
Annex 1, Table 1:   Comparative Educational Indicators                    31
Table 2:   Technical Assistance Requirements                     33
Chart 1:   Structure of the Ministry of Education                34
Chart 2:   Administrative Structure of the Western
Region Center                                        35
Annex 2, Table 1:   Summary of Project Costs                              36
Table 2:   Unit Area and Unit Cost Estimates                     37
Table 3:   Contingency Allowances                                38
Annex 3, Chart 1:   Implementation Schedule                               39
Chart 2:   Project Implementation Unit Organization              40
Annex 4:             Forecast of Expenditures and Disbursements           41
Annex 5:             Related Documents and Data Available in
the Project File                                     42
Annex 6:             Map                                                  44



NEPAL
Basic Data 1/
Population
Estimated total (1980)                    14.3 million
Annual growth rate (1970-79)              over 2%
Average density 2/                        94 per sq km
Literacy rate (1977)                      19%
Enrollments (1979/80)                         Total      Male      Female   % Female
('OOs)   ('OOOs)  ('OOOs)
Primary (grades 1-3)               1,013       742        271        27
Lower secondary (grades 4-7)         343       275         68        20
Secondary (grades 8-10)              106        88         18        17
Higher:
Certificate (grades 11-12)       22        n.a.    n.a.      )
Diploma (grades 13-14)           10        n.a.    n.a.      ) 22
Degree (grades 15-16)             4        n.a.    n.a.      )
Education Expenditure Recurrent and Development (1979-80)
As a percentage of GDP                       1.4
As a percentage of total
Government expenditure                       9.9
Technical/Vocational Education
Expenditure as a Percentage of
total education expenditure                  5-6
Percentage       Approximate
of Education   cost per student
Budget      Rupees       US$
Primary subsector                   26.7           98          8
Secondary subsector                 18.2          173         15
Tertiary subsector                  37.8        3,117        262
Other budgeted expenditures         17.3
100.0
1/   See Annex 1 for comparative educational indicators.
2/   Average population densities vary from 24 per sq km to 103 per sq km
from the mountains to the hills respectively and 208 per sq km in the
Terai.



I



I. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
A. Socio-Economic Background
1.01      The Fifth Development Plan (1975-80) made less than its anticipated
progress towards ameliorating the severe and widespread poverty in Nepal,
which is due to lack of exploitable mineral resources, low productivity of
the workforce, high population growth and severe physical and topographical
disadvantages which severely limit development. The expected real annual
rate of growth of GDP of 4-5% during the plan period was held below 2.5% per
annum. This resulted from stagnant agricultural production caused by poor
monsoons, failure to fully exploit the irrigation infrastructure or to dif-
fuse appropriate agricultural technology and improve support services. In-
dustrial performance also fell behind expectations due to lack of viable
investment opportunities, scarcity of skilled manpower, particularly techni-
cal and supervisory manpower, and shortages in electric power supply. Con-
sequently, the development program is still heavily dependent upon foreign
aid.
1.02      The development of social services during the plan period has
experienced mixed success. Education enrollments have exceeded targets, but
qualitative deficiencies remain; the vocational and technical training system
also did not supply adequate numbers of skilled workers or technicians for
economic growth, particularly in civil engineering skills; the human resource
constraint to development remains acute. In family planning and health, there
was a failure to contain population growth largely due to declining death
rates. There was a major shortfall in the planned provision of new rural
health posts and hospitals.
1.03      Nepal faces one of the worst demographic situations among less
developed countries. The present population of about 14.0 million is esti-
mated to be increasing at over 2% per annum and there is no evidence that
the fertility rate is declining. Population pressure on cultivable land is
increasing, particularly in the hills where over 60% of the population live.
Resulting food shortages in the hills are leading to increased migration to
the Terai and elsewhere. High fertility rates and population growth mean
an increasingly younger population, resulting in greater pressure to provide
schooling. Based on current trends, the population under 15 years (which
comprised nearly 40% of the total population in 1971) will reach 45% by 1990.
The concentration of the population in the less accessible hill and mountain
regions also makes the provision of education and other social services more
difficult and expensive.
1.04      Some consequences of high population growth and low rates of econo-
mic growth are clearly present in Nepal. The creation of employment opportu-
nities has lagged behind growth in the labor force, resulting in unemployment
and underemployment. Although reliable data are scarce, initial reviews
indicate that employment creation performance during the Fifth Plan fell below
expectations. Frequent disruptions in the supply of raw materials and power
directly retarded employment growth in manufacturing, construction and related
industries and a stagnant agricultural sector (para 1.01) failed to absorb
rural surplus labor.



-2-
1.05      During the Sixth Plan (1981-86), it is estimated that 176,000 per-
sons will enter the labor force annually. In the industrial sectors, there
will be a priority for better education and training to raise the producti-
vity and employability of manpower. In agriculture, where 90% of the work-
force seek their livelihood, there are similar priorities for raising the
productivity of farmers through better education and through the provision of
more and better trained extension agents. According to the basic principles
enunciated for the Sixth Plan, the Government intends to pursue these aims as
a matter of priority (para 1.20).
B. Education Sector Development and Issues
1.06      The last decade was characterized by a rapid quantitative expansion
in terms of enrollments and schools, at all levels of the education system.
This expansion was stimulated by the introduction of a basic reform of the
education system in 1971, known as the New Education System Plan (NESP),
which was designed to modernize the structure of education and ensure its
growth in relation to national needs. In the Fifth Plan (1975-80), primary
enrollments (including overage students) increased from 43% to over 80% of
the age cohort, representing an absolute enrollment increase of 120%. In the
same period, lower and upper secondary enrollments increased by 97% and 58%
respectively. Nearly 200( primary schools (16% increase), over 1,000 lower
secondary schools (62% increase) and over 150 upper secondary schools (34%
increase) were established, mainly with local financing. The number of pri-
mary teachers (including untrained school leavers, who were also hired as
teachers) increased by 40% while the lower and upper secondary teachers in-
creased by 62% and 24% respectively. The Government introduced free textbook
distribution to all primary children and undertook to pay all primary teach-
ers' salaries, 75% of lower secondary and 50% of upper secondary teachers'
salaries. At tertiary level, Tribhuvan University, which has been responsi-
ble for all post-secondary education, increased its enrollment from 22,000
in 1974/75 to 37,000 in 1979/80. But these achievements were not matched by
comparable qualitative progress in the education system as a result of lack
of trained manpower and budget resources. Training capacity was inadequate
to provide the required number of trained teachers (which has been the sole
responsibility of the Institute of Education of Tribhuvan University), trained
school supervisors or competent managers for the enlarged education sector,
particularly at the primary level. These issues, elaborated below, will
become a focal point for improvements during the Sixth Plan (para 1.20).
Efficiency
1.07      Primary education suffers from excessive dropout and repeater rates
(30% and 40% respectively in grade 1) with the result that only about 30% of
entrants complete the three year cycle and completion takes an average of about
6.5 student years. Low attendance is also widespread at all levels, especially
primary where studies have shown discrepancies between enrollment and attendance
in a number of districts. Contributing causes are the lack of properly trained
and motivated teachers, poor physical facilities, perceived irrelevance of



- 3 -
curricula, the high opportunity cost of child labor and the debilitating effect
of poor health among children. Furthermore, the three year primary cycle is
inadequate to achieve permanent literacy and numeracy and serves merely to pro-
duce semi-literate school leavers and entrants to lower secondary education,
who are poorly prepared for further schooling (para 1.09). In recognition of
this problem, the Government has recently decided to extend the primary cycle
to five years, but its success may depend upon the Government's ability to
obtain financing to meet capital and recurrent costs, especially teachers'
salaries. About 60% of entrants complete the secondary cycle, but their level
of education is generally deficient in mathematics, science and English. In
recent years the average success rate in the School Leaving Certificate (SLC)
has been around 30% and fell as low as 22% in 1976. Even successful candidates
are poorly prepared for further education and often require remedial teaching
in the above subjects on entering post-secondary institutions.
Equity
1.08      Significant disparities exist in access to educational opportunities
based on sex and region. In 1979/80, females accounted for only 26.7% of total
primary enrollments and although this figure is low it nevertheless represents
progress over the last five years (in 1974/75 female enrollment was only
17.3%). At the secondary level the situation is even less satisfactory with
females comprising only 19.2% of total enrollment compared with 16.6% five
years earlier. In post-secondary education, enrollment was 22.4% female in
1978/79. Regionally, the female primary enrollment is only 17% in the Far
Western Region compared with 30%, 26% and 29%, respectively, in the Western,
Central and Eastern Regions. Similar regional disparities are found in the
proportion of primary school age (including overage) children enrolled, which
was only 60% in the Far Western Region compared with 98% in the Western
Region. Some of these inequities are due to: (i) the traditional prejudice
against education for girls, whose place is in the home until early marriage;
(ii) the opportunity cost of children of both sexes particularly among poor
rural families; and (iii) caste differences, which tend to inhibit schooling
among lower caste groups, particularly in rural areas.
Quality
1.09      With the-growth in enrollments at primary and secondary levels,
quality has decreased. At the primary level it is estimated that, of the
students graduating from grade 3, 28%, 70% and 92% had acquired 60% of the
objectives in arithmetic, writing and reading respectively. Notwithstanding
this relatively high reading attainment upon graduation, the majority of
grade 3 graduates, without further education, become semi-literate after
six months, especially in remote areas where there are few suitable reading
materials readily available to sustain literacy skills.
1.10      The largest single cause of the poor quality of primary education is
the lack of adequately trained teachers. Only 37% of primary teachers through-
out Nepal have the prescribed training of SLC followed by 10 months teacher
training. Some primary teachers have only completed grade 8. At lower second-
ary level, 39% of the teachers are trained. At secondary level, 63% are



-4-
trained, but there is a lack of trained science and mathematics teachers at
secondary and tertiary level.
1.11      The lack of educational materials and satisfactory school buildings
are also major causes of poor educational quality. Although most primary
schools have textbooks, there are few teacher's guides, charts, maps or other
educational equipment. Blackboards and writing materials are also lacking
as a result of inadequate operational budgets, which must be provided locally.
Buildings, also provided by local school committees under the local Panchayat,
tend to be of low quality and design, consistent with the poverty of the
area. Many school buildings are too small, unheated, dark, have mud floors,
leaky roofs and have no sanitation or water supply.
Management
1.12      The supervision system is considerably understaffed, especially
in subject specialists and among primary supervisors, particularly in the
Central and Far Western Regions. The establishment of regional directorates,
as illustrated in Annex 1, Chart 1, for each of the four regions of Nepal,
and the delegation of a supervisory role to these directorates, though correct
in concept, has failed in practice. National shortfalls in staffing are 25%
for primary supervisors, 16% for secondary supervisors and 50% for subject
specialists. A primary supervisor is expected to visit each school twice
a year (210 school days); he has about 100 teachers and 30-40 schools under
his supervision. This would be an excessive workload for a well qualified
supervisor, since many of the schools may be several days walking distance.
But most primary supervisors lack training in supervision and few have had
experience of primary teaching, although a small proportion have had some
inservice training. Secondary supervisors, who have to cover 15-20 schools,
often lack the range of speciality to be able to help subject teachers and
are mostly younger, with less teaching experience, than the teacher they are
supposed to supervise. In consequence, supervisors generally do not help with
the improvement of teaching methods in schools but confine themselves to
fulfilling more administrative functions. Equally, many District Education
Officers (DEOs), without adequate knowledge of what is expected of a supervisor,
are unable to provide direction and guidance to their staff. The supervisor's
morale and reputation suffer as a result. The supervisor is neglected at
school and district levels and at regional level, where he is supposed to
receive training in new ideas and methods in administration and pedagogy.
1.13      Most DEOs, whose prime responsibility should be concerned with the
schools in his district, have had no training in education or educational
administration and usually lack previous experience in the education system.
Many were posted from other positions in the Public Service quite unrelated
to education. Regional directorates do not provide enough inservice training
to solve this problem.
C. Technical Education and Vocational Training
1.14      Before 1971, little emphasis was placed on the importance of voca-
tional training or technical education at either secondary or post-secondary



- 5 -
level. After 1971, under the New Education System Plan (NESP), institutes
within Tribhuvan University (the only university in Nepal) were made respon-
sible for post-secondary technical education; the Institute of Engineering
being the institute responsible for electrical, construction and mechanical
trades and technician training. Vocational subjects were also introduced
into all secondary schools; the amount of time devoted to vocational subjects
was as follows: 10% at lower secondary level, 20% at upper secondary level
and at least 40% in 115 vocational secondary schools. This emphasis was
intended to meet the need for employable skills in: (a) agriculture; (b) com-
merce; (c) industrial arts; (d) the construction industry; and (e) cottage
industries. However the vocational secondary schools never achieved their
objectives and were recently declared a failure by the National Education
Committee mainly due to lack of adequately trained vocational teachers and
inadequate equipment (para 1.17). As a result, these schools are now revert-
ing to general secondary schools. In their place, at least five new secondary
technical schools (para 1.20) are planned. These are being established with
donor support, in an attempt to avoid the problems experienced in staff
training and in the equipping of 115 vocational schools. Two of the schools,
at Jiri and Doti, are being supported by SATA 1/ and Unesco respectively.
These together with four existing secondary technical schools at Jumla, 2/
Dhankuta, Lahan and Kathmandu, 3/ will become the direct concern of a newly
established Directorate of Technical Education in the Ministry of Education.
This new directorate will be responsible for at least nine secondary technical
schools, six of which are expected to train construction workers.
1.15      Under the Department of Cottage Industries semi-skilled training is
provided at four regional centers; the Department trains workers in mechanics
and carpentry, in addition to other semi-skilled workers needed for cottage
industries. The Department of Labor provides semi-skilled craft training and
technician training at three Labor Supply Centers (LSCs) located in Hetauda,
Butwal 3/ and Nepalgunj. These centers produce 20 workers in mechanics, and
about 600 semi-skilled construction workers per year from two six-month
courses. A center at Butwal under the Department of Labor, supported by SATA,
produces 20 mechanical certificate graduates per annum at junior technician
level, but this qualification is not recognized by the Ministry of Education
nor the Public Service Commission (PSC) for employment purposes in the public
service (para 1.18). The Institute of Engineering (IOE) is the only institu-
tion providing recognized technical training at a higher level to supply
the need for middle level technicians (certificate level) and senior techni-
cians (diploma level). These programs are being provided or planned at the
Dharan campus (electrical, civil and mechanical certificate programs), Pulchowk
campus (electrical and civil certificate and civil engineering diploma pro-
grams), 4/ Thapathali campus (mechanical and auto mechanical certificate pro-
grams), and at the proposed Pokhara campus (electrical, civil and mechanical
certificate programs).
1/   SATA - Swiss Association for Technical Assistance.
2/   Supported by DANIDA - Danish International Development Agency
3/   Supported by the United Missions, Nepal.
4/   The Pulchowk campus is being financed under Credit 772-NEP.



-6-
Manpower Supply
1.16      Many of the above programs of training have been introduced recently
in an attempt to meet the shortages of trained technicians and craftsmen,
which are becoming increasingly apparent especially in civil engineering and
construction (para 1.28). Supply and demand estimates are shown in Table 1.1.
Although the shortage of technical manpower is the major issue facing the
subsector, industrial demand for technical skills in Nepal is a relatively
recent phenomenon. As a result, the development of technical education and
vocational training is still at an early stage and other issues also have to
be addressed. These have been clearly recognized by the Government and are
discussed below.
Quality
1.17      Nepalese culture, due perhaps to the caste system, tends to dis-
courage acquisition of manual skills for a career. For this reason, and the
still small industrial base, there are few competent teachers of manual skills
to be found in either teaching or industry. The situation is aggravated
by the absence of national trade tests, as a standard measure of skill attain-
ment; thus permitting a wide variation of quality in trade skill training
programs, some of which have inflated academic content and excessive duration
because of the established system of recognition for civil service employment
(para 1.18). Also, equipping of schools and training centers is generally
inadequate due to budget constraints. For the new secondary technical schools
(para 1.14) this problem is being addressed by seeking donor support for every
school. But, the level of equipment in training centers of the Department of
Labor, Department of Cottage Industries and on some campuses of IOE is still
inadequate.
Recognition
1.18      Recognition of trade skill training programs by the Public Service
Commission for employment purposes is based upon the ability of an Equivalence
Committee of the Ministry of Education to certify that the training program
is equivalent to one of the recognized academic programs, which lead to
academic qualifications (viz. SLC or Intermediate Certificate). This equiva-
lence to academic qualifications has permitted students to pursue more
academic studies af-ter their trade training is completed, or seek an office
job in the Public Service, so that their skills have been lost to the work
force.
Career Development
1.19      For technical certificate graduates, career development in the civil
service is limited. These middle level technician can enter the civil service
only at the top (class 1) of the non-gazetted technical ranks (salary scale in
November 1980 was Rupees 550-15-700, EB 15-820 for class 1). Promotion to the
gazetted (technical) ranks at class III level (salary scale in November 1980
was Rupees 700-15-850, EB 15-1,000 for class III) is possible, but further
promotion prospects up to class 1 (salary scale in November 1980 was Rupees
1,275-40-1835) is impossible without a degree. For this reason, many certi-
ficate and diploma graduates seek enrollment in degree programs and are
therefore diverted from the work force where their skills are vitally needed.



- 7 -
D. Education Policies
1.20      The Government's Sixth Plan (1981-86) attaches considerable impor-
tance to the development of the education sector as part of its strategy to
meet the minimum basic needs of the population, and to support developments
in other sectors. Greatest priority is attached to primary education, work
oriented adult education, and vocational and skills training. More specific-
ally, the Government will concentrate on:
(a) improving educational quality and reducing wastage;
(b) imparting relevant skills and scientific knowledge;
(c) curricula and textbook revision to make them more
relevant to existing conditions of life, as well
as national and social values; and
(d) increasing education opportunities in backward areas
and to groups, such as females.
The Government's strategy to achieve these objectives will be to:
(a) contain within reasonable expansion targets enrollments
at primary, secondary and pariticularly tertiary levels
(except in technical skills where mianpower demand necessi-
tates enrollment increases), so as to permit greater
emphasis on quality;
(b) give priority to new physical facilities for primary
education, non-formal work oriented education, and
vocational and technical education; and
(c) encourage community involvement for the expansion of
general education, and continue the policy that all physical
facilities (building and furniture), excluding technical
schools, shall be provided by the local community with
technical advice from the Ministry of Education Engineering
Unit.
Specific plans involve: (a) the opening of 620 reading centers with a view
to maintaining literacy; (b) the establishment of at least five new special
technical schools (para 1.14); (c) free distribution of scientific materials
and equipment to all secondary schools; (d) the introduction of special
teacher training programs in science and mathematics; (e) the revision of
curricula for primary and secondary schools in mathematics and industrial
education; (f) the introduction of reforms in the administration and super-
vision of adult and primary education; and (g) the provision of free educa-
tion for girls up to secondary level in remote districts and the provision
of special hostels at model schools.



-8-
1.21      With known manpower and budget constraints, the Government's Sixth
Plan may not be fully realized without considerable foreign support in the
form of expert assistance and financing. For this reason, early in the Sixth
Plan period, the Government (a) is seeking donor support for the establishment
of all new technical schools as well as for the improvement of existing
technical schools; (b) intends to prepare a primary education project for
external financing, which will begin to address issues already clearly defined
(paras 1.07-1.13); and (c) intends to conduct feasibility studies on secondary
education and non-formal education to identify issues more clearly and lead to
the preparation of a project or projects for external financing.
E. Education Finance
1.22      The rapid growth in enrollments for all levels of education during
the Fifth Plan (1975-80) (around 17.5% per annum) has not been matched by a
corresponding annual increase in education expenditure, which averaged about
11% per annum, in real terms, during this period. The greatest contribution
to this increase was in 1975/76 (48.8%), when a higher proportion of teachers'
salaries were first paid by the central Government (para 1.06). Since then
the annual increase, in real terms, has fluctuated down to 6%. The proportion
of the national budget allocated to education decreased from a peak of 12.1%
in 1975/76 to 9.9% in 1979/80. Within the education budget for 1980/81 the
allocation of resources has favored higher education (35.6%) at the expense
of primary education (27.1%), which has been consistently underfunded.
1.23      Althoughn preselL education expenditure of 9.9% of the national
budget or about 1.4% of GDP is not as high as in other Asian countries (Annex
1, Table 1); this expenditure is supplemented by contributions, both capital
and recurrent, from local private sources. While no figures are available,
these contributions must be significant since they cover the cost of construc-
tion and maintenance of primary and secondary school buildings as well as a
significant proportion of teachers' salaries at lower and upper secondary
levels (para 1.06). Thus, the aggregate figures given above understate the
total flow of resources to education and consequently, the burden of educa-
tion on the community, which will be greatest at primary and secondary levels.
Although complete data are difficult to compile regarding expenditures on
vocational and technical training, it is estimated that they account for
only 5-6% of total expenditure on education/training. This is a very modest
amount which is reflected in the small number of institutions serving voca-
tional and technical training in Nepal (paras 1.14-1.16).
F. Manpower Requirements for Skilled Workers
1.24      The human resource base of Nepal is one of the least developed
in the world. Although the education system has grown rapidly in recent
years, it is only In the last decade that attempts have been made to develop
a modern education system (para 1.06). The consequence of this is a literacy
rate of only 19%, a poorly educated, low-productivity workforce and the lack



- 9 -
of an adequate training infrastructure to produce the skilled workers which
are vital to development. Although quantifying manpower needs is difficult
in Nepal due to a deficient data base, it is nevertheless clear that the lack
of skilled manpower is one of the main factors which has retarded economic
progress. The expansion of the present inadequate capacity for skills train-
ing is therefore a high priority in Nepal's development strategy.
1.25      This expansion must support the major directions of economic growth
in industry and agriculture as set out in che Government's development plans.
Industrial development priorities call for the expansion of the relatively
small manufacturing sector, the transport and communications infrastructure
and electricity generation and supply. Expansion in all these areas implies
a concomitant growth of the construction sector. The skills needed for rural
development are not restricted to the agricultural skills of the farmer but
must serve the broader needs of the rural community for the construction and
maintenance of rural roads, service and repair of vehicles and farm machinery,
development of small-scale irrigation schemes, expansion of rural electrifica-
tion, etc. All these activities require a range of modern skills in the
construction trades, mechanics and electricity. Workers with these skills
are required not only to practice as individual craftsmen, but also at a
higher level as technicians and supervisors to provide key middle level
management in the workforce. The craftsmen and technicians form the skilled
base of the manpower pyramid supporting the engineers and managers who control
the productive process.
Table 1.1:  MANPOWER REQUIREMENTS, 1979-86
Additional
Average                       Annual
Annual       Estimated    Output from
Output        Annual         Project
Requirements   Output from   Institution    Deficit
Category              1979-86       System, 1986      1986          1986
Technician Certificate Courses
Civil                    490              200 /a         64            226
Electrical                70               35 /a         16             19
Mechanical                85               65 /a         16              4
Skill Trade Courses
Construction             505               74            64            367
Electrical               135                54           32             49
Mechanical               295               106           64            125
/a   Actual output reduced by one-third to account for direct entry to diploma
and degree courses.
1.26      The estimated requirements for technicians and craftsmen in Table
1.1 above give only general orders of magnitude, due to the unsatisfactory
data base. Nevertheless, the data show that requirements at the technician
level are concentrated on the outputs from the civil certificate course to
fill mainly the positions of works supervisors in the government authorities



- 10 -
dealing with roads, housing, water supply, irrigation and local development.
The main requirements for electrical and mechanical technicians come from
construction related authorities and from electricity generation and supply
authorities.
1.27      At present the great majority of technicians entering the workforce
are attracted to the public sector because of the greater prestige and security
of public service employment. The private sector, which is made up largely
of small and medium size firms, has shown much less interest in the past in
recruiting technicians, although this is changing as management becomes more
sophisticated, production processes more complex and the role of the techni-
cian better understood. Conversely, demand for craftsmen has been dominated
by the private sector with the chief source of public employment being the
regional development agencies. Contractors in the construction industry
account for most of the requirements for craftsmen (mainly carpenters, masons
and plumbers), while manufacturing, transportation and local electricity
authorities share with the construction industry the major demand for
mechanical and electrical craftsmen.
1.28      Table 1.1 shows that by 1986 there are likely to be deficits between
demand and supply in all manpower categories covered by the project, although
in the case of electrical and mechanical technicians, the gaps seem practically
negligible. At the craft level, some of the gaps could be closed through the
upgrading of semi-skilled workers; facilities for this purpose will be avail-
able at the Pokhara and Dharan campuses. However, on current indications it
seems likely that the supply of skilled manpower from the civil certificate
and construction craft courses will be significantly less than requirements by
1986. Construction supervisors are in great shortage, particularly in rural
development schemes, minor irrigation schemes and track and trail improvement
projects. Such shortages are also seriously delaying major irrigation projects.
This points to the need for increased training capacity in these fields during
the Sixth Plan. The proposed project will make a significant contribution to
the supply of skilled manpower by 1986 through increasing planned outputs by
one-third at the certificate level and by two-thirds at the craft level.
G. Bank Strategy and Lending for Education
1.29      IDA has identified four major areas of priority where assistance                 -
should be introduced--technical skill training, forestry skills training,
basic education and agricultural training. Technical training for manpower
development has been assisted in the First Education Project financed by
IDA. It became effective on July 13, 1978. The project focuses on quality
and quantity improvements of technical manpower at certificate and diploma
levels in an attempt to meet the demand for trained middle and senior level
technicians mainly for the construction industry. Implementation of this
ongoing project is satisfactory. Project management is good and no major
problems have been encountered, except that a cost overrun has now been
identified of about 15%, above the total project cost of $7.8 million, due
to an unprecedented rise in construction costs in Nepal. The first education



- 11 -
project is financing new laboratories and workshops, equipment, teaching
materials, boarding facilities and staff housing at Pulchowk campus of the
Institute of Engineering (IOE) of Tribhuvan University, with the British
Government providing the technical assistance services (about $1.1 million).
The teaching facilities will provide for about 400 diploma students in civil
engineering subjects (representing an annual output of 120 diploma graduates)
and 1,000 certificate students (representing an annual output of 480 certifi-
cate graduates) for mainly electrical and civil engineering subjects. The
proposed second education project would continue the emphasis on increasing
the supply and improving the quality of skilled technical manpower relevant to
the needs of national development. Forestry skills training will be provided
under an IDA Credit for the development of community forestry. This ongoing
project will finance a new training center in Pokhara to train about 40
foresters (diploma) and soil and water conservation officers per annum as
well as 100 technicians; a further 100 technicians will be trained through
upgrading a similar training center at Hetaura.
1.30      Some future development priorities in the education sector would aim
to: (a) improve basic education leading to ultimate improvements in literacy
(currently 19%), numeracy and adult education; and (b) improve the quality
and supply of agricultural manpower. The first of these priorities would be
addressed by building on the already extensive formal primary education sys-
tem which has been studied and its issues identified (paras 1.07-1.13) under
the First Education Project. In support of the Government's intentions (paras
1.20 and 1.21), a primary education project would be prepared; studies would
be undertaken on (a) secondary education and (b) the expansion of adult non-
formal education, which would aim to have a more relevant impact on rural
development. The second lending priority, relating to agricultural training,
has been studied in a subsector review and issues identified. This would
serve as the basis for the preparation of a future project. It is expected
that the project would assist the management of the agricultural training
system in Nepal, the employment of trained agricultural manpower, qualitative
improvements in training and the expansion of training capacity.
II. THE PROJECT
2.01      The project was initially identified under a study included in the
First Education Project (Credit 772-NEP), and further defined in a Project
Brief following an IDA mission in November 1979. The project request was
prepared by the Government in March 1980, and appraised by an IDA mission
in November 1980.
A. Project Objectives
2.02      The Second Education Project is designed to:
(a) increase the supply of (i) skilled craftsmen with basic
engineering skills and (ii) technicians for engineering
and construction industries by expanding training capacity;



- 12 -
(b) improve relevance and quality in trade skill training
programs throughout the nation by establishing trade
standards, introducing national trade testing, and
provide better trained instructors and properly equipped
facilities; provide recognition of, as well as better
career development prospects for, skilled craftmen and
technicians within the Public Service; and
(c) support the Ministry of Education's role in general
planning, future project preparation and evaluation by
inclusion of project studies relating to existing and
future sector developments.
B. Project Components
2.03      The project objectives would be achieved through the implementation
of the project components listed below:
(a) The Western Region Center
Construction, furnishing and equipping of a skill training
center at Pokhara in the Western Region to provide 160
trained craftsmen and 96 technicians in civil, mechanical
and electrical technology per annum. In addition to academic
and communal facilities the Center would include staff
housing (100%) and student boarding (90%). Operating costs
for incremental staff salaries, consumable training materials
and maintenance would also be provided.
(b) The National Skill Testing Authority and the Public Service
Promotional Structure
A National Skill Testing Authority of the Government having
a permanent technical skill testing Secretariat would be
established.  The National Skill Testing Authority would
be authorized, if necessary under laws promulgated for the
purpose, to set standards for engineering trades and to
design and administer nationally recognized trade skill
tests. The promotional structure of the Public Service
would be revised by the Public Service Commission, if
necessary under a new legal mandate, to provide skilled
tradesmen and technicians with adequate promotion prospects
to suitably senior levels.
(c) Education Project Studies
The Ministry of Education would undertake the following
preparatory work for future education projects: (i) the
full preparation of a primary education project; (ii) a
study on the need for improvements in secondary education;



- 13 -
(iii) a needs assessment study to expand non-formal educa-
tion. All these preparatory studies would examine the
potential of new management approaches to education under
environmental conditions, peculiar to Nepal. Additional
evaluation of the First Education Project would also be
made possible, after its completion, through a monitor-
ing system to be established by the Institute of Engi-
neering (IOE) of Tribhuvan University; the monitoring
system would provide a data base for the preparation of
completion reports for both the First and Second Education
Projects.
(d) Project Implementation Services and Technical Assistance
Project implementation services would be provided in support
of the above three components and would include: (i) tech-
nical assistance consisting of about 62 man-years of over-
seas fellowships and about 9 man-years of specialist ser-
vices, partly financed by UNDP, and additional consultancy
and specialist services, mainly for the project studies,
financed under the Credit; (ii) establishment of an office
for the project implementation unit which would include of-
fice furniture and equipment, incremental operating costs,
including salaries and travel.
C. The Western Region Center
2.04      The new training center, to be established under the Project, would
be located at Pokhara, which is the principal city in the Western Region of
Nepal. The Center would be administered by the Institute of Engineering (IOE)
of Tribhuvan University and would help to provide access for craft and techni-
cian training for suitable candidates mainly from the Western and Far Western
Regions. The site would be developed to have an academic complex of fully
equipped and furnished laboratories, workshops, library and classrooms which
would accommodate a maximum enrollment of about 450 students when full capa-
city is reached in 1987. In view of scarcity of accommodation in Pokhara and
in order to permit enrollment of students beyond the Pokhara district, board-
ing for 400 students would be provided. The Center would have 45 teaching
staff, all of whom would be provided housing on campus. Similar centers of
the IOE exist in the Central Region; a center at Dharan in the Eastern
Region is being developed with assistance from the Asian Development Bank.
2.05      The Center at Pokhara would provide craft level skill training pro-
grams in basic electrical, construction and mechanical technology, (output 160
craftsmen per annum) as well as certificate level technician training in elec-
trical, civil and mechanical technology (output 96 technicians per annum).
The distribution of the graduates per annum by skills is shown in Table 1.1.
Under the Project, formal trade training programs of one year duration will be
introduced in Nepal for the first time. It is expected that the experience
gained from these programs would lead to the shortening and intensifying of
existing trade training programs elsewhere in Nepal. Certificate programs



- 14 -
would be of 2-1/2 years duration. Both programs would include some remedial
teaching in science, mathematics and languages; in the case of the certificate
program, remedial teaching of a half year would be included. It is anticipated
that, when the quality of secondary level teaching improves, the certificate
program would be reduced to two years by dropping all remedial teaching for
new entrants.
The Center Advisory Committee
2.06      To ensure adequate emphasis on practical training, the skill training
programs would be made up of 80% practical work (workshop and laboratory) and
the technician programs would consist of 60% practical work. Curricula have
been reviewed by the Association and found to be satisfactory. To ensure
close links with industrial concerns and government departments which would
employ the graduating students of the Center, a Center Advisory Committee,
representing these bodies and teaching staff, would be established within six
months of the opening date of the Center and would advise on future curriculum
development as well as help with the placement of graduates. The Committee
would also review annually the demand for skill upgrading programs in the
Region and the Center would introduce in-service skill upgrading programs,
when the demand is considered to be great enough.
Entry Requirements
2.07      In selecting trainees for entry to both the craft and certificate
level programs, the Center would employ a simple system of skill aptitude
tests which would be developed by its staff in consultation with the Asso-
ciation. For craft programs, the minimum entry requirement would be age
15 years and completion of grade 7 education, while for certificate programs,
a minimum entry requirement of SLC would be required. The Center would adopt
the Government's quota system for applicants from the educationally less
developed districts, insofar as practicable, without lowering the minimum
entry requirements described above.
Staff Recruitment and Training
2.08      The five most senior administrators would be recruited and sent for
overseas training (para 2.14) according to a training plan (Annex 3). In
addition to a degree qualification, these administrators should have some
experience of college administration and have been employed in a similar
institution. No difficulties are anticipated in the recruitment of adminis-
trators, some of whom could be spared from other IOE campuses. When fully
operational, the Center would require 45 teaching staff and 22 technicians
for workshop, laboratory and general maintenance, who would be recruited over
a four year period (Annex 3, Chart 1). All teaching staff would be trained
overseas (para 2.14). Serious difficulties are not anticipated in recruitment
due to relatively attractive salary scales and conditions. The Government has
agreed that all staff of the Center, including the instructors, lecturers and
administrative staff would be paid according to the scales laid down by the
University Service Commission for their levels of appointment. These levels
of appointment have been agreed with the Association as shown in Annex 1,
Chart 2. In addition to this regular pay, the appointees at the Center and



- 15 -
staff of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) would receive the supplementary
benefits which are normally paid in recognition of their status as employees
at a new training center at Pokhara.
D. The National Skill Testing Authority and
the Public Service Promotion Structure
The National Skill Testing Authority
2.09      To help establish national skill standards applicable to all train-
ing institutions in Nepal and thereby improve the quality of skill training
programs throughout the nation to minimum acceptable levels, the successful
completion of all craft programs would be determined according to the standard
of skill attainment of the trainee. For this purpose skill standards and
skill tests for skilled craftsmen in the principal electrical, construction
and mechanical crafts would be developed, in consultation with the Association
by January 1, 1984.   These tests would be administered under the supervision
of a National Skill Testing Authority to be established for this purpose by
January 1, 1985.   To ensure nationwide acceptance of such tests:  (a) by
January 1, 1985, the Authority would be vested with such responsibilities;
if necessary by legal statutes; and (b) craft training programs for all
sectors at every level would receive recognition only if the trainee had
passed the appropriate tests. For this purpose the Authority would have
adequate representation from departments and ministries employing trainees or
conducting training programs, the Public Service Commission (PSC) and from
industry. Its membership would need to be reviewed at least every two years
to ensure that it retains adequate balance of representation. For the design
and supervision of testing, the Authority would need a permanent secretariat,
which would employ sufficient technical staff on an occasional or full-time
basis. During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
(a) a staffing and staff training plan for a Secretariat would be prepared by
August 1, 1982 and submitted for review by the Association; and (b) such a
Secretariat would be established by January 1, 1983. Until such time as the
Authority is established, the Secretariat would work within the Ministry of
Education or another appropriate agency of Government. Project assistance
would consist of technical assistance support (paras 2.13 and 2.14), funds for
office furniture, equipment and incremental operating costs, including salaries
for the Secretariat.
The Public Service Promotion Structure
2.10      Legislation may be necessary to ensure that:  (a) recognition would
be given to skill tests (paras 1.18 and 2.09) for appointment and promotion
purposes within the public service; and (b) technicians would be provided with
adequate career development prospects (para 1.19). During negotiations, the
Government provided assurances that: (a) by January 1, 1985, skill attain-
ment, as determined by skill tests, would be recognized for the purposes of
appointment and career development in the public service; (b) by January 1,
1984, a plan would be developed and furnished to the Association and imple-
mented, beginning January 1, 1985, to improve career opportunities for



- 16 -
skilled craftsmen and technicians in the public service. The project would
provide technical assistance support (paras 2.13 and 2.14) and funds for
office furniture and equipment for the Public Service Commission.
E. Education Project Studies
Future Project Preparation
2.11      The planning and development arm of the Ministry of Education would
continue its preparation of a primary education project employing the results
of an earlier feasibility study conducted as part of the First Education
Project (Credit 772-NEP). The preparation document would be prepared according
to terms of reference agreed with the Association. The same agency would also
undertake two needs assessment studies which would give background information
and constitute full feasibility studies prior to possible project preparation
for project financing: (i) on secondary education; and (ii) on non-formal
and adult education. Both these studies would examine the potential of new
management and supervision approaches to education in Nepal under the environ-
mental conditions prevailing (para 2.03) and would be conducted under terms of
reference agreed with the Association. Further evaluation studies (para 2.12)
would be conducted by the Government to determine the effectiveness of the
First Education Project (Credit 772-NEP).
Evaluation
2.12      In order to assess the socio-economic background and quality of
entering students and the internal efficiency of the Center, a monitoring and
evaluation system would be established for this project, with technical assis-
tance support, and operated jointly with the system already being established
for the First Education Project (Credit 772-NEP). To ensure that the outputs
of the Center at Pokhara and the Pulchowk Campus would be adequately trained
in relation to industry's needs and would secure employment in jobs for which
they had been trained, a tracer study would be included in the evaluation
system. During negotiations, the Government provided an assurance that
details of the evaluation system to be employed would be made available to
the Association by January 1, 1984, to permit review and comment before the
opening of the new Center. The results of the evaluation exercise would be
forwarded to the Association for five years following the first outputs from
the Center and from the Pulchowk Campus (Credit 772-NEP). Funds would be
provided for this evaluation study and to undertake further evaluation studies
at the end of the existing First Education Project (Credit 772-NEP). By
January 1, 1984, the Government would indicate which agency of Government
would have the prime responsibility for conducting the evaluation studies for
both the First and the Second Education Projects.
F. Technical Assistance
2.13      The project would include about 9 man-years of specialist services
aimed at improving the quality of instruction, advising on implementation



- 17 -
issues and on developing institutional structures for testing and recogni-
tion of skill attainment. Also, as an integral part of the staff training
program, about 62 man-years of overseas staff training would be included.
Before negotiations, the Government obtained a commitment in principle from
UNDP, for financing most of the specialist services and all the fellowships
which are needed. Because of its immediate importance to the success of the
project, an agreement would be signed with UNDP as a condition of Credit
effectiveness.
2.14      Since there is inadequate institutional capacity for technical
teacher training in Nepal, about 62 man-years of fellowships would be used
mainly for teaching staff to receive overseas training in pedagogy and addi-
tional trade skills as indicated in Annex 1, Table 2. About 26 man-months
would be used for the two senior management staff (the Chief of the Center
and the Division Chief for Property Management and Procurement) to go over-
seas, primarily for study visits to institutions similar to the Center. The
two heads of department and the librarian would need a longer period overseas,
perhaps leading to a higher degree amounting to 22 man-months each. Approxi-
mately 32 man-months would be reserved for a trade test study team and a PSC
study team to travel overseas and observe how other countries provide career
development prospects in the civil service for skilled craftsmen and techni-
cians. The 9 man-years of specialist services, to be provided in the project,
would be utilized mainly for short-term consultants each year to assist the
Center with curriculum development, equipment procurement, workshop planning
and supervision. About one man-year would be devoted to advise 11MG on the
establishment of trade standards and trade tests for skilled craftsmen and
about six man-months would be used for project studies.
2.15      An outline staff recruitment and training plan for teaching and
support staff has been agreed with the Association. During negotiations, the
Government provided assurances that: (a) a detailed staffing and staff
training plan for the Center would be prepared by March 1, 1982, indicating
qualifications and experience required, timing of appointment, training
requirements and a schedule for training; and (b) a similar plan for the
Secretariat would be provided by August 1, 1982.



- 18 -
III. PROJECT COST, FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS
A. Project Costs
Total Project Costs
3.01      The total cost of the project is estimated at NR 231.06 million
or US$17.50 million equivalent including an estimated US$2.50 million for
Technical Assistance to be financed by UNDP and US$0.25 million for land
acquisition financed by HMG. Detailed costs and foreign exchange components
are given in Annex 2, Table 1. Costs by project component are summarized
in Table 3.1 below:
Table 3.1:   SUMMARY OF COSTS BY PROJECT COMPONENT
Million N Rupees            Million US$         % of
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Total
1. Western Region Center
(Pokhara)                60.26   57.37  117.64   4.57    4.34        8.91   85.7
2. National Skill
Testing (incl. PSC)       2.07    1.12    3.19   0.16    0.08        0.24    2.3
3. Education Project
Studies                   5.94    1.98    7.92   0.45    0.15        0.60    5.8
4. Project Implemen-
tation Services           2.42    0.82    3.24   0.18    0.06        0.25    2.4
5. Technical Assistance         0.80    4.54    5.35   0.06    0.34       0.40    3.9
Total Baseline Costs           71.50   65.84  137.34   5.42    4.98    10.40  100.0
Contingencies
- Unforeseen                    7.14    7.21   14.35   0.54    0.55        1.09   10.4
- Price Escalation             26.52   16.55   43.07   2.01    1.25        3.26   31.4
Sub-total Contingencies       33.66   23.76   57.42   2.55    1.80        4.35   41.8
Total Project Costs
(excluding UNDP technical
assistance and land costs)  105.16   89.60  194.76   7.97    6.78    14.75  141.8
UNDP technical assistance       4.95   28.05   33.00   0.37    2.13        2.50
Land costs financed by HMG    3.30       -       3.30   0.25      -        0.25
Total Project Costs           113.41  117.65  231.06   8.59    8.91    17.50
Figures may not add due to rounding.
3.02      The cost breakdown by categories into local and foreign cost elements
of expenditure is summarized in Table 3.2 below:



- 19 -
Table 3.2:   PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
Million N Rupees            Million US$        % of
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Total
1.  Site development    11.99    5.14    17.13   0.91    0.39    1.30   12.5
2.  Buildings            25.70   17.13    42.83   1.95    1.30    3.25   31.2
3.  Professional
services /a          4.86    0.54       5.40   0.37    0.04    0.41    3.9
4.  Furniture              2.72    2.72      5.44   0.21    0.21    0.41    4.0
5.  Equipment /b          5.65   32.01    37.66   0.43    2.42    2.85   27.4
6.  Staff salaries /c   13.08    0.00    13.08   0.99    0.00    0.99    9.5
7.  Consumable training
materials /d        0.76    1.77       2.53   0.06    0.13    0.19    1.8
8.  Experts/consultants  0.80    4.54        5.35   0.06    0.34    0.40    3.9
9.  Project studies /e   5.94    1.98        7.92   0.45    0.15    0.60    5.8
Total Baseline Costs       71.50   65.84   137.34   5.42    4.98   10.40  100.0
Contingencies
- Unforeseen                7.14    7.21    14.35   0.54    0.55    1.09   10.4
- Price Escalation         26.52   16.55    43.07   2.01    1.25    3.26   31.4
Sub-total Contingencies  33.66   23.76    57.42   2.55    1.80    4.35   41.8
Total Project Costs
(excluding UNDP tech-
nical assistance
and land costs)        105.16   89.60   194.76   7.97    6.78   14.75  141.8
UNDP technical
assistance               4.95   28.05    33.00   0.37    2.13    2.50
Land costs financed
by HMG                   3.30      -        3.30   0.25      -       0.25
Total Project Costs       113.41  117.65   231.06   8.59    8.91   17.50
Figures may not add due to rounding.
/a   Architectural design and supervision.
lb   Including books and instructional materials.
/c   To cover teaching and support staff (including PIU) salaries during
CY1982 through 1987.
/d   To cover operating costs during school years (CY) 1986 and 1987.
/e   For preparation of future education projects and the evaluation of the
First and Second Education Projects.
Base Costs
3.03      Cost estimates excluding contingencies refer to October 1981 prices,
and were calculated on the following basis.
(a)  Construction Costs - on facilities of a similar nature
recently completed in Nepal. The average unit cost was
estimated at about US$150 per sq meter (excluding site
development and contingencies), compared with US$170
per sq. meter in Pakistan, US$150 in Bangladesh and
US$125 in India for similar facilities.



- 20 -
(b)  Equipment and Furniture - on detailed lists prepared with
assistance from Paisley College (UK), which supplied tech-
nical assistance for the First Education Project (Credit
772-NEP).
(c) Consumable Materials - on appropriate cost/trainee place
(by skill) in comparable centers in Nepal.
(d) Architectural Design and Supervision Services - the
estimated base cost of about US$400,000 for architec-
tural services is based on the national fee scale of 9%
of estimated construction cost (6% for design and 3% for
construction supervision).
(e) Specialist Services - Technical advisory services, which
will be provided by individual specialists, are estimated
to require about 54 man-months at a total cost of about
US$400,000, in addition to those provided by UNDP. The
average man-month cost (based on the individuals' fees,
international travel and local allowances) is expected to
be about US$7,500. The total estimated cost also includes
provision for the cost of vehicles, local travel and some
other minor items.
(f) Operating Costs - on detailed breakdown of maintenance
and other relevant operating costs in similar institu-
tions in Nepal.
(g)  Salaries - on agreed scales plus allowances laid down
by the University Service Commission (range NR 500 to
NR 2,200 per month).
Area Allocations and Cost Per Student
3.04      Unit areas and costs of new facilities (net of contingencies,
operating costs and costs for professional services) are shown in Annex 2,
Table 2.  Gross area per student place for academic and communal facilities
averages about 12.5 sq meters 1/ and total capital cost (civil works, furni-
ture and equipment) per student place for academic and communal facilities
averages about US$7,000. 2/ Unit costs for civil works were derived from
recent building contracts for similar facilities in Nepal. Local materials
and building techniques would be used to the maximum extent possible. Gross
area allocations for student boarding facilities and staff housing are in
conformity with national standards.  In aggregate, academic and communal
facilities account for about 48% of total baseline costs, and boarding and
staff housing for about 26%.
1/   Gross area range of similar Bank-financed projects during 1978-80 was
about 11.6 to 18.2 sq meters.
2/   Cost range of similar Bank-financed projects during 1978-80, adjusted
to October 1981 prices was about US$3,199 to US$13,425.



- 21 -
Customs Duties and Taxes
3.05       Goods not specifically imported for the project would be subject
to customs duties and taxes. Therefore, civil works costs include a tax
component estimated at about US$0.66 million. Instructional equipment,
consummable training materials, and building materials imported specifically
under the project would be subject to 1% tax. The Government provided
assurances during negotiations that it would take the necessary steps to
ensure efficient customs clearance, including payment of such taxes.
Contingency Allowances
3.06       Estimated project costs include physical contingencies (US$1.09
million), estimated at 10% of base cost for unforeseen factors, and price
contingencies (US$3.26 million), estimated at 31% to cover expected price
escalation as shown in Table 3.3 below.
Table 3.3: PRICE ESCALATION ESTIMATES
Annual Percentages of Price Increases
Category                             Year              Local          Foreign
Civil works, furniture, equipment, )  1982                    14               8.5
consumable training materials,         )  1983-84             12              7. 5
and maintenance costs                  )
)  1985               10               7.5
)  1986-87            10               6
Professional services, salaries,   )
and experts/consultants                )  1982-87              9               8
Detailed contingency allowances are shown in Annex 2, Table 3.
Foreign Exchange Component
3.07       Based on detailed analysis of expenditures in similar projects
in Nepal, the foreign exchange component has been estimated as follows:
(a) site development 30%; (b) buildings 40%; (c) furniture 50%; (d) equipment
85%; (e) professional services 10%; (f) consumable training materials 70%;
(g) salaries 0%; (h) project studies 25%; and (i) specialists services 85%.
The foreign exchange component, including contingencies and the UNDP technical
assistance, is estimated at US$9.28 million, or about 63% of the total project
cost of US$17.50 million.
Financing Plan
3.08       The total project cost of US$17.50 million equivalent would be
financed as follows:
(a) the proposed IDA credit of US$14.30 million equivalent would
cover 85% of the total project cost net of taxes and duties
(100% of the foreign exchange costs and 90% of local costs);



- 22 -
(b)  the UNDP would finance most of the technical assistance
program (fellowships and specialists' services) (paras
2.13 and 2.14) estimated at US$2.50 million including
contingencies);
(c)  the Government would finance the remaining net costs of
US$0.04 million, and an estimated US$0.66 million in
taxes and duties.
3.09      The financing plan and IDA credit allocations by category of expen-
diture is presented in Table 3.4 below:
Table 3.4: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
Government
of Nepal         IDA       UNDP         Total
---(in US$ million)--------------
1.  Civil works and furniture         0.05           6.90        -          6.95 /a
2.  Land acquisition                  0.25             -         -          0.25
3. Equipment, books, journals
and instructional materials       0.01           3.75       -           3.76 /a
4.  Professional services
(engrg./architectural fees)        -            0.48        -           0.48 /a
5. Technical assistance
(a) consultant services and        -             1.17       -           1.17 /a
project studies
(b) consultant services, fel-    -                -        2.50         2.50 /b
lowships and misc. costs
6. Staff salaries,, allowances
and operating costs               0.26           1.04       -           1.30 /a
7.  Consumable training materials   0.03             0.28        -          0.31 /a
8.  Unallocated                       0.10           0.68        -          0.78 /c
Total Project Cost                    0.70          14.30       2.50        17.50
Less Taxes & Duties                  -0.66            -          -         -0.66
Total Net Project Cost                0.04          14.30 /d   2.50         16.84
/a   Totals represent 95% of total estimated costs per category, including
contingencies.
/b   UNDP estimate including contingencies.
/c   About 5% of total cost, including contingencies..
T7   The Credit of US$14.30 million represents 85% of net costs, including
technical assistance.



- 23 -
Recurrent Expenditures
3.10      To assist the Government in initially setting up the Center, IDA
would finance recurrent incremental expenditures to cover: (a) 80% of the
salaries of (i) teaching and administrative staff for the Center, (ii) staff
and administrative costs of the Project Implementation Unit, (iii) staff for
the Skill Testing Secretariat; and (b) 100% of foreign or local ex-factory
expenditures and 80% of other local expenditures for consumable training
materials and maintenance costs for a two-year period at the Pokhara
Training Center.
Recurrent Cost Implications
3.11      The recurrent costs (mainly salaries and consumable training mate-
rials) generated by this project when fully operational would amount to about
NR 4 million per annum for the Tribhuvan University in 1980 prices, which is
equivalent to about 3% of its budgeted total recurrent expenditures in 1980.
The additional expenditures could be accommodated within the feasible growth
of education expenditures, without undue financial difficulty to the Govern-
ment.
Local Budget Requirements
3.12      Budget allocations would be made available to the project on an
annual basis in accordance with annual estimates. Forecast of Expenditures
and Disbursements is shown in Annex 4. In addition funds required for
expenditures not eligible for IDA financing, such as taxes, land acquisi-
tion and cost of utilities, would also be provided. The project schedule
would be revised annually and the financial requirements for the project
would be reviewed regularly by the PIU to ensure that the project imple-
mentation is not delayed and operation of the Western Region Center at
Pokhara does not suffer, because of lack of funds. During negotiations,
the Government provided assurances that it would:
(a) furnish to the Association, by March 1 of each year of
implementation commencing in 1982, a revised project
schedule, an estimate of project funds required for the
following fiscal year; and
(b) make the necessary funds available to ensure prompt
project implementation during the life of the project,
and proper operation and maintenance of the physical
facilities.
B. Project Implementation
Implementation Period
3.13      The project would be implemented over a period of about six and a
half years, including a two-year operation period after completion of the
physical facilities, for evaluation and monitoring purposes during the early
stages of operation. To assist in effective and timely project execution, a
detailed implementation schedule acceptable to the Government has been prepared
(Annex 3, Chart 1). This schedule would also serve as a monitoring device
during implementation and would be updated regularly by the project staff.



- 24 -
Administration
3.14      The project would be implemented, throughout its life, by a new
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) similar to that created under the First
Education Project (Credit 772-NEP) in the TOE, Pulchowk Campus. The first
PIU, presently under the directorship of the Dean of IOE, retains a full
complement of professional staff as agreed under Credit 772-NEP and has
demonstrated satisfactory performance. The assistance of its staff would
be provided for the implementation of the Second Project. The Government has
agreed to a staffing pattern, levels of appointment and duties and responsi-
bilities of the PTU as illustrated in Annex 3, Chart 2. The Unit would also
be assisted by specialists, provided under the technical assistance program
(para 2.13 and Annex 1, Table 2). Funds have been included in the proposed
credit for administrative costs, the procurement of equipment for the Unit and
coverage of additional staff salaries. During negotiations, the Government
provided assurances that certain full-time key staff appointed under the
First Education Project such as the project architect and the procurement
officer would continue to be retained during the project implementation
period of this project, and a project coordinator, an education officer
and other support staff, solely responsible for the new Center, would be
appointed.
3.15      Current policies of the Tribhuvan University call for all skill
training at craft and certificate levels to be handed over eventually to
appropriate ministries. Such handover will not take place until the manage-
ment capability of the ministries is sufficiently developed. Although it is
expected that responsibility for the Center may be transferred to the Ministry
of Education at some future date, the IOE will manage the implementation of
the Project until it is completed.
Professional Services
3.16      The Government has chosen, as its architectural consultants, the
Institute of Engineering Consulting Services (TECS) group which has performed
satisfactorily in design work for the First Education Project (Credit 772-NEP)
and has thus gained considerable experience on a similar project. The IOE
has entered into a new agreement with this group under terms and conditions
already established for the First Education Project. This has enabled IOE to
expedite the commencement of design work.
IDA Review and Approval of Project Components
3.17      Master equipment and furniture lists, building materials schedules,
equipment specifications, fellowship programs and terms of reference of experts
would be reviewed upon their completion. The Association has reviewed and
commented on: (a) an architect's brief, including an accommodation schedule
and a description of basic construction methods and materials to be used, with
cost estimates; (b) schematic designs for major buildings to be constructed
under the Project; and (c) a site layout plan.  The Association's comments would
be incorporated in the detailed designs and final bidding documents which will
be reviewed and approved, as a condition of Board presentation.



- 25 -
Site Selection
3.18      A suitable site has been selected (but not yet acquired) for the
proposed Center which is located about a kilometer from the bazaar end of
Pokhara and is accessible by a motorable dirt road. The main industrial
district of Pokhara is about ten kilometers away. A suitable water supply is
already available. Although an adequate electrical supply does not presently
exist in Pokhara there will be a 132 KV grid line system financed by the Asian
Development Bank, which is expected to be completed and be able to supply
adequate electric power to the Center by June 1985 at the latest. At nego-
tiations, the Government confirmed that an adequate electrical power supply
would be made available before the opening of the Center. A topographical
survey of the site has been prepared. The Government provided assurances
that, by March 1, 1982, all necessary action required for the acquisition
of title to the site would have been taken and evidence of ownership would
be furnished to the Association promptly after acquisition. Availability of
the land and access to it for all project purposes, including construction,
would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
iMaintenance and Spare Parts
3.19      To ensure proper use of the facilities and equipment, funds have
been included in the project for:
(a) construction of, and equipment for, one maintenance and
repair workshop; and
(b) spare parts for instructional equipment.
During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that the maintenance
and repair workshop would be staffed with properly trained personnel, and that
sufficient funds would be provided annually for maintenance and necessary
repairs to the physical facilities to ensure their proper operation (para 3.12).
C. Procurement
Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) (US$3.75 million) 1/
3.20      Civil Works (US$2.75 million) and Furniture (US$0.30 million).  Past
experience in Nepal has shown that contracts for civil works (below US$800,000)
and furniture (below US$250,000) do not attract foreign bidders. Therefore,
contracts for civil works and furniture below these values would be awarded on
the basis of local competitive bidding following procedures which are satisfac-
tory to the Association and do not exclude foreign bidders. Construction of
the civil works component would be undertaken by private contractors. Only
prequalified contractors would be allowed to bid for civil works contracts
under this project.
1/   This and subsequent statements are estimates, including contingencies.



- 26 -
3.21       Equipment (US$0.40 million).  Contracts that cannot be grouped into
packages for bulk procurement of at least US$50,000, not exceeding in the
aggregate US$400,000 (equivalent to about 10% of the estimated total cost
of equipment) would be procured in accordance with local competitive bidding
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.22       Consumable Training Materials (US$0.30 million).  Since timely
delivery of consumable materials, including spare parts, for the workshops,
laboratories and offices, is critical, such materials would be procured
locally on a regular basis following local competitive bidding procedures or
by prudent shopping (para 3.25); thereby avoiding storage problems associated
with bulk procurement.
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) (US$7.03 million)
3.23       Equipment (US$2.81 million), and Civil Works (US$3.97 million) and
Furniture (US$0.25 million). Contracts exceeding US$50,000 equivalent for
equipment, US$800,000 equivalent for civil works and US$250,000 for furniture
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accord-
ance with Bank Group guidelines. Local equipment and furniture manufacturers
would receive a margin of preference in bid evaluation of 15% of the c.i.f.
price of competing imports or the actual customs duty, whichever is lower.
Local civil works contractors would receive a margin of preference in bid
evaluation of 7-1/2% against competing foreign contractors.
Prudent Shopping (Local and International) (US$0.60 million)
3.24      Off-the-shelf items of, equipment, furniture, and consumable train-
ing materials (special items, including spares, etc.) not exceeding US$20,000,
equivalent for each contract and aggregating a maximum of US$600,000 (equiva-
lent to about 12% of the estimated total cost of equipment furniture and
consumable training materials), could be purchased on the basis of a minimum
of three competitive price quotations.
Direct Purchase (Local and International) (US$0.25 million)
3.25       Books and instructional printed matter would be purchased directly
from publishers or authorized distributors at the lowest possible prices on
the basis of at least three competitive price quotations, if applicable.
IDA Review and Approval of Procurement Decisions
3.26       Prior approval of the Association would be required for the award
of any civil works contracts exceeding US$200,000 equivalent and for any
contracts for equipment, books, furniture, building materials, and consumable
training materials, exceeding US$50,000. The PIU has been advised to forward
bid evaluations and recommendations for contract awards, allowing sufficient
time (at least one month) for the Association's review and approval. In this
respect, bid validity dates should be established to allow the PIU sufficient
time to process bids received, prepare evaluation reports and reach agreement
on award recommendations.



- 27 -
D. Disbursements and Auditing
Disbursements
3.27      The proposed credit of US$14.30 million would finance 85% of total
project costs, including technical assistance, net of customs duties and
taxes. The proceeds of the proposed IDA credit would finance the following
categories of expenditure:
(a)  Civil works and furniture, including building materials
100% of foreign expenditures,
90% of local expenditures.
(b) Equipment, books, journals and instructional materials
100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures ex-factory,
90% of other local expenditures.
(c) Professional services for architectural design and supervision
100% of total expenditures.
(d) Consultants services for technical assistance and project studies
100% of total expenditures.
(e) Staff salaries, allowances, and other operating costs
80% of total expenditures.
(f) Consumable training materials and maintenance
100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures ex-factory, and
80% of other local expenditures.
3.28      To ensure an early start to the project, retroactive financing not
exceeding US$300,000 would be provided from January 1, 1981 to the date of
Credit signing for expenditures incurred in the provision of professional
architectural services and for the preparation of a topographical survey of
the site.
Documentation of Expenditures
3.29      Withdrawal applications would be supported by full documentation,
except for expenditures on salaries and small items of locally procured
consumable training materials which may be reimbursed against statements
of expenditures certified by the Project Director. Documentation for these
statements would be retained by the project unit and be available for review



- 28 -
by the Association during project supervision missions. To the extent prac-
ticable, withdrawal applications would be aggregated in amounts of US$50,000,
or more, prior to submission to the Association for reimbursement out of the
proceeds of the proposed credit. A forecast of expenditures and disbursements
is shown in Annex 4.
Project Accounts and Audits
3.30      Project expenditures would be recorded in accordance with appropriate
accounting practices.  During negotiations, the Government provided assurances
that:  (a) accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year would be
prepared and audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(b) certified copies of the accounts and financial statements, for each fiscal
year, together with the audit would be furnished to the Association as soon as
available, but not later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year.
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
4.01      The main benefits expected to accrue from implementation of the
proposed project are as follows:
(a)  an increase in the supply of scarce skilled manpower of 160
craftsmen and 96 middle level (certificate level) technicians
per annum;
(b) a reduction in costs, through the reduction of the duration
of skill training fror 3 years duration to one year. Other
centers (para 2.05) miy follow this pattern;
(c) a qualitative improvement in trade and technician training
programs, for electrical, civil and mechanical engineering
fields, through the provision of better trained instructors,
improved administration, and the establishment of properly
designed and equipped workshops and teaching laboratories;
(d) improvement in the regional distribution of craft and tech-
nician training opportunities for adults and secondary school
leavers;
(e) reinforcing improvements in the quality of skill training
at all training institutions through the establishment of
a nationwide skill testing system in electrical, con-
struction and mechanical crafts; and
(f) improvement in the career development prospects in the public
service for skilled craftsmen and technicians.



- 29 -
B. Risks
4.02      An essential part of the project is:  to establish trade standards;
to develop skill tests; to obtain PSC recognition for these tests; and to
establish satisfactory public service career development prospects for skilled
craftsmen and technicians. To achieve these objectives legislation may be
necessary. The Association has obtained assurances that: (i) skill testing
would be established and recognized by the PSC within a specific time limit
(paras 2.09 and 2.10); and (ii) the PSC would establish adequate promotion
prospects for skilled craftsmen and technicians (para 2.10) before the Center
produces its first graduates, but in the event that these time limits are
exceeded, the project may be less than effective in meeting the national
demand for manual and technical skills (paras 1.18 and 1.19).
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED
5.01      During negotiations, the Government provided special assurances that:
(a) a Center Advisory Committee would be established with in-
dustrial representation within six months of the opening
date of the Center at Pokhara (para 2.06);
(b) skill aptitude tests would be used to assist in the selec-
tion of applicants to the Center (para 2.07);
(c) certain full-time key staff of the PIU, for the First Education
Project, would be retained for this Second Education Project
(para 3.14); appointments of PIU staff and the staff of the
Center would be at agreed levels (paras 2.08 and 3.14); IOE
would be responsible for project management throughout its
implementation period until completion (para 3.15);
(d) by March 1, 1982, all necessary action required for the
acquisition of the site would have been taken, and evidence
of ownership would be furnished to the Association promptly
after acquisition (para 3.18).
(e) by March 1, 1982 a detailed staff recruitment and training
plan for the Pokhara Center would be prepared for review by
the Association (paras 2.08, 2.14 and 2.15); by August 1,
1982 a staffing and staff training plan for the Secretariat
of the National Skill Testing Authority would be prepared
for review by the Association (para 2.15);
(f) (i) by January 1, 1984, furnish to the Association for review
and comment a plan designed to monitor and evaluate academic
progress of the Pokhara Center and the Pulchowk Campus including
the employment situation for their graduates and specify the
agency of Government to be responsible for such evaluation; and
(ii) evaluation data would be submitted to the Association for
five years following the first outputs from the Pokhara Center
and Pulchowk Campus (para 2.12);



- 30 -
(g)  by January 1, 1983, a permanent Secretariat would be estab-
lished to provide technical support to an Authority on
skill standards and skill tests (para 2.09); by January 1,
1984, the Secretariat would establish skill standards and
skill tests in the principal electrical, construction and
mechanical drafts (para 2.09); by January 1, 1985: (i) the
Authority would be established, with nation-wide responsi-
bilities, for setting skill standards and conducting skill
tests (para 2.09); (ii) these tests would be recognized for
promotion purposes within the public service (para 2.10);
(iii) improved career opportunities leading to suitably
senior levels would be introduced within the public service
for skilled craftsmen, as well as middle and senior level
technicians (para 2.10);
5.02      As a condition of Board Presentation detailed designs and final
bidding documents for civil works would have been reviewed and approved
by the Association (para 3.17).
5.03      Conditions of Credit effectiveness would be that:
(a)  the land required for the construction and operation of
the Pokhara Center is available and fully accessible for
all project purposes including construction; and
(b)  a UNDP Project Agreement has been signed, providing financing
of about US$2.5 million for most of the specialist services
and the fellowships program (paras 2.13 and 2.14).



.. ..       0.~ ..I                00.00.                          0000              01. ..0 00 ..                   00      00. ..0   .0 0 . 0 0 0 0                                             0 0 0 0 0 0                            .
00                 o           >XH  _            2   s            S    r.                                 FXXFXXXo0-<<no 0000 0   R0   0^    --@ 0  o.0                                       00                 -   v            0      0                0     
l ...      4 ..                      00 1* 0. ..                                          0 ..0             0 0~0 0 0b 0.0 ..0.00 ..0 0 :0 0 & l
I Y    
I ..0.00fl00000000 
I                                 '                                                                                                                                                                                      0 80  ^cF         
~~                      02       ci                                 .                  .+                                                                                                      ..                                        - ... I
B  o   I      22220a 
b ~ ~ ~ ~~~                     t                                                                         0                                                0 S                                                                                   0              0        N ~ > ~ ~~~> >>*^~F.>   
    |  9  zO    mI                   osogg  o                    sF  fiF  00                                   a 0> 1400X 0  0          0<^<< 00                ^^          0  0<                             0           0                0.            0    neN_XOC     F<
8 "1l    Q  x l  >  d  ^  >  No _x >< ^w <x  =  o  .  X  e0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0e0 0 0R0 0 0                                                                             0   0 0 0 0 0 0 0R0 0 0 0 0 0            0 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0  ~  e^ .a >o >F 
I     00.20            01           000 00 0                       00 0                00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0                                                                 00000000000000                           000000000
X o x a x o x .l             0      0           0           00C.  .            1g                       *0    0    x        .  0.              *   +o   YyyYYOO XS=S YOY YY
I      0 .A    01            00 0 00 0                      00 I      .         00 0 00 0               .0 0 0 00                    .00    .0    0    0 0 0 .0                           0 0 00 0 0 0                            0
,,,  ,,,,  ,,,   ,, I 00   0:          00. 00x0 000                   00000              0000000  OorOOO O  0r o                     N OOOO   oOOOO OO                0 0000fi             >        X=       nr 0 000 0 0 0 0 0       00000000000m
-~~~~~ ~ On         0                                                                                0 I
o  ON             000   1                                               <0                             ~              :  . *<              0000                        ~.    0                                     00    40                    A00 0s



-32-                                                      ANNEX I
Table 1
Page 2
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS (CONTD)
OCTOBER 9, 1981
*  .     .        ~~~:CENTRAL:.                              .         .
*  .    .          : ~~~GOVT..                               ..
*  :GNP/:            :EXP. ON: % OP PUBLIC:            :       :         :PRI. :RECURRENT:       :            :SEC
*   :CAPITA:          :EOU. AS: EDUCATION    :LITER-: PRI. :COMPLE- : STU- :UNIT COST:PROGR.ESS-:. SEC. :STU- :HIGHER:
*   : AT  :           :% TTh. : RECURRENT    :ACY       :ENROLL:TION      :DENTS:PRIM. ED. :IDN RATE :ENROLL:DENTS:ENROLL:
*   MARKET: % GNP  :CENTRAL:EXP ALLOCATED:  RATE :RATIO :RATE FOR:PER  :AS 7, GNP/:FROM PRI. :RATIO :PER  :RATIO :
POP. :PRICES: DEVOTED: GOVT. :         TO:       :(% OF  : NET  :PRI.SCH.:TEACH: CAPITA  :TO SEC.: NET  :TEACH- CROSS:
YR:NILLS.! (US$): TO EDU.: EXP.  !PRI. SEC. NI. :ADULTS): (5   !CYCLE(%):ER   ::()                            :() :ER :()
ASIA AND OCEANIA
AFGHANISTAN   77  14.6H1  160H1    1.8    ..          47   19   15    12    29X          69       37      13.8       62         8K    17       1.00
BANGLADESH    79  92.9M   90         1.1LP  14.9C   51   17   20    22G   71X            ...      53       6.2P    ..          14X    23       1.43
CHINA           79 971.0   256       3.3      6.6    34   36   30    66    93            64       27       8.0      83         siX    19       2.80
INDIA          75 643.911  180H1   2.6Y    1.9K....... 29B   65KY                        . ..     43A     ..          ..       29XY   20AY   2.34EY
INDONESIA      78 136.0OH  340       2.4W   ..        260  320  150   62    92           48       32      .         70         19      17      2.00
IRAN           73  35.8H    12.2N 3.W  12.2H    SOB  18B  12B   50    77                 74A      32                80BA       24      32     4.32CY
IRAQ           75  12.2H1 1,85011   6.7CW   ...       ... .... 26C   93KY                . ..     2.2     ..         ..        35KY   26C    8.47Y
JORDAN          79   2.2  1,180H1  6.8    10.8F   19   44   18    70    97X              85       32       7.2      94         65      21    14.00
KOREA           78  36.6  1,310    2.8W   16.5K   35   29   36    93    102X             94       49       8.6C    91          60      45    18.00
LEBANON         72   3.011  ...    3.5W   ..         39   40   10    68    86           65       19      23.2B    63          26U    25    23.00
MALAYSIA        80  14.2  1,460M   6.7W   15.0    39   32   13    60B   96K              94       28       6.60    84          65      25       3.00
NEPAL           80  14.3   140       1.1WF   9.9    29F  20?  41F   19F   59F            28F      31F       .        64F       14F    24F    0.8F
OMAN           72    .811 2,790H   1.711W   5.1K   96   -    -          20    24X        99       27F    25.0?....             0.4X    9      ..
PAKISTAN        79  78.0   270       2.0      2.5K   39   26   27    24    56K           50E      48       6.5       ..        20K     17      6.00K
PAPUA N.G.    75   2.911  620H1   5.4LW  17.0K   38   16   24    32    57?               73P      31      28.0?    90          12X?   24      0.90?
PHILIPPINES   79  46.8   600         2.8W   15.7K   64   36***          75      84       65       31       7.0      89         35      36   21.00
SINGAPORE      74   2.3H1 3,260H   2.7YW  14.9K   39Y  39!  17!   72A   109KY    72A              31Y      7.4A    99A         44XY   24      7.68Y
SYRIA          78   7.9   96011    4.4        6.311   39   25   26    58        89X      80       35       7.7E    68          45X    21    12.60
THAILAND        77   44.5  530       4.OVW   19.9K  55   30   15    84F   83             30       35       10.0c    70         28      25      3.00
TURKEY          73  43.1H1 1,250H   5.6CYW  18.6K  ...... ...                  85!       ...      34!      7.2A      ..        24!    270!   5.83!
YEMEN           73   5.6H110HIO      0.5W     10.8K  45P  alP  23P   10    15X           18       36      19.3      75          2K    19       0.05BY
YEMEN P.D.R.  80   1.9   500K    6.0          10.5   63   14    8    40?   70            53       24      22.4       81        31      16      1.80
SUNMARY FOR DEVELOPING COUNTRIES:
NUMBER OF COUNTRIES:                102      82      89   90   90    94    101          81       101    71         85        100     99    87
RANGE:                             (0.5-  (1.9-   (20  (8-  (3-   (3-   (13-    (13-            (16-   (3.1       (8-        (.4-   (8-   (.01-
9.9 )  30.5)   96 ) 73)  50)   99)   133X)   99)             69 )  52.5)    99)          95  )  45)  41.0)
QUARTILES:UPFER :5.6    17.5    49   35   22    86    98                              91       42      9         91        48      25    11.0
MEDIAN:               4.2    13.0    42   26   18    60    82              65       34      13        68        24      22      3.4
LOWER :               3.0      9.9    34   21   13    25    56             33       29      20        41        11      18      1.0
SYMBOLS: ... DATUH1 UNAVAILABLE              A=1971 DR BEFORE           N-CURRENT PRICES                        SOURCES:
-  MAGNITUDE NIL OR NEGLIGIBLE 8=1972                         P=GDP----
?QUESTIONABLE                    C-1973                     Q=INCLUDING FOREIGN AID                  COLUMNS:l AND 2 WORLD BANK ATLAS
*INCLUDES PART-TIME STUDENTS D-1974                         K-CENTRAL GOVT. ONLY                                       OR IBRD MISSIONS
**COMBINED WITH PRIMARY           E-1975                     S-MINISTRY OF EDUCATION (NOR) ONLY                3 TO 14 IBRD HiISSIONS
**COMBINED WITH HIGHER            F=1976                     T=MOE AND STATE GOVT. ONLY                                 AND/OR UNESCO
G-1977                     U-EXCLUDING CENTRAL GOVT.                                  STATISTICAL
H-1978                     V-INCLUDING PRIVATE EXPENDITURE                            YEARBOOK
K-.1979                    W=PUBLIC EKPENDITURE ONLY
L-_1980                    K-INCLUDING OVERAGED STUDENTS
11-1981                    Y=UNESCO SOURCES
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION DATA ARE, USEFUL IN THE EVALUATION OF VARIOUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS OF RELATIVE STAGES OF EDUCATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT BETWEEN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. HOWEVER,ON THE BASIS OF THE PRESENT DATA,CROSS-NATIONAL COMPARISON SHOULD BE APPROACHED WITH
GREAT CAUTION, DATA PRESENTED IN THE ABOVE TABLE NAVE BEEN COLLECTED LARGELY BY THE BANK MISSIONS FROM GOVERNMENT SOURCES; THE
REMAINDER ARE STAFF ESTIMATES OR DATA FROM UNESCO, EFFORTS HAVE BEEN MADE TO STANDARDIZE DEFINITIONS AND WITHIN LIMITS, TO CHECK THE
ACCURACY OF THE DATA. NEVERTHELESS,SUCH DATA ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESPECTS AND THE BANK IS WORKING TO IMPROVE THEM
PROGRESSIVELY ON THE OCCASION OF ITS OPERATIONAL WORK. IN THE USE OF THESE DATA, THE FOLLOWING QUALIFICATIONS SHOULD BE BORNE IN
MIND:
(1)"EDUCATION" AS DEFINED IN THE TABLE INCLUDES ALL EDUCATION AND TRAINING, FORMAL AND NON-FORMAL;
(2)"PRIMARY EDUCATION REFERS TO EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND "SECONDARY" EDUJCATION REFERS TO ALL EDUCATION AT THE SECONDARY
LEVEL REGARDLESS OF TYPE (E.G. GENERAL, TECHNICAL, AGRICULTURAL) 
(3)"LITERACY RATES"(COL.6) ARE OFTEN OBTAINED FROM COUNTRY CENSUSES. IN MANY COUNTRIES THEY ARE ONLY APPROXIMATIONS AND IT IS
DOUBTFUL THAT ANY UNIFORM DEFINITION OF "LITERATE" HAS BEEN FOLLOWED CONSISTENTLY;
(4)"PUBLIC EXPENDITURE IN EDUCATION" (COLS 4 AND 5) REFERS TO ALL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT EXPENDITURES DEVOTED TO EDUCATION BY
PUBLIC AND QUASI-PUBLIC AGENCIES;
(5)"ENROLLMENT RATIOS"(COLS 7, 12 AND 14) REFER TO SCHOOL YEAR AND MEAN THE PERCENTAGE OF ELIGIBLE CHILDREN ENROLLED FULL-TIME
IN THE APPROPRIATE SCHOOL, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE BY LEVEL. THEY ARE OFTEN SUBJECT TO A WIDE MARGIN OF ERROR IN THE DEVELOPING
COUNTRIES OWING TO VARIATION IN THE ACCURACY OF BASIC DATA(I.K. AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLMENTS). ENROLLMENT FIGURES
FREQUENTLY ARE HIGHER THAN THE NUMBER OF STUDENTS ACTUALLY IN SCHOOL. OVERAGED STUDENTS WHOSE INCLUSION IS INDICATED BY
FOOTNOTES ALSO CAN INFLATE THE RATIOS.



ANNEX I
Table 2
NEPAL
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING)
Table 2: Technical Assistance Requirements
Project Personnel              Total      FY83      FY84      FY85      FY86      FY87
m/m      m/m       m/m       m/m       m/m       m/m
Project Coordinator              48          12       12        12       12
Trades Test Specialist           12                    6         6
Consultants
Subject Specialist A       10           2        2         2         2         2
Subject Specialist B       10           2        2         2         2         2
Subject Specialist C       10           2        2         2         2         2
Non-formal Education        2                    2
Secondary Education
Specialist D       2            2
Specialist E       2           2
Other Specialists          12           2        3         3         2         2
Sub-Total                       108          24      29        27        20         8
Training
Study Tour
PSC Study Team             16           8        8
Trades Test Study Team   16             8        8
Property Management
Chief                     4                    4
Other Staff                 6                    6
Fellowships
Campus Chief               22          10       12
Librarian                  22                   10        12
Head of Dept. A            22          10       12
Head of Dept. B            22          10       12
Technicians (22)          132                             66        66
Lecturers (22)            176                   48        64        64
Senior Instructors (9)  135                     60        75
Instructors (14)          168                   60        84        24
Sub-Total                       741          46     240       301       154



ANNEX 1
-34-                                                  Chart 1
NEPAL
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING)
Structure of the Ministry of Education
|MINISTRY OF EDUCATION1
r  UNESCO                 Naioa EuainMister of dcto                                                               rbue
I                                                              |  Asst. Minister for Education
I                                                                          Secretary
Curriculum
Pianning             General            Educational          Textbook            Controller          Department         Janak Education         Regional
Division         Administration       Administration      Supervision and      of Examinations      of Archeology         Material Ltd.        Directorate
Division            Division           Development
Center
Programming           Personnel             School                                                                                                District
Evauation        Administration        Adminstration                                                                                       Education Offices
Manpovxr             Publicity
end              a *nd Public          Training
2  Statistics       Relations
Property              Adult
Management            Education
Higher
Education and
| Scholarship  |                                                                                  World Bank-23393



-35-
ANNEX 1
Chart 2
NEPAL
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING)
Administrative Structure of the Western Region Center
Chief of WRC
11A)    (H)
V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Head of
Head of           Hed  fEl                       ndLirrinSuperintendent                                                        Division Chief for Procurement
tr                                 -~~~Hado  Eetrical and         Librarian             of Student                                and Property Managoment
Cosr2to  Tech.        pEram- Sectionn         Mechanca Teh.               (2) ~Affairs'                                                            12B1 (H)
(2A) (H)                           )~~~~~~2A) (H)
Lbratory          Letrrs(A  (H)               Lbrato ry           Lecturers [3A) (H)         Cief for General              Chief              Maintenance
CVrkhief                  and                   Cokhief                   and                  Aminsratin               Fiscal Officer          Supervisor
3C)ieH)           Instructors (4A) (HI          ChA ieH)          Instructors (4A) (H)            (32)  H)               (38) (H)                 (32)
2 Storekeepers                                  2 Storekeepers
(68)                                            (62B)
(H)  Indicates housing vvill be provided on campus. 
)2A) Indicates appointment will be made at grade level 2A in the university service.
Part-time teaching staff appointment.                                                                                                               WrdSn      22
I Ab~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~orlBank - 2252



I ~  ~    ' 



AXOEX    ATF    TI"N      I  -1.00  NP O
SALT  FACOE:  (L,OOlO    (0100  1'
NA.    -OA          STOp DA-ALPO                 SOLENURNITURE                                        OOAE'2I-T              PRF.SEIEC                    SZALARIE                CLNSCI-IRINT                -OIALRNTS                STRO OJRPO20     IN NEP.00                        $SS
EO.     FROJRCT I000                                       FLOE PLACES 29.01f. FOO   P-OEZA          O.      ACI   0010    fAA 1.NNITAL, LOCAL, PORTION   TOTAL   AGO, I-ET1A     TOTA   LOCAL CARIN   TOTAL LOCAL, FORIGN   TOITAL LO)CAL PRIO-                    TOTAL, LCAL PARPIS   TOTAL LOCAL PORTION   TOTAL, LOCAL   OREIEG   TOA                  OA
IAIT-   11,11S                  A    AlP      0101     1, 2000   1270    425    ElSE1   4257,   100402  7'll        790      215F      2       0.2,      14 11            00       01199                                                                                                                     RS      ER       IN
A  55 ROT     01149   1307     4056   6500    4000    10290    2072        272       54       5       3016      300   120`5     057      1372             11150    0109   1205                                                                                                      1'300
A      18110     111  1 3005     10026   1524    1016      2540    107       1 27      254       4A    07, 7     25997    AAO      02       320             I7S3    1950    0687                                                                                                      155
12            OPTESTOTG200S2TS                               Io                                                                                                                                      SOEO- - - "6  0    9AR4    686    1600        2222950                                                                102 130            6
20TA.L6 002200T1  1.0            rORO               0   626       0512    52100   2200       7505 11057    7902    12762   1007    14017         2A14  5106   200286    34572  712              2A32   4106                                                                                                                            016    502
OUR-POS             R   AO        59103   2900   127 7      4257   eOOR    405        04        0       72       159        0     1         10 10            10      lII12                                                                                                                     662    2202       132
OOOSIN             2     55      005       304    1301     1356   6504   40356    10000    272         122       545      5       336 2'           11       1017     10722119                                                                                                                  649      732       00
000. AS                   -       1014      711    005      1002   15014    2010      2540    II7       1017      254      2      074       55 7    220       32       0I0  9064         0      OPRO    006    16A2       228012424    1553   19009    101
OTTA                           02031    1 1904   51 40    17104 250 01   17 104    400035  2l05   ONUS          5200 53 007   50004    057101  4057         54A      55397   0 061       C     0064    6Oo    0602       2208                                                         60264-N 0 27X5 7 5 4   IO17E63  890
2.01       NATTANAL  S       TLL 30100
2.            L,PITAL COST9S C1207P9PS1                      ICNO                                                                                 60       137    1 75      990     016944                                                                                                                                               12      1099
2.2              PE-T I2NG _ '.,7                                            -                                                                                                                                                          IA        24       56        211295l92                                                                                4
SOOOO'1-3T002.0             OTHROC               A68                                                                                  62       1 57   1270     2099     1 160     -        -         -      0         0      1003      24      56        0120203   112                                                                090
3.0 2       1[AAI    POAECO000106O                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Il
0.2  NOFIN7IOOLITOCCATOON  01405                                                                                                                                                                                                    495       7900    1485      495    2922       050~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,  111 181 41  11  5
0.03            STCONDAOI2000ICOTIO9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       8 A29,         12       A45        95      90       10
S.C4            -OALIXT      CMPEIAE700060 T4099 0330                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     130       90       OE      12         0
TE2XCY2SET003.C                 OTUR-               A5940    198E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               7920    54        290      77        6A
4.0        POAJEOT  MUIEPL2T.  .-ITOOICE9
4.1             CIPTRCOATS                                                                          406                                             46        90  1  17      440        72900                                                                                                                                               70        716
1.2             IIEATOCAT                                      A                                                                  2209   3                                                                                            0001      ES      111       IS      261                                                         01       012
TOTALAFT9NCT-24.0               OTFER               0N                                                                                   RN       91    I17       662       779                             2210         0     2210      40      ill       1S2                                                       40        81       24        9
5.7        TACII3AA   X5N13TAN942
5.TORALS0                                          0                                                                                                                    - -                     --                         -        -               002    4544      53042                                8 - 00024          4 40
SOASLIP-  40I2  TN  RN    S11934   5140    17104 25701   17104,   42233   2710    2710                                                                      59273  5040   32112151   370850?  4257      54401    5097 130022         0    130002    7508   1769       20527    012    oSl44      5046   54954    1000      090 751 626173
IN  003                                                               TI     02        22 14           19        23      24        0         0      2      245       25       260       4        o09    99           I     991      57      104       091     6       244       403    45        15        60      4107     NR    00
0N5                                                                10       589     1295   I91    1295        34275               1        o       5      25        25       1  206-                                      -        90262                    --  -                      20                 00,    9,IR             12
02HSEET 1    05                                                              1 909    105 ~     SU1   6971?    2~72       975      40,     39'          11 52222     40        224      76  280                   21'2              001     469      20       10 1     169      22        94     09       27 9     16      2E       154      A
PS1     15  05 1                                                             1044    5511     2100   2101   1771         40061  2151    296         612:   6521   4300        090      6        512   10721I"I       0I           1072    6112    1216        002,    761    4001        69     57       05         56     791       72 14704l



A



-37-                       ANNEX 2
Table 2
NEPAL
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING)
Unit Area and Unit Cost Estimates
Median Values of Bank-
wide Similar Projects
Academic and Communal Facilities             This Project               (78-80) a/
Construction area per student place            12.5 m2                14.1 m
Building Cost per m  of gross area             US$   167 b/           US$   269
Construction cost per student place            US$ 2,901 c/           US$ 3,409
Furniture cost per student place               US$   311              US$   443
Equipment cost per student place               US$ 3,818 d/           US$ 3,115
(High value US$6,009)
Total cost per student place                   US$ 7,030              US$ 8,788
Boarding Facilities
Construction area per boarding place           14.7 m                 10.0 m2
2                                           (High value 18.2 m )
Building cost per m  of gross area             US$   136 b/           US$   454
Construction cost per boarding place           US$ 2,822 c/           US$ 5,132
Furniture cost per boarding place              US$   302              US$   449
Total cost per boarding place                  US$ 2,318              US$ 5,581
Staff Housing
Area per staff housing unit                    110 m2                 100 m2
Building cost per m  of gross area             US$   136 b/           US$   332
Total cost per staff house                     US$21,000 c/           US$35,957
a/ Source: CPS, October 1980 (Unit Area and Unit Cost Estimates in
Education Projects). Mid 1980 figures were increased by 15% to
cover the 16 months difference.
b/ Excludes site development.
c/ Includes site development.
d/ Equipment costs are comparatively high because they include initial
operation materials, installation costs and spares. They also
include allowances for air freight transportation for some
equipment.



)                                                                                                                                                                                                        A  
a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .                       I



-38-
NEPAL
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                                       ANNEX 2
Table 3
(TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING)
Contingency Allowances
EXCHANGE RATE: 1 US $ =  13.200 NEP.RS
SCALE FACTOR:  (000)'S   (000)'S
SITE DEVELPM       BUILDING         FURNITURE         EQUIPMENT      PROF. SERVCS        SALARIES       CONSUM/M4AINT    CONSULTANTS       STUDIES/RPTS    TOTAL PROJECT COSTS
LOCAL  FOREIGN  LOCAL  FOREIGN  LOCAL  FOREIGN  LOCAL  FOREIGN  LOCAL  FOREIGN  LOCAL  FOREIGN  LOCAL  FOREIGN  LOCAL  FOREIGN  LOCAL  FOREIGN   LOCAL  FOREIGN  TOTAL
CONTINGENCIES (AS % OF PROJECT COST):
UNFORESEEN                    15.0   15.0       15.0   15.0      10.0   10.0       10.0   10.0       5.0    5.0        -       -       15.0   15.0        -       -        5.0    5.0
PRICE ESCALATION              39.2   23.5       31.1   18.6      43.5   26.0      39.9   23.9       19.6   17.0      38.4   31.4       68.9   40.4      25.9   22.8       20.9   17.5
TOTAL                         60.0   42.0       50.8   36.4      57.9   38.6      53.9   36.3       25.6   22.8      38.4   31.4       94.3   61.5      25.9   22.8       27.0   23.3
PROJECT COST (WITHOUT CONTINGENCIES):
(000)'S NEP.RS              11994    5140   25701   17134    2719    2719    5649   32010    4857           540   13082         0     758    1769       802    4544    5940    1980   71501   65836  137337
(000)'S US$                   909      389    1947    1298       206      206     428    2425       368      41      991        0       57     134       61      344      450      150    5417    4988   10404
% FOREIGN EXCHANGE                       30.0             40.0              50.0             85.0              10.0              0.0              70.0             85.0              25.0             47.9
CONTINGENCIES (AMOUNTS):
UNFORESEEN
(000)'S NEP.RS            1799     771    3855    2570       272      272      565    3201      243       27       -       -       114      265       -        -      297       99    7145    7205   14350
(000)'S US$                136       58     292      195       21      21       43      243       18       2       -        -        9       20       -        -        23       8      541      546    1087
PRICE ESCALATION
(000)'S NEP.RS            5403    1388    9197    3668    1301        779    2478    8404       999       96    5025         0     601      822      208    1035    1304       363   26515   16555   43070
(000)'S US5                409      105     697      278       99      59      188      637      76        7      381        0      46       62       16       78       99      27    2009    1254    3263
SUBTOTAL
(000.B   NEP.RS           7202    2159   13052    6238    1573    1050    3043   11605    1241           123    5025         0     715    1087       208    1035    1601       462   33660   23760   57420
(000)'S US$                546      164     989      473      119      80      231      879      94        9      381        0      54       82       16       78      121      35    2550    1800    4350
7 FOREIGN EXCHANGE                       23.1             32.3              40.0             79.2               9.0              0.0              60.3             83.3              22.4             41.4
TOTAL PROJECT COST (WITH CONTINGENCIES):
(000)'S NEP.RS              19195    7299   38753   23372    4291    3769    8692   43615    6099           663   18107         0    1473    2856    1010    5579    7541    2442  105161   89596  194757
(000)'S US$                  1454      553    2936    1771       325     286      658    3304       462       50    1372        0      112      216      76      423      571      185    7967    6788   14754
7 FOREIGN EXCRANGE                       27.5             37.6              46.8             83.4               9.8              0.0              66.0             84.7              24.5             46.0
TOTAL CONTINGENCIES:   AS % OF TOTAL PROJECT COST   29.5    ,AS 7 OF PROJECT COST WITHOUT CONTINGENCIES  41.9
I  ;            I                 I    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I I.



, I



-39-
ANIN- 3
'CbiartI
NEPAL
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING)
Implementation Schedule
F SCAL YEAR,        FY'1  I          IE    3 |F 35 |        F857      F B8                F        F' YB
CALENDAR YEAR    CY80       CY81      CY82      CY83      CY84      CY85      CY86      CY87     CY88       CY89
QUARTER:                                                       I;  3H13 i 4 i 32   12 3|41 2341234  1234123|4
1 SITES
a) SELECTION
b) TOPOGRAPHICALSURVEYS
2. CONSULTANT ARCHITECTS:
_               al SELECTION
bl APPOINTMiENT
3. PROJECT DESIGN:                                                                                          START
el SCHEMATIC DESIGN                                               z         O         O                   ENROLLMENT
O                  0
Eb OESIGN DEVELOPMENT
z        z 
cI CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS                                                                             2YEARERATION
d) BID DOCUMENTS
4 BIDDING AND CONSTRUCTiON                                                    -              _          AW
ol REVIEW DRAFT BID DOCUMENTS
b) BID ANNOUNCEMENT
cI BIDDING
di CONTRACT AWARD AND APPROVALS
01 CONSTRUCTION
fl DEFECTS LIABILITY PERIOD
E. EQUIPMENT AND FURNITURE PROCUREMENT:                   -                 - =_
,   PRELIMINARY LISTS AND LAYOUTS
bE FINAL LISTS ISPECS & COSTSI
c) REVIEW DRAFT BID DOCUMENTS
dl BID ANNOUNCEMENT                                                _
e) BIDDING                                                           _                                                     01
fN CONTRACT AWARD AND APPROVALS                                            _                                                1
o) MANUFACTURE AND SHIPPING                                                    _i
hI DELIVERY INSTALLATION TESTING                                                       _          i1
i) WARRANTY PERIOD
6. STAFF APPOINTMENT AND OVERSEAS TRAINING:
8I ESTABLISHMENT OF PIU
b) APPOINTMENT OF ADDITIONAL PIU STAFF
C) RECR. APPOINT KEY ADMINISTRATORS
dl TRAINING OF KEY ADMINISTRATORS
.) RECR APPOINT TEACHING STAFf
fI TRAINING OF TEACHING STAFF
El RECR. APPOINT SEN. INSTRUCTORS
h) TRAINING OF SEN. INSTRUCTORS
:1 RECR. APPOINT TECHNICIANS
II TRAINING OF TECHNICIANS
. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
cl SELECT APPOINT. SUBJECT SPECIALISTS
d SPECIALISTS SERVICES PERIOD IdC
RI SELECT APPOINT TRADE TESTING
SPECIALISTS
0 SPECIALISTS SERVICES PERIOD l_e
a) SELECT APPOINT CTA
bl CTA SERVICE PERIOD
I 1      2         3         4         S         6        6;. Y EARS
APPRAISAL NOViDEC '80
NEGOTIATIONS (ESTIMATE). OCTOBER'81
BOARD OATS tESTIMATSI DECEMBER a1
EFFECTIVE DATE iESTIMATE)   APRIL'82
CLOSING DATE. JUNE 'B
*FULLCAPACITY OPERATION (2ND YEARI
W.Hdd B..k - 22531



ANNEX 3
-40-                                                        Chart 2
NEPAL
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING)
Project Implementation Unit Organization
Executive Board
(Second Education Project)
| Project Director* (Dean IOE)
I     Project Coordinator (1A)
1 Project                  1 Fiscal              1 Admin.             1 Procurement Officer*           1 Education Officer
Architect                 Offr                   Officer                     (3 B)                          (2A)
(2A)                      (1)(8
1 Asst. Education
2 Accountants         1 Admin. Asst.       1 Asst. Procurement Officer           Officer (Electrical)
(48)      l  l        (4B)       l  l            (38)            l        |        (3A)
2    1 Asst. Education
2 Typists (6B8Tpss(1)                            2 Storekeepers                    Officer (Civil)
(3A)
1 Asst. Education
______  ___________                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Officer (Mechanical)
(3 A)
Project Engineer (2A)
1 Asst. Project Engineer (3A)
5 Site Supervisors (5)
(2A) indicates appointment will be made at grade level 2A in the unviersity service grades.
*Part-time appointment, to be shared with PI U of the First Education Project                                  World Bank-23392



-41-                      ANNEX 4
NEPAL
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING)
Forecast of Expenditures and Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year                Expenditures               Disbursements
and Semester           Semester    Cumulative    Semester         Cumulative
1982
1st (July 81 - Dec. 81)       0.06            0.06           -             -
2nd (Jan. 82 - June 82)       0.19            0.25          0.06          0.06
1983
lst (July 82 - Dec. 82)       0.83            1.08          0.18          0.24
2nd (Jan. 83 - June 83)       1.97            3.05          0.75          0.99
1984
Ist (July 83 - Dec. 83)       2.47            5.52          1.82          2.81
2nd (Jan. 84 - June 84)       2.48            8.00          2.31          5.12
1985
1st (July 84 - Dec. 84)       2.49           10.49          2.33          7.45
2nd (Jan. 85 - June 85)       2.44           12.93          2.34          9.79
1986
1st (July 85 - Dec. 85)       1.01           13.94          2.33         12.12
2nd (Jan. 86 - June 86)       0.19           14.13          1.55         13.67
1987
1st (July 86 - Dec. 86)       0.21           14.34          0.16         13.83
2nd (Jan. 87 - June 87)       0.19           14.53          0.12         13.95
1988
1st (July 87 - Dec. 87)       0.22           14.75          0.17         14.12
2nd (Jan. 88 - June 88)        -             14.75          0.18         14.30
Estimated Effectiveness Date: April 1982.
Estimated Closing Date: June 30, 1988.



ANNEX 5
-42--                       Page 1
NEPAL
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING)
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   General Reports and Studies Related to Education
1.   Education Programs in the Fifth Plan (1975-80), Ministry of Education,
Kathmandu, 1977.
2.   Nepal - The Fifth Plan (1975-80) in Brief, National Planning Commission,
Kathmandu, April 1979.
3.   Basic Principles of the Sixth Plan (1975-80), Ministry of Education,
Kathmandu, 1977.
4.   Nepal - Education and Development, Unesco, July 1975.
5.   Education and Development (Special Issues on Higher Education),
National Education Committee, CERID, Kathmandu, 1978.
6.   Education and Development, Trends and Issues, Center for Educational
Research, Innovation and Development, Kathmandu, 1979.
7.   Teacher Education in Nepal, Dr. Kedar N. Shrestha, fribhuvan University,
Kathmandu, 1980.
8.   Education Management in Nepal, Dr. Kedar N. Shrestha,, Tribhuvan
University, Kathmandu, 1980.
9.   Civil Service-Journal, Public Service Commission, Kathmandu, April 1980,
No. 4.
10. The Role of Supervision in Improving the Teaching/Learning Process in
Nepal, A.C.R. Wheeler, Consultant IIEP, Unesco, Paris.
11. Nepal, Education Sector Memorandum, Report No. 3583-NEP, September 4, 1981.
B.   Reports and Studies Related to the Project
1.   Feasibility Study - IOE Western Region Campus, prepared for the World
Bank, Institute of Engineering, Kathmandu, April 1980.
2.   Feasibility Study - IOE Western Region Campus, Interim Report prepared
for the World Bank, Institute of Engineering, Kathmandu, April 1979.



'N\                   CHINA
INDIA                                                                                                                                                                      NEPAL
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
jt  ~ '   9   <                      TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING
>                                                                                                                U -R N A  L I  PROJECT CAMPUSES
s .                                           7                                                                                       g.'- S  ^    + '  .    1,  /   t  @   CITIES AND TOWNS
-    MAIN ROADS
RIVERS
ADMINISTRATIVE ZONAL BOUNDARIES
/     /           < I      f ~  '   -    -- T          ,                         .<./                                                                _-_       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
/   >       /                        >     [i>H<   k(          7>       -g/           '
IDHA'VA  ACA/  '         J.
IKr  /S' 4  -.R,,X}     t             ,    tv        C  8  >2 p  A  K  I  '    $   '                                 C   H    I  N    A
N   IV STE RN FE   NEN1L1
t <\ ~\R  A  PT  I                             Prclso[ rnLcr . o  PFI ECV   PKHARA  7    '
\7z    -   >-l    /            ,               /           \   S       +        \    ;           /      14 A CS M  A T I   \^A_AA I                                                              280
I N   DI I/ 
ll --lt ; jt \ /) X !/ ,~~~~~~~AGARM/JHA \]0i' 
%\  S              J                           1 t   <                                      t X  t: k MLCi1t \ (g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"S 
Worl -ap S-n Seen prepared bE tIe
the ran eanente of toe readers ol-0__t                                                                                                                                           ,/           
250 rtpntt InmtES Ih St esttach ed                                             ~*                                IQ,                                     
PThe denorn,nlrdtonn used arId the                                                                          k<.z/ \                              \/>                           
Sonnrdar,SnIt showm on thrs nap                                                                                                                                         .     _     I       RlATGR'\    
do tOt tnpIE  On tIre p' rt0e tIe_
o           Wo.,d Ban-k -n-t  .E,yIrten. dn1
any ItmeEntnyntenyrendt/srtnent                   20   40   60   8'  100  120  140  160
o           sral epltleceolsnctfhbo-td-e                                   KILOMETERSN
26    t                                     _     ;                                                      84 "-    %'t  _ +~                                    86                 /   tSJ    ssolil   \ /             8B/I26Nt_ 
1    0,                                          05                                                                                                                                                                   8          H



