                                                      Document of

                                               TheWorld Bank

                                           FOR OFFICIALUSE ONLY




                                                                                                    R q m No. 11984




                                         PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT




                                                          NEPAL




                                         SECOND ELlUCATION PROJECT
                                 ( T e c h n i c a l a n d V o c a t i o n a l T r a i n i n g )

                                                 (CREDIT 1198-NEP)




        P o p u l a t i o n and Human R e s o u r c e s D i v i s i o n
        Country Department I
        S o u t h A s i a R e g i o n a l O f f i c e



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                    CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
                        December 1981

       Nepalese Rupees (NRs)   =   US$ 7.58
                    US$l.OO    =   NRs 13.2

                       September, 1991

                    US$l.OO   =    NRs 42.7
                    NRs 100   =    US$ 2.34

                         FISCAL YEAR

                      July 16 - July 15



                        ABBREVIATIONS

CTA            Chief Technical Adviser
CTEVT          Council for Technical Education and Vocational
               Training
DCA            Development Credit Agreement
HMG(N)         His Majesty's Government of Nepal
IDA             International Development Association
ILO            International Labor Organization
IOE            Institute of Engineering, Tribhuvan University
NSTA           National Skill Testing Authority
NSTB           National Skill Testing Board
PCR            Project Completion Report
PIU            Project Implementation Unit
PSC            Public Service Commission
SDR            Special Drawing Rights
STD            Skill Testing Division
TA             Technical Assistance
UNDP           United Nations Development Programme
UNESCO         United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
               Organization
WRC            Western Regional Campus of IOE, Pokhara

                                                                                                            FOR OFFICIALUSEONLY
                                                               THE WORU) BANK
                                                             Washington, D.C.20433
                                                                     U.S.A.

(Mice of Dlrector-General
 Opedona Evaluation




                                                                                                                June 14, 1993




                     MEMORANDUM TO THE EXEXUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT


               SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Nepal
                               Second Education Project
                               (Technical and Vocational Training) fCr. 1198-NEP)


                               Attached is the Project Completion Report on Nepal - Second
               Education Project (Technical and VocationalTraining) (Credit 1198-NEP) prepared by
               the South Asia Regional Office with Part IIcontributed by the Borrower. The report
               gives an adequate assessment of project achievements.

                                This project outcome is rated as satisfactory: it met in large part the
               objectives of increasing training capacities for craftsmen and engineeringtechnicians and
               improving training standards.

                                Institution building under the project has been substantial. However, the
               sustainability of the achievementsremains uncertain as the effective demand for the
               training offered appears unsteady. The Government is looking at possibilities OF making
               better use of facilitiesand staff.

                                This project may be audited along with three subsequent operations in the
               sector which are nearing completion.




               Attachment




                 Thir document hss a restricted distribution and may be used by recipientsonly in the performanceof their offloial
                 dutlea. L content8 may not othemire be diwlored without World Bank authorization.


                                                                                FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                     .            NEPAL
              SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT         (Technical and Vocational Trainin~l
                                            ICr. 1198-NEPI

                                                                  ORT

                                          Table of Contents
   -                                                                                      Paee No.

   Preface    ..................................................                              i

   Evaluation Summary.......................................                               iii

                         PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK PERSPECTIVE
                   Project Identity....................................

                   Project Background     ..................................
                   Project Objectives and Description..................
                   Project Design and Organisation.....................
                   Project Implementation..............................
                   Project Results.....................................
                   Project Sustainability..............................
                   IDA Performance.....................................
                   Borrower Performance................................
                   Project Relationships...............................
                   Consulting Services.................................

                   Project Documentation and Data         ......................

   z4%ExLL               PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER PERSPECTIVE

                   Overview   ............................................                   11

                   Project Administration and Management........:......                       11

                   Professional Services and Building Design...........                       12

                   Civil Works    .........................................                   12

                    Equipment...........................................                      12

                   Furniture...........................................                       13

                   Technical Assistance................................                       13

                    Instructional and Consumable Materials..............                     13

                   Lessons Learned....................................                        13

                   IDA Performance.....................................                       14




This document has a restricteddistribution and may be used by recipientsonly in the performance
of their oflicial duties
                       . Itscontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization
                                                                                                   .

PART I11 TABLES AND STATISTICAL I#FORHATIO#    . . . . . . . . . . .     15

TABLES:  1.   Related IDA Credits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     16
         2.   ProjectTimetable                                           17
         3    Admission and Output of Students. 1987-1991
                                 . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . .    18
         4    Disbursement of Credit Proceeds (Est.lActua1)  .. .. .. .. 19
         5....Project Costs by Expenditure Category  . . . . . . . .     20
         6    Allocation of Credit Proceeds by Disb Category
                                                   .                 .   21
         7.   Project Financing (EstimatedlActual)   . . . . . .. .. .   22
         8..  Compliance with Credit Covenants   . . . . . . . . . .     23
         9    Staff Inputs by Stage of Project Cycle   . . . . . . .     27

MAP      IBRD 15593

                                    NEPAL

        SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (Technical and Vocational Training)

                                (Cr. 1198-NEPZ



                          PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT



                                   PREFACE




            This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second
Education Project in Nepal (Technical and Vocational Training) for which Cr.
1198-NEP in the amount of SDR 12.5 million (US$ 14.3 million equivalent) was
approved on December 22, 1981. The Credit was 79.5% disbursed, and the last
disbursement was on June 11, 1992. The remaining balance of SDR 2.57 million
(US$ 2.93 million equivalent) was cancelled on September 23, 1992. The
Project was cofinanced with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)
which provided US$ 3.23 million for technical assistance.

            The PCR was jointly prepared by the Population and Human Resources
Division of the South Asia Country Department 1 (Preface, Evaluation Summary,
Parts I and 111) and the Borrower (Part 11, and selected information included
in Part 111).

            Preparation of this PCR was initiated during IDA'S final
supervision of the project during November 1991, and is based, inter alia, on
the Staff Appraisal Report, the Development Credit Agreement (DCA),
supervision reports, correspondence between IDA and the Borrower, interviews
with officials of the Tribhuvan University and Institute of Engineering, the
Terminal Report of UNDP technical assistance, and internal IDA memoranda.


                                              NEPAL


        S E C O N D T T T a n d a i n i n n i n g )

                                         (Cr. 1198-NEP)


                                    PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT

                                       EVALUATION SUMMARY



(i)                   Project objectives (para 2)  The Project objectives were (i) to
increase the supply of skilled craftsmen with basic engineering skills and of
civil, electrical and mechanical engineering technicians needed to implement
Nepal's development programs; (ii) to improve the relevance and quality of all
trade skills training throughout the country through the establishment of
national skill standards, to be incorporated into public service standards for
appointment and promotion; and (iii) to enhance the career prospects for
skilled craftsmen and technicians in the public service through the
introduction of appropriate career structures. Finally, the project would
contribute to the further development of the education sector through improved
planning and project preparation and evaluation studies.

(ii)                  Im~lementationEx~erience(section El    Implementation was subject
to serious delays, due to (a) late finalization of buildings design; (b) poor
performance of the main building contractor, and consequent delays in
equipment procurement; (c) delayed establishment of the National Skill Testing
Authority; (d) failure to implement a plan to improve the appointment and
career development opportunities of skilled craftsmen and technicians in the
public service, and (e) initial delays in assembling a team of technical
assistance consultants.

(iii)        -(section                     By the revised closing date, the project had
achieved or was about to achieve its main objectives. The Center at Pokhara
was built, equipped and staffed. Three hundred and twenty three technicians
and 245 one-year craft trainees had received training, which corresponds to
appraisal estimates. The project has provided training opportunities in
hitherto neglected parts of the Country. About 25 of the first batch of craft
trainees have set up their own small businesses, demonstrating the project's
potential for stimulating local opportunities of employment creation. Trade
testing and certification systems developed under the project are now
implemented under the Council for Technical Education and Vocational Training
(CTEVT) which was established in 1988. Trade advisory committees have been
established, fifty-twotrade standards have been developed, and annual trade
tests have been conducted since 1985. A government task-forcereported in
1989 on Career Progress Opportunities for Technicians and Tradesmen. It is
expected that its recommendations for enhancing these opportunities will be
reflected in changed regulations to be proposed by the National Education
Commission.

(iv)        Sustainability (section G)   Under the auspices of the successor
Engineering Education Project (Cr.2044-NEP), a Workshop on Sustainability of
Projects in the Institute of Engineering took place in Kathmandu in May 1992.
In consequence, a task-forcewas established comprising senior staff of the
Institute, and representatives of the public and private sectors. The task-
force will identify issues and make recommendations for enhancing sustain-
ability of the Institute's development program. At the Pokhara campus,
contracts for local training services are helping to provide continuing staff
incentives and to improve facilities. Further opportunities are being
explored for staff of the Center to provide training and consultant services.
Long-term sustainability will depend on continuing local commitment to the
concept and objectives of the project, which in turn will depend on its
perceived contribution to meeting skilled manpower needs and creating job
opportunities. Changes in career progression regulations in the public
service will stimulate demand for training opportunities available through the
project.

(v)         Lessons learned   Some of the lessons learned are: (a) sustainable
training programs, especially in areas offering limited jobs, require linkage
to established industry, student counselling programs, and assistance in
creating small enterprises and self-employmentopportunities: this was
insufficiently recognized in the project design; (b) where major policy issues
such as employment conditions in the public service are beyond the control of
a project, but central to its concept, suitable implementation arrangements
need to be made: the Project Implementation Unit was internal to the Institute
of Engineering, and no mechanisms were created to improve career prospects for
technicians and skilled craftsmen in government service; (c) serious problems
and delays in construction and equipment can divert attention from wider
issues of policy implementation under other components: the supervision
reports reflect this emphasis; (d) early identification and regular review of
key project performance indicators can ensure balanced supervision, and help
to highlight areas requiring particular attention: key indicators were
developed during the third year of project implementation,but were not
regularly applied thereafter.

      SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (Technical and Vocational train in^)




                - Project Name:  Second Education Project (Technical and
                                Vocational Training)
                - Credit No.  : 1198-NEP
                - RVP Unit    :  South Asia Regional Office
                                 Country Department I
                - Country     : Nepal
                - Sector      : Population and Human Resources
                - Subsector   : Technical and Vocational Training

B. Proiect Backeround
               -



   1.    By almost any standard, Nepal is one of the least developed
         countries in the world. Per capita income is estimated at $180,
         health and education standards are well below the average for
         South Asia, and population growth is in excess of two percent per
         year. Before 1971, little emphasis had been placed on vocational
         training or technical education at either secondary or post-
         secondary level. In 1971, the Government adopted a New Education
         System Plan designed to enlarge access to basic education,
         improve teacher training and reorient education away from academic
         and theoretical subjects toward practical activities more closely
         related to the needs of development. Institutes within Tribhuvan
         University (the only university in Nepal) were made responsible
         for post-secondary technical education, the Institute of
         Engineering (IOE) being responsible for electrical, construction
         and mechanical trades and technician training. During the Fifth
         Development Plan (1975-80) education enrollments exceeded targets,
         but the vocational and technical training system still failed to
         supply adequate numbers of skilled workers and technicians
         required for economic growth, and industrial production fell
         behind expectations due both to lack of viable investment
         opportunities and scarcity of skilled manpower, particularly
         technical and supervisory manpower. At the same time, high
         population growth combined with low rates of economic growth, so

        that the creation of employment opportunities lagged behind growth
         in the labor force, resulting in unemployment and underemployment.
        The Sixth Plan (1981-86) therefore attached considerable
        importance to development of the education sector both as part of
         its strategy to meet the minimum basic needs of the population,
        and to support economic development in other sectors, which was
        retarded by inadequate numbers of suitably skilled technical
        personnel. High priority was given to expansion of the present
        inadequate capacity for technical and vocational skills training.

C. Proiect obiectives and description

        Proiect obiectives. The Project objectives were (a) to increase
        the supply of skilled craftsmen with basic engineering skills and
        of civil, electrical and mechanical engineering technicians needed
        to implement Nepal's development programs; (b) to improve the
        relevance and quality of all trade skills training throughout the
        country through the establishment of national skill standards, to
        be incorporated into public service standards for appointment and
        promotion; and (c) to enhance the career prospects for skilled
        craftsmen and technicians in the public service through the
        introduction of appropriate career structures. Finally, the
        Project would contribute to the further development of the
        education sector through improved planning and project preparation
        and evaluation studies.

   3.   Project comDonents. The main components of the Project were:

        (a)   Western Reeion Center: Construction, furnishing and
                         -
        equipping of a skill training center at Pokhara in the Western
        Region to provide 160 trained craftsmen and 96 technicians in
        civil, mechanical and electrical technology per annum. In
        addition provision was made for academic and communal facilities
        including staff housing (100%) and student boarding (90%).
        Operating costs for incremental staff salaries, consumable
        training materials and maintenance were also provided.

         (b)  National Skill Testing Authority and the Public Service
        Promotional Structure: The establishment of a National Skill
        Testing Authority of the Government having a permanent technical
        skill testing Secretariat. The Authority would be authorized, if
        necessary under laws promulgated for the purpose, to set standards
        for engineering trades and to design and administer nationally
        recognized trade skill tests. The promotional structure of the
        Public Service would be revised by the Public Service Commission,
        if necessary under a new legal mandate, to provide skilled
        tradesmen and technicians with adequate promotion prospects to
        suitably senior levels.

        (c)   Education Project Studies to be carried out by the Ministry
                          -
        of Education for future education projects, including: (i) the
        full preparation of a primary education project; (ii) a study on
        the need for improvements in secondary education; (iii) a needs
        assessment study to expand non-formal education. All these
        preparatory studies would examine the potential of new management
        approaches to education under environmental conditions peculiar to
        Nepal. Additional evaluation of the First Education Project would
        also be made possible after its completion, through a monitoring
        system to be established by the Institute of Engineering (IOE) of
        Tribhuvan University; the monitoring system would provide a data
        base for the preparation of completion reports for both the First
        and Second Education Projects.

        (d)   P      i      c       e      s and Technical Assistance
        including: (i) technical assistance consisting of about 62
        student-yearsof overseas fellowships and about nine consultant/
        adviser years of specialist services partly financed by UNDP, and
        additional consultant and specialist services,mainly for the
        project studies; (ii) establishment of an office for the Project
        ImplementationUnit which would include office furniture and
        equipment and incremental operating costs, including salaries and
        travel.

D. Project desi~nand oreanization

    4 . The Project was initially identified under a study included in the
        First Education Project (Cr. 772-NEP), and further defined in a
        Project Brief following an IDA mission in November 1979. The
        project request was prepared by the Government in March 1980, and
        appraised by an IDA mission in November 1980. It reflected plan
        objectives to provide enhanced technical training opportunities.

    5.  While the Project components were well prepared, full recognition
        of the possible effects of locating the Center at Pokhara were not
        taken into account, nor the need to integrate operations with the
        development of potential employers.   The new training center was
        located in an area of limited industrial activity. There are few
        opportunities for acquiring industrial skills within enterprises,
        and severely limited local employment opportunities for graduates
        of institutional training programs. Furthermore, opportunities
        for public sector employment became increasingly scarce as a
        result of government policy to restrain the growth of the public
        sector.   The need to create employment opportunities in large or
        small enterprises in the private sector is more clearly recognized
        now than at the time of appraisal. This would require improved
        linkages with industry, strengthened employee counselling and
        placement services, and provision of credit, technical support
        services, and training in simple management techniques to
        encourage and assist the development of small enterprises, and of
        self-employmentopportunities.

     6.    In preparing the Project, HMG undertook to establish a National
           Skill Testing Authority (NSTA), and to incorporate skill tests in
           the appointment and promotion procedures of the public service. It
          was foreseen at appraisal that these obligations might require
           legislation affecting the Public Service Commission (PSC). The
          major policy issue of employment standards in government service
          was beyond the control of the Project,butcentral to its concept,
          and likely consequential delays in achieving project aims were
          rightly identified as a risk. Project assistance for fellowships,
          office furniture and equipment was foreseen for the PSC and NSTA,
          and for consultant services and incremental operating costs at the
          NSTA. However the project's implementation arrangements were
          mainly internal to the Institute of Engineering (IOE), and no
          mechanisms were created to assist implementation of this
          component.

E. Proiect Im~lementation

          The Project became effective July 23 1982. It was expected to be
          completed by December 31 1987, but was subject to delays in
           implementation. Four extensions of the completion date were
          agreed, with successive revised closing dates of June 30 1989,
          June 30 1990, and June 30 and finally December 31, 1991. The
          Project Implementation Unit was established by May 1983, after 18
          months' delay, except for the project architect who was appointed
           in August, 1983. The delays in appointment of PIU staff were
          attributed to slow internal clearance procedures.

     8.   The Trainina- Center at Pokhara. The Government chose a group of
          architectural consultants which had performed satisfactorily in
          design work for the First Education Project (Cr. 772-NEP).
          However, there were delays in finalizing architectural designs,
          and implementation was further delayed by the poor performance of
           the main building contractor. The new campus was finally available
          for teaching programs in 1987, three years after the original
          target date for completion of the construction. Despite
          difficulties and delays during implementation, construction is
          now complete, and essential repairs to the buildings and electric
          power supply have been completed. Nevertheless, many of the
          physical facilities, especially the library and residential
          accommodation for students, are not operating at a standard
          appropriate for an institute of higher education. This may in
          part be attributable to the poor treatment of the facilities by
           the students. However inadequacies of design, construction,
          equipment and maintenance have undoubtedly contributed to a
           disappointing atmosphere on a potentially scenic and attractive
          campus site. The workshops built and equipped under the project
           are all operational.   Landscaping required to resist erosion will
          be undertaken as part of the new construction under the
           Engineering Education Project (Cr. 2044-NEP). Technical
           assistance, staff training and curriculum development were
           successfully completed by 1989. However, curricular materials and

    training manuals were not readily available for inspection in the
    workshops, during a period of vacation. Those subsequently
    inspected were comprehensive in their coverage, and of an adequate
    technical standard.

9.  Because of the poor performance of the contractor, the Borrower
    withheld liquidated damages and other payments to compensate for
    the delays, and for the poor quality of the construction, which
    required repairs and early maintenance work. The dispute with the
    contractor was finally settled in April 1992. Delays in the
    completion of the buildings caused delays with the procurement of
    equipment. The final orders were placed in late 1990, but were not
    delivered on schedule due to difficulties with manufacturing and
    shipping schedules. Except for the late delivery of this
    equipment, which was eventually arranged with the assistance of
    the Engineering Education Project (Cr.2044-NEP), the Pokhara
    component was successfully completed by the revised final closing
    date.

10. National Skill Testing Authoritv and Public Service Promotional
    Structure. A skill testing authority was established
    provisionally in 1985. When the Council for Technical Education
    and Vocational Training (CTEVT) was officially established in
    November 1988, it absorbed these activities creating the National
    Skill Testing Board (NSTB) with employer and trade union
    participation. The Board assumed responsibility for preparing
    national skill standards and applying skill tests throughout
    Nepal, and created a Skill Testing Division (STD) to be its
    executive arm. Trade advisory committees have been established.
    Fifty-two trade standards have been developed and annual trade
    tests have been conducted since 1985. Trade testing and
    certification were started in 1987. Seventy part-time testing
    officers were trained to apply the tests at various locations
    including the Western Region Campus, and a technical library was
    established for the STD.

    Under the DCA, the Government agreed to implement by January 1
    1985 a plan to improve the appointment and career development
    opportunities of skilled craftsmen and technicians in the public
    service. It was recognized during supervision in September 1984
    that this responsibility rested with specialized ministries, and
    that the official recognition of skill tests would have to be
    taken up in the context of restructuring of the civil service,
    which was not expected in the near future. However, in 1986 the
    Government appointed a task-force and working group to study
    alternative approaches. In June, 1989, a report on Career
    Progress Opportunities for Technicians and Tradesmen was presented
    to the Ministry of General Administration, but by the project
    closing date, its proposals had not been adopted.

           Educational Studies, It was foreseen at appraisal, that the
           Credit would assist preparation of a proposed primary education
           project, and of possible projects in secondary and in adult and
           non-formal education. Preparation of the Primary Education
           Project (Cr. 1463-NEP), which was approved in 1984, was financed
           by an IDA technical assistance credit. It was carried out by the
            Institute of Education and the UNESCO cooperative program. There
            is no indication that the resources available for education
           studies through the Cr. 1198-NEPwere utilized in its preparation
           No feasibility studies were carried out on secondary education
           and non-formal and adult education, and no projects were
           developed, because there was insufficient expectation of
           developing adequate local capacity to implement them.

     13.   Technical Assistance. The technical assistance financed by UNDP
           made a major contribution to staff and curriculum development for
           the Pokhara center and provided valuable support to the NSTA and
           Career Development activities. After initial delays, a full team
           of ILO consultants was assembled. The agreed program of overseas
           study tours and fellowship training was executed in a timely
           manner.

     14.   Disbursements, By the final revised closing date, SDR 9.9 million
            (79.5%) out of the credit total of SDR 12.5 million had been
           disbursed. This corresponded to a historical US dollar equivalent
           of $12.2 million, (84.9% of the appraisal estimate of $US 14.3
           million).  At the time of preparation of this report, the Borrower
           had been requested to advise as to the likely timing and amount of
           a final Replenishment Application for the Special Account. Since
           no suitable reply was received, the full amount of the pending
           Application 139 (converted as $220,008) was utilized for recovery
           purposes, leaving a balance refundable to IDA of $16,588. The
           Project Coordinator was advised by IDA to utilize funds remaining
            in the Special Account, to pay for claims made in Application 139.

I?. Project results.

           The Center is fully staffed and equipped, and classes are being
           conducted on schedule. Since August 1987, when the first
            technician students were admitted, 146 technicians have finished
            3-year training at the new campus. A further 177 technicians were
           under training in April 1992 (table 3 below).   Current annual
            enrollment capacity corresponds to appraisal estimates. The first
           batch of 43 technicians graduated in May 1991. It was estimated
           by the PIU that about half of them found employment in the public
            sector, and about 20% in the private sector, with many opting for
            further studies. The second batch is encountering more difficulty
            in finding stable employment in appropriate areas of
            specialization, and a tracer study will shortly be undertaken to
            determine whether the intake in any of the three technician

        training programs should be adjusted to reflect changes in the
        labor market.

   16.  Two hundred and forty five trainees have so far graduated in two
        batches from the one-year craft training program.  Approximately
        75% of the first batch were estimated to have found employment.
        Another 18% set up their own businesses, and the remaining 7% went
        on to further studies. A third batch of 99 one-year craft-level
        trainees was admitted in 1991.

   17.  The trade testing and career development activities established
        under the project, and now the responsibility of the CTEVT, are
        managed and supported by a vocational training project assisted by
        the Asian Development Bank. The STD continues to conduct regular
        trade tests and to issue trade certificates.

   18.  The impact of the Project has extended beyond its immediate
        outputs. It has contributed to overcoming chronic labor market
        shortages of skilled technical personnel, and has provided
        training opportunities in hitherto neglected parts of the country.
        Its impact on human resource development at the tertiary technical
        level in western Nepal has been significant. It has encouraged
        qualitative standards of technical preparation, and can serve as a
        model for enhancing the physical and social environment in similar
        areas of Nepal and elsewhere. About 25 of the first batch of
        craft trainees have set up their own small businesses,
        demonstrating the project's potential for stimulating local
        opportunities of employment creation.

   19.  The Project aimed to initiate structural changes in civil service
        procedures for appointment and career progression. Training
        standards have now been aligned to the recognized levels of entry
        to public service appointments. However, there are still
        limitations on career progression for technical appointees. This
        issue was under review by the National Education Commission, which
        was due to report in 1992. It was widely expected that the
        Commission would recommend changing the current regulations in
        order to enhance promotional opportunities.

G. Project sustainabilitv.

        20.   Sustainability will depend upon the extent of commitment to
        the concept and objectives of the Project. This in turn will
        depend on its perceived relevance to meeting skilled manpower
        needs and creating jobs, and on the adaptability of new facilities
        and procedures. Arrangements in place at the IOE will help to
        ensure continued availability of adequate numbers of trained
        staff. The quality and value of training programs will depend on
        the resources available for consumable training materials and
        maintenance. IDA assistance to further project activity in the
        IOE helps to maintain established relations, and to keep
        sustainability under review. This cooperation is already

          facilitating finalization of equipment procurement and
          supplemental civil works. Also, in May 1992, the IOE convened a
          Workshop on Sustainability under the auspices of the current
          Engineering Education Project (Cr.2044-NEP), with participation of
          other government and international agencies, including IDA. The
          Workshop identified key issues facing the IOE, related to its
          educational objectives, autonomy, management, and linkages to
          public and private sector institutions and enterprises. A task
          force was established to review proposals for operational
          improvements. Its members include representatives of public and
          private sector organizations in addition to University staff and
          IOE faculty.

          Following the closing of the IDA Credit, incomes of teaching staff
          declined sharply due to the cessation of extra allowances and
          other benefits. This has serious implications for staff morale
          and could lead to the departure of key staff. However, contracts
          for local training services in Pokhara are helping to provide
          continuing incentives and to improve facilities. The British Army
          has concluded a contract with IOE for the retraining for local
          employment of Gorkha soldiers discharged from British military
          service. This is a valuable contribution to sustainability, and
          further opportunities are being explored for staff of the Center
          to provide training and consultant services.

    22.   The trade testing system is now well established. Curricula need
          to be reviewed to take account of changing technologies and labor
          market requirements and opportunities. Changes in appointment and
          career progression for technicians and skilled workers in the
          civil service were foreseen under the project, and are under
          active review by the Government. When introduced, these will
          contribute to the national growth and improvement of technical
          training programs.

H. IDA ~erformance.

   23.    The Project was systematically identified, prepared and appraised.
          A total of 61.9 staff weeks were utilized before and during
          appraisal. During implementation, 23 missions reviewed the
          Project, with 67.3 staff weeks spent on 17 supervision missions.

   24.    Construction problems and consequent delays at Pokhara were a
          major concern during implementation. This led IDA management to
          seriously consider suspending credit disbursements in 1985.
          During supervision, therefore, civil works and procurement issues
          called for more attention than the wider issues of policy
          implementation under other components. The reports reflect this
          emphasis. IDA maintained close liaison with the Project from its
          inception, and the technical support of IDA staff contributed to
          the Project's successful outcome.

Borrower ~erformance.

25.    Creation of the training center at Pokhara was initially subject
       to delays. Major problems arose regarding timely performance by
       the architectural consultants and the main civil works contractor.
       These were resolved and the work was successfully concluded.
       Training activities began in 1987 and are proceeding well. It
       proved difficult to honor, in a timely manner, the policy
       commitments to establish a skill testing authority and to change
       public service recruitment and promotion procedures.
       Nevertheless, by the time of project completion, most of these
       obligations were met or have subsequently been met.

 Project relationships.

 26.   Relationships between IDA and the IOE were businesslike, and
        further cooperation is under way on another project. IDA
        operational contact was needed with other parts of the Government
        to expedite implementation. Some inter-departmental issues arose,
       but successful relations were established and maintained. UNDP
        cofinancing of technical assistance raised some procedural
        questions over the release of funds. These were successfully
        resolved, but caused initial delays in the delivery of technical
        assistance.

Consultina services
         -



 27.    Technical assistance services were co-financedby UNDP and
        provided by the ILO. After initial delays, a suitable team of
        consultants was assembled and curricula were drafted. A
        curriculum workshop was held in December 1986 attended by about 90
        participants from industry and educational institutions. The
       workshop successfully accomplished its purpose to validate the
       work of the consultants. The analysis of job requirements, and
        their translation into training objectives and lesson plans was
        systematically executed. Detailed curricula for craft courses
       were available by late 1987. The consultants also assisted in
        revising the three-year certificate curriculum introduced at all
        IOE campuses in 1986.

 Proiect documentation and data.

 28.   The project is well documented. The Staff Appraisal Report gives
        appropriate information to identify key implementation indicators.
        These were satisfactorily developed during the third year of
        implementation and maintained over several missions. However,
        assessment at project completion would be greatly facilitated if
        data were available in this form from the date of project
       effectiveness. Information on disbursements and compliance with
       covenants is readily available for each phase of the project. The
        findings of supervision missions were adequately recorded in
       reports, aides memoire, and exchanges of letters.


                     PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT




1.     The credit agreement war rigned on April 7, 1982 and the project
became effective on July 23, 1982.  It war expected to be implomantad
over a period of about rix and a half yearm, including a tvo year
operation period after completion of the phyrical facilitier. Due to
late ertablirhmant of the projact implomentation unit, moat of tho
projact activities rtrrted late.  In addition, tho main building
contractorr did not perform conrtruction vork on tho.   Purthormora, rome
new residential buildingo ware added and now additional equipment
procured.    Thera necerritatad the axtanmion of the cloming data
originally planned for December 31, 1987 to Dacembor 31, 1991. The
technical amrimtance program var provided by UNDP and ILO var dmrignated
as the executing agency of the UNDP.


Project Administration and Mananemont

2 .    A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) var artablirhad in July 1982,
chiefly compriringr  (I) a project director vho var the Dean of the
Institute of Engineering; (ii) a Projact Coordinator; (iii) a Project
Architect; (iv) a Projact Engineer.  All totallad, tha PIU conrioted of
27 managerial and rupporting rtaff.  The PIU var .loo rupporad to be
assisted by the Chief Technical Adviror providad by ILO.

3 .    The Project experienced major difficultier during implementation.
Throughout tho implomantation period, there verm five Projact Directors,
five Project Coordinatorr, three Education Officarr, thraa deputy Project
Coordinatorr, three Projact Architmctr, two Projact Engineerr and three
Chief Technical Advirorr, and ouch turnover alro contributed to lack of
coherence during implementation.  Tha lart CTA var raplacad by c ¶kill
test conrultant vho var mora attached to the Skill Tmrting Authority than
to the Western Region Campur (WRC) Projact.

 Proferrionrl Servicer and Buildinn D e r i ~ n

 4.     A firm of conrulting architecte, engineere and planner, war
 selected and contracted by the Project Coordinator with Project Board and
 IDA approval.  Itr tark war to carry out the derign of the building, and
 furniture for WRC together with preparation of rpecificationr and rite
 supervision.  The perfonnonce of the consulting firm was eatirfactory in
the design phase.  A little site eupervieion during the construction
phase woe done.


Civil Works

5 .    The eelection of the building contractore for the conrtruction of
WRC followed IDA procedure..   The 8128 of the bidding attracted even
foreign contractorr.   Due to high bidding the firrt time it war
retendered and a relection of tendererr war done by the PIU among the
bidders after the PIU board and IDA har accepted International
Competitive Bidding Procedurer.   The tender war awarded to an Indian main
conrtruction contractor.

6.     Civil workr experienced conriderable delayr at the rtart of the
Project implementation due mainly to (a) late ertablirhment of PIU, (b)
poor performance in conrtruction vorkr by main contractorr, and (c)
difficulty in taking quick decirionr by the PIU board regardin8
conrtruction votkr.

7 .    Poor performance in conrtruction vorkr caueed ptoblemr vhich
included:  leakager, drainage, plumbing and electrification thereby
delaying the completion of the conrtruction workr and ruch delayr caused
some damage to the equipment which could not be inrtalled ar planned whan
delivered in the rite.


Equipment and Furniture

8.     Among the conditione of effectiveneer, the Development Credit
Agreement rpecified that:   "the Borrower rhall have entered into
agreement8 with technical agencier or bodiee for the provirion of
technical arrirtance experte and fellowrhipr for the project     ..." Such
an agreemmat war ri6ned on July 5 , 1982 with UM)P and ILO a8 executing
agency.  It coveted UNDPIILO provirion of eorvicer for equipmmnt
procurement a8 well a8 technical arrirtance.     An ILO expert participated
actively in the propatation of an equipment lirt and rpecificationr in
close collaboration vith the PIU and the purchare and operation of
equipment war carried out in two pharer.      During the recond phare,
additional equipment war purchased because of a change in curriculum.
All parte were procured through normal international competitive bidding
in accordance with IDA regulationr.   ILO expertr arsirted the PIU in
finalizing the bidr in the first phare and PIU'did the recond phare.

9 .           Tenders were advertised internationally and organized i n t o
packager by trade.                   PIU faced many problems during t h e procurenent of the
second phase of equipment.                    They are Indo-Nepal Trade & Trans<= Treaty,
Gulf-war, popular movement i n the country, unavailability of budget i n
time and l a t e acceptance of time extension of the project by HMG.
Although ILO experts had already l e f t the country by t h e time the
i n s t a l l a t i o n phase could proceed, t h i r work was s a t i s f a c t o r i l y carried
out by the PIU and Campur faculty.                       The IDA project completion mission
was shown the equipment i n the Western Region Campus.                             A l l the equipment
i s now i n s t a l l e d and operational.

10.          Most of the furniture for Western Region Campur vas o f f i c e
furniture including:                   armchairs, v i s i t o r s ' chairs, t a b l e s , o f f i c e desks,
t e a tables and hostel and r e s i d e n t i a l beds.              The furniture was locally
designed and procured through l o c a l competitive biddings.                            Most of the
furniture was delivered on time.



Technical Assistance

11.          The project experienced reriour d i f f i c u l t i e s with regard t o t h e
key post of the Chief Technical Adviror (CTA) and subject s p e c i a l i s t a .
During the project implementation, there were three CTAs.                                 The
replacement of the CTAs took longer than expected due t o KMG & UNDP r u l e r
and regulations.                  The l a r t CTA war rimply a trade s p e c i a l i s t .        Similarly,
subject s p e c i a l i s t s were a l r o recruited late.              Hawever, once f i n a l l y
recruited, they performed r a t i r f a c t o r i l y .             Although most of the
a c t i v i t i e s were f u l f i l l e d a t the l a r t stage, more could have been done i n
t h i s project by UNDP assistance.



Instructional and Consumable Materials

12.          The curriculum prepared i n cooperation with PIU is now followed i n
WRC.       However, t r a i n e e s still l a c k necessary i n s t r u c t i o n a l materials such
as books, manuals, and worksheets i n Nepali.                          Such materials were t o be
developed by the technical a s r i s t a n c e expertr, but due t o inadequate
management, these were never accomplirhed f u l l y .                      I n addition, t h e
outcome of new curriculumr was never tested.                           WRC has adequate consumable
materials f o r workshop p r a c t i c e f o r four years.



Lessons Learned

13.          The PIU was never given t h e r t a t u r a s mentioned i n the DCA and
UNDP agreement thereby causing considerable delays i n carrying out
c r i t i c a l a c t i v i t i e s .  Even rmall matters needed t o be referred back.                    Had
HMG and UNDP helped t h i s project a t a l a t e r stage, t h e project could have
gained a l o t and would have been a n example.

JDA Perf-cc

14.    In view of the fact that it war the recond project of thir nature
to be implemanted by IOE through an experienced PXU, the monitoring
carried out by IDA during the firrt phare of the implementation to arrirt
the PIU was efficient.  The apprairalmisrion overestimated the
Government'r and IOE*r ability to recruit permanent rtaff and ertablirh
the WRC structure.  Perhapr clorar attention rhould have been paid at
appraisal to the appropriatenesr of roma component8 which were not given
priority by the IOE, ouch ar level of Campur Chief and headr of
departments.

15.    During the conrtruction period, rome mirunderrtanding occurred.
PIU did not agree to have a conrtruction manager ar proposed by IDA
missions, resulting in late completion of tha conrtruction work and itr
poor quality.

16.    IDA showed flexibility in agreeing to moat of tha proporalr rant
by PIU at the lart rtage, in order to ertablirh the WRC and retain moat
of the experienced and trained rtaffr of WRC.  In addition, IDA har r h w n
greater generority toward. thir projact in rolving many activitier and
without this the project would have been incomplate.

                   NEPAL
                         a1 and Vocational Tr-
               (Cr. 1198- N u )

         P R O J E C T O N REPORT


PART 1x1: TABLES AND STATISTICAL-TIW




 Related IDA Credits

 Project Timetable

Admission and Output of Students, 1987-1991

 Estimated and Actual Disbursement of Credit Proceeds
       (by semester)

 Estimated and Actual Project Costs by Expenditure Category

 Estimated and Actual Allocation of Credit Proceeds
      by Disbursement Category

 Estimated and Actual Project Financing

Compliance with Credit Covenants

Staff Inputs by Stage .of Project Cycle

                                    NEPAL

         SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (Technical and Vocational Training)

                               (Cr. 1198-NEP)

                          PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT



                        Table 1: RELATED IDA CREDITS



Lnan/Credit Title      Purpose    Year of A ~ ~ r o v a l Status  Comment


Education I         Technician       1978            Completed    Construction
Cr. 772-NEP         Training                        June 1986     delays, but
                                                                  on the whole
                                                                  successful


Education I11       Primary          1984            Closed,
Cr. 1463-NEP        Education                       June
                                                     1992


Cr. 1534-NEP        Agricultural     1985           Due to
                    Manpower                         close, June
                                                     1993


Cr. 2044-NEP        Engineering      1989            Completion   Delays in
                    Education                        1997         Construction
                                                                  and Instit.
                                                                  Development


Cr. 2048-NEP        Earthquake       1989            Completion
                    Schools                          1993
                    Rehabilitation


Cr. 2257-NEP        Basic 6 Primary 1992             Completion
                    Education                        1997'

                     ON PROJECT f T e y U a 1  Vocational TraininaL
                              (Cr. 1198-NEE)




                                  Planned        Revised        Actual
                                     date          date          date

Identification                    10/79             -           10/79

Preparation                       03/80             -           04/80



Appraisal                         12/80             -           11/80

Credit negotiations               04/81          05/81          10/81

Post negotiations mission         11/81             -           11/81

Board approval                    05/81             -           12/22/81

Credit signature                    -               -           04/07/82

Credit effectiveness              10/81             -           07/23/,82

Project completion



Credit closing                    06/30/88       06/30/89
                                                 06/30/90
_--_-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                 06/30/91       12/31/91

                                                  NEPAL
   S CO          DU
                                           (Cr. 1198-NEP)

                                    PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT


                   0 able 3. A                                          STUDENT
                                    POKHARA CAMPUS. 1987-1991




      Admitted:
      -
      -- CIVIL
         ELECTRICAL
         MECHANICAL



      Com~letedTraininq I/

      ---CIVIL                            25
         ELECTRICAL                       15
         MECHANICAL                       13



      Obtained Diploma

      ---CIVIL                            20
         ELECTRICAL                       11
         MECHANICAL                       12




11: One-vear Craft Trainina Proaram


Admitted
passed9



    1 Ahission schedule for late 1989 s l i m to January 1990.

       1990 and 1991 figures indicate completion of 2nd and 1st year respectively. April 1992 exminetion
results for classes of 1988, lOPO and l W l are currently awaited.


    3 1991 courses s t i l l in progress.

                                   NEPAL
       SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (Technical and Vocational Traininn)
                               (Cr. 1198-NEP)

                         PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT


       Tab1e 4.. ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENT OF CREDIT PROCEEDS


                                            Cumulative Disbursements

                                 Estimated(APR)        Actual
IDA/FY      Semester             ($ US million)    (SDRm)    U US^)' as X
                                                                      0 f
                                                                    estimate




      historical US $ equivalent

                                    NEPAL
         SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (Technical and Vocational Trainine)
                                (Cr 1198-NEP)
                                   .

                          PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT



    Table 5: ESTIMATED AND ACTUU P                   R                  R
                                ($ US Million)


                         raisal Estimate                   Actual

                Loc.     For.    Tot.     X     Loc.    For.   Tot.    X

 Site             0.91    0.39   1.30   12.5     0.16   0.00    0.16   1.0
 development

 Buildings

 Professional
 services

 Furniture

 Equipment

 Staff
 salaries

 Consumable
 training
materials



 Project
 studies



 Total            5.42    4.98  10.40    100     5.86  10.46   16-32   100
 baseline
 COStS




        actual project cost of experts and consultants includes whole cost of
UNDP/ILO technical assistance project

                                     NEPAL



                                (Cr. 1198-NEP)

                          PROJECll COMPLETION REPORT


        Tab e 6- ES MAT D
                               C S o u h o n d )


             Category               Original allocation Actual Disbursements

1. Civil works and furniture,
    including building materials             6,910                5,384

2. Equipment, books, journals
    and instructional materials

3. Professional services (for
    construction, furnishing &
    equipment)

4. Other consultants' services               1,167                   46

5. Staff salaries, allowances &
    other operating costs

6. Consumable training materials

7. Unallocated


             Refundable balance1                                     16



                        TOTAL               14,300               12,141




      At the time of preparation of this Report, a request had been made to the
Project by the Asia Disbursements Division, as to the likely timing and amount
of a final replenishment application for the Special Account. Since no suitable
reply was received, the full amount of the pending Application 139 (converted as
$220,008)was utilized for recovery purposes, leaving a balance refundable to IDA
of $16,588. Pending the expected refund to IDA, this amount therefore appears
in the total of funds disbursed. (The Project Coordinator was advised by LOAAS
to utilize funds remaining in the Special Account to pay for the amounts claimed
in the above Application).

                                     NEPAL
        c
        S       C   N
                                  Cr. 1198-NEP)




                    A ~ ~ r a i S aEstimate
                                   l                     Actual


                HMGN    IDA       mTotal                          Total
Civil works &   0.05   6.90       0.00    6.95                     5.68
furniture

Land
acquisition

Equipt.,books,
journals,
instr. matls.

Prof. svcs.,
engng/arch.
fees

Consultant
svcs & studies

Consultant
svcs, fellow-
ships & misc.

Staff sals.,
allces & oper-
ating costs

Consumable
trg. materials

Unallocated


Total ~rolect   0.70  14.30       2.50   17.50   0.97 12.12  3.23 16.32
COSt

Less taxes &   -0.66   0.00              -0.66
duties

x!2auw&         0.04  14.30       2.50   16.84   0.97 12.12  3.23 16.32
project cost

                 SECOND EDUeATfON PROJECT (Technical and Vocatimal Training)
                                          (Cr. 1198-NEP)

                                     PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT

                             Table 8 : .COHPLIANC'E WITH CREDIT COWANTS




AGMT.. SEC. .STATUS                                          DESCRIPTION                       COtrSIENTS
   .                 ORIGINAL :REVISED T n E
       ,
               1/    DATE         DATE       2/              OF COVENANT


Cred 3.01b(2) OK     -            -                  Take necessary s t e p s t o         E l e c t r i c power
                                                   . erisure e l e c t r i c power        supply to che s i x
                                                                                         . .
                                                     supply co s i t e .                  1s availzbls.

 3.02a(2)     OK    -             -         -       Enploy educational                    Parr A2:TA a s s i s z -
                                                    consu1;ancs        f o r P a r t s    ance has baen com-
                                                    A(2), B and C of t h e               pleced.         Par= B:
                                                    Projecc.                              s k i l l taszlng
                                                                                         ex?ert i s advising
                                                                                         the s k i l l aurhori-
                                                                                         cy. Pare C: Curri-
                                                                                         culum specialiscs
                                                                                         have compla cad
                                                                                         t h e i r work.


 3.07a        OK    61110s.                         Establish a Pokhara                  Escablishad as a
                    a f t e r                      Center Advisory                       r u l e according t o
                    opening                        Commirtes                            University rzsula-
                                                                                         t i o n s .


             OK    6 mos.        -                 Use S k i l l s Aptitude             S k i l l aptitude is
                   a ft e r                        t e s t s i n the s e l e c -        p a r t o f t h e       .
                   opening                         t i o n of t r a i n e e s .         e n ~ z a n c et a s c .


             OK    01/01/83      -                Establish a Secreca-                  Chief of =he
                                                  r i a c f o r the NSAT.
                            .                                                   ,       Secretariat was
                               . .                                                      appointed on a
                          I
                                                                                        f u l l time basis i n
                                                                                        Occober 198G.
                                                                                        Three specialiscs
                                                                                        were appointed i n
                                                                                        September 1985.
                                                                                        The Secretariac
                                                                                        has movsd co i c s
                                                                                        own o f f i c e s and i s

                                                                            Table 8
                                                                            Page 2 of k


4GHT. SZC. STATUS  ORIGINAL REVISED  TYPE             DESCXIITION                       COCIYENiS
             1/   'DATE     DATE     2/               OF COVENANT


                                                                                    now f u l l y szaffed
                                                                                    and f u l l y opera-
                                                                                    t i o n a l .

 3.08b       OK  01/01/86   01/01/86        Cause s a i d S e c r e t a r i a t    Trade Advisory
                                            t o establish s k i l l                Committee are
                                           sta;l&rds        and develop            established.
                                           s k i l l t e s t s i n consul-         52 trade szand-
                                           t a t i o n with the                    ards developed
                                           Associazion                             and anzual trade
                                                                                   t e s c s are baLng
                                                                                   .coadccced since
                                                                                   1985.


3 . 0 8 ~   OK   01/01/85  01/01/87        Establish a National                   A-~chorizyhcs
                                           S k i l l Testing Authority. . Scarucory scacus
                                           (NSTA)                                 m e act co granc
                                                                                  it aucocomy was
                                                                                  s l p e d i n 1988.


3.09a      SOON  01/01/85  -              Recognize s k i l l t s s z s f o r Prepared a repor:
                                          purposes of appointment                 t o improve ccreer
                                          and career development                  development of
                                          i n the public s e r v i c e .          c r a f zsnen and
                                                                                  techniciazs i n the
                                                                                 public service.
                                                                                 Tne Miniscry of
                                                                                 General A h i n i s  -
                                                                                 cracion is prepar-
                                                                                 ing proposals to
                                                                                 impleme3c beczsr
                                                                                 caraer provis lons .
                                                                                                    '




                                         Develop and furnish t o .              Einiszry of
                                         the AssociatLon f o r                  General Adminis       -
                                         review a plan t o improve              t r a t i o n has
                                         career o p p o r a n i c i e s f o r   preparad         2propo-
                                         s k i l l e d craftsmen and            s a l which neaCs t o
                                         technicians i n the                    be considered by
                                         public service.                        t h e new Govern-
                                                                                ment.


                                         Implement s a i d plans.              To be expecced
                                                                                i n 1992.

                                                                            Table 8
                                                                            Page 3 o f 4



LCMT. SEC. STATUS ORIGINAL REVISED TY?E                DESCXIITION                         COMMENTS
             1/   DATE     DATE     2/                 OF COVZN~ANT


 3.101     OK     -        -        -     Designate IOE t o be                PIU o f t h e F i r s t Educa-
                                          responsible f o r moni-             t i o n p r o j e c t monitors
                                          coring f o l l o v i n g            academic progress a =
                                         func=ions, academic                 Pulchovk.            The monitor-
                                         progress a t Poldiara               i n g system has been
                                         and Pulchovk c a m p s              t r a n s f e r r e d t o Pokhara.
                                         and e n p l o p e n t f o r
                                         graduates .

                                    -    F u n i s h t o t h e Asso-       Monitoring and evalua-
                                                                                             -
                                        c i a t i o n f o r r e v i c v    t i o n systcm i n Opera-
                                        and comenc a                       t i o n .
                                        dezailcd syscem f o r
                                        rnooicori2g and evalua-
                                        t i o n o f t h e p r o j e c t s
                                        financed u,rlder t h e
                                        c r e d l = ax! t h e p r i o r ,
                                        and provide t h e Asso-
                                        c i a t i o n r e s u l z s o f
                                        such annual e v a l u a t i o n
                                        of such c r e d i z s f o r
                                        f i w years f o l l o v i n g
                                        the f i r s = ouz?ut of
                                        graduazes.

                                   -    Provide s z a f f i n g           Complezed
                                        and s z a f f t r a i n i n g
                                       plan f o r t h e
                                       Pokhara Cer,cer.


                                  -    Provide a s t a f f i n g         Plan h a s been
                                       and s t a f f t r a l i i i z g   prepared and is
                                      plan f o r t h e Secre-            being irnplementcd.
                                      t a r i a t of t h e NSTA.


                                  -   Eszablish azd marn-                1 n c o m p l i a x e .
                                      t a i n a r e p a i r work-
                                      shop v i t h q u a l i f i e d
                                      and t r a i n e d p e r s o m e l .

                                  -   Ensure funds a r e                 I n compliance
                                      a v a i l a b l e annually
                                      f o r maintenance and
                                      r e p a i r .

                                                                        Table 8
                                                                        Page & of k




        -
 1  OK      Covenant complied with.

    OK1 -   Covenant complied with now but was revised i n past.

    SOON-   Compliance exsected i n a rsasonably shorc t h e
        -
    NYD     Not y e t due.

   DLZT -.  P r ~ p o s e d ~ F odeletion as'no longer relevant.
                                  r

            Needs revision i n agrzemenc with Borrower t o r e f l e c t ckaagzd circ7uscazczs.

            Needs use o f formal remedies t o bring about coapliance.

            S=atus of Covecant unkzown        .


2/ Indicstas t - ~ of covenant
                    e

                                  NEPAL
        SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (Technical & Vocational Training)
                              (Cr. 1198-NEP)

                        PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT




     Table 9: Staff In~utsby Stage of Project Cvcle (in Staff Weeks)
                                         -




Stage of Project    Planned                     Actual
Cycle

                                 Arch- Econo-     Educ-    Other   Total
                                 itect    mist     ator



2  Appraisal          n.a        12.9     5.1     14.7      0.0    32.7

3  Negotiation        n.a         6.6     0.0      4.5      0.0    11.1

4 Supervision         n.a        12.9     0.1     51.1      3.2    67.3

5  Completion         n.a         0.0     0.0       9.5     0.0     9.5



            Total                33.50    6.10    101.9     8.30  149.8




     not available






