Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY.
Report No: 23515
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-30800)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$8.80 MILLION
TO THE
THE REPUBLIC OF ZIMBABWE
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT (ASMP)
(Credit No. 3080-ZW)
01/23/2002
Rural Development Operations
Eastern & Southern Africa
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of t
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 1998)
Currency Unit = Zimbabwe Dollar
Z$1 = US$ US$ 0.061
US$ I = Z$ 16.3
FISCAL YEAR
January I  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGRITEX    Department of Agricultural Technical and Extension Services
AMC        Agricultural Management Committee of the MOLARR
ARC        Agricultural Research Council
ARF        Agricultural Revolving Fund
ASIP       Agricultural Sector Investment Program
ASMP       Agricultural Services and Management Project
CMU        Change Management Unit of MOLARR
CT         Country Team
DFID       Department for International Development
DR&SS      Department of Research and Specialist Services
DVS        Department of Veterinary Services
EU         European Union
FMD        Foot and Mouth Disease
GMB        Grain Marketing Board
GOZ        Government of Zimbabwe
IDA        International Development Association
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MFED       Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
MOLARR     Ministry of Lands, Agriculture and Rural Resettlement
PAD        Project Appraisal Document
PPD        Policy and Planning Division of MOLARR
PS         Permanent Secretary
PSC        Public Service Commission
QAG        Quality Assurance Group of the World Bank
Vice President:   Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:   Yaw Ansu
Sector Manager/Director:   Karen Brooks
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Caesar Chidawanyika



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZIMBABWE
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Credit No. 3080-ZW)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                               1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                              1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry    2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                       4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                         9
6. Sustainability                                                            10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                             11
8. Lessons Learned                                                           14
9. Partner Comments                                                          14
10. Additional Information                                                   14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                         15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                         16
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                         19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                         20
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components         21
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                            22
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                     23-42
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Banlk authorization.






Project ID. P003331                    Project Name: Agricultural Services and
Management
Team Leader. Caesar Chidawanyika       TL Unit: AFTR1
ICR Type: Core ICR                     ICR Report Date 01/31/2002
1. Project Data
Name: ASMP                      L/C/TF Number IDA-30800
Country/Department Zimbabwe                       Region. Africa Region
Office
Sector/sub sector:  AG- Agency Reform
KEY DATES
Original       Revised/Actual
PCD:           10/20/1996           Effective: 12/25/1998    12/28/1999
Appraisal:   08/29/1997              MTR: 03/21/2000       N/A
Approval:    05/29/1998           Closing: 07/31/2001      07/31/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency.  GOV/Ministry of Lands and Agriculture
GOZ/MOLARR
Other Partners: EU, DFID
STAFF              Current                       At Appraisal
Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo            Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager:   Yaw Ansu                      Barbara Kafka
Sector Manager:     Karen Brooks                 Sushma Ganguly
Team Leader at ICR: Caesar Chidawanyika          Steven Jaffee
ICR Primary Author. Caesar Chidawanyika
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely,
L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest,
N=Negligible)
Outcome. U
Sustainability  HUN
Institutional Development Impact. M
Bank Performance. S
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality of Entry: S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
I



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project sought to assist the Government to put in place improved institutional
arrangements and operational capacity for policy formuiation and for the sustainable and
efficient management, financing, and delivery of agricultural services in Zimbabwe. The
project in addition sought to clarify the mandate and improve capacity in the Ministry of
Lands, Agriculture and Rural Resettlement. The project was conceived during a period of
optimism in the agricultural sector following sweeping policy reforms that included
marketing and pricing deregulation and privatization of some agricultural parastatals. The
Government chose to reduce its role in the direct provision of services and to play a
facilitative and regulatory role while encouraging the private sector and other players to
provide services. The project was designed to assist this process.
However, Zimbabwe fell into a deep political and economic crisis in early 2000, and
these developments negated key assumptions held at the time of project design and
approval. The project experienced implementation delays in the early part of its life, and
it only became effective on December 28, 1998, seven months after Board approval.
Four major factors impacted on the project. First, the general crisis in Zimbabwe, with
the land issue being at its core. Beginning with the February 2000 land invasions, land
issues suddenly became the major priority of the Government, with the MOLARR
playing a central role following the addition of the highly politicized rural resettlement
portfolio to its mandate. This shift in priorities diverted the ministry's focus away from
the ASMP's thrust for institutional reform, while also limiting its capacity to implement
its other programs.
Second, the removal of the Minister and Permanent Secretary from the Ministry in March
2000 and the prolonged time it took before a new PS was appointed (June 2001),
effectively left the ministry without substantive leadership at a critical time of transition,
during which time the early momentum of ASMP was lost.
Third, dysfunctional project co-ordination, dismal financial management and
procurement irregularities also impacted negatively on implementation of the ASMP.
Fourth, IDA suspended all project disbursements to Zimbabwe on May 16, 2000 and
subsequently placed the country on non-accrual status on October 2, 2000 following the
Government's failure to make loan repayments. Consequently, the project was aborted
after implementation over only half its original lifespan and only US$1,992,500 million
(22.6%) of the IDA credit was disbursed, $225,000 of which represents undocumented
expenditures.
By mid-2000 IDA, the Government and its donor partners realized that the original
objectives were no longer relevant in the changed environment. In September 2000, all
parties agreed that the project should be restructured to reflect the new realities on the
ground and to align its objectives more closely with the emerging priorities. IDA
considered the option to close the project as soon as it became clear that the original
objectives would not be achieved. In light of uncertainty and the chance that the crisis
2



would be resolved soon, however, the decision was taken to keep the project open to
ensure the Bank would be ready to rapidly put in place a program of support for a post-
crisis recovery effort.
The IDA suspension of disbursements in May 2000 provided an opportunity to
restructure the project to make it ready to assist post crisis recovery. IDA advised the
Government that following clearance of arrears and the lifting of the general suspension,
disbursements on the ASMP would resume only after satisfactory restructuring was
accomplished. The Government's commitment to project restructuring became
questionable, however, when the Ministry failed to prepare the relevant proposals. The
project was closed on the scheduled DCA closing date of July 31, 2001.
3.2 Revised Objective:
No restructuring was accomplished, and objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
In support of the objective, two broad components were envisaged: (a) Rationalization
and Effectiveness of Services and Policy Making - US$25.95 million (77.4%°): This
component was intended to contribute to improved policies and sectoral /sub-sectoral
strategic planning; to selection of alternative agricultural service delivery and financing
arrangements; and in the restored effectiveness of essential public agricultural services;
(b) Efficient Resource Management - US$7.58 million (22.6%): This component
would result in bringing MOLARR's human resources to their appropriate quantity and
quality (to perform core functions), building a well performing financial management
system within MOLARR, and effective management of MOLARR's change process. Tshe
components were logical and relevant in terms of achieving sector objectives as
enunciated in the government's Institutional Reform Objectives and Sectoral
Development Strategy in Agriculture which was submitted to IDA at project appraisal.
3.4 Revised Components:
The project was not restructured and components were not revised.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry of this project has been rated as satisfactory. The project sought to
support the CAS objectives of improved public sector management, accelerated rural
development, and, to a lesser extent, private sector development, and would benefit the
rural segment of the Zimbabwean population who depend on smallholder farming for
their livelihood.
Project design also took into account lessons learned from earlier projects supported by
the Bank in the sector. These included (i) focusing on the most critical services, (ii)
developing consensus through stakeholder consultations during preparation and
implementation, (iii) supporting a phased program of institutional strengthening, (iv)
facilitating an expanded role of the private sector, and (v) coordinating with other donors
providing support to the Ministry. A small technical assistance project focusing on
institutional strengthening of MOLARR would provide the basis for a subsequent larger
sector-wide programmatic operation. This was an appropriate strategy at the time,
although the time frame for achieving project objectives was unrealistic even if the
3



current severe political problems had not emerged. The choice was also ideal as this
reduced the risk compared to the failure of a larger ASIP-type project.
There were no serious safeguard issues in the project. The environmental assessment
rated the project in Category B. Environmental impact assessments were carried out for
those components that carried a higher risk, namely EU-funded components relating to
tsetse control and Foot and Mouth Disease fencing. The PAD identified risks and
mitigating measures; these were by and large accurate.
The operation did not, however, address land reform issues, one of the most
controversial areas in the rural sector, but a parallel operation, the Land Reform Support
Project, was prepared in late 1998 to provide support in this area. The overall risk rating
has deteriorated as some risk factors have increased. These are mostly related to internal
aspects within the Ministry but the overwhelming risk to the project arises from the
deteriorating political context in general, and the issue of land reform specifically, which
was identified in the PAD.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective.
The achievement of project objectives and outputs was unsatisfactory.
The project failed to meet many of the expectations that held during design as a result of
a combination of several factors.
The project experienced implementation delays in the early part of its life, and was
eventually overwhelmed by the mounting crisis in Zimbabwe, with the Ministry severely
affected by violent land invasions beginning in February 2000, and the government's
controversial management of the situation. In March 2000, the Minister and Permanent
Secretary, key Bank interlocutors on this operation, were removed for reasons unrelated
to the project. The Ministry remained without a substantive head for over a year, during
which time the early momentum of ASMP was lost. Subsequently, the Ministry's
mandate was expanded to include the highly politicized rural resettlement portfolio,
which has tended to take top priority at the expense of other programs of the Ministry,
including the ASMP.
In addition, Zimbabwe is in a deepening fiscal crisis and was placed in non-accrual status
by the Bank in October 2000 following the Government's failure to make loan
repayments. IDA effectively stopped financing project activities in July 2000 and
formally closed the project on 3 1st July 2001. DFID announced its intention to terminate
support to the project in March 2001. The European Union continued providing limited
support to the project, pending agreement on restructuring.
Many of the planned project activities were abandoned either because of the withdrawal
of donor support or because they were no longer viable in the changed economic and
political environment. The MOLARR has made some efforts to continue to implement
some aspects of the project. There was some modest improvement in the delivery of
services to smallholders as a result of the project, but this has been marginal and the
effects have been undermined by the general economic decline.
4



4.2 Outputs by components.
1. Agricultural Service Rationalization and Policy Making:
(a) Improved policies and sectoral/sub-sectoral strategic planning
The impact of the various activities supported under this output area is unsatisfactory.
First, project assistance was provided for training of staff in the Policy and Planning
Department (PPD) to improve their capacity for policy formulation. However, no
major study or policy review has been carried out recently. The intended review and
updating of the Zimbabwe Agricultural Policy Framework was not done. The current
environment is characterized by ad hoc policy decision-making and is not conducive
to the kind of strategic policy formulation process envisaged in the project.
Second, service departments and the Agricultural Research Council (ARC) have
benefited from the assistance provided for strategic planning and have all prepared
their departmental strategic plans. But there is wide variation in the extent to which
these are being implemented. The Department of Veterinary Services (DVS) and
ARC, for example have proceeded furthest in addressing issues identified in their
respective strategic plans in their work programs. The major impact of the
participatory strategic planning process has been the acceptance of the need for a
demand-driven service delivery system. However, the Department of Research and
Specialized Services (DR&SS) research master plan, originally meant to be
completed by December 1998, has still not been completed.
Third, the development of an effective M&E system is incomplete. Although a client
satisfaction survey and staff attitude survey-were done at the inception of the project- -
and could have served as a useful baseline, these have not been followed up
systematically.
(b) Alternative service delivery andfinancing arrangements selected
Although much progress has been made in identifying alternative service delivery
mechanisms, there has been little progress in their adoption. Hence the outcome of
this output area is unsatisfactory.
The Agricultural Research and Extension Fund, one of the main vehicles for
alternative delivery mechanisms for research and extension through an innovative
competitive grant system, was only launched in September 2001 due to delays in
finalizing operating procedures.
Contracting out of services, starting with a pilot tsetse control contract, has not taken
off due to disagreements on the procurement procedures to be used for contractor
selection between the EU and the implementing agency.
Six pilot research projects were implemented by the DR&SS with mixed results, but
sustainable implementation of results from these pilots has been curtailed due to lack
of funds.
5



Although a study identifying areas for commercialization (and ultimately
privatization) of some research services was completed in 1999, the recommendations
have not been implemented. The MOLARR completed a study on user fees and
established an Agricultural Revolving Fund (ARF) for the retention of these in 1999.
The additional funds collected through the ARF have had a positive impact in
providing additional operational funds for the departmental units, particularly in
DR&SS and DVS, which would otherwise have remained under-funded from
budgetary allocations. The emergence of cost recovery and revolving funds as major
mechanisms for maintaining service delivery during a time of budgetary constraints is
a positive development. However, commercialization of services and the off-budget
income obtained has encouraged, and at times justified, the continuation of non-core
activities.
(c) Effectiveness of Essential Public Services
The outcome of this output area is rated marginally satisfactory. Despite declines in
budgetary allocations to the service departments, some progress has been made as a
result of activities promoted under this component of the project. Firstly, the
establishment of stakeholder panels by the participating implementing agencies has
enhanced the client responsiveness of services. Secondly, while, for various reasons,
the incidences of animal diseases have not decreased as envisaged under the project,
the capacity of the DVS to monitor and rapidly attend to any outbreaks has greatly
improved. DVS, with the active participation of stakeholders, through the Veterinary
Council, has prepared an Emergency Preparedness Plan, which greatly enhances the
sector's capacity to respond quickly to animal disease outbreaks. The impact was
seen in the response to the FMD outbreak in August 2001, which rapidly brought the
situation under control. Thirdly, the participatory diagnostic and planning processes
adopted by Agritex have also enhanced the responsiveness of the extension system to
the needs of the farmers, particularly the smallholder farmers.
However, extension methodology pilots and beneficiary assessments by Agritex have
not proceeded as planned due to lack of funds following the IDA suspension of
disbursement. The purchase of 400 motorcycles for the field staff has improved
mobility and effectiveness of the extension system, although this has been limited by
the continuing under-funding of the operational budgets. The planned purchase of 100
vehicles for senior staff as well as that of other essential equipment were delayed due
to problems with the procurement process, and was eventually abandoned when IDA
suspended disbursements.
2. Efficient Resource Management
(d) Human resources brought to appropriate quality and quantity
Two main areas were supported in this component. The overall impact appears to
have been minimal, and the outcome of this output area has been rated as
unsatisfactory.
First, a core function analysis (CFA) was carried out in 1999, which identified core
and non-core functions but the main recommendations were never fully implemented.
The CFA also made recommendations for changes in the organizational structure of
6



the Ministry to focus on core public service functions while also rationalizing its
divisions and departments by reducing overlapping functions of some departments.
The partial implementation, by departments and divisions, of the Core Function
Analysis recommendations did not have the intended effect of redirecting non-staff
recurrent costs to core functions. By early 2000, the gathering political and economic
crisis, and the changing role of the Ministry as result of a shift in national priorities
was not conducive to undertaking the recommended changes. Consequently, the
restructuring of the Ministry effected in late 2000 bore little relation to the
recommendations of the CFA as this was driven by priorities largely outside of those
identified under the ASMP. Furthermore, the CFA participatory process promoted
ownership by staff, but the consultative process in the Ministry (consensus based
decision-making) in the absence of a substantive leadership at the Permanent
Secretary level resulted in critical decisions being postponed or avoided.
Second, funding provided by the project for both short and long term training has
resulted in some improvements in the capacity and quality of MOLARR staff. An
immediate benefit has been a marked improvement in retention of professional staff.
However, there have been deviations from the original training plan and the value of
some of the training provided to staff is questionable. At times training opportunities
were justified as incentives to staff, rather than as a tool to address the business needs
of the Ministry.
(e) Well performing financial management system
This area has remained problematic throughout the project, and is rated highly
unsatisfactory. First, despite the employment of contract staff to rectify weaknesses,
establish a sound FMS and to enhance the capacity of the Ministry's finance
division, financial reporting systems remained ineffective and failed to meet project
financial reporting requirements. Audit reports have only been submitted after long
delays, and replenishment applications for the special account have not been
submitted on time. For example an amount of US$255,000 is still outstanding, five
months after the project closed. Second, financial allocations between core and non-
core activities were never monitored systematically by the Ministry, despite
commitments to do so under the project.
69 ASMP and MOLARR change process effectively managed
This output area has achieved some success and the outcome is rated as marginally
satisfactory. A Change Management Unit was established in the Ministry in 1999 to
spearhead the institutional reform process. The change management process fostered
by ASMP had a positive impact in changing the institutional culture and improving
staff perceptions on how to do business. It led to a greater awareness within the
Ministry of the process of change. It also resulted in a better understanding of the
reality of core and non-core functions, leading to a reassignment of resources within
the Ministry. However this process has proceeded slowly and has not sufficiently
involved lower echelons of the Ministry and field offices.
7



4.3 Net Present Value/ Financial rate of return ."Economlic r ale ojrelurn:
The project internal rate of return was estimated at 15.4% based on a time horizon of 10
years. Revised IRR estimates have not been calculated. A qualitative assessment
suggests that the return to the project was substantially lower than envisaged, as reflected
in the unsatisfactory rating. Smallholder yields have remained more or less at same
levels as they were at the inception of the project. For example, maize yields have
remained at about 1300 - 1500 kgs per hectare. Income from crop sales has also not
increased in real terms due to low producer prices in the face of rapidly rising input costs.
With respect to livestock, the increased smallholder sales seen recently are not a result of
better husbandry but rather have been induced by increasing poverty and are symptomatic
of the general asset disposal taking place among the poor rural families as a coping
mechanism for food security.
ASMP financing has helped in both initiating MOLARR modernization process and in
supporting the provision of agricultural services to farmers despite the low disbursement
and shortened project life span, but the full benefits expected from rationalization and
improvement of effectiveness of service have not been achieved.
4.4 Financial rate of return.
Not calculated.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
As noted above, the project began changing the institutional culture of the Ministry. It
resulted in (i) a greater awareness within the Ministry of the process of change; (ii) an
understanding of the reality of core and non core functions leading to a reassignment of
resources; and (iii) the emergence of cost recovery and revolving funds as mechanisms
for financing service delivery.
Decentralization, which was one of the major aspects of the institutional reform process
envisaged in the project, was never seriously addressed. The already weak government
commitment to decentralization declined over the duration of the project. While there are
elements of de-concentration, such as moving staff and functions to districts and
provinces, there was little attention to moving decision-making and control of resources
(e.g., budgetary allocation) away from the center. There was little political will to
decentralize agricultural research as indicated by the lack of adequate support for an
independent Agricultural Research Council tasked to provide a clear overview of the
country's research needs.
The project had a well-developed approach to stakeholder participation, at departmental
and lower levels, through the establishment of stakeholder panels. But as these panels
were not established as legally constituted statutory bodies, views reflecting stakeholder
priorities tended to be seen by the Ministry as not binding. Nor were the panels involved
in monitoring project implementation progress. Ideally the Ministry's structure should
evolve largely in response to stakeholder needs, yet stakeholders were not involved in the
process leading to the restructuring of the Ministry. Furthermore, the extent to which
smallholder interests were taken into account remained questionable as the views of the
more robust commercial farmers tended to dominate decisions of stakeholder panels.
8



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The major factors contributing to the worsening crisis outside the control of the
implementing agency: localized natural disasters such as the cyclones, floods and
droughts experienced in 2000 and 2001.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
First, the land invasions and the related political violence in rural areas (which both
began in the period leading to the general elections in June 2000).
Second, the failure to implement a sustainable economic stabilization program. The
government has failed to put in place a stabilization program to address the macro-
economic crisis which has steadily worsened over the past two years. Inflation has
risen from an annual average of 31.7% in 1998 to 70% in July 2001 (103.8% by
November 2001). The budget deficit, one of the prime causes of the instability, has
also increased from 4.2% of GDP in 1998 to 23% of GDP in 2001. The country is
also experiencing severe foreign currency shortages, largely due to poor export
performance and the government's failure to attract foreign aid and investment and
this has resulted in lack of essential imported inputs for agriculture. The maintenance
of unrealistically high exchange rates has resulted in Zimbabwean export
commodities being overpriced and has led to a decline in export earnings while raw
materials for essential farm inputs have to be sourced at the parallel exchange rate
three to four times the artificially low official rate. The economic crisis has
negatively impacted the agriculture sector. More specifically, the high inflation has
hurt smallholder farmers who have witnessed a rapid decline in real incomes. Input
prices have increased by more than 200% without a corresponding increase in
producer prices.
Third, agricultural policy reversals: the recent government decision to impose market
and pricing controls further erodes any gains that may have been made by
smallholders during the early 1990s.
Improved performance of the Ministry and improved delivery of agricultural services
as sought under the project would, even if successful, have little impact under the
prevailing conditions.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The several factors which affected the implementation of this project that were subject to
MOLARR control can be grouped into three categories - Management, Finance and
Advisory support as summarized below:
Management
-  although the ASMP concept was conceived and developed within the Ministry,
the vision of what it hoped to achieve and the processes required to implement it
were confined largely to the senior echelons of the Ministry and rarely penetrated
below senior staff level;
9



- lack of substantive leadership in MOLARR from March 2000 to June 2001
following the suspension of the PS;
-  dysfunctional project management arrangements; and
-  lack of support and commitment of the central ministries;
Finance
- failure to establish a well performing financial management system;
- procurement irregularities particularly relating to the tender for 100 motor
vehicles;
-  lack of M&E
Advisory Support
-The selection system used by the Ministry for the recruitment of advisors and
consultants resulted in the Ministry not getting the maximum benefit from this technical
support;
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Total project costs were estimated at $33.5 million of which $8.8 million was to come
from IDA, $13.07 million from the EU and $8.66 million from DIFD while the
government contribution would be $2.99 million. The major portion of IDA funding
under this Credit $6.9 million (78.4.%) was for activities related to the Rationalization of
Services. Only $1,992,500 (22.6%) of the IDA credit was disbursed. $1,210,631(60.8%)
paid for the supply of 400 motorcycles for Agritex; $171,429 for extension training
equipment, $29,532 for other equipment, mainly laboratory equipment; $124,550 for
technical assistance, mainly fees for advisors and consultants; $231892 for training,
workshops and study tours. The Ministry has still to account for the balance $225,000
disbursed from the Special Account. The low rate of disbursement was mainly due to the
following factors: First, a shortened project life - the project became effective after a
delay of 5 months and was only effectively in implementation for 17 months (January
1999 - May 2000, when IDA suspended disbursement); Second, procurement delays,
partly caused by irregularities in the handling of some tenders, resulted in some major
procurement packages being caught up by the suspension of disbursements before they
were finalized e.g. tenders for 100 motor vehicles, computer equipment, laboratory
equipment all had to be abandoned; Third, a precarious financial management system.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating.
Sustainability is highly unlikely. As noted above, the project's accomplishments were
limited. Although initially the government made commendable efforts to implement the
agreed reform agenda, there have been policy reversals recently, which make it difficult
to sustain the modest accomplishments. Such reversals include the re-introduction of
price and marketing controls on some agricultural and other commodities, and a general
suspicion of the private sector by the government that militates against the greater
collaboration with the sector as originally envisaged in the project. Recent trends
indicate a return to more centralized controls and unwillingness by the government to
decentralize decision-making or to collaborate with the private sector in the provision of
these services. In the area of land reform for example, the government led by MOLARR,
has brought the implementation of the entire program under strong central direction in
10



contrast to the participatory and collaborative models advocated at the 1998 land reform
donor conference.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Many of the activities initiated under the project have been abandoned over the past year
as a result of the withdrawal of donor funding. Ministry staff have taken over the
functions of advisors and consultants when these were removed following the withdrawal
of donor support.
The Bank intends to reconsider its overall country assistance strategy for Zimbabwe and
the CT has initiated the process of preparing a post-crisis assistance strategy to help the
country recover from the current economic problems. In this context, it is expected that
future Bank support to the agricultural sector in the immediate post-crisis period would
primarily be in the area of land and agrarian reform. Land issues are at the core of the
current crisis and have been identified as a vital component of any future economic
recovery program. Support for activities related to improvements in the provision of
agricultural services, including capacity building for service providers and producer
organizations, would naturally be an integral part of this program, and much of the
original agenda supported by ASMP can be expected to be relevant in the future.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.] Lending:
Bank performance in project preparation is rated as satisfactory. This project was
prepared as a precursor to a larger sector investment program, the ASIP, and was aimed
at strengthening the capacity of MOLARR to enable the ministry to effectively lead the
preparation and subsequent implementation of the program. Project design drew lessons
from an earlier effort under a proposed Agricultural Services Project prepared during the
early 1 990s that was never approved as a result largely of lack of buy-in by the
government. Project design also considered lessons learned from the Bank's lending
activities in the agricultural sector in Zimbabwe which were implemented in the 1 980s
and 1 990s. These included the need to (i) improve the sustainability of public agricultural
services through rationalization of activities and decentralized decision making, (ii)
strengthen government project management capacity, (iii) improve impact and
responsiveness of services to farmer needs by improving research/extension/ farmer
linkages, (iv) improve collaboration with the private sector, and (v) focus attention first
on capacity building and local commitment/ownership to institutional change before
undertaking a larger sector investment program. Project design took account of these
lessons by focusing on the most critical services, developing consensus through
stakeholder consultations during preparation and implementation, supporting a phased
program of institutional strengthening, facilitating an expanded role of the private sector,
and coordinating with other donors providing support to the Ministry.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's overall supervision performance was rated as marginally satisfactory by QAG
in FY 2000. The project has been supervised from the field since May 1999. Formal in-
depth supervisions were carried out jointly with the donor partners and the government in
1999. Planned supervisions in 2000 and 2001 could not be carried as the situation in the
11



country deteriorated. Only limited review meetings were held in May and September
2000 with a final review by the donors in August / September 2001. Throughout this
difficult period, the supervision team has been diligent in seeking ways to move the
project forward. The team maintained regular and open contact with the government and
signaled willingness to assist in resolving implementation issues. There was continuity
and adequate mix of skills, including social skills in the Bank's team, which was
complemented by expertise from the donor partners.
Collaboration with other donors partners was excellent. Formal supervisions were carried
out jointly. The three donor partners agreed to use the same log frame and insisted on the
same reporting requirements for financial and implementation progress reports, while
taking turns to lead the preparation and organization of formal supervision missions and
as spokesperson on behalf of the donor group in other formal meetings with the
government.
During the early stages of the project, the supervision effort focused primarily on outputs
and compliance with covenants without addressing emerging questions of project
relevance, borrower commitment, achievability of development objectives, and
sustainability. But, beginning May 2000, the Bank and its partners began to engage the
Ministry in more substantive dialogue on the need to restructure the project to meet
emerging priorities.
With respect to safeguard and fiduciary aspects of supervision, general performance was
rated as satisfactory, but follow up on financial management should have been more
aggressive.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated to have been satisfactory. Design and early
suspension of the project was appropriate. The decision to keep the project open during
the period of suspension was appropriate under the circumstances. The decision to close
despite substantial undisbursed balances was also appropriate given the project's
unsatisfactory status.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation
The government's performance during project preparation was satisfactory. The
preparation process was highly participatory. The Ministry took the lead in the
preparation and design of the project, and sought the assistance of consultants financed
by the donors, and inputs from other stakeholders. This process encouraged commitment
to the project by all stakeholders and ensured that project design took into account the
interests of the different stakeholder groups. However, the commitment of the Ministry of
Finance and the Public Service Commission to the project was not strongly evident, as
they were not sufficiently engaged in the ASMP process.
12



7.5 Government implementation performance:
The government's implementation performance was unsatisfactory. The MOLARR
initiated the project, but was slow in following through on implementation. Even before
the February 2000 referendum which triggered political instability in Zimbabwe, delays
in start-up and implementation were evident. There was an absence of clear political
support for major reform of sectoral ministries at the time of project inception. Over time,
the impetus for reform lost cohesiveness and focus.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The MOLARR's implementation performance was unsatisfactory. Several weaknesses
are summarized below:
Management
- Although the ASMP concept was conceived and developed within the Ministry,
the vision of what it hoped to achieve and the processes required to implement it
were confined largely to the senior echelons of the Ministry (the AMC) and was
not widely shared below senior staff level;
-  The initial decision to have two component managers, reflecting the structure of
the Ministry at that time, was a design weakness. It resulted in no clear line
management for decision-making;
-  The project-appointed co-coordinator should have brought together donors and
senior managers in order to broaden consensus. But, he did not provide this
service; nor did he produce implementation progress reports, as required by the
donors;
Finance
-  Despite the employment of contract staff to rectify weaknesses, financial
reporting systems remained ineffective and failed to meet project reporting
agreements;
- The tentative implementation by departments and divisions of the Core Function
Analysis recommendations did not have the intended effect of redirecting non-
staff recurrent costs to core functions; financial allocations between Core and
non-Core activities were never monitored systematically by the Ministry, despite
this being an indicator in the Log Frame; and
Advisory Support
- Externally recruited advisors (with the notable exception of the Agritex advisor)
did not provide the required impetus for change. Those recruited were generally
insiders who understood the working of the Ministry but they were selected to
provide additional assistance ('gap-filling') rather than act as agents of change.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Borrower performance was unsatisfactory due to the following reasons (a) lack of
commitment as indicated by the delays in project start-up as well delays in implementing
the institutional reform process; (b) failure to adhere to the project implementation plan
as indicated by the lagging procurement plan; (c) failure to submit progress reports and
delays in submitting financial reports; (d) failure to follow through on the agreement
reached with the donors to prepare proposals to restructure the project.
13



8. Lessons Learned
(a) Commitment to, and understanding of, the underlying vision for institutional reform
at all levels is needed before implementation begins while the need for, the reasons for,
and the process of, cultural change also require constant reinforcement. This
conmmitment and understanding should not be confined to the involved officials from the
sector Ministry but also from Ministers and from core central ministries (for example
Public Service Commission, Ministry of Finance), on which the success of reform
depends. Therefore these must be involved in project design from the outset;
(b) Project design should include the establishment of a clear management structure with
assignment of responsibility and accountability for project implementation, coordination
and supervision;
(c) Donors, including the Bank, tended to under emphasize early weaknesses in the hope
of encouraging the Ministry to move ahead with project implementation. By mid-1998,
when the project was approved, strong signals of a looming economic downturn and
governance crisis were beginning to emerge but IDA and its donor partners decided to
proceed with the project in hope that this assistance would help the ministry overcome
the problems emanating from the emerging crisis to maintain the reform process in the
agricultural sector;
(d) The logical framework prepared during project design was too complicated and
difficult to apply for monitoring purposes; and
(e) Once the political and economic crisis became evident the decision to keep the project
open was correct, even though it carried the risk that the project would remain in
unsatisfactory status for an extended time. Although the undesired outcome was the one
that transpired, the risk was nonetheless appropriate.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency. GOZ did not provide inputs or comments to the ICR
but has presented a completion review report on the project (Annex 7A). The Borrower
rated the project as satisfactory. Its overall findings are generally positive although
admitting that project implementation and impact could have been more effective if
donor funds had been provided as originally planned.
(b) Co financiers: Comments received from DFID have been incorporated in this report.
The EU provided input to the ICR but have not provided formal comments.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable
10. Additional Information
Please see Annexes 1 through 7.
14



Annex 1
1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome i Impact Indicators:                                               _
Indicator/hNatris                  Projected in last PSR         Actual/Latest Estimate
*   (i) General Growth in agricultural GDP             N/A            Decline 12.2% in agricultural GDP in
2001
(i) Growth in agricultural exports                         N/A             Decline of 3% in agricultural exports in
2001
(i) Growth in estimated smallholder crop and livestock     N/A             Decline of 5-10% in smallholder crop
production and sales                                                       and livestock sales during past 2 years
(ii) Improved Policies/Planning Updated GOZ                N/A            No policy improvements - Policy
Agricultural Policy Framework sharply enunciates                          reversals/ reintroduction of price and
potentials, constraints, and public roles                                  market controls on major agricultural
commodities; ZAPF not updated;
(ii) Departmental strategic plans prioritize functions and  N/A           Strategic plans prepared, but
resources and have stakeholder acceptance                                  implementation slow
(ii) Agricultural Master Plan sets out technical priorities  N/A           Not completed
and institutional responsibilities
(iii) Alternative Services Delivery/Finance Increased      N/A             Process for Alternative Service delivery
numbers of competitive research and extension grants                      for ARC but awaiting competitive
Private contributions to the Agricultural Research and                     research grants scheme to begin
Extension Fund                                                   _
(iii) Contracting out of tsetse control services in selected  N/A          Pilot contracting-out of tsetse control
areas is implemented and well monitored                                    delayed
Increased.rates of cost recovery for commercialized                        Cost recovery increases achieved
services                                                                  through ARF
(iv) Agricultural Services Effectiveness Decreased         N/A             Improved systems now in place for
incidence of notifiable livestock diseases                                 notifying livestock diseases which
ensure more rapid flow of information
and resulting action
(iv) Unit cost reduced for measured core functions         N/A             Analysis of unit costs not done
(iv) Improved client assessments of field and diagnostic   N/A             Data to confirm not available
services
(iv) Verification/demonstration of technologies through    N/A             6 pilots implemented by DR&SS
on-farm research
(v) Improved Management Decentralization of decision-      N/A             No progress
making and financial management within MoLARR
(vii) Reporting systems increasingly                       N/A             M&E system not set up
monitoring/measuring outputs and outcomes
(vii) Staff re-organized and rationalized following        N/A             Some progress on rationalization of
functional review                                                          MoLARR with new divisional
structures. Also realignment of some
DR&SS and DVS posts.
(ix) Budgetary allocations to non-core functions decline   N/A             No progress
15



Annex 2
Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)             __     _    _
Project Cost By Component        Appraisal      ActuaVLatest  Percentage of
Estimate        Estimate     Appraisal _I
L ______________________________    US$  million   US$  million' 
IRationalization and Effectiveness of      22.28           4.75
Services and Policy-Making                                             __
E:fficient Resource Management             6.73           2.16
[Total Baseline Cost                       29.01           6.91
Physical and Price Contingencies           4.44           0.00
Total Project Costs                33.45           6.91
Total Financing Required                 33.45           6.91
Donor disbursements only, as GOZ expenditures are not available
16



Annex 2a
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million
equivalent)
Procurement M%1ethod
Expenditure    ICB       NCB       Other2  N.B.F.  Total Cost
Category
1. Works         0.00       0.68      0.00    3.35      4.03
(0.00)    (0.55)     (0.00)  (0.00)    (0.55)
2. Goods         1.64       0.58      0.45    0.27      2.94
(1.64)    (0.58)     (0.45)  (0.00)    (2.67)
3. Services      0.20       0.80      0.78    4.13      5.91
(0.20)    (0.80)     (0.58)  (0.00)    (1.58)
4. Miscellaneous  0.00      0.00      0.55    3.45      4.00
(0.00)    (0.00)     (0.55)  (0.00)    (0.55)
5.               2.56       2.56      4.03    0.00      9.15
Miscellaneous
(0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)  (0.00) _  (0.00)
6.               0.00       0.00      0.00    0.00      0.00
Miscellaneous
(0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)  (0.00)    (0.00)
Total          4.40      4.62       5.81   11.20     26.03
_  (1.84)  (1.93)    (1.58)  (0.00) 7   5.35
17



Annex 2b
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million
equi valent)
Procurement    Mlethod I
Expenditure        ICB         NCB          Other2      N.B.F.    Total Cost
Categorn-
1. Works               0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)     (0.00)
2. IGoodIs             01.38        0.00          0.03       0.00        1.41
(1.38)      (0.00)        (0.03)      (0.00)     (1.41)
.3. Services            0.00        0.00          0.09        0.00       0.09
(0.00)      (0.00)        (0.12)      (0.00)     (0.12)
4. Training and         0.00        0.00          0.00       0.00        0.00
Worksh.ops
____________________   (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                1.38        0.00          0.12        0.00        1.50
_____________________  (1.38       (0.00)        (0.15)     (0.00)      (1.53)
N.B. Breakdown of expenditures by co-financiers and government expenditure data not
available
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Ircludes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
18



Annex 2c
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
|             Component              I   Appraisal Estimate  l  Actual/Latesi Estimate  1       Percentage of Appraisal 
Bank   Govt.    CoF      Bank     Govt.    CoF    Bank.     Govt.           CoF
Rationalization and Effectiveness of
Service and Policy Making ____ __
Policy and Strategic Planning          1.30   0.30    0.13     0.03              0.26     2.3      0.00            200
Altemative Service Delivery           0.30    2.75    0.67     0.03              0.88    10.00     0.00           131.3
Effectiveness of Public Service       5.26    13.82   1.42      1.46             1.18    27.76     8.5            83.1
Efficient Resources Management
Human Resource Management              1.61   1.19    0.03     0.12              0.43    7.45      0.00          1433.3
Financial Management                  0.09    1.54    0.67     0.00              0.21    0.00      0.00           31.3
Institutional Reform Process          0.24    1.34    0.07     0.13              1.27    54.17     0.00          1814.3
Management__l
TOTAL                                 10.01  20.94    2.99      1.77             4.23   101.68     0.00           141.62
N.B. Data on government expenditures not available
Annex 3
Economic Costs and Benefits
Cost Benefit Analysis 11
Present Value of Flows                                                        |
Economic Analysis                               Financial Analysis'
Appraisal           Latest Estimate          Appraisal           Latest Estimates
Benefits                                                                                     L
Costs -                                            _--                                                                    - 
Net Benefits                    .                  . ___                      __      _____   _ _, .  __
IRR/NPV                                                                                      L                 _              I
_ _   _  _ _   _______   -- _    __     _     _  _ __ _ __ _ ._ ___ _  _.  _  __ _  _.. 
1/ Not Available
19



Annex 4
Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                      No. or Persons and Specialn                   Performance Rating
Month/Year                   Count                    Specialty                  Implementation  Develop)n ent
Progress       Objective
Identification/Preparation
July 1996                                     2     1 Agricultural Economist. I Rural Development
____________                                        Specialist
November 1996                                 5     2 Agricultural Economist, 1 Rural Development
Specialist, I Agricultural Service Specialist, I
Institutional Development Specialist
A_ p raisal/Negotiation
May 1997                                     5        2 Agricultural Economist, I Rural Development
Specialist, 1 Agricultural Services Specialist. ]
Financial Management Specialist
November 1997                                6        2 Agricultural Economist. 1 Rural Development
Specialist, I Agricultural Services Specialist. I
Financial Management Specialist, I
Procurement Specialist
April 1998                                   4        1 Agricultural Economist, I Rural Development
Specialist, 1 Agricultural Services Specialist. I
Financial Analyst
Snpervision
May 1999                                    4        2 Rural Development Specialist. I               S               S
Agricultural Services Specialist, I
Procurement Specialist
November 1999                                4       2 Rural Development Specialist. I                S              S
Agricultural Services Specialist, I
Procurement Specialist
May 2000                                     2       1 Rural Development Specialist. I                U              U
Procurement Specialist                  __
August 2000                                  2       2 Agricultural Services Specialist               U              U
December 200(0                               1       1 Rural Development Specialist                   U              U
June 2001                                    1       1 Rural Development Specialist                   U              U
ICR
|August 2001                                  1        1 Rural Development Specialist                  U              U
20



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project CyXcle            Actual!Latesi Estimale
No. Staff weeks          US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation       140.1                   424.4
Appraisal/Negotiation             36.6                   180.1
Supervision                       55.7                   177.1
ICR
Total                            232.3                  781.60
Annex 5
Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ R atin g
[] Macro Policies                          [] H [] SU /[ ] M [X] N [ ] NA
[J Sector Policies                         []H []SU []M [X]N []NA
[   Physical                               [H    [SU    IM   [X]N [INA
[] Financial                               []H   []SU   []M   [X ]N  [JNA
[   Institutional Development              []H [] SU IX ] M [ ] N [     NA
[   Environmental                          []H []SU l M []N [        NA
Social
[] Poverty Reduction                   []H []SU []M [X]N []NA
[] Gender                              []H []SU IX]M [N [INA
[J Other (Please speciJfy)
[  Private sector development              []H []SU []M [X] N []NA
[  Public sector management                []H []SU [X ] M [J N []NA
[  Other (Please specify)
21



Annex 6
Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS-=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, IJ=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance
Rating
[]fending                                             S
f  Supervision                                         S
[  Overall                                             S
6 2 Borrower performance
Rating
f  Prreparation                                        S
f] Government implementation performance               U
/  Implementation agency performance                   U
[] Overall                                             U



ZIMABWE
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 3080-ZW)
ANNEX 7 (A)
ICR PREPARED BY THE MINISTRY OF LANDS, AGRICULTURE AND
RURAL RESETTLEMENT - GOVERNMENT OF ZIMBABWE
23






MINISTRY OF LANDS, AGRICULTURE AND RURAL RESETTLEMENT
REPORT ON THE REVIEW OF THE AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND
MANAGEMENT PROJECT (ASMP)
DECEMBER 2001
24






REPORT ON THE AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND MANAGEMENT
PROJECT (ASMP)
1.0- INTRODUCTION
The Agricultural Services and Management Project (ASMP) was initiated as a three year
project funded by the European Union, World Bank, Department for International
Development (DFID) and International Development Association (IDA) (1998-2000).
The purpose of ASMP was to enhance institutional arrangements and operational
capacity for policy formulation, sustainable and efficient management and delivery of
land and agricultural services in Zimbabwe. ASMP sought to make cost-effective use of
the public resources available to support agricultural development and assist in the
definition of the Ministry's core functions in the context of a liberalized economic
environment, declining budgetary resources and create an environment for the public-
private sector partnerships. IDA withdrew its support in July 2000 and DFID is finalizing
outstanding payments, while the EU is to provide support until January 2002.
2.0 PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Most of the project objectives have been met and there is a high chance of the
Government's ability to sustain itself. The major objectives of ASMP included:
*  The rationalization of functions of Ministry and its services, strengthening its core
functions, and commercializing and privatizing activities more effectively carried
out by the private sector and civil society,
*  The improvement of the effectiveness, efficiency and client orientation of the
Ministry in delivery of services and execution of its core functions,
*  The enhancement and strengthening of the institutional capacity for policy
formulation, implementation and management
* The strengthening of agricultural information and management systems
* The building of consensus and commitment to change.
* Research and Development and capacity building.
* Provision of medium and long term infrastructure, human and financial
sustainability.
* Provision of improved technology, products and services to the farming
community with emphasis on small scale farming sector.
* Improved food security at household and national levels
3.0 IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCES AND RESULTS
3.1 General
Despite the harsh economic and political environment, the project was satisfactorily
implemented. The extent of the implementation and level of achievement of the outputs
were varied due to various constraints.
3.2 Agricultural Economics and Marketing Division (AEMD)
25



The major output and objective of ASMP in the Agricultural Economics and Marketing
Division (AEMD) was enhanced and improved institutional and operational capacity for
policy formulation for sustainable and efficient management and delivery of agricultural
services. In order to achieve this output, ASMP had three components. These are outlined
in Table 1.
Table 1: ASMP Budget Components
COMPONENT                                                   BUDGET
Enhancement of Sectoral Policy Formulation,                  717 301
Enhancement of Institutional Policy Formulation              136 226
Improvement of Management Information Systems                230 751
TOTAL                                                        1084 278
ASMP made significant impact, particularly in enhancing sectoral and institutional policy
formulation, and strengthening the Ministry's information system.
3.2.1 Enhanced Sectoral Policy formulation
The project component supported activities including human resources development,
hiring of technical assistance to respond to emerging policy crisis and issues, and
preparation of Agricultural Services Investment Programme (ASIP). Training plans were
made and implemented. The project provided Masters Degree Training Programmes for
four officers in Agricultural Economics, two in Management of Rural Change and
Marketing Management. One Officer is currently in UK studying an MSc Programme in
Agricultural Trade.
The project providedfunding for all staff to attend short courses in relevant areas
including project monitoring and evaluation, food security, micro-finance,
mechanization, gender, project appraisal, policy analysis, rural development and
computer software.
This has enhanced the division's policy formulation capacity through consultative and
participatory approaches. Some of the policy papers produced to date include: Policy
Strategies for Stimulating Agricultural Production and Food Security for the Year
1999/2000 Framing Season and Beyond, Agricultural Sector Decentralization Framework
and Investment Opportunities in the Agricultural Sector. The Division also made a
review of the food security situation in Zimbabwe and formulated a Zimbabwe Food
Security Policy Strategy.
The Division made a review of the Japanese Grant Aid for Increased Food Production
(KRIl), programmed and produced a monitoring and evaluation report. Various
Smallholder Support Programmes were designed and implemented including the Crops
and Livestock Inputs scheme.
26



3.2.2. Enhanced Institutional Policy formulation
The AEMD played a leading role in the streamlining of Ministry functions. The core
function analysis study was completed and Ministry restructured around the core
functions. Some functions were commercialized and others privatized. An Agricultural
Revolving fund was established to enable Departments to implement cost recovery
measures. The AEMD, other Departments and Divisions developed their visions and
missions.
3.2.3. Improvement of Ministry Information Systems
The major achievement was enhanced capacity to gather, consolidate and disseminate
information on developments in the market under APMMIS. The project also supplied
computer equipment. The Division is now producing a monthly bulletin containing
information on export, imports and commodity prices.
Most AEMD staff received training in computer skills. A database on projects was
developed and, under (Agricultural Production Marketing and Management Information
System (APMMIS). Some projects such as the Dry Areas Projects now have databases.
3.2.4. Management Arrangements
Under the Management Improvement Performance Programme (MIPP), AEMD staff
identified short and long-term courses, which were relevant and therefore important to
improve their performance, and produced a Division training programme.
3.3 Department Of Research and Specialist Services (DR &SS)
DR & SS component of ASMP performed satisfactorily, but it could have achieved the
project objectively, if the items like equipment, transport (vehicles), development of
communication would have been acquired. The project is being sustained through the
release of GOZ contribution, but at a much reduced and slower pace.
The project was implemented in two phases, start up and main project phase respectively.
3.3. 1 Start Up Phase: (Investment:US137 780.18)
The start up phase lasted for one year (1998-1999), while negotiations for the main
project were underway. DR&SS component of start-up phase ASMP was funded by the
Department for International Development (DFID) of United Kingdom. The main
activities during the start-up phase included:
DR & SS strategic plan: ASMP contributed towards the formulation of DR&SS strategic
plan. Most of the investments from ASMP were for participatory rural appraisal
(PRA's), in the field and stakeholder consultations.
Change Process and Management: During this phase of the project several members of
the accounts section undertook short term training aimed at preparing the Department's
27



impending  commercialization  and decentralization.  Departmental Management
Committee (DMC) was established representing livestock, crops and services to assist
and advise the Departmental Management in the improved operations of the Department.
A Change Process Facilitator was also appointed.
On farm-Pilot Research Projects: These projects were in the areas of soil fertility
management/improvement, small scale dairy development, soil and water conservation,
fruit nursery establishment in small scale farming sector, seed production technology
development in small scale farming sector, and enhancement of pest management. All
projects were aimed at on-shelf technology verification and demonstrations.
Feasibility study on commercialization: During this phase of ASMP, ARC sponsored a
cost recovery study, which formed the basis of the pricing policy on DR&SS services and
sale of research generated produce. During the same period DR &SS established 18
different revolving fumds under the Ministry wide Agricultural Revolving Fund (ARF).
Short Term Training and Study Tour: one staff member from Administration and one
from DR&SS registry went on short term (three weeks) overseas training. Several staff
members from Biometrics Bureau and Administration went for computer training
acquiring advanced skills in various software programmes. Study tour for selected DMC
member to EMBRAPA (Brazil) was planned and undertaken.
Equipment and computer: During the start-up phase three computers were acquired
which are being used by Administration, Biometrics Bureau and Chemistry and Soils
Research Institute. In the same period, a comprehensive list of equipment required by
various Institutes/Stations was prepared.
3.3.2 Agricultural Services And Management Project (ASMP) Main Project:
(Investment US$254,370.58)
The main ASMP Project in DR &SS commenced in 1999 with the following activities:
DR & SS Strategic Plan: Formulation of DR &SS Strategic Plan was a joint activity with
FAO and is being completed and finalized. The activity consisted of participatory rural
appraisal in five agro-ecological regions.
Core Function Analysis: DR&SSfully participated in Ministry wide Core Function
Analysis (CFA). Based on this study DR&SS prepared the implementation plan.
Many recommendations contained in the CFA are being implemented in the
restructuring, commercialization and decentralization of DR&SS.
Strengthening of Research/ Extension/ Farmer Linkages: This institutional reform
has been in theform of community based transfer of technology, through
demonstrations and training in partnership with A GRITEX and International
Agriculture Research Centers.
3.4 Department ofAgricultural Technical and Extension Services (A GRITEA)
28



The long-term goal of the ASMP in Agritex was to enhance the performance and
sustainability of the agricultural sector in general and the small holder sector in particular.
The purpose of the project was to strengthen the institutional arrangements for the
management of agricultural extension services in Zimbabwe.
3.4.1 Improved Management System Implementation and Operationalization
Change management workshops were held in districts to help Agritex staff appreciate the
existing management culture in the organization and develop a culture of openness and
transparency. Management and development activities were continued by way of
coaching and counseling of senior managers by the project facilitator and other
consultants.
An evaluation of the Organizational Development process was conducted in Masvingo
Province. The major findings were that the organizational development process leads to
the development of an extension service, which empowers farmers.
The existing performance management system was made more relevant and effective by
making sure that it was an on-going process and not an annual event to comply with
Public Service Commission requirements. Peer assessments were instituted and
subordinate feedback to managers was put in place. This enhanced effective decision-
making: openness and transparency; commitment to the job and effective organizational
communication.
3.4.2 Extension Policy and Strategic Plan Development
Core Function Analysis (CFA) workshops were held and enabled the Department to
focus on its own role in service provision and the need to accommodate other Non-
Governmental Organizations as complementary, and in some instances, specialist service
providers.
Integration of specialist support staff activities more effectively with provincial staff has
been and continues to be a major challenge for management at all levels. In this regard,
clarification of roles and revised job descriptions remain crucial on-going priorities right
across the organization.
3.4.3 Resource Development and Training system Planning and Operationalization
Change management workshops examined the issue of resource allocation. Prioritization
and the determination of cost effective options was done in a participatory manner. The
major constraint was that identified resource needs were in some instances made
available both from the project and Government side. Accessing of project funds for
needed equipment was at times delayed by cumbersome and unclear procedures. This
resulted in project funding being transmitted before critical equipment was procured, e.g.,
training and facilitation equipment and motor vehicles.
Capability to facilitate the change process was developed through training of close to 30
officers in metaplan moderation. Strategic priorities for Human Resource Management
29



and Development (HRMD) were developed and a Guiding Criteria for Staff Training and
Development was operationalized.
3.4.4 Financial and Administration
All finance personnel received short-term training under the professionalization of
accounts scheme. Staff are now being trained at different levels. If the project was to
continue for another year, it would leave the finance staff fully professionalized and
proceed to professionalization of administration personnel.
3.4.5 Strengthening of Technical and Extension Services
Participatory Extension Approaches (PEA) training was carried out in Masvingo and
Midlands Provinces enabling extension agents and farmers to work as partners in
technology development and extension programme plan formulation. About 25 officers
were trained as PEA trainers throughout the Department.
The team approach, production of self-learning materials with farmers and the
introduction of stakeholder panels are some of the strategies that have strengthened the
Department's capacity to provide extension effectively.
3.4.6 Improved Mobility and Work Environment of Extension Staff
Staff mobility was improved by the provision of motor cycles for field staff. The motor
vehicle component of the funding did not sail through due to bureaucratic inertia.
The work environment of extension staff was impacted upon by PEA training and
stakeholder panels in that clientele expectations in terms of service required became well
defined.
3.4.7 Technology Development and Dissemination
A new pilot project at district level involving the Agricultural Research Council (ARC),
AGRITEX and GTZ (IRDEP) is exploring alternatives to existing systems of agricultural
services delivery for rural communities at different stages of development to come up
with modalities for supervision and disbursement of the Agricultural Research and
Extension (AREF) under the ASMP.
ASMP has supported production and distribution of fact sheets on various aspects of
agriculture.
3.5 Department of Veterinary Services (D VS)
The Department of Veterinary Services was able to change its culture to one of serving
stakeholders. The Veterinary Services Council was elected and is operational and now
awaiting ratification.
30



Pilot studies were initiated, study tours undertaken and many people attended a variety of
training programmes which broadened the individual skills. The DVS gained a great deal
from the ASMP and is slowly progressing with the institutional reforms in order to reach
the goals which are set.
3.6 Agricultural Research Council (ARC)
The project raised the strategic planning process to the forefront of all other activities
and budgets. The concept of logframing with a clear goal, objectives, outputs, activities
and related budgets was made a requirement. The outputs were also to be accompanied
by clear verifiable indicators and assumptions. This made the project monitoring and
review very easy as all those involved could easily see deviations from the targets. This
was a clear improvement in the whole projectformulation and implementation process.
Linkages were also clearly identified which led to a reduction in duplication. ARCfully
gainedfrom the planning process and to apply it on all their projects.
4.0   CRITICAL ISSUES
4.1 AEMD
The AEM Division successfully coordinated the preparation of the ASIP Preparation
Framework, but the actual preparation of ASIP could not start following the suspension
of funding for the project. The same happened for the review of the ZAPF after recruiting
the facilitator and human resources development.
The suspension of donor funding left the project to rely on Government funding. The
ASMP failed to achieve some of its important, planned outputs, and there remain a
number of areas where ASMP failed to make an impact but could still play a pivotal role
if funds are injected.
4.2 DR& SS
The project preparation phase of the DR &SS component went fairly well. Assistance by
Dr Jacob Kempen of World Bank is greatly appreciated.   However, during the
implementation phase, the main constraints were on procurement of goods and services.
4.2.1 Strengthening of Research Services
4.2. 1.1 Equipment
Tender documents for procurement of equipment were prepared, but the activity could
not be completed due to sudden suspension of ASMP Support.
4.2.1.2 Infrastructure re-furbishment
Rationalization of refurbishment requests from Stations/Institutes was completed,
allocation of resources were made. However, tenders could not invited and awarded due
to suspension of ASMP support.
31



4.2.2 Strengthening of Mobility/Communication
Tenders for obtaining vehicles were completed, quotations for this activity were obtained
and submitted to the Ministry but purchase could not be effected due to suspension of
ASMP support.
4.2.3 Pilot Studies and Research
There were six projects under this activity, namely:
* Soil Fertility Improvement
* Seed Technology- On Farm Trials and Demonstrations
* Fruit Nursery Project
* Smallholder Dairy Improvement
* Soil and Water Conservation
* Enhancement of Pest Management
All the projects performed satisfactorily except Pest Management Project. DR &SS is
looking into the problems of its under performance and how to redress the situation.
Based on Dr Kampen's trip report impact assessment studies on Soil Fertility
Improvement Project were planned, but could not be undertaken due to the absence of
resources and a Socio-Economist in the Department.
4.2.4 Establishment of Agriculture Research Management Planning and
Information Service
The unit is being established by amalgamation of Biometrics Bureau, Farming Systems
Research Unit and Information Services to improve research planning and information
management services. However, in view of the amalgamation of DR &SS and AGRITEX
resulting in the Department of Research and Extension (DR &E), the unit will be
reorganized.
4.3 Agritex
Hygiene factors in terms of improved housing remained a serious demotivating factor
among field staff in AGRITEX.
4.4 DVS
The ASMP was a very complex operation for DVS staff and it took time to change mind-
sets in order to develop new innovative ways of doing business.
4.5 ARC
The project was too centrally controlled by MoLARR through the project team leaders.
This made allocations skewed to the detriment of other implementing units. ARC got a
raw deal in the prioritization and budget allocations. The draw down of the funds was
32



also very cumbersome due to the centralization. All funds were to be disbursed from the
donor through Ministry of Finance (NDF - Special Accounts) and Reserve Bank, to
MoLARR and then to ARC. The foreign exchange gains all accrued to MoLARR Head
Office holding account and did not filter down to the implementing units. The budgets
were set when the exchange was US$ =Z$1O but the DFID funds were exchanged when
the rate was Z$ 18.
Things were done with little consultation with or reference to the implementing units.
This led to a lot of frustration and uncalled for delays. Information relating to the project
implementation is still not available to all participants in the project.
5.0   SUSTAINABILITY
5.1 DR & SS
The Department of Research and Specialist Services component of Agricultural Services
Management Project (ASMP) was prepared on the basis of the lessons learnt from World
Bank's earlier lending to National Agricultural Extension and Research Project (In 2335
ZW and IFAD in 123), which operated between 1984-1991.
The five major lessons from the above project stressed the need to:
* Improve the sustainability of public agricultural services by rationalizing activities
decentralizing decision making authority and ensuring that project activities are
adjusted to fit budgetary constraints.
* Strengthen Government project management capacity including procurement
arrangements. Continued monitoring of the project activities would go a long way in
the improved implementation of project and delivery of services to stakeholders.
*  Establish priorities for public sector investment through better planning and
stakeholder consultations.
*  Improve impact and responsiveness of services for farmer needs by improving
research/extension/farmer linkages, and
*  Improve coordination with non-public sector establishment/organizations.
Commercialization of DR & SS activities achieved marked success, highlighting:
* Annual work plan and activity based budgets prepared by all Stations/Institutes
* Cost recovery based provision of services and sale of research generated products
and produce
* Preparation of annual budgets and cash flow statements for revolving funds
* Operation of Revolving Funds Account respective Stations/Institute
During the year 2000, revenue generated for Revolving Funds was around Z$35 000 000
and in 2001, it is projected to be around Z$50 000 000. The revolving funds are
achieving their intended objectives namely:
* Contribution towards DR &SS financial sustainability
33



* Reduced dependence on PSC employed staff (contract staff is being recruited)
*  Financial autonomy to Stations/Institutes
*  Institute/Station development (purchase of capital items such as Vehicles/tractor,
equipment, supplies and infrastructure maintenance)
*  Criteria for Institute/Stations performance appraisal
Pilot field project will continue with the GOZ component contributions to ASMP during
2001/2002 cropping season.
Since 1999, DR &SS initiated the royalties on crop varieties. In the first year, DR &SS
licensed Quton Company exclusive rights to breed and sale of DR &SS bred cotton
varieties. Subsequently, licenses have also been given to private sector companies for
production and sale of wheat, groundnut and maize varieties on royalty basis. The
activity involves preparation of agreements, discussions and negotiations.
5.2 DVS
The Core Functions Analysis recommendations are still to be fully implemented. Cost
recovery is also now beginning to assist the operations of the Department as are the
activities and participation of the Department's stakeholders.
5.3 ARC
The project came immediately after ARC had been restructured and was ready to rise to
the occasion. The agricultural stakeholders saw this as a resuscitation of the client driven
public research and development agenda. Funding for R & D was promised. So much
hope was put on ARC to drive R & D. All stakeholders fully co-operated in the
development of the ARC R & D Five Year Rolling Strategic Plan (2000 - 2004).
ARC was allocated funds to support the related R & D Commodity and Provincial
Committees as well as Secretariat operations. The secretariat and committees worked
very hard to gather R & D related challenges and opportunities from the farmers with a
major emphasis on the smallholder sector.
The ARC also created a competitive R & D funding mechanism through the Agricultural
Research and Extension Fund (AREF). This has received some funding form
Governrment (Z$8,4 million), DFID (Z$4.6 million) and EC (Z$6.5 million). EC is still to
release the balance of Z$6.5 million upon successful implementation of the first phases.
ARC is still championing R & D facilitation with the support of donors such as
Rockefeller Foundation and W K Kellogg Foundation.
6.0 FUTURE PLANS
6.1 AEMD
6.1. 1 Concept and Design
34



The concept of ASMP remains relevant to the activities of the AEMD, which is the
policy hub for the Ministry. This is more so now, when the Ministry is restructuring and
rationalizing its functions. The design and implementation arrangements were very
effective and participatory, involving staff (beneficiaries) in the identification of courses.
The implementation arrangements also enabled the Division to manage its own capacity
development process.
6.1.2 Preparation ofAgricultural Sector Investment Programme
The sector approach to agricultural development will effectively coordinate the flow of
resources in the sector and address the broader strategic and policy issues such as poverty
reduction and food security. The preparation of ASIP is a continuous process, and there is
need for a framework document to guide this process. The projects under ASIP have to
be continuously reviewed to ensure their effectiveness. ASMP could play a very
important role in funding the preparation of the ASIP framework and training of staff in
project management.
6.1.3 Review of Zimbabwe Agricultural Policy Framework
Since the launch of ZAPF in 1996, a lot of changes have happened. The ZAPF now needs
to be reviewed in light of the land reform, gender, HIV/AIDS, the new Ministry structure
and rationalization of functions. The ASMP could play a critical role in funding of this
review process.
6.1.4 Human Resources Development
As already indicated, the training of AEMD is important in the preparation of ASIP and
review of ZAPF. There is need for training in the area of institutional economics and
organizational management in view of the restructuring process in order to build capacity
of the AEMD in the preparation of development plans.
It is important to take stock of the impact of project and policy interventions form the
base for designing and implementation of future projects and polices. In this regard the
ASMP can play an important role in raising capacity for information gathering,
consolidation and dissemination and funding training in project monitoring and policy
analysis using such techniques as simulation models. ASMP could also provide funds for
technical assistance.
The resuscitation of funding for ASMP is very critical in order to speed-up and
smoothen the institutional reform process through improved institutional and
operational capacity. While ASMP made significant impact, there remains unfinished
business in the important areas, vis-d-vis, sectoral and institutional policy formulation
and improvement of Ministry information systems.
The critical areas requiring funds that stand to benefit from ASMP include the
preparation of ASIP and review of ZAPF. These areas are important to provide the
framework for agricultural development.
35



6.2 DR & SS
In view of the amalgamation of DR & SS and AGRITEX into the Department of
Research and Extension, the following steps are suggested:
* Revise the project, as a combined entity under a title such as strengthening of
Agriculture Research and Development in Zimbabwe or Improved Development and
Dissemination of Agricultural Technologies and Services in Zimbabwe.
* Develop project proposals as independent component of DR & SS, DVS and
AGRITEX.
* Decentralize procurement at Departmental level.
The DR &SS component of ASMP was well designed with clearly stated objectives.
During the period of two years of its existence the following lessons were learnt
*  Strategic Plan could be of assistance in the formulation of prioritized research
programmes.
*  In addition to Trial and Visit (T&V) method of extension pathway could be
further explored and exploited.
*  With the provision of appropriate training, equipment and mobility research and
services to farming communities.
*  Establishment of efficient operation of revolving funds could be an effective tool
for commercialization of public sector research enterprises.
*  Continuous review of structure, organization and operation of DR&SS in all its
activities including technology generations, product development and provision of
services could make the organization more efficient and cost effective.
6.3 Agritex
While it is noted that there is a new Department of Engineering and the Department of
Research and Extension, the resilience of change processes initiated by the ASMP project
is likely to transcend Departmental nomenclature.
6.4 DVS
The Department would urge Ministry to continue with the reforms and seek international
assistance which will speed up the reform process for the benefit of the livestock sector
and agricultural industry in general. The Department of Veterinary Services feels that the
process was successful in general although there were many specific areas which were
reluctant to change. However, the institutional reform process which began through the
ASMP, should continue as and when possible. The process must continue in order to
improve delivery of service to stakeholders.
6.5ARC
36



From the implementation of ASMP a number of lessons have emerged that can be used
for better project formulation and implementation in the future. These include the
following:
* Proper planning on its own does not necessarily create success. There is need in future
to establish co-ordinating units, which are accountable to all stakeholders. Under
ASMP it was not so, implementing institutions and stakeholders were not calling the
shots. Success cases of such non-self serving co-ordinating units are the World Bank
funded Programme Co-coordinating & Monitoring Unit (PCMU) in Local
Government under the Urban Housing Programme, the USAID funded CAMPFIRE
Programme and the SIDA/DANIDA/IDA funded Road Development Co-coordinating
Unit (RDCU) in Transport and Communications. All these co-coordinating units have
had reasonable success because they are accountable to the stakeholders. The
implementing institutions also have direct access to the resources through subsidiary
loan/grant agreements.
* Implementation plan must be flexible enough to cater for any eventuality. The ASMP
project appeared as if cast in stone which made it very difficult to come up with
corrective actions. The project was also too dependent on individuals and any
slightest change created problems.
* ASMP conceptually encouraged Institutional collaborations and stakeholder
consultations, which essentially improves resource utilization efficiency. ARC has
already tested the concept through AREF in Midlands and Mashonaland West in
collaboration with Seed Houses, Researchers, Extensionists and Farmers. Other
institutions like Forestry Commission and Plan International have also joined in
Midlands.
* The vision and objectives of such good intended projects need to be clearly articulated
and supported at all levels. In particular the highest levels of policy-making offices
need to put their unwavering support.
* In programmes of this nature it is vital to have stakeholder monitoring and evaluation
periodically during the project life cycle.
7. 0 MAIJOR RECOMMENDATIONS
The major recommendations from this project are that the implementation of the strategic
plans for the Departments be completed and a continuous review of structures and
activities be done regularly. There must be easy accessibility of funds for small activities
like procurement of stationery, travel advances and other supplies. A focal person for the
project and co-ordinating units, which are accountable to all stakeholders should be
appointed, so that there is proper communication between the Donors, Ministry and
stakeholders.
37



ANNEX 7(B)
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT PROGRAMME
REVIEW AUGUST-SEPTEMBER 2001
JOINT DONOR AIDE MEMOIRE
Introduction
1.   A joint donor review team comprising Caesar Chidawanyika ( World Bank ), Alex
Kremer and Stancilas Takawira (European Commission) and John Hansell (Department
for International Development) met with Mr. Masoka, the Permanent Secretary of the
Ministry of Lands, Agriculture and Rural Resettlement ( MoLARR) , on 28th August.
Subsequently, over the period 28th August until 1 7th September, they held discussions
with senior staff in MoLARR, the Public Service Commission (PSC) and with the
Agricultural Research Council (ARC). The Terms of Reference for the review is at
Annex 1 while the list of those met is at Annex 2.
2.   The ASMP was conceived as a three year project (August 1998-July 2001), jointly
funded by the three donor governments. However, initial difficulties delayed the start of
the project and each donor reached agreement and began funding at different times . This
report represents the joint findings of the donors and although every attempt was made to
accommodate the views of those interviewed, the donors accept sole responsibility for the
contents of this report.
Acknowledgements
3.   The review team expresses its appreciation for the cooperation and facilitation of
the Secretary for MoLARR, his staff, and others whose views were sought.
Project Overview
4.   The International Development Association (IDA) effectively stopped financing
project activities in July 2000, as the result of the Zimbabwe government's failure to
make loan repayments and formally closed the project on 3 15t July 2001. DFID
announced its intention to terminate support to the project in March 2001 and is in the
process of finalizing outstanding payments. Currently only the European Union continues
to provide support to the project. The original closing date for the EU component is
January 2002 but an extension could be considered if justified.
5.   The purpose of this review is to assess the current status of the project to date. The
review will determine the achievements of the project; identifying where the project has
brought about change and been successful in meeting its objectives. These objectives
were defined during project appraisal as " to put in place improved institutional
arrangements and operational capacity for policy formulation and for the sustainable and
efficient management, financing and delivery of agricultural services in Zimbabwe".
However, as many of the planned project activities were abandoned; either because of the
38



withdrawal of donor support or because they were no longer viable in the changed
economic and political environment, it is recognized that the project failed to meet many
of the expectations that held during design. The review therefore seeks to identify the
reasons why these failures occurred and to draw from them lessons for the future.
The Review's Findings
6.   Emerging from the review are a number of issues which reflect the strengths and
weaknesses of the ASMP. They have been grouped below under specific heads for clarity
although it is recognized that some are more generic and had a major impact on project
performance.
I Management Issues
General
*  Although the ASMP concept was conceived and developed within the Ministry,
the vision of what it hoped to achieve and the processes required to implement it
were confined largely to the senior echelons of the Ministry and except in rare
instances, rarely penetrated below senior staff level;
*  The departure of the two senior architects of the project from MOLARR resulted
in the project faltering and a marked loss of direction;
*  The initial decision to have two component managers, reflecting the structure of
the ministry at that time, was a design weakness. It resulted in no clear line
management for decision-making. Nobody, except for the Secretary, had the
strategic overview of the project but he was too involved in the operational
effectiveness of the ministry to concentrate fully on managing the ASMP;
* The project-appointed co-coordinator should have provided the catalyst of
bringing together donors and senior managers in order to broaden consensus.
Finance
* The tentative implementation by departments and divisions of the Core Function
Analysis recommendations did not have the intended effect of redirecting non-
staff recurrent costs to core functions;
*  Despite the employment of contract staff to rectify weaknesses, financial
reporting systems remained ineffective and failed to meet project reporting
agreements;
*  Financial allocations between Core and non-Core activities were never
monitored systematically by the Ministry, despite this being an indicator in the
Log Frame.
Advisory Support
* Externally recruited advisors did not provide the required impetus for change.
Those recruited were generally insiders who understood the working of the
ministry but they were selected to provide additional assistance ('gap-filling')
rather than act as agents of change.
Management - the lessons learned
Any future program of support to a Sector Wide Approach Program (SWAP) should:
1. ensure that there is a wider commitment and understanding of the Program
vision at all levels before implementation begins;
39



2. while recognizing that the Ministry's own structures should manage a full
SWAP, during a preparatory phase there is a need to establish a clear management
structure with a specific project management or change management unit. This
should be tasked with implementation and reporting to the Permanent Secretary;
3. work closely with the Ministry of Finance (MoF) to ensure that financial
systems and processes are developed and improved simultaneously;
4. ensure that the selection of project-funded advisors is open and transparent.
Reluctance by the Ministry to accept this principle may well indicate lack of a
commitment to change;
5. where a program of reform depends on other institutions for its success (for
example Public Service Commission, Ministry of Finance),they must be involved in
project design from the outset.
2. Policy Issues
General
* The ASMP was conceived in an environment that assumed a stable political
climate and an improving fiscal and macro-economic background. Unfortunately,
the country has experienced a deep political and economic crisis during the
project period which has impacted severely upon the ability of the project to meet
its development objectives.
* There was an absence of clear political support for major reform of sectoral
ministries at the time of project inception. Over time what impetus for reform
there was lost cohesiveness and focus;
* Zimbabwe's Agricultural Policy Framnework 1995-2020 was developed in
isolation and was unrelated to practical issues including inter alia:
-the resource implications of the policy,
-no implementation plan was produced to complement and direct the
vision;
-the required supporting activities to meet the stated objectives were never
considered.
* The national policy and fiscal environment was not conducive to change.
Without a political steer neither the Ministry of Finance nor the Public Service
Commission were in a position to set clear staffing or financing targets within
which the project should operate;
* The new Ministry agenda post July 2000, was driven by a high political
imperative - land reform. For the first time the PSC and MOLARR began
working in partnership but this was outside ASMP objectives.
Decentralization
* The already weak government commitment to decentralization declined over the
duration of the project. From the beginning MOLARR remained "luke-warrn" to
the concept;
* There was little political will to decentralize agricultural research or to provide
support for an independent Agricultural Research Council tasked to provide a
clear overview of the country's research needs.
40



Policy Issues - the lessons learned
1. Full and dynamic political impetus is needed for a pre-SWAP process, not
only by the involved officials from the sector ministry but also from Ministers and
from core ministries.
2. In preparing a SWAP donors should recognize that the availability of
significant central government funds for non-staff spending allows the Ministry
considerable independence, removing reliance on a donor-imposed agenda
3. Stakeholder Involvement
* Although stakeholder consultation was institutionalized to varying degrees by
different departments, no stakeholder panels were established as statutory bodies.
*  Stakeholder priorities were seen as useful but not influential or binding. The
Ministry failed to give recognition to such bodies that developed or allowed them
a role in the planning and delivery or services;
* Commercial farmers were more likely to have a more robust representation on
stakeholder bodies, as groups representing smallholders were unable to raise their
profile;
* Attempts to reform agricultural research and to have research needs formulated
by provincial committees comprising a range of stakeholders were not followed
through.
Stakeholders - the lessons learned
1. The design of any future sector program should create stakeholder
representative bodies that should be involved both in project design and in monitoring
progress.. In recognition of the weakness of smallholder farmer representation focus
groups should be created for this farming sector.
5. Donor Performance
The review considers that;
* The slow rate of procurement and perceived delays in approving requests, resulted
in disillusion with the process. In addition, donors became involved in detailed
examination of procurement requests seeking to re-orient departmental priorities;
* Despite these problems the project resulted in a degree of harmonization of donor
reporting and procurement procedures as well as furthering donor cohesion and
understanding;
* The project helped to develop and maintain a process of dialogue and
understanding between donors and the implementing departments;
* Although the logical framework was used during design, it proved too
cumbersome and complex to be used for the more subtle purpose of project
monitoring and assessing real progress;
41



Donor Performance - the lessons learned
1. Procurement must not be seen as the incentive to secure institutional
change. This requires that all procurement is clearly linked to the reform agenda
and agreed work programs;
2. Any logicalframework prepared during project design must beflexible
and contain indicators that are easily monitored As the project develops it is
essential to use and where necessary revisit and modify the framework to ensure
that it remains both appropriate and applicable.
3. Development theory at the time of project design recommended SWAPs.
Zimbabwe in general and MOLARR in particular was seen as a strong candidate for
such an approach. The outcome was that donors were prepared to overlook initial
design problems and weak commitment to change.
5.Impact
The project began changing the institutional culture of the Ministry. It resulted in:
* A greater awareness within the Ministry of the process of change, preparing the
ground for future support to the sector;
* An understanding of the reality of core and non core functions leading to a
reassignment of resources;
* The emergence of cost recovery and revolving funds as major mechanisms for
maintaining service delivery during a time of budgetary constraints. However,
commercialization of services and the off-budget income obtained, has
encouraged and at times justified the continuation of non core activities.
However:
* If there has been an improvement in the delivery of services to smallholders as a
result of the project it has been marginal and the effects overwhelmed by the
general economic decline.
W C Chidawanyika
A R Kremer
S Takawira
J R F Hansell
29/10/2001
42









ZAMBIA                  I .                           'j
4 .,  -Chirundu                                MO!:
r*    i.                                            ,.: IE.. .§ 
Karibo  ~Makuti                 *#~.   .
NAIBA'\,, k  .q t |   210                        Kari-ba  , <                           '.'  |~RUYA R~
NAMIRIA  ZIr¶AEv'E               -          /uruve          Ce
BOTSWANA                                - ,   I      - -         Mhangura         nte
-- .-., -1,  >/Karai      o             Mt.Dcri  /
.SHONALAND          0    0 °vurwi                  - 2 - tAr.
\: ; Vl VES7  /RaW gor  Bindura 
CHINHOYI .*    t                       Mutoka
\>,   >  g  To Ch...  /C  l-.r.z.z            {Trela      ey                  relOwr
Darwe al
Victor   ,                ,   ,  ,     /          D    sARARE
-18' l Falls                  t7 t                                    t Chegutu  o n  J    
O 0 X          WR Kadoma
Mrondero
ZM B  SHANGANIR.                   ee tr-.
-   MA OR STATE  OADS   )   Plumtre          >  ZvishaN ATe,. B  Chi,.u
N  TH RL A       Redcliff                               M u  -UT
MANI3 TO EI  s     /  To J/|
GWERU    L Aolaponzi i                      I )
NATA   R.  Tsholotsho                       Shuru PROVINC  C  ,  \                   /  ss
±7         ~~~~~~~~Bikita,
MAO PROVINE ROUNDAIS     Plmte               |     Zvish-   _ c4\v,
MAJOR RIVERS  T. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5Jerera                                           oBa
-  ~ INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES  -L_X;               9  S \         <                 /    on this mag do not
ipy onteport of
>c2Z'                                              '       ,         <   ,/<      \       (  A  /      The vVorld Bank Group, 2  ai
_c      KILOMETERS  0  50  100   150                                                                   any judgment on the legal 20
U   N IIES   0   50  100      23'         /       Pre U   0  Beitbridg           n . -M p'  status  of  any  territory, 
I                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~or any endorsement  a
MILES  0O     50        105                             To                   -or              =ietnce of such  CD
Prelue                           3    boudre.-



