Report No. 438a-SO                                                        FILE  CPfDv
Appraisal of a
Second Education Project
in the Somali Democratic Republic
July 22, 1974
Education Projects Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the dccuracy or completeness of the report.



CUENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1                  =           So. Sh. 6.23
So.    1                          US$0.16
MEASURE
1 Meter (a)          -            3.28 Feet
1 Square Meter (2)   -           10.76 Square Feet
GOVERNENT OF THE SOMALI IEM)CRATIC REPUBLIC
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
GLOSSARY
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .................... ......... i - iv
I.  INTRODUCTION  ........ .......................... .  1
II.  DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCES' NEEDS .........    1
Socio-Economic Background     1.................   1
Development Objectives ......................,   2
Manpower Requirements for the Modern Sector  ....   3
Human Resources and Rural Development ..........  4
III.  THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR ....  ..........   5
Evaluation of the Sector ................        5
Education Policy and Strategy ................   6
Financing Educational Development ............   8
IV.  THE  PROJECT  ....................................  10
Objectives  .................. ...................  10
Project  Items    ..................................  11
The Academy of Somali Studies ................ ..  11
The New Elementary Teacher Training College
in Hargeisa .................................  11
The Ten Nomadic Training Centers (NTCs) ........  12
Secondary Education ............................  14
Technical Assistance ...........................  14
V.  PROJECT COST, FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION,
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ...................  15
This report is based on the findings of a mission in November/December, 1973,
to Somalia composed of Mr. R. F. McMahon (technical educator), Mrs. S. M.
Asher (economist) of the Bank, Mr. K. Andersen (architect) of Unesco, Mr. H.
Rambaud (fishery education specialist) of FAO, and Mr. C. Gilpin (nonformal
education specialist), consultant to the Bank.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
Cost Estimates .................................   15
Customs Duties and Taxes ...................    17
Contingency Allowances  ................ .  .   17
The Foreign Exchange Component ..............  17
The Financial Plan .......................      . ...  17
Implementation ....................                 18
Administration ........ ............   18
Professional Services (Architectural/
Engineering) ..................           ..    18
Procurement ....       ................    18
Civil Works ......... o                         18
Furniture and Instructional Equipment .......  19
Disbursement ................. o .................   19
VI.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .....................  20
Benefits ..........................                20
Risks involved in the Project .21
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .... ......  21
APPENDIXES
1.  The Somali Nomads - Socio-economic Conditions and Education
Opportunities.
2.  The Education and Training Sector
Tables: 1. Results of Diagnostic Examination of Teachers, 1972.
2. Teachers and Students in Technical and
Vocational Training Institutions, 1972-1973
3. Breakdown of Enrollments at the College of
Education, 1972-1973
4. Training Courses at the Somali Institute of
Public Administration, 1971-1972.
5'. Educational Programs at Radio Mogadiscio, 1973.



Table of Contents (Continued)
ANNEXES
Comparative Education Indicators
1.   Stock and Requirements of Manpower by Occupation, 1971-1983.
2.   Manpower Requirements by Occupation and Educational Background,
1972-1983.
3.   Employment by Occupation, 1971-1983
4.   Enrollments in Primary and Secondary Schools, 1966-1972.
5.   Institutions, Enrollments and Teachers by Level of
Education, 1972-1973
6.   Somali National University - Projections of Enrollments
and Outputs, 1973-1984
7.   Projections of School Enrollments, 1973-1983
8.   Allocations of Recurrent and Development Expenditures
to the Ministry of Education and to the Ministry of
Culture and Higher Education, 1969-1983
9.   Breakdown of Recurrent Expenditures of the Ministry of
Education and the Ministry of Culture and Higher
Education, 1969-1983
10.   Summary of Estimated Project Costs
11.   Implementation and Disbursement Chart
12.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
CHARTS
1.   Structure of the Educational System 1973/74              World Bank 8286(R)
2.   Public General Secondary, Intermediate and
Elementary School Enrollments in 1972-73               World Bank 8285
3.   Organization of the Ministry of Education, 1974          World Bank 8288(R)
4.   Organization of the Ministry of Culture and Higher
Education, 1974                                        World Bank 8287(R)
MAP






SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
BASIC DATA (est.)
1972-73
General
Area                                                         637,OOO Km2
Population (1973 estimate)                                   3.1 million
Education
Enrollment in elementary schools (grades 1-4)                52,765
As a percentage of 6-9 years age group                    16.4 %
Enrollment in intermediate schools (grades 5-8)              24,668
As a percentage of 10-13 years age group                  9.3 %
Enrollment in general secondary schools (grades 9-12)        7,731
As a percentage of 14-17 years age group                  3.4%
Enrollment in post-secondary institutions                    461
Total recurrent expenditure on education and
training (1973 estimate)                           So.Shs.  31.9 million
As a percentage of total Government recurrent
expenditure                                               8.1%






GLOSSARY
Koranic School             -  School providing two years of pre-
elementary religious instruction
Elementary education       -  Grades 1 - 4
Intermediate education    -  Grades 5 - 8
Primary education          -  Grades 1 - 8
Secondary education        -  Grades 9 - 12
MEE                        -  Ministry of Education
MCHE                       - Ministry of Culture and Higher Education
FYDP                       -  Five-Year Development Plan, 1974-78
NTC                        -  Nomadic Training Center
NTEC                       - National Teacher Education Center,
Afgoi, which has recently been
incor'Dorated in the National
University and renamed the
College of Education.
Participation rate         -  Ratio of those actually joining the
labor force at a given level to
those educationally qualified to
join it. School leavers at a
given level joining the labor
force as a proportion of total
outputs from the education system
at that level.






SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a second education project in the Somali
Democratic Republic for which IDA assistance of US$8.0 million equivalent is
proposed. A first education project, assisted under Credit 247-SO extended
in 1971, is helping expand primary teacher training and qualitative improve-
ments to general, technical and commercial secondary schools.
ii.       The Somali education and training sector has significant weaknesses
both quantitatively and qualitatively. Quantitatively, enrollments at the pri-
mary 1/ school level are a low 13% of the relevant age group falling to under
4% at the secondary level. Further, 83% of secondary school enrollments are
concentrated around the main towns of Mogadiscio and Hargeisa. Educational
opportunities in rural areas, particularly for the nomads, who number some
two million people or 70% of the population and whose livestock is the main-
stay of the economy, are negligible. There is a shortage of skilled personnel
of all kinds; for example, the present production of secondary school graduates
falls so far behind demands that Government directs all the schools' output
either into higher education or essential employment in the public sector.
Qualitatively, school buildings, furniture and particularly science equipment
are so inadequate as to render the teaching of scientific and practical subjects
largely ineffective and indicate urgent need for improvement. Low literacy,
estimated at only 5% of the population also reflects the low priority accorded
to the education sector by the Government before 1971.
iii.      However, since 1971, the Government has given greater emphasis to
education and training, particularly of a type intended to benefit the large
rural population rather than the relatively few elitist urban dwellers. A
major effort is being directed towards increasing literacy: attendance at
courses has increased from 14,000 in 1970 to 203,000 in 1973. Facilitating
this expansion has been the recent adoption by the Government of the Somali
language with Latin script as the teaching medium to replace gradually the
former diverse and confusing use in schools of Arabic, English and Italian.
The education section of the draft new Five-Year Development Plan (1974-78)
(FYDP) formulates policies and student enrollment projections designed to
relieve the weaknesses described above.
iv.       The proposed project would support the policies of the FYDP to
align education and training more closely to the estimated future needs of
the economy in which development of livestock and agriculture is the dominant
theme. In particular, it would (a) provide the major part of its financial
1/   See Glossary and Chart 2.



- ii -
support to the furtherance of literacy and help for the nomads; (b) improve
secondary schools; and (c) strengthen the Project Unit of the Schools Construc-
tion Unit in the Ministry of Education.
v.        Specifically, the project would provide:
(a) buildings, furniture and equipment for the following new
institutions:
-    one Academy of Somali Studies
-    one Elementary Teacher Training College with 800 student places
-    ten Nomadic Training Centers (NTCs) each with 160 trainee places;
(b) equipment for improvements, and rebuilding where required,
at 10 existing general. secondary schools and one specialized
secondary school to provide 1,420 additional student places;
and
(c)  specialists services for (i) development of a specialized
secondary school, viz., the Fishery and Marine Institute;
and (ii) strengthening of the Project and Schools Construc-
tion Units.
The project institutions would have a total of about 6,700 student places of
which 3,800 would be new. These figures do not include attendance at NTCs of
adults, estimated at 2,000 p.a.
vi.       The Academy of Somali Studies which forms part of the Ministry of
Culture and Higher Education is to be expanded into one of Government's prin-
cipal advisory instruments for development of the diverse branches of educa-
tion and training. Its most immediate and urgent functions are concerned
with the development of the official language and writing of textbooks for
use throughout the formal and nonformal education systems. The Academy would
also regularly monitor and assess progress both in the education system as
a whole and in individual specialized branches of the system, particularly
in those which are experimental and of an innovative nature. The Academy
is also responsible for a variety of cultural and social activities, including,
when resources permit, development of the existing National Museum and found-
ing of a National Library.
vii.      To the detriment of basic education and functional literacy, pre-
service primary teacher training colleges were suspended during the four
years 1968-72.  Consequently, there is now such an acute shortage of teachers
for basic education that in 1972, 750 secondary school leavers were drafted
for one year's service as primary school teachers; this is likely to be
repeated in diminishing degrees for some years. The 800-student capacity
elementary teacher training college included in the proposed project would
graduate nearly 400 teachers p.a. and would support planned increased pupil
enrollments at the elementary level (grades 1-4) until about 1985. In addi-
tion to normal instruction in theoretical and practical subjects including



- iii -
pedagogy, the teachers would receive a broader training to fit them as leaders
in their social environment and so support Government's policy of using schools
as centers for educational, social and ancillary community development
activities.
viii.     The major part of the proposed project (46% of the total cost)
would help finance ten Nomadic Training Centers (NTCs) each of 160-trainee
capacity. The NTCs would be sited in careful.y chosen locations so as to
cover a wide range of the various climatic and ecological conditions; due
regard would be paid to other development projects such as the IDA-assisted
Trans-Juba Livestock Project in whose area four of the NTCs would be sited.
Although the NTCs are primarily the responsib5ity of the Ministry of Education,
other Ministries, notably the Ministry of Livestock, Forestry and Range, are
cooperating to ensure success in achieving their objectives of providing train-
ing courses and services for the nomads. Because of the experimental and inno-
vative character of theNTCs, some risks are inevitably associated with their
future effectiveness. There are factors such as the degree of acceptance of
the NTCs by the nomads, whether young nomads during or on completion of their
courses would migrate to urban areas and whether local administrations would
be able to cooperate effectively to organize and operate the NTCs, which can
be assessed only in the light of future experience as the NTCs are developed.
Consequently, the project makes special provision for the regular monitoring
and assessment of their planning and progress, and responsibility for this
work would be assigned to the Interuinisterial Nomadic Education Board which
is being formed, with whom the Association would maintain close liaison.
ix.       The improvements to the 11 secondary schools would be similar to
the improvements to the 13 secondary schools included in the first IDA educa-
tion project and would provide urgently needed equipment, laboratories and
workshops to support the effective teaching of scientific and practical
subjects. One of the secondary schools is specialized in character, viz.,
the Fishery and Marine Institute where boys would receive a basic training
for life at sea oriented principally to the provision of manpower for the
fishing fleet and fish processing industry. Graduate output from the country's
26 general secondary schools (of which 11 were assisted under the first IDA
education project and 10 are included in the proposed second project) would
meet most estimated manpower needs at this level up to 1983; no surplus of
secondary school graduates is foreseen during this period. An adequate supply
of teachers would be graduated by the National Teacher Education Center which
is being assisted both by the first IDA education project and by a team pro-
vided by UNDP/Unesco.
X.        A Project Unit, which forms part of the Schools Construction Unit
established under the first IDA education project in the Ministry of Education,
would be suitably reinforced to enable it to execute the larger volume of
work included in the proposed second education project. The Project Unit
would be assisted as regards technical services by the Ministry of Works and
seven man-years of specialist services are included in the proposed project
to enable early recruitment of three key personnel for the Project Unit.
Contracts for furniture, equipment and didactic materials (US$2.24 million



- iv -
equivalent) would be awarded in accordance with the Bank's guidelines on in-
ternational competitive bidding; those below US$30,000 up to an aggregate total
of US$100,000 would be on the basis of domestic competitive bidding. Awards for
construction contracts (US$7.03 million equivalent) would also be in accord-
ance with the Bank's guidelines on international competitive bidding, except
that, because of their small size (an average of under US$100,000 equivalent),
civil works contracts for the additional facilities at the ten general
secondary schools would be awarded following domestic competitive bidding.
Domestic manufacturers of equipment would be awarded a margin of preference
equivalent to the existing customs duties applicable to competing imports or
15% of the c.i.f. price, whichever is lower. Domestic civil works contractors
would be awarded a margin of preference of 7-1/2% over foreign competing civil
works contractors; however, because of the small size of most of the civil
works contracts, it is unlikely that foreign contractors will compete for
awards.
xi.       The total project cost is estimated at US$10.1 million, correspond-
ing to US$9.3 million net of taxes, with a foreign exchange component of
US$6.1 million equivalent or 60% of the total project cost. This high per-
centage is the result of virtually all building materials except concrete
aggregates having to be imported. The proposed IDA Credit of US$8.0 million
would correspond to about 86% of total project costs net of taxes and duties.
The project would be completed in approximately six years.
xii.      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA Credit
of US$8.0 million equivalent.



SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Somalia has received one IDA Credit for education (Credit 247-SO)
in 1971, for an amount of US$3.3 million. The project, estimated to cost
US$3.7 million, was designed to improve Somalia's education and training, to
consolidate existing institutions and to increase the relevance of the system
to the manpower needs of the country. It is assisting major improvements in
teacher training, secondary education, technical and vocational education and
agricultural education by providing for extension of the National Teacher
Education Center (NTEC), one new and extensions to ten general secondary
schools, extensions to two technical and commercial schools and eight mobile
agricultural training units. Also provided was technical assistance for
launching the new teacher training program and establishing the Project and
Schools Construction Units at the Ministry of Education (MOE). Implementation
is now proceeding satisfactorily after some initial delays caused primarily
by the belated appointment of the technical assistance specialists to the
Project and Schools Construction Units of the MOE.
1.02      In January-February, 1973, a Unesco mission reviewed Somalia's edu-
cational objectives and identified priority investment requirements; in
September 1973, a Bank Group mission, in consultation with the Government,
considered Unesco's findings and in consequence Bank/IDA received a request
to assist a second education project.
1.03      The project was prepared and simultaneously appraised in November-
December 1973, by a mission composed of Mr. R.F. McMahon (technical educator),
Mrs. S.M. Asher (economist) of the Bank, Messrs. K. Andersen (architect,
Unesco), H. Rambaud (fishery education specialist, FAO), and C. Gilpin (non-
formal education specialist, consultant). During appraisal, the initial proj-
ect proposals were revised, in agreement with the Government, to reduce cap-
ital and recurrent costs in line with Somalia's absorptive capacity. The
proposed project is estimated to cost US$10.1 million equivalent, of which
the foreign exchange component is US$6.1 million equivalent.
II. DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCES' NEEDS
2.01      Socio-Economic Background.  With a per capita income estimated at
only US$70-80, Somalia is one of the least developed countries in Africa.
The country extends over an area of 246,000 square miles, roughly one-half
the size of Ethiopia. The main regions are the Northern region consisting
of steppes; the Bossaso region, mainly highlands with sparse vegetation; the
Nudugh region, an arid high plateau; the inter-river region, the country's
main fertile area; and the Trans-Juba region of the South which is thick



-2-
bush and forest. The population is predominantly Somali, with minorities
of indigenous Bantus, Arabs, Asians and a few thousand Europeans, mainly
Italian. The Somali people are of Hamitic stock and comprise a homogenous
ethnic and linguistic group sharing a common culture, whose customs and
traditions had to be transmitted orally from generation to generation because
of a lack of a script for the Somali language. The adult illiteracy rate is
estimated at 95%, one of the highest in the world. Life expectancy at birth
is only 40 years compared with 48 years for the Sudan and 49 years for Kenya.
2.02      of the total population estimated at 3.1 million, about 70% is
nomadic or semi-nomadic and mainly dependent on animal husbandry and subsis-
tence farming. Appendix I depicts the socio-economic conditions of the Somali
nomads and indicates that there is an urgent need for increasing investments
and services in the nomadic areas. More than one-half of the land area in
Somalia is suitable for livestock production and this potential can be greatly
increased if measures are taken to improve pasture management, water supplies,
animal health and tsetse fly control. About 13% of the total land area
(or eight million hectares) is suitable for cultivation and of this no more than
5% (or 400,000 hectares) are worked. Live animal and livestock products account
for about two-thirds of total exports and bananas for another one-quarter.
Nevertheless, food, particularly cereals, represents one-third of total im-
ports.
2.03      While Somalia's principal assets are land and livestock, there are
other resources which are promising and which provide a basis for develop-
ment in the future. First, and geographically most obvious, is the potential
for fishing. Somalia has the longest sea coastline of any country on the main-
land of Africa and, in her position at the horn of Africa, is strategically
placed to fish in both the Indian Ocean and the Gulf of Aden. Secondly, recent
discoveries of minerals such as uranium, iron and gypsum are being studied with
a view to commercial exploitation.
2.04      Development Objectives.  Somalia has produced three Development
Plans. The First Plan covering the period 1963-68 was aimed primarily at
creating social and economic infrastructure. The Second Plan was a short-
term development program for the period 1968-70; it sought to complete projects
carried over from the First Plan, and also the continuation of efforts toward
strengthening infrastructure. The Third Plan, 1971-1973, gave priority to
agriculture and livestock. Industry was assigned low priority, except for
some programs to rationalize existing establishments and to promote small-scale
food processing.
2.05      There is no accurate statistical information on the implementation
of these Plans. The general conclusion, however, is that their overall im-
plementation lagged considerably behind targets. Several factors contributed
to their slow progress. Firstly, they were the initial experiences of Somalia
in development planning and the Plans were defective because of a lack of
basic statistical data and information on the structure of the economy. Sec-
ondly, there was an acute shortage of skilled manpower to prepare, manage
and execute projects. These problems were compounded by the Government's



-3-
inability to raise internal financial resources to complement external as-
sistance. In the next Five-Year Development Plan, 1974-78 (FYDP), now in the
final stages of preparation, emphasis is primarily on livestock, agricultural
and fishery developments, but provision is also made for improving industry
and further mining exploration. The severe financial constraint which impeded
development in the 60's has been partly removed: Government's efforts to
balance the "ordinary" 1/ budget entirely from internal sources have been
largely successful and consequently a greater share of the total budget is
available for priority "development" expenditures. In particular, high pri-
ority is given to education and training to develop the skilled manpower
required to execute projects and to mobilize the human resources needed for
improved herd management and crop cultivation.
2.06      Manpower Requirements for the Modern Sector.  With ILO assistance,
the Government conducted a manpower survey in 1971, when modern sector employ-
ment was estimated at about 108,400 2/ of whom about 50% were employed in the
public sector. The number of foreigners employed was insignificant, most
being in the private sector in sales jobs; only about 6% of the high-level
manpower were foreigners. The survey also estimated requirements by occupa-
tional categories for the period 1972-76. In the light of recent information
these estimated requirements have been updated and projected to 1983 by the
Bank Group staff, using employment growth rates of 3.7% for the public sec-
tor and 2.7% for the private sector. The projection is shown in Annexes 1
and 2 and summArized below:
Additional Employment by Occupation (Including Attrition), 1972-83
Type of Worker                             Estimated Additions
Professional                                       3,100
Technical                                         13,300
Administrative, managerial &
executive                                       1,800
Clerical                                         10,400
Sales                                             16,000
Service                                           11,900
Skilled and semi-skilled                         30,700
1/   The "ordinary" budget includes all recurrent expenditures excluding those
directly related to development projects, which, together with capital
expenditures, form part of the "development" budget. This feature of
the Somali budget makes difficult an analysis of recurrent and capital
budgets of the individual Ministries.
2/   The actual number reported during the survey was 87,000 which was adjusted
to 108,400 to take account of some under-reporting of employment in small
commerce, construction and transport.



-4-
2.07      In order to meet these estimated needs, the outputs from the edu-
cational system are as shown in Annex 3 and summarized below:
Requirements from the Educational System, 1972-83
Post-secondary Secondary Intermediate
level        level         level
Required outputs for:
(a)  labor market                         6,300         15,000        35,000
(b) labor market corrected for
participation rate /1              6,300         16,700       43,800
(c)  higher education                        -          12,700        71,400
Total (b) + (c)                6,300         29,400       115,200
/1   Participation rates of 100% for post-secondary level, 90% for secondary
level and 80% for intermediate level have been used. (See Glossary for
explanation of participation rate.)
The average annual outputs from the education system should therefore be
about 600 at post-secondary or university level, 2,500 at secondary or grade
12 level and 10,000 at intermediate or grade 8 level. At present, annual
outputs from the education system fall considerably short of these estimated
needs. At the post-secondary level the annual supply is about 200, including
graduates returning from studies abroad; at the secondary and intermediate
levels, the education system produces some 1,500 and 5,000 graduates p.a.
respectively. These figures point to the need for expansion at all levels.
However, the estimates of needs summarized above provide only orders of
magnitude as a guide to future absorptive capacity in the modern sector of
the economy; in particular, due to the large share of the public sector in
total wage employment in Somalia, future effective demand would be determined,
to a large extent, by budgetary constraints and priorities. Therefore, expan-
sion of education and training for wage employment needs to be carefully
programmed in the light of all pertinent developments.
2.08      human Resources and Rural Development.  In the last few years the
Government has developed several programs to mobilize human resources for
rural development in those parts of the country suitable for crop cultiva-
tion. These programs include an extensive adult education scheme and estab-
lishment of farmer training centers and women's education centers appropri-
ately supported by agricultural mobile units and educational broadcasting.
However, although these programs cater for up to one-third of the adult
population in settled areas, they have only a limited impact on the incomes
and living standards of the majority of Somalis.



-5-
2.09      Somalia has special characteristics which require rural development
efforts generally different from those in other developing countries; nomadism
is a national rather than a regional problem, and while the nomads are respon-
sible for the major part of production and export - the livestock sector -
provision of social and economic services to improve their productivity and
living standards is made extremely difficult by their migratory patterns.
Appendix 1 describes recent trends that are becoming apparent in migratory
patterns and the programs law ched by the Government in the last few years
to improve techniques of animal husbandry and herd management in livestock
raising. These programs have received the support of several international
agencies, including UNDP, EEC, FAO and IDA through the Trans-Juba Livestock
project. The provision of grazing reserves, water supply, marketing, etc.
needs to be complemented by the development of schemes to improve the skills
and appropriately orientate the attitudes of the nomadic population.
III. THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
3.01      Evaluation of the Sector.  Somalia's education and training sector
is described in Appendix 2 and basic data are given in Annexes 4 and 5 and
Charts 1, 2, 3 and 4. In terms of numbers enrolled and enrollment ratios,
the sector is one of the least developed of all developing countries, but
since the adoption of the Latin script as the official script for the Somali
language in 1971, the Government has given increased priority to the education
system as reflected by rapid increases in enrollments and budgetary appropria-
tions.
3.02      In addition, the Government has developed one of the most comprehen-
sive schemes of nonformal adult education in Africa (Appendix 2, paras. 25-30);
as indicated in para. 2.08> in 1973 some one-third of the adults in urban and
settled areas were attending literacy classes and short-term courses in prac-
tical skills, nutrition and citizenship. The resources at the disposal of
the formal education sector, primarily the elementary school teachers, were
used to implement these broader adult education schemes.
3.03      In spite of these efforts and achievements, only 16.4% of the
eligible age group find places in grades 1-4 (elementary education), 9.3% in
grades 5-8 (intermediate education) and less than 4% in grades 9-12 (second-
ary education). Qualitative shortcomings are as acute as these quantitative
weaknesses: (a) textbooks, teachers' guides and vocabularies in the official
script are lacking; (b) over 60% of primary school teachers and a large pro-
portion of the secondary school teachers are unqualified by Government's
own standards; and (c) the introduction of new curricula with practical subjects
is being impeded by the inadequacies of the available physical facilities.



-6-
3.04      Although there is evidence of improving quality during recent years,
most school building are still below desirable standards. Maintenance is
lacking, furniture and especially equipmenit are poor and inappropriate.
Wide inequalities in educational opportunity exist at all levels of education:
65% of secondary school enrollments are concentrated around Mogadiscio and a
further 18% around Hargeisa; female participation is only 16% in secondary
schools. Due to its quantitative limitations, the formal education system
is inherently elitist and this is contrary to the Government objective of
developing a broadly-based participatory society.
3.05      Cooperation between the Ministries 1/ and agencies involved in educa-
tion has shown a marked improvement in recent years, but in order to optimize
educational developments and prevent unnecessary duplication of facilities
with consequential misallocation of scarce human and financial resources, this
cooperation is being further strengthened and expanded by forming multi-
disciplinary inter-ministerial teams to coordinate related activities in rural
areas. Within the framework of integrated development programs, greater impact
would be made by education and training schemes oriented to the rural environment
and designed to improve productivity and living standards, particularly of the
nomads.
Education Policy and Strategy
3.06      The objectives of educational development in Somalia are indicated
in the draft outline of the FYDP, which has the following principal aims:
(i) to improve access to education and expand educational opportunities; (ii)
to reorient the content and increase the effectiveness of the educational
programs; and (iii) to provide the country with the trained personnel which
would meet the various levels and types of manpower requirements.
3.07      To improve access to education and expand educational opportunity,
Government strategy gives equal priority to the growth of elementary educa-
tion (grades 1-4) and to strengthening nonformal education. In particular,
it is planned that enrollments in grade 1 will increase by 10% p.a. and that
the proportion of the age group enrolled in grades 1-4 will increase from
16.4% in 1972 to nearly 50% in 1983. Such a rapid expansion of the elementary
cycle will be facilitated by the use of the national language in lieu of Arabic
as a medium of instruction at this level and by classroom building through
self-help; the main constraint is the availability of teachers because, even
after completion of the first IDA education project, training capacity will
be only about 120 additional elementary teachers p.a. whilst an output of
some 500 p.a. is required to meet enrollment targets.
1/   These include the Ministry of Education, Ministry of Culture and Higher
Education, Ministry of Mineral and Water Resources, Ministry of Agricul-
ture, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Fisheries and Marine Transport,
Ministry of Labor and Sports, Ministi-y of Interior and Ministry of
Livestock, Forestry and Range.



-7-
3.08      Because the planned expansion of formal education makes no provision
for the education and training of the majority of young and adult Somalis, the
Government plans to further develop its programs of mass functional literacy,
women's education, farmer training and youth activities (para. 3.02). At
present, these programs include: (a) a national literacy campaign which
reached over 200,000 adults in 1973 following adoption of the official script
for the Somali language; (b) farmer training centers and mobile farmers train-
ing units having an impact on some 5,000 farmers; (c) women's education centers
and community development centers catering for over 10,000 adults; and (d)
summer youth camps for 9,000 adolescents. The multi-disciplinary teams referred
to at para. 3.05 above will review the effectiveness of these programs anc their
interrelations with regional development schemes in order to obtain the maxi-
mum development impact from scarce resources. In addition, as the existing
programs are almost entirely directed to people in settled areas, the Govern-
ment plans to develop special training schemes for the nomadic population
by: (i) improving Koranic schools (Appendix 1, para. 25) through the provi-
sion of training and teaching kits to Koranic teachers; and (ii) the establish-
ment of special training centers for nomads and their children.
3.09      To reorient the content and increase the effectiveness of the educa-
tional programs, the Government plans to gradually replace Arabic, English
and Italian with Somali as the medium of instruction at all levels of education
as developments in the national language permit, to reduce the years of school-
ing required for attaining literacy and numeracy and also to gear more closely
what is taught to national culture and environment. An Academy of Somali Studies
was established in 1973 to carry out the numerous tasks associated with the
development of the script and the preparation of textbooks, but it lacks the
necessary physical facilities to operate efficiently. In addition, the Govern-
ment plans to further expand the curriculum reform initiated with the first
IDA education project; in particular, the secondary school curricula, modelled
after those once used in Italy and the UK, will be replaced by broader curricula
with practical subjects being introduced in the 11 secondary schools of the
first education project. Whenever possible, students of intermediate schools
will be also taught practical subjects by making use of the facilities of the
secondary schools in their vicinities. These developments will be phased
with availability of instructors of practical subjects and are intended to
provide the growing proportion of secondary and intermediate school leavers,
who will not continue formal education, with a background for on-the-job
training.
3.10      To meet requirements at the higher levels of employment, priority
is given to the expansion of the National University from 1,400 to 4,600
student places (Annex 6) and to the establishment of a Polytechnic with
a capacity of 800 students. These programs will be carried out with bilateral
assistance from Italy and the People's Republic of Korea respectively and will
amply meet estimated long-term needs of high level manpower in professional,
technical and administrative fields. To provide a sufficient number of en-
trants to higher education as well as an adequate supply of middle level
manpower, projections of the MOE for the FYDP called for an expansion of
intermediate and secondary education of 14% p.a. and 12% p.a. respectively.



-8-
These projections have been reviewed by Bank Group staff in consultation with
the MOE and the Ministries of Finance and Planning: if they are adopted as
planning targets, the education share of the national budget would increase
form 8% in 1973 to over 17% in 1983 and outputs from schools would exceed
present estimates of needs for intermediate and secondary school graduates
(para. 2.07) by about 18% and 12% respectively. Therefore, targets need to
be revised as shown in Annex 7 to accord with financial limitations, availabil-
ity of teachers, estimated manpower requirements and especially the high pri-
ority given to, and consequent budgetary claims of, nonformal education.
During negotiations these targets were discussed and the Association was ad-
vised that Government's policy is to continuously review enrollments at all
levels and adjust them so that supply would match estimates of skilled mn-
power needs; from time to time exchanges of views between the Association
and the Government on this point will take place.
3.11      In addition, Government's original proposals for the development
of middle level manpower included the establishment of a 300-place Vocational
Training Institute in Mogadiscio. In view of the small size of Somall industry,
the existence already of as many as five institutes for industrial training
(Appendix 2 para. 16), the planned establishment of a Polytechnic and, above
all, the reorganization and improvement of the technical and vocational train-
ing sector which is being promoted as a part of the first education project,
the construction of the Vocational Training Institute should be deferred pend-
ing the formulation of a plan for technical and vocational training in coordi-
nation with industry. The Government is preparing such a plan which may form
the basis for possible future Bank Group assistance.
Financing Educational Development
3.12      All private schools were nationalized in 1972 and the Government
took over all financial and administrative responsibilities for their opera-
tions. Students at all levels now pay no tuition fees, but boarders contri-
bute So.Sh.450 per annum to the cost. Since Independence, the recurrent
budget of the MOE has been about 7% of the central government recurrent budget
(Annexes 8 and 9) as shown below:
In Millions of So.Sh.
(est.)
Recurrent Budgets:               1967    1969      1971     1972       1973
1.   Central Government
Budget                  272.1   301.5    322.1    343.7        396.2
2.   MOE & MCHE Budgets /1       18.9    22.7      23.2     22.4       31.9
2 as a % of 1               6.9      7.5      7.2       6.5        8.1
/1   The Ministry of Culture and Higher Education (MCHE) received its own
budget for the first time in 1973.



-9-
This ratio is substantially lower than those in neighboring countries mainly
because of low enrollment ratios, and the high level of foreign assistance
for recurrent expenditure as indicated by the large number of expatriate
teachers provided under bilateral programs.
3.13      Based on the Bank Group staff's projected school enrollments
(Annex 7) and National University development (Annex 6), the projection of
future education recurrent expenditures in Annex 9 reflects the higher
priority being given to the education sector (para. 2.05).  An increased
allocation is projected from the present 8% of Government's total recurrent
budget to 15% by 1983, a proportion below that of neighboring East African
countries as shown below:
Ethiopia     Tanzania      Zaire     Zambia
(1973)       (1972)       (1970)    (1973)
Percentage of the budget
devoted to education        19.5          21.0        20.7       17.4
The allocation of 15% of Government recurrent budget to the education sector
by 1983 is therefore reasonable relative to other countries, and in view of
the policy of greater priority to the sector is feasible.
3.14      Projections of future capital expenditure and of their financing
are based on the enrollment targets summarized at Annexes 6 and 7. In partic-
ular, during the period 1973-83, construction of elementary and intermediate
schools is expected to require about So.Sh.150 million; the financial cost
to the Government of such an expansion, however, would be no more than So.Sh.
70 million because communities are expected to provide free labor and local
building material under self-help schemes. The cost of secondary school
improvement and expansion (So.Sh.125 million) would be principally financed by
multilateral and bilateral donors, including the first and the proposed second
IDA projects. Expenditures for technical-vocational education (So.Sh.17 million)
and at university level (So.Sh.25 million) are also expected to be largely met
through foreign assistance. The strengthening of nonformal education for urban
and settled areas would require virtually no additional capital expenditure
as the Government would continue to use available school buildings for literacy
and other nonformal education schemes, but a comparatively high capital cost
(So.Sh.25 million) would be associated with the programs to reach the nomads
and their children because of remoteness of location and need for extensive
works (e.g., digging of wells); this cost would be financed as a part of the
proposed project. In sum, during the 10-year period total financial requirements
would be about So.Sh.260 million, of which over 50% would be financed by aid
agencies; this compares with actual capital expenditures by the Ministry of
Education alone of about So.Sh.11.0 million in 1972 and capital expenditures
of some So.Sh.140 million, including foreign aid, from 1961 to 1971.



- 10 -
IV. THE PROJECT
Objectives
4.01     The proposed project would assist Somalia's strategy by: (a) establish-
ing an elementary teacher training college and developing an Academy of Somali
Studies in support of the Government's policy to promote basic education and re-
duce illiteracy; (b) improving secondary education by the addition of facilities
to schools to enable agriculture, fisheries, science and comm rce to be taught;
and (c) providing rural training and other facilities for nomads. It would
consist of:
(i) Buildings, furniture and equipment for the following
new institutions:
Approximate Number of
Student Places
Type of Institution        Existing  Addit.onal   Total
One Academy of Somali
Studies                   not applicable
One Elementary Teacher
Training College           -         800        800
Ten Nomadic Training
Centers                    -       1,600     1,600
(ii)  Equipment for, improvements to and rebuilding, where required,
of the following:
Additional facilities to
11 existing secondary
schools:                           2,900       1,420      4,320
Totals                           2,900       3,820      6,720
(iii) The cost of specialists' services for:
a. development of a specialized secondary
school, viz., the Fishery and Marine
Institute; and
b.  strengthening of the Project and Schools Construction Units.
The project schools would have a total of about 6,700 student places, of
which 3,800 would be new places. These figures do not include attendance
at short courses by adults in the Nomadic Training Centers which is estimated
at some 2,000 p.a.



- 11 -
Project Items
4.02      The Academy of Somali Studies was created under the direction of
the MCHE in 1973 and has the following primary objectives: (a) development
of the Somali language using Latin script on a scientific basis; (b) produc-
tion of literature for mass readership laying emphasis on functional literacy;
(c) documentation of collected oral literature in terms of poems, stories,
history, folklore; (d) publication of documented materials for study at
academic institutions and general readership; and (e) continuation of applied
research in language, culture, science, and other relevant matters. The
Academy is expected to become a key instrument for development of education
in Somalia, particularly as regards the establishment of academic and other
standards and the provision of advice to the Government on the impact of
the introduction of Somali as the medium of instruction in the sector with
special reference to: (i) the optimum length of each school cycle to achieve
desired learning attainment through the use of national language; (ii) the
effectiveness of the literacy and other nonformal programs; and (iii) the
reorientation of teacher education and of courses for community development
agents. In addition, it would have overall responsibility for broad cultural
matters, including, when resources permit, the development of the existing
National Museum and founding of a National Library.
4.03      As indicated in Appendix 2, paras. 4-6, Somalia already has a corps
of competent scholars who would carry out the various activities of the Academy.
These scholars have recently gained experience through the work of the National
Language Commission and the preparation of textbooks for basic education and
functional literacy. Their work has been greatly hindered by a lack of suita-
ble facilities; at present, the Academy operates from make-shift offices in an
old dwelling on the outskirts of Mogadiscio. The project would provide staff
offices, seminar rooms, duplicating rooms, a reference library and other
essential facilities.
4.04      The attainment of the Academy's objectives would greatly depend
on its staffing and work program. A staff development program is under pre-
paration; its draft features the provision of specialist services in areas
such as linguistics, vocabulary development and nonformal education through
bilateral technical assistance programs and the upgrading of Somali scholars
abroad through fellowships also to be provided under bilateral aid. Progress
in the preparation of the staff development program was discussed with the
Government during negotiations. The work program for the first five years
of operation of the Academy is being finalized. The Government confirmed its
intention to exchange views with the Association on the work program of the
Academy from time to time, and in particular, to provide the Association with
the annual reports of the Academy.
4.05      The new Elementary Teacher Training College in Hargeisa would
support a planned increase of enrollments into grade one of elementary schools
of 10% p.a. The capacity of the college would be 800 students (400 boarding)
in 2-year courses and the resultant output would meet teacher needs at this



- 12 -
level (para. 3.07) until about 1985. In addition to expanding their academic
subjects and receiving appropriate instruction in pedagogy, teachers would be
trained in practical work such as simple agriculture, handicrafts and home
economics. Also included in the teachers' training would be broader aspects
concerned with civic leadership and other matters relevant to the wider role
teachers are being called upon to fill as leaders of community development
in support of Government policies to foster community development by using
all schools as centers for these activities (para. 3.02).
4.06      The National Teacher Educational Center (NTEC) which is being ex-
panded under the first IDA education project and is receiving technical assis-
tance under a major UNDP/UNESCO Project (30 man-years of technical assistance
and 16 man-years of fellowships) would provide an adequate supply of teacher
educators to staff the College. As part of their training, future teachers
would practice in elementary schools in Hargeisa and in rural areas.  They   I
would also gain experience in community development centers and in women's
centers of the region.
4.07      The ten Nomadic Training Centers (NTCs) would be experimental insti-
tutions of two types - the first group of five directed to nomads in the
remote areas, the second to partially settled areas. The NTCs would establish,
by flexible school terms, the types of instruction best suited to the needs
of nomadic youths (age 7-16) and adults, particularly in relation to promo-
tion of livestock production. Each NTC would be fully boarding of 160
capacity; the youths would be given a four-year course especially oriented
towards developing their capabilities in animal husbandry, agriculture,
literacy and numeracy. For adults, literacy and nonformal programs such
as personal and public hygiene, agriculture and animal husbandry, citizenship
and community development would be organized. It is expected that at each
NTC about 200 adults p.a. would attend courses. Community services in the
nature of health clinics, veterinary, marketing and cooperatives services
would be included as part of the NTCs. The Interministerial Nomadic Education
Board which is being formed would regularly evaluate the NTCs and their ef-
fectiveness, and the Government confirmed that for the first five years of
operation of the NTCs, annual evaluation reports of the Interministerial
Nomadic Education Board on the NTCs would be forwarded to the Association
for review.
4.08      Education and training facilities for the nomads are at present
negligible because about 83% of all schools are centered round Mogadiscio and
Hargeisa (para 3.04) and nonformal education centers are located essentially
in agricultural areas where population is settled (para 3.02). The proposed
ten NTCs of capacity 1,600 trainees would be the only facilities directly
available to the nomadic population who number about two million people. The
Government would like to expand nomadic training facilities at a greater rate
than is included in the proposed project, but before undertaking further major
investments, it is necessary to establish clearly the type of training best
suited to improving the nomadic way of life and ascertain the degree of accept-
ance and demand for such training. Accordingly, in order to cover adequately
the wide range of ecological conditions existing in Somalia and to cater for



- 13 -
the different degrees of nomadism which vary from pure nomads through semi-
nomads and with an increasing tendency for some nomads to settle, development
of ten NTCs is considered as the optimum on which a meaningful controlled
comparative series of experiments could be executed.
4.09      Because of the experimental nature of the NTCs, some risks are
involved as to their ultimate effectiveness in improving the productivity and
living standards of the nomads. In particular, effectiveness of the NTCs
would greatly depend on their integration with other activities in support
of rural development and improved livestock production (para. 3.05). For
these reasons, special attention would be given to locating the NTCs in those
areas of Somalia where inputs from several agencies are expected to increase
rewards from animal husbandry and agriculture. The ten experimental NTCs
would all be located in "grazing reserves," (Appendix 1, para. 16) where
there are active range and livestock improvement associations; four of the
NTCs would be located in the same area as the IDA-assisted Trans-Juba Lives-
tock Project. Naturally, in spite of the NTCs integration with other devel-
opment programs, a risk remains that nomadic youths, during or after completion
of their four-year course, would migrate to urban areas. This might help social
mobility but, at the same time, hinder full attainment of the basic objectives
of the NTCs. Therefore, even though the NTCs are expected to have a substan-
tial impact on livestock and agriculture provided that-at least 50% of the
trainees in the four-year courses maintain their rural existence, the Inter-
ministerial Nomadic Education Board should carefully monitor employment aspira-
tions of the trainees as part of its evaluation of the NTCs (para. 4.07).
4.10      Special care would be exercised by the Government in the selection
of teachers and instructors for the NTCs. They would be selected with a view
to their familiarity with, and acceptance in a nomadic environment, and in
order to ensure their greater credibility with the nomadic population, a pro-
portion would be recruited from Koranic teachers and from the Nabaddoons
(comiunity elders who serve as the contact between the administration and the
nomads). After selection, the teaching staff would receive training for one
year. In order to carry out the training in a rural environment, the Farmer
Training Centers at Bonka and Aburein (Appendix 2, para. 27) have been selected
as training centers; their present instructional staff would be suitably rein-
forced with graduates from the University's Faculty of Agronomy, the Afgoi
Agricultural Institute and the Training School for Animal Health Assistants.
Both Farmer Training Centers generally have adequate facilities for the train-
ees but additional instructional equipment would be provided as a part of the
project. During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government that
appropriate teacher and instructor courses would be provided at these Centers
and that details of these courses together with those to be operated at the
NTCs would be sent sufficiently in advance to the Association to give its
comments.
4.11      The Government is anxious that the NTCs should be flexibly designed,
and the design should replicate the physical conditions of nomads so far as
possible in order to lessen the risk of alienating the trainees from their
environment. Because the adult nomads do not live for sufficiently long con-
tinuous periods at the sites of the NTCs, it would be impracticable to employ



- 14 -
self-help labor in the construction of the main facilities. However, it is
planned to use self-help in the building of subsidiary facilities of a semi-
permanent nature such as work shelters, cattle dips and livestock pens.
4.12      Secondary Education.  The additions to ten existing general secondary
schools and one specialized secondary school would enable the present purely
literary curriculum to be replaced by the broader program promoted by the
first IDA education project; this program places substantial emphasis on
scientific and practical subjects.  The scale of the additions in the general
schools, which take the form mainly of adequately equipped workshops, science
laboratories and domestic science rooms, would-be similar to developments at
the 11 schools included in the first IDA education project, but the schools
of the proposed second project would be mostly located in small towns and rural
areas and thus improve equality of educational opportunity and add thrust to
integrated rural development programs. An adequate supply of suitably trained
teachers would be available from the NTEC (para. 4.06) where secondary teacher
training courses are effectively operated.
4.13      At present, effective demand for secondary school graduates is so
much higher than supply that the Government directs all graduates to essential
work in the public sector. Outputs from the country's 26 general secondary
schools (of which 11 are included in the first IDA project and 10 in the
proposed second project) are unlikely to cause an oversupply of graduates
in the foreseeable future. During 1972-83, all secondary schools would
produce about 22,400 graduates as compared with an estimated need of 29,400
(para. 2.07). Further expansion of the schools to meet the estimated shortfall
of 7,000 graduates should prudently be deferred until later this decade when
the rate of assimulation of graduates into the economy will be more apparent.
Such an expansion may form part of a future Bank Group project.
4.14      The Fishery and Marine Institute would be for 288 students of whom
80 would be boarding; it would replace existing old and derelict accommodation
where 180 students are now enrolled and include one warden's house. The Insti-
tute, to be sited near the new port area of Mogadiscio, would offer four-year
courses (Grades 9-12) oriented towards providing basic preliminary training
to enable graduates to be employed in coastal fishing, the merchant navy or
the fish processing industry. It would be the country's only training institute
of its kind and would be under the direction of the recently formed Ministry of
Fisheries and Marine Transport.   Probable developments in fisheries (para.
2.03) and related activities should ensure relevant employment for the Insti-
tute's graduates.
4.15      Technical Assistance.  To ensure availability of key personnel,
provision for 16 man-years of technical assistance is included in the proposed
project; of this, nine man-years would support development of the Fishery and
Marine Institute and seven man-years would reinforce the Project and Schools
Construction Units. For the Fishery and Marine Institute three experts each
for about three years would be required: (a) an adviser to the Institute's
principal on organization, administration, financial, curriculum development
and other relevant matters; (b) an expert in navigation, seamanship and



- 15 -
application of scientific techniques to sea-going fishery and marine vessels;
and (c) an expert in marine engineering, workshop practice and related scien-
tific matters such as elementary theory and practice of heat engines. Tech-
nical assistance to the Project and Schools Construction Units is detailed
at para 5.09.
4.16      Support for the proposed project would also be derived from other
technical assistance experts now in post and being recruited. The principal
group of experts assisting the first education project and available for this
proposed project is a 16-man UNDP/UNESCO/ILO team who are engaged in teacher
technical and vocational training, general and technical education planning
and associated activities. About one-half of this team is in post and recruit-
ment of the remainder is under way. Because ample fellowships for overseas
training would be available on a grant basis either from UNDP, EEC or bilateral
agencies, no provision for fellowships is included in the proposed project.
V. PROJECT COST, FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT
AND DISBURSEMENT
Cost Estimates
5.01      Construction cost estimates have been derived from costs obtained
following recent competitive bidding for schools in the first education project.
The average cost per m2 in Mogadiscio is estimated at about US$88. These esti-
mates take into account maximum use of local building materials and probability
of awards for civil works to local contractors. The schedules of accommodation
are economical and appropriate to student enrollments and modern curricula and
generally result in a utilization factor of 70-80% for workshops and labora-
tories, based on a weekly schedule of forty-two 50-minute periods. In the
project secondary schools, fuller use of practical facilities would be assured
because nearby intermediate schools would be able to use these facilities.
Estimates of equipment and furniture costs are also based on recent information
obtained during implementation of the first IDA education project. The esti-
mated costs and foreign exchange component of the various parts of the project
are given in Annex 10 and summarized below:



-16 -
Details and Costinga of Proosed Soocud Education Project
% Of
Total
So, Sh. (million)         US$ (million)       (includ-
Loal Forsi1 Total   Local Foreign Total  in  Taes)
1. Academy of Somall
Studies                   0.5    o.81   1.36     0.09    0.13   0.22         2
2. One now lementary                           -
Teacher Training
College                   2.30    3.12   5.42     0.37    0.5o   0.87         9
3. Ten new Nomadic
Training Centers          8.98   12.02  21.00     1.44    1.93   3.37        33
4j. Additional facilities
to 11 existing
Secondary Schools         550    7.54  33.04      0.89    1.21   2.10        21
5. Project Administration      0.53    0.12   0.65     0.08    0.02   0.10         1
0. ioc[IIL1L vAsint4ao6        u.oi.   .lo    .j       u.13      .'I  u.604        0
Total Project Cost
(December 1973)           18.67   26.79  45.46     3.00    430   7.0
7.  Contingencies
(i)  Unforese
events             2.12    2.43   4.55    0.34    0.39   0.73          7
(ii)  Price increaser      14.11    8.78  12.89    0.66    1.41   2.07        21
Subtotal           6.23   11.21  17.44     1.00    1.80   2.80        28
Totals including
taxes                   24.90   38.00 62.90      4.00    6.10  10.10       100
Taxes             .4.98             -     4.98     0.80      -     0.80
Totals excluding
taxes                   19.92   38.00  57.92     3.20    6.10   2.p



- 17 -
5.02      Customs Duties and Taxes.  All items specifically imported for the
proposed project would be exempt from direct customs duties and taxes in line
with the practice of the Somali Government to grant customs and tax exemption
to imports for educational purposes. Much of the building materials to be used
by contractors for use in construction of the proposed project institutions
would be acquired on the open market and accordingly would have been subject
to customs duties and/or taxes. Of the estimated civil works costs, about
US$0.8 million would represent customs duties and/or taxes.
5.03      Contingency allowances add 10% for unforeseen factors to the costs
of construction, site development, furniture and equipment. Projected price
increases are included in the contingency allowances at 13% p.a. for civil works
and 10% p.a. for furniture and equipment, reckoned to the estimated dates of
award of contracts (Annex 11).
5.04      The Foreign Exchange Component has been calculated as follows:  (a)
construction and site development, 48%; (b) furniture, 80%; (c) equipment,
90%; (d) project administration, 20%; and (e) technical assistance, 80%.
Including contingencies, the foreign exchange component is estimated at
about US$6.1 million or 60% of the total project cost of US$10.1 million.
5.05      The Financial Plan provides for IDA assistance of US$8.00 million
to help finance the various major components of the project as follows:
US$ million
Somali         IDA            Total
Government      Credit         Project
1.   Civil Works                         1.30          3.70          5.00
2.   Furniture                            -            0.40          0.40
3.   Equipment                            -            1.16          1.16
4.   Project Administration               -            0.10          0.10
5.   Technical Assistance                 -            0.64          0.64
6.   Contingencies                       0.80          2.00          2.80
Totals                         2.10         8.00          10.10
of which taxes            0.80         0.00           0.80
The Government's total contribution of So.Sh.13.1 million spread over a period
of six years with a maximum contribution of So.Sh. 4.5 million (including
So.Sh.1.7 million local taxes) in any year is within its financial capacity
in the light of past and projected capital expenditures for education (para.
3.14).
5.06      The recurrent expenditures generated by the project would be about
So.Sh. 9.0 million p.a. or 10% of the estimated total recurrent expenditure
on education for 1978. This proportion is not excessive as the project would
represent the major contribution to the FYDP.



- 18 -
Implementation
5.07      The project would be implemented over a period of six years after
the date of Credit effectiveness; nine months are included for completion of
payments and withdrawals from the Credit Account.
5.08      Administration.  The existing Project Unit in the Ministry of
Education (MOE) which is an integral part of the Schools Construction Unit
of the MOE and was established as a part of the first IDA education project,
would be responsible for the overall supervision of the project and liaison
with the Association. The Project and Schools Construction Units have already
made a significant contribution towards improving Somalia's capability in
school design and procurement of equipment and furniture but need strengthen-
ing so as to contain the following staff as a mimimum: a Project Director;
a Deputy Project Director; two architects or civil engineers experienced in the
type of construction included in the project; a quantity surveyor; a procure-
ment officer; an accountant or experienced bookkeeper; two building inspectors
for site supervision work; and adequate auxiliary staff, particularly clerks,
typists and a driver. They should also be provided with equipment and furniture
essential for efficient working conditions. During negotiations an assurance
was given by the Government that staff and equipment as indicated would be
provided for the Project and Schools Construction Units and maintained through-
out the period of project implementation.
5.09      Professional Services (Architectural/Engineering).  The Project and
Schools Construction Units with assistance from the Ministry of Works would
be responsible for the design and supervision of the construction of project
institutions. To ensure availability of key personnel, provision for seven
man-years of specialist services is included in the project to enable recruit-
ment of: (i) an architect or building design-construction specialist for
2-1/2 years; (ii) a quantity surveyor for 2 years; and (iii) a procurement
advisor for 2-1/2 years.
Procurement
5.10      Civil Works.  Contracts for main civil works would be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Association's
guidelines for procurement. The additional facilities to the ten general sec-
ondary schools included in the project, because of their small size (an average
contract of about US$100,000 equivalent and a total of about US$1.0 million
equivalent), would be awarded following domestic competitive bidding. It is
unlikely that foreign firms would be interested in tendering for the civil
works related to the project. In order to prevent excessive costs, project
contracts would be grouped, as approved by the Association, in order to
encourage competitive bidding. Award of contracts would be on the basis of
the lowest evaluated bid on individual institutions, or the lowest combination
thereof. Civil works firms would be pre-qualified in accordance with existing
Ministry of Works procedures which conform with IDA guidelines. Sketch designs
and draft tender documents would be reviewed by the Association. Award of
contracts for civil works would not require prior review by the Association



- 19 -
unless they exceed US$150,000 equivalent. Domestic contractors would be
allowed a preferential margin of 7-1/2% over the bid prices of competing
foreign contractors.
5.11      Furniture and Instructional Equipment.  Contracts for furniture and
instructional equipment would be on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Association's guidelines for procurement,
except that procurement of instructional equipment, books, and furniture
costing less than US$30,000 up to an aggregate total of US$100,000 would
be on the basis of domestic competitive bidding. Draft tender documents,
master lists of furniture, instructional equipment and books, including pro-
posed grouping of these items for tendering, would be submitted to the Associa-
tion for review. Items would be grouped to the extent practicable to encourage
competition and bulk procurement. Domestic manufacturers would be allowed a
preferential margin of 15% or the existing rates of import duties, whichever
is lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing imports. Award of contracts for
instructional equipment and furniture would not require prior review by the
Association unless they exceed US$40,000 equivalent up to an aggregate total
of US$200,000 equivalent.
Disbursement
5.12      Disbursement (Annex 12) would be on the basis of:
(a)  100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported
instructional equipment and furniture or 95% of
ex-factory cost of locally manufactured furniture;
(b)  90% of local expenditures for transportation
services for furniture and equipment;
(c)  74% of total expenditures for civil works; and
(d)  100% of foreign expenditures and 90% of local expendi-
tures for technical assistance, professional archi-
tectural/engineering services and project adminis-
tration. Disbursement would be fully documented
except for project administration which would be
made against a certificate of expenditure,
documentation for which would not be submitted for
review, but would be retained by the Borrower and
would be available for inspection by the Association
in the course of project supervision.
Upon agreement between the Government and Association, any funds remaining
on completion of the project would be used for other project related items.
Procurement is expected to be completed by December 31, 1978, with technical
assistance continuing until December 31, 1979. Credit Closing Date would be
June 30, 1980.



- 20 -
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      Benefits.  The proposed project is directed principally toward the
achievement of educational objectives consistent with high priority socio-
economic needs, namely: (a) to help the development of the national language
as a means of eliminating illiteracy and so making more efficient the education
system and promoting cultural and economic development; (b) to expand the formal
school system and to coordinate, quantitatively and qualitatively, its growth
with estimated manpower requirements and, at the same time, reorient instruction
towards a more practical content; and (c) to provide training programs designed
to assist rural development and particularly to support improvment of livestock
production by nomads and diversification of agriculture. In addition, the
project aims at further strengthening the capability of the Project and Schools
Construction Units established as a part of the first IDA education project;
these Units have already made a significant contribution to school design by
the introduction of standardized and economical school facilities (para. 5.08).
6.02      In furtherance of these objectives, the proposed second education
project in part would follow the lines of the first IDA education project by
providing: (i) expansion of the elementary teacher training capacity to
support pupil enrollment in grades 1-4 of 40-50% of the eligible age group
by the mid-eighties; (ii) facilities for the introduction of practical sub-
jects and for a modest growth in enrollment in grades 9-12; and (iii) special-
ist services to improve the engineering/architectural capability of the MOE
and to facilitate the preparation of procurement documents and installation
and maintenance of instructional equipment. Altogether, the first and the
proposed second education projects are expected to provide for all planned
expansion of elementary teacher training, the improvement of over 85% of all
general secondary schools and 60% of technical schools in the country, the
introduction of mobile agricultural training units and the establishment of
effective project implementation procedures and to contribute significantly
to the development of education in Somalia.
6.03      At the same time, the proposed second project would support major
innovations such as development of the script for the national language and
of training and service facilities to improve the ability of the nomads in
tending their livestock and diversifying their agriculture. The benefits
expected from the Academy of Somali Studies and from the NTCs are broad and
extend beyond a contribution to an education development strategy defined
by manpower requirements for the modern sector or general human resources
needs. Specifically, development of the national language would facilitate
written communication in all aspects of social and economic life, simplify
and make more efficient the operation of all private and public agencies 1/,
1/ E.g. at present all important documents need to be written in both
English and Italian, the major "linguae francae" for written communications.



- 21 -
and help information dissemination to all social groups, in addition to
assisting in eliminating illiteracy, shortening the number of years required
to achieve determined educational attainments and gearing more closely in-
struction to the Somali environment. Similarly, the benefits expected from
the NTCs go beyond the provision of educational facilities for the nomads
who, although contributing significantly to national production and develop-
ment, lack educational services tailored to their needs. In addition to
training programs, the NTCs would provide practical contributions to herd
management, range conservation and improved marketing.
6.04      Risks involved in the project.  This is the first education project
of the World Bank Group which would support development of a national lan-
guage and a training scheme directly related to a nomadic population. Along
with probable significant benefits, both the Academy of Somali Studies and
the NTCs involve potential risks. One of these, related to the Academy of
Somali Studies, is that its work program may place more emphasis on the de-
velopment of national culture and folklore rather than on higher priority
activities such as production of literature for mass readership and functional
literacy, to minimize this risk, provision has been made for a continuing dia-
logue between the Association and the Government on the plan of operation of
the Academy (para. 4.04). Tuie success of the NTCs will depend on their integra-
tion with other development programs and the careful planning of the courses.
To minimize the risks associated with the NTCs and to improve their effective-
ness, the project provides for locating the NTCs in grazing reserves where
other M'inistries and agencies are supplying inputs directed to improved live-
stock production (para. 4.09) and includes the establishment of an evaluation
system (para. 4.07).
6.05      In summary, the project would contribute to development in the
modern sector through a qualitatively improved and enlarged supply of manpower
with the background on which to build on-the-job training and experience
(29% of the project expenditures); it would assist social mobility by permitting
a rapid expansion of basic education and of mass literacy programs (14% of the
project expenditures); it would promote improvement in the living standards of
the lowest income group of the Somalis--the nomads--through the provision of
special training and service facilities coordinated with their requirements
(46% of the project expenditures). In spite of the risks associated with
its most innovative items, it would be an integral part of Somalia's develop-
ment strategy which is directed at creating the basic social and economic
infrastructure for growth of the livestock and agricultural sectors from which
over 80% of the population is expected to derive a livelihood for many years
to come.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMIENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on
the following principal points:



- 22 -
(a)  the work program for the Academy of Somali Studies,
the courses and the evaluation arrangements and
training of instructors for the Nomadic Training
Centers (paras. 4.04, 4.07 and 4.10); and
(b)  the strengthening of the Project and School Construc-
tion Units (para. 5.08).
7.02      The proposed project provides a suitable basis for a Development
Credit of US$8.0 million equivalent to the Somali Democratic kepublic for
a term of 50 years including a ten-year grace period.



APPENDIX 1
Page 1
THE SOMALI NOMADS
Socio-economic Conditions and Education Opportunities
1.        Somalia is one of very few countries in the world where nomadism is
a national rather than a regional problem. It is also a country where the
population is ethnically, culturally and linguistically homogenous. The
large majority of the population are devout Moslems.
2.        The nomads of Somalia are dispersed in small groups over wide areas.
They are extreme individualists and lack formal instituted authorities. The
nomadic population is divided into six major clans each of which represents
numerous sub-clans. There is still considerable rivalry between neighboring
clan groups, particularly in periods of grazing or water shortage. The
basic nomadic social unit is the family camp of two or three families, each
with seven or eight people. Each camp herds its livestock and moves inde-
pendently of other camps.
3.        Since Independence in 1960 the Government has encouraged the develop-
ment of a national identity in place of tribal loyalties. Initially this
effort met with little success among the nomads but since 1969
there have been signs that nomads are participating more actively in develop-
ment activities. The introduction of an official script for the Somali
language in 1971 has given added impetus to these developments. However,
these changes have also increased the need for the Government to respond with
new and enlarged programs for the nomadic people.
4.        The subsistence needs of Somali nomads are derived from their
livestock - camels, cattle, sheep and goats. Mainly cattle are exported
from the Southern regions and mainly sheep and goats from the North. It is
estimated that 50 sheep and goats are the minimum for the subsistence needs
of a woman and three children. However, wealth and status are derived from
the ownership of camels which are used as beasts of burden in addition to
supplying milk.
5.        Nomadic life is organized around the search for grazing and water.
Sheep and goats, which must be watered every four to nine days, are the
responsibility of the women. Camels, which need water less frequently, are
herded separately by the men and boys. During the dry seasons, nomads are
concentrated around their "home" wells, a total period of three to five months.
A sample survey in Mudugh Region in 1971 showed that an average of 24,000
people visited a single well in one dry season. However, during the periods
of rain and green grazing, the number of family units at a well is practically
nil.
6.        There is little basic information about the migratory patterns of
Somali nomads. There are both longer-distance movements and shorter-distance
movements. Certain trends are, however, clear: (a) there has been a rapid



APPENDIX 1
Page 2
increase in the number of permanent and seasonal water sources, many privately
dug and constructed by nomads themselves; (b) the average distance of migra-
tory movements is gradually decreasing; and (c) an increasing number of nomads
are becoming semi-settled and practising subsistence cultivation for part of
the year.
7.        It is also apparent that the nomads are increasingly becoming in-
volved with the money economy and accepting comparatively modern concepts of
animal husbandry as semi-settlement leads rapidly to new economic wants.
Recent trends in nomadic animal husbandry practices include: (a) increased
purchase of livestock medicaments; (b) the construction of concrete water
storage tanks; (c) the use of deparasiting baths; and (d) the purchase of
dry season fodder.
8.        Semi-nomadism is concentrated in the inter-rivers area in the South
and in the high plateau area of Hargeisa Region in the North. The main crop
produced is sorghum. Cultivation methods are primitive and as yet the
Ministry of Agriculture has no extension program for these areas. However,
there is considerable potential for the expansion of agriculture. As indi-
cated at para. 2.02 of the main report, it is estimated that Somalia has
eight million hectares suitable for cultivation but only 5% of this area is
at present worked on.
9.        Despite the fact that the majority of Somalia's population is
nomadic or semi-nomadic and that nomads provide the major part of Somalia's
revenue and exports, in the past Government investment in development of
nomadic areas has been negligible. There is an urgent need for training
programs specifically adapted to the nomadic environment and linked to
development program for the nomadic peoples which are being formulated as a
part of the FYDP and summarized in the following paragraphs.
10.       There is general agreement that the major and most pressing problem
in Somalia at present is the basic ecological imbalance between the primary
food source and dependent livestock. Unless the grazing pressure on many
areas of the country is reduced the constant shift towards desert conditions
will continue. Ultimately, the only way to reduce this pressure is to per-
suade nomads to become less dependent on livestock. An advisory groUp pro-
vided by the Federal Republic of Germany found that although there had been
a significant increase in the number of livestock in the last decade, this
number does not greatly exceed the minimum requirements for a population
of which the majority are totally dependent on livestock for subsistence.
11.       While there are regional inequalities in the allocation of permanent
water points, the supply of waterpoints has increased significantly and in
some areas has seriously aggravated the problem of over-grazing, causing
erosion, the clearing of bushes and trees and the under-utilization of remoter
ranges. The area with the greatest supply of water in relation to numbers



APPENDIX 1
Page 3
of livestock is the Northern region where there has been widespread construc-
tion of concrete lined tanks. Despite a Government ban on unauthorized con-
struction in 1971, no effective control has been established and very few
areas remain where water is a limiting factor for range utilization.
12.       Although wells and 'las' (very shallow wells in dried riverbeds)
are the preferred and most important single source of water for livestock,
there are many other types of waterpoint: (a) springs - only in Northern
and Bosasso regions; (b) 'balleks' - natural depressions collecting rain-
water; (c) 'uars' - surface rainwater basins, artificially built catchment
systems; (d) 'hillas' - waterpoints on the banks of the Juba and Shebelli
Rivers, area; and (e) 'berkeds' - sub-surface concrete rainwater cisterns,
mainly in the Northern, Bosasso and Mudug Regions.
13.       A national plan has been developed for the allocation of 483 bore-
holes over a 20-year period based on a survey of existing waterpoints and
their relation to the problems of intensity of grazing and range management.
One consideration will be the development of future permanent waterpoints
within or adjacent to grazing reserves to discourage further nomadic settle-
ment and consequent over-grazing.
14.       The drilling of boreholes is the responsibility of the Water
Development Agency, an autonomous government department. The Agency drills
deep wells as part of a state program and also drills and construct water-
points for other government departments for special purposes. In 1973 the
Agency completed 12 boreholes out of a target number of 16. Sixty deep wells
and 50 reservoirs are planned for the period 1974-78. Twenty reservoirs
will be financed by the European Economic Community.
15.       There is as yet no national range management program but the UNDP/FAO
range management project in the Northern and Bosasso regions has drawn
Government attention to the problem and suggested a number of actions to be
incorporated in a national plan. Although in the past the Government has
moved slowly to respond to these needs, the Ministry of Livestock, Forestry
and Range Management has plans for a national survey and the development of
a national program of action in relation to range conservation.
16.       The UNDP-financed Range Management Project began in 1970 with the
objective of carrying out a survey of range resources but was expanded in
1971 at the request of the Government to include an action program. Grazing
reserves were reintroduced and 22 reserves have been established under the
project. These reserves are closed to grazing during the rainy seasons to
allow vegetation recovery and provide better grazing during the dry seasons.
Range and Livestock Improvement Associations have been established among the
nomads and have the responsibility of protecting the reserves and acting as
liaison groups between the nomads and the Government range management staff.
The grazing reserves operated with reasonable success during 1972 which had
good rains but their success was much more limited in 1973 which was a year
of poor rainfall and when the nomads poached on the reserves.



APPENDIX 1
Page 4
17.       The Ministry of Livestock has plans to extend grazing reserves to
other regions following a national survey of range resources. However, the
range management program must be accompanied by the provision of education
and extension services in order to increase public support and understanding.
A FAO expert made a proposal in 1972 for the establishment of two training
centers to carry out mass education in range conservation within the frame-
work of a plan for a National Range Service. This proposal has not been
implemented but adult education in range conservation would be among the
functions of the Nomadic Training Centers included in the proposed project.
18.       Veterinary services are provided by the Department of Animal Health
and Production of the Ministry of Livestock, Forestry and Range. Each dis-
trict has one veterinary officer assisted by three or four veterinary assis-
tants. Some districts have mobile veterinary units. Also drugs are pro-
vided free to livestock owners and in 1973 a program was started to establish
village pharmacies where drugs could be obtained and vaccination provided.
Disease control, particularly the control of rinderpest, has advanced signi-
ficantly in Somalia in the last decade.
19.       The veterinary assistants are trained at the School for Animal
Health Assistants which opened in 1967 with an output of 30 p.a., but in
1973 the intake was increased to 120 in a two-year course. In the second
year of the course trainees specialize in range management, animal.husbandry
or hides and skins. In addition, a special two-year course in range manage-
ment has been established with an intake of 14 students in 1973. Trainees
enter at both post-intermediate (grade 8) and post-secondary levels. UNDP
will continue to provide technical assistance and financing for equipment up
to the end of 1975.
20.       Livestock marketing is the responsibility of the Livestock Develop-
ment Agency, an autonomous government department. The Agency is responsible
for all aspects of marketing from the establishment of holding grounds for
fattening and state ranches to the organization of inspection of livestock
for export, port facilities, etc. Nomads have shown an increasing readiness
to sell livestock, linked to a strong desire for better education and medical
services. This is linked in turn to the growing tendency noted above for
nomads to establish semi-permanent homes near service facilities.
21.       The Bank Group approved a Livestock Project in the Trans-Juba
area of Somalia in February 1974. This Project will establish permanent
cattle markets and holding grounds and develop water supplies and staging
points to improve and increase the supply of beef to the meat processing
plant in Kismayo. Veterinary services will also be improved as part of the
project. The project will also improve the training of the Agency staff in
the project area, especially in financial management.
22.       The Ministry of Livestock proposes to develop cooperative ranching
and to provide marketing services in the nomadic areas in the 1974-78 plan
period. The Nomadic Training Centers would support these developments by
providing short courses in marketing and cooperative management.



APPENDIX 1
Page 5
23.       The field services of the Ministry of Agriculture are embryonic and
are concentrated in settled areas. No extension program for nomadic areas
has been developed but it is the future intention of the Government to
encourage agriculture among nomads. The greater reliance of nomads on non-
animal foods would reduce the pressure on grazing areas and there is consider-
able potential for the development of irrigated agriculture and dry-land
farming.
24.       Most Somali children, including the children of the nomads, receive
some Koranic education. The duration varies and in the case of nomadic
families may often be interrupted by migratory movements but is normally
given between the ages of six and ten. It consists of memorization of parts
of the Koran, elementary literacy in Arabic and perhaps some elements of
social training. The instructors are religious teachers (Wadads) who receive
payment in kind from the parents.
25.       Interest has recently increased in the possibilities of strength-
ening the Koranic school system as a means of providing universal basic
education in Moslem communities. A study of such a proposal has been included
in the education project in Mauritania assisted by IDA. Unesco is actively
considering a project for development of nomadic Koranic schools in Somalia,
including the provision of teaching kits and transportation for Koranic
teachers.
26.       A small number of children from nomadic families attend elementary
schools in the settled areas where they make their own accommodation arrange-
ments. Still fewer attend boarding intermediate schools. After the Second
World War the colonial government in British Somaliland introduced a system
of boarding schools for sons of nomads. Families were compensated for the
release of their children and the scheme is said to have been successful.
Three special boarding schools for nomads with a combined total of 150 places
exist in the Northern region but no special provision for nomadic children
is made in the other parts of Somalia.
27.       There are at present no adult education programs specifically for
nomads. In the 1950s the British launched an experimental program providing
basic education for adults, using Koranic teachers to overcome suspicion of
secular education. Also in the 1950s, Unesco launched a literacy program
for semi-nomads. It was found that although there was considerable enthusiasm
among nomads for literacy, both programs foundered due to the absence of a
Somali script, making it impossible to use the indigenous language as the
medium of instruction.
28.       In 1973, the National Adult Education Center in l-Iogadiscio began
a program for the training of Koranic teachers (Wadads). Forty teachers
were recruited for the first course lasting eight weeks, and were given
instruction mainly in reading and writing the Somali script, with some
additional instruction in arithmetic, basic hygiene, revolutionary civics



APPENDIX 1
Page 6
and the use of visual aids. A second course for 60 teachers was also com-
pleted during 1973. The Koranic teachers were recruited for the courses
through the regional offices of the Ministry of Education. Although the
objective was to recruit teachers from remote areas, in fact all recruits
came from the towns and settled areas - none were nomads. This was partly
due to the lack of effort on the part of local officials, but may also have
been the result of apathy or suspicion on the part of nomadic teachers. The
Center now hopes to hold future courses in the provinces rather than in
Mogadiscio and the facilities of the Nomadic Training Centers included in the
proposed project would be used for this purpose.



APPENDIX 2
Page 1
THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
Structure, Management and Planning
1.        The structure of education comprises (Chart 1):
(a) Pre-primary education which has traditionally been given in
Koranic schools, whose main function was to impart religious
knowledge. However, the Ministry of Education is now pro-
moting "reformed" Koranic schools, providing a more meaning-
ful educational experience. The immediate objective is to
have 13 such schools in Mogadiscio and one in the capital of
each region. Sedentary Koranic schools are distinguished
from "Herr" schools; the latter traditionally have been
schools organized around peripatetic Koranic teachers travel-
ling with the nomadic population.
(b) Primary education comprises an elementary cycle (grades
1-4) and an intermediate cycle (grades 5-8). Since 1972,
promotion between the two cycles has been automatic, the
two cycles being merged into one primary course.
(c) Secondary education (grades 9-12) comprises general courses
and technical, accountancy, surveying, agriculture and
fishery training. Three-year courses (grades 9-11) are held
in craft work at the Burao Technical Institute, but will
probably soon become four-year courses.
(d) Higher education is carried out at a number of institutions
organized in one overall establishment, the National University,
where courses are of four-year duration. The University is
the responsibility of the recently formed Ministry of Culture
and Higher Education (MCHE).
2.        In 1972, the Latin script was officially adopted as the script for
the Somali language and teaching and other activities in Arabic, English and
Italian are being gradually eliminated as developments in the new script
permit. To facilitate these developments, an Academy for Somali Studies
has been founded whose functions include research into the writing of the
Somali language and revival of national culture. The Academy works in close
cooperation with the education system, particularly the teacher training
colleges to ensure that the results of their work are promptly and properly
applied. The Academy will also study and monitor the practical effects on
learning efficiency in formal and nonformal schools stemming from the intro-
duction of the national language. Development of modernized curricula is an
important function of the Academy which forms part of the National University.



APPENDIX 2
Page 2
3.        Educational planning requires improvement primarily in overall
strategy but particularly in important areas such as education finance and
specialized education. The planning departments of both MOE and MCHE have
produced draft five-year development plans (1974-78) which envisage capital
expenditures, principally on construction work, of about So.Sh. 237.8 million
(US$38.2 million). In addition to the apparent financial limitations, a
clear constraint on the implementation of such programs is the capacity of
Somalia's building industry which is inadequately developed for such a volume
of work. Especially weak is planning for agricultural and technical education
and training. To help rectify these weaknesses, UNDP/Unesco/ILO are providing
16 experts, some of whom are specialists in educational planning, as a part
of the technical assistance program related to the first education project
assisted by the IDA in Somalia.
Language and Textbook Development
4.        A National Language Commission was established by the Ministry of
Education in 1971.  Its terms of reference were mainly to write textbooks in
Somali for primary schools, readers for adults and a vocabulary book. The
latter has become the basis of a tentative Somali dictionary. Working through
various sub-commissions (language, mathematics, civics, health and hygiene,
dictionary and terminology), the Commission has drafted several textbooks for
the elementary cycle and also for adult education courses. In addition, the
Commission has given advice to the National Adult Education Center on the
preparation of special radio programs. Because the Commission's work largely
overlaps with that of the Academy of Somali Studies, Government intends to
incorporate the Commission's work into the Academy.
5.        The Curriculum and Textbook Unit of the Department of Research and
Training of the Ministry of Education is responsible for the selection, pur-
chase, distribution and, in some cases, the production of textbooks for
students and manuals for teachers. Systematic data on the production, supply,
and distribution of textbooks in recent years are not available. In the
past, some elementary and intermediate level textbooks have been imported,
but will be locally produced as new textbooks are written and printing facili-
ties in Somalia are expanded.
6.        More recent efforts to produce or update textbooks have included:
-    revision of English and Arabic textbooks for the
elementary and intermediate cycles, and completion of
20 supplementary stories in Arabic at the inter-
mediate level;
-    the preparation of a variety of textbooks for Revolu-
tionary Education, History, Mathematics and other
subjects;



APPENDIX 2
Page 3
-    the printing of textbools in Somali for the elementary
cycle and for adult.
7.        Somalia's printing industry is centered in Mogadiscio and was
recently nationalized under the State Printing Agency. The Agency occupies
modern premises with an effective management under whose direction considerable
expansion of buildings and equipment are being provided.
Efficiency of the Sector
8.        Education indicators show that Somalia, whose per capita income is
only about US$70-80, has one of the world's least developed educational
systems. A low expenditure of under US$2.0 per capita is reflected in a
literacy rate among adults of only 5%, and in low enrollments at the primary
school level equivalent to only 13% of the relevant age group and to 3.4% at
secondary school level. Moreover, enrollments are concentrated in the main
towns, particularly Mogadiscio and Hargeisa which account for some 83% of the
total. Girls represent only about 22% of total enrollments.
9.        On the other hand, promotion and completion rates are impressive
at each grade and cycle. Completion rates during recent years have averaged
90% for the elementary cycle, 85% for the intermediate cycle and 80% for the
secondary cycle. Progression rates averaging 90% from elementary to inter-
mediate to secondary cycle are exceptionally good. These figures are indica-
tive of the high motivation of Somali students.
10.       The distribution of secondary school students between academic
(82%) and technical/vocational/agricultural courses (18%) illustrates the
comparatively low priority which has been accorded to specialized education.
Government's policy is to rectify this imbalance principally by increasing
the practical content of the secondary schools' curriculum; the first major
step towards implementation of this policy is the addition of facilities
for teaching practical subjects in the eleven schools included in the first
IDA education project.
11.       In order to assess competence of teachers in primary schools, a
diagnostic examination was administered to the teaching cadre in 1972 (Table
1). Of the 1,269 teachers who sat the examination, 291 passed at a good
level and a further 191 at a satisfactory level; thus 786 teachers, or 63%
of the total were found to be inadequately qualified. In all probability,
similar figures would apply to secondary school teachers. Steps to help
alleviate this situation include development of the country's National Teacher
Education Center (NTEC) at Afgoi included in the first IDA education project
and the provision by UNDP/Unesco/Unicef of teams to assist pedagogical
improvements which would complement the IDA-financed provision of physical
facilities for the college. The new Elementary Teacher Training College,
included in the proposed project, would help considerably improve qualifica-
tion of the teaching force.



APPENDIX 2
Page 4
Productivity of the Sector
12.       Livestock and subsistence crop production contributed the major
share of the national income and foreign exchange earnings in 1971; livestock
and livestock products accounted for 67% and bananas for 26% of total exports,
figures which underline the paramount importance to the economy of these
products. Because development prospects in other sectors of the economy at
present appear small, the education sector should be increasingly geared to
producing human resources with attitudes and skills which would support
development in the dominant economic sectors. Livestock production is almost
exclusively in the hands of the nomads for whose benefit the education sector
would appear to make no proportionate provision, a shortcoming which the
Government is anxious to correct by establishing facilities where nomads can
be trained to improve the quality of their livestock and to adopt range
conservation measures.
13.       Because of equipment deficiencies and inadequate staffing, grad-
uates from the two secondary technical institutes at Mogadiscio and
Hargeisa are ill-fitted to play a useful role in industry, but the courses
at the Burao Technical Institute, operating with aid from the Federal
Republic of Germany, are of a very satisfactory standard. Similarly, the
Italian assisted Institute for Accountants and Surveyors at Mogadiscio is
competently operated. On the other hand, the Fishery and Marine Institute
at Mogadiscio, apart from being virtually devoid of equipment, appears to
lack purpose and an appreciation of the type of training which should be
provided in relation to future employment opportunities of the graduates.
Although, as a result of assistance under the first IDA education project
and technical assistance from UNDP/Unesco/ILO, some significant early improve-
ments to the two secondary technical institutes can be expected, a compre-
hensive plan for the development of technical education and vocational
training is an essential pre-requisite to orderly development of this sub-
sector of the education system as indicated at para. 3.11 of the main report.
Curricula and Facilities
14.       The curriculum for secondary schools has recently been revised to
include industrial arts, home economics, commercial and agricultural subjects.
Teaching of these new subjects will follow expected completion of the physi-
cal facilities included in the first IDA education project about mid-1975.
15.       The curriculum for primary schools has also been revised, princi-
pally for the last two years of the eight-year cycle, but its implementation
is hampered by the lack of appropriately trained teachers and recurrent
finance for expendable materials.
Technical Education and Vocational Training
16.       All technical education and vocational training institutions
(Table 2) are at the post-intermediate level. There are at present five
technical institutes: The Mogadiscio Industrial Institute, the Hargeisa



APPENDIX 2
Page 5
Technical Institute, the Burao Technical Institute, the Fishery and Marine
Institute, and the Agricultural Institute of Afgoi. There are also six
specialized vocational training institutes: the Technical Institute for
Accountants and Surveyors; the Postal and Telecommunications Training Center;
the Professional School of Nursing; the Health Personnel Training Institute;
the Training School for Animal Health Assistants; and the Vocational Training
School, for Hides, Skins and Range. The overwhelming problem in this area
is lack of equipment and instructors. Under the first IDA project, the
Mogadiscio Industrial Institute and the Hargeisa Technical Institute are
being upgraded and provided with additional workshops and equipment. So far
as the problem of instructors goes, the UNDP/Unesco/ILO four-year Technical
Education and Vocational Training Project began in the 1973/74 school year;
it includes a training program for instructors and teachers of technical
subjects, and is expected to partially meet the manpower requirements of
technical and vocational education. With bilateral assistance from the
Government of the People's Republic of Korea, development of a 800-student
capacity Polytechnic is being planned. UNDP is planning to finance the con-
struction of a training school for Range Management and Forestry within the
1974-78 plan period.
Teacher Training
(a) Primary Teacher Training
17.       Two former primary teacher training colleges in Hargeisa and
Mogadiscio were closed in 1968, and a primary teacher training college -
NTEC - which was established in 1966 at Afgoi with USAID assistance was con-
verted in 1968 into a secondary teacher training college. In 1972, pre-
service primary teacher trainees (250) were again admitted to NTEC for a
two-year post-grade 8 diploma course. Thus between 1968 and 1972, the
country had no provision for the pre-service training of primary teachers,
a deficiency which has major consequences for the development of primary
education at the present time; in particular, the shortage of qualified
teachers has necessitated the recruitment of secondary school leavers/national
service 1/ draftees as primary teachers. In 1972, 750 national service teach-
ers were recruited for a nine-month period. Teacher shortage has also been
aggravated by the self-help construction of primary schools which has been
strongly supported by the Somali people and has outrun the ability of the
Ministry of Education to staff the new schools.
18.       Despite the absence of pre-service training in the recent past,
approximately 600 primary teachers passed through in-service up-grading
courses in a scheme assisted by Unicef/Unesco. However, this scheme was
temporarily suspended in 1971/72 due to the difficulty of releasing teachers
under the pressure of increased primary enrollments.
1/   Secondary school leavers/national service draftees are those who have
completed grade 12.



APPENDIX 2
Page 6
(b) Secondary Teacher Training
19.       Secondary teachers are trained at the NTEC.  The first intake was
in 1968 for a four-year program (in which the third year is spent in teaching
practice in secondary schools) leading to the degrees of Bachelor of Science
or Arts in Education.
20.       Recruitment of trainees is from two sources:  primary teachers in
service and secondary school graduates, after an entrance examination.  There
are four divisions:  education, science and mathematics, social studies, and
languages, and curricula have been developed for the training of teachers of
practical subjects and home economics. The medium of instruction is English.
Table 3 shows the breakdown of enrollments by area of specialization in
1972/73.
21.       The on-going IDA project will substantially improve facilities at
the NTEC, and at the same time raise its total capacity to 700 students,
about 200 of them being in residence for the secondary teachers' program.
In addition, a major UNDP/Unesco project is providing technical assistance at
the NTEC.
Higher Education
22.       The National University was established in 1956 as an institution
of higher education in Economics and Law. In 1963/64, it became a University
Institute, providing the full range of requirements for the first two years
of study towards degrees in Law, Economics and Political Science to be granted
after two additional years of studies in Italy mostly at Padua. In 1970,
it was granted legal authority to confer degrees. There are nine faculties:
Geology, Engineering, Medicine, Veterinary, Law, Economics, Science, Agricul-
ture and Education. Entrance is by competitive examination. The medium of
instruction is English and/or Italian, depending largely on the staff. The
1973 enrollment of 1,420 students is planned to rise to 4,600 by 1979.
23.       The Italian Government has provided the major support for the
University for a number of years. Of an estimated 1972/73 budget of So.Sh.
2.65 million, 2 million was given by the Italian Government, and 0.65 million
by the Ministry of Education. About 20 staff (professors and assistants)
are provided by Italy under an arrangement with the University of Padua.
Somali Institute of Public Administration
24.       The Institute was started in 1965 with UNDP assistance, which is
due to be phased out in 1974. Its main functions are to provide consultant
advisory services for administrative, personnel management, finance and
accounting problems in the public sector, and to run orientation and training
courses for public sector employees of whom about 1,300 attended courses
during 1972, as summarized in Table 4.



APPENDIX 2
Page 7
Adult Education
25.       There has recently been a substantial quantitative development of
adult educational and literacy programs. The estimated numbers of partici-
pants in 1970, 1971, and 1972 were 14,000, 29,000 and 31,000 respectively.
Approximately 3,400 instructors were involved in 1972, all volunteers, and
mostly from the primary teaching cadre. Buildings and facilities are typically
provided on a self-help basis. The education authorities have not been
entirely satisfied with the quality of the programs. The idea hitherto has
been to provide the successful participants with the equivalent of an inter-
mediate school certificate, after two 3-year courses - in other words to
provide a condensed version of formal primary schooling.  However, in 1973
the number of participants in literacy classes jumped to 203,000 as a result
of the organization of a new urban literacy campaign using the Somali script
in a three-month course.
26.       The National Adult Education Center in Mogadiscio, which is attached
administratively to the Department of Research and Training of the Ministry
of Education, became the central office for all adult education affairs in
1971. In that year it prepared a number of copies of guides for adult educa-
tion instructors, and also organized orientation courses for community
leaders. At the end of 1972, the Center organized induction courses in the
new Somali script for adult education instructors in Mogadiscio, Afgoi, and
Baidoa. In the regions, adult education centers are organized by the regional
education officers with voluntary staff, mainly teachers, civil servants, etc.
In 1973, the Center concentrated its efforts on training Koranic teachers
from rural areas in the Somali script in anticipation of further expansion of
the literacy campaign to the rural population.
Farmer Training
27.       The Ministry of Agriculture operates two Farmer Training Centers
at Bonka near Baidoa and at Aburein near Hargeisa. Both provide 2-3 month
courses to farmers which include training in poultry keeping, oxen ploughing
and cooperative organization in addition to techinques of cultivation. The
Center at Bonka also provides in-service training for agricultural field
staff. A third Center at Genale is scheduled to open in 1974. Neither of
the existing Centers operated at full capacity in 1973. Staff shortages have
prohibited the establishment of effective follow-up in the field for farmer
trainees. The agricultural mobile units being provided under the first IDA
education project will help to fulfill this need but it is expected that
their operation will absorb all additional extension staff in the 1974-78
plan period.
Women's Education
28.       Ministry of Education efforts directed specifically towards the
education of women are focused on the National Women's Center in Mogadiscio,
and about 20 similar centers in various parts of the country. Hygiene, home



APPENDIX 2
Page 8
economics, child-care, nutrition, and related programs are featured in the
centers. At the National Women's Center courses of three years are organized,
mainly with a view to training staff to run additional centers, but also to
provide teachers of home economics in primary schools and prospective teachers
for the 'reformed' Koranic schools. The future development of the Women's
Centers is viewed as integration with multi-functional community development
centers.
Community Development Centers
29.       There are presently 16 community development centers, all under
the Ministry of Interior. Staff are seconded from a number of Ministries to
the centers which thus provide an opportunity for inter-ministerial coopera-
tion in the organization of a multi-functional program. The centers, which
have been provided mainly by self-help schemes, are utilized for four kinds
of activities: (1) hygiene, child-care, cooking, nutrition, embroidery and
other home economics courses for the women of the community; (2) pre-school
activities in a kindergarden for their children; (3) evening adult literacy
courses; and (4) occasional agricultural information courses. Women are
organized in different, revolving groups, and their handicraft products are
sold generally by means of a cooperative.  It is planned to establish a
multi-purpose center in each district (58) in accordance with the government's
decentralization policy.  It is intended that these centers should act as
institutions for the integration of all adult education activities in the
districts.  However, these plans are still at a preliminary stage and their
further processing will depend on the findings of the multidisciplinary
teams referred to at para. 3.05 of the main report.
30.       The Ministry of Education's office of Physical Education and Youth
Orientation is responsible for a variety of programs for out-of-school
activity, and its efforts have increased considerably in the last couple of
years. In 1972, five summer youth camps for over 9,000 adolescents from
five regions were organized, and the annual youth festival held in Mogadiscio
involved around 15,000 students. Inter-district sporting events, and politi-
cal orientation courses, also are promoted.
Radio Programs
31.       The Somali Broadcasting Service has two radio stations, Mogadiscio
has two medium-wave transmitters of 75 KW each and Hargeisa has a medium
wave transmitter of 25 KW. Coverage of the country is almost 100%. Educa-
tional programs, occupying about ten hours per week include advice on agri-
culture, veterinary and forestry and are planned to increase gradually in
the new Five Year Plan. The programs are summarized at Table 5.



UESUJLT5 OF THE 3AGNCSTIC ElJNVATION OF WPCHERS
R1.T'WZ.CW   I.MJ1FJW (A):                                                                               tio. ,T;cicZ
Category  I  - Strong in at least 3 subjects, excluding Ar:bic and Reliior.        (English Medium)      148
- Strong in Arabio and Religion (with 70% and above lin ALabic)                              88
Category- II  - Strong in at least 2 subjects and adequate In 2, excluding
Arabic and Religion
291       291
1"iVNT1,3Y LEV-27L (B3):
Category  I  - Strong in at least 3 subjects, excluding AreDic and Religion        (English Medium)      109
(Arabic 1'ledium)      20
(Italian Medium)       11
340
CD-tesorY II  - Otrong in at least 2 subjects and adequate iza 2                   (English Medium)       42
(Arabic Medium)         6
(Italian Medium)        4
52       '92
Category III  (OiF11RS)                                                            (English Medium)      182
(Arabic Medium)       142
(Italian Medium)      462       __
Grand Total                                                                               786     1,2
Source:  Report on the Teachers Evaluation Examination, Ministry of Education.



TABLE 2
TEACHERS AND STUDENTS IN TECHNICAI. AND VOCATIONAL
TRATNING INSTITUTIONS, 1972-73
Institution                                 r of Tan lrsNo. of Students
Somali     Expatriate    Total
1. Mogadiscio
Industrial Institute               10            18          28                351
2. Hargeisa
Technical Institute                 7             9          16                231
3.  Burao
Technical Institute                11             4          15                135
It. Mogadiscio
Maritime & Fishery Institute       12             3          15                128
5.  Mogadiscio
Technical Institute for
Surveyors & Accountants             8            13          21                270
6. Mogadiscio
Postal & Telecommunications
Training Center                     7             2           9                 75
7. Moadiscio
Professional School of Nursing   18               7          25.               129
8. Mogadiscio
Health Personnel & Training
Institute                          16             5          21                 75
Total 1            89            61         15oL2            1,39S4
LI    Excluding Hargeisa Professional School of Nursing.
/2    Many of theti are part-time teachers.
Source: information supplied by the Institutes.



COLLEGE OF EDUCATION
BREAKDOWN OF ENROI4ENTS BY GRADE AND SPECIFICATION
1972/1973
jGrad s          English    Italian    Social    Mathernatics    Physics    Chemistry    Biology    Total
jects                ~~~~Science
Freshmen           10          22         11           20            5            7          10         85
Sophomores          .3         21         12           13             7          U            9          76
Juniors             8          -          10           17             2           5          13         55
Seniors            12                     12           11            -                       12          51
Source:  Data obtained from Ministry of Education, Mogadiscio, and from College of Education,
(Afgoi, 1973).



TABLE 4
TRAIING COURSES AT THE SOMALI INSTITUTE
OF PUBLIC ADMSNITRUATION
(November 1971 - October 1972)
Number of
Course                                                            Participants
Orientation oDurses:
(i)    December 1971-February 1972:  Directors-General,
General Nanagers and Ambassadors                              156
(ii)   March-May 1972:  Newly-recruited university and
higher education graduates                                     42
(iii)  March-July 1972:  Civil servants in 'A' Division              242
(iv)   August-September 1972:  School principals and
teachers                                                      350
Training Courses
(i)    August-September 1972:  Communications skills for
English speaking supervisors
(ii)   June 1972:  Personnel Administration course for
English speaking personnel officers                            24
(iii)  July-August 1972:  Personnel Administration course
for Italian speaking personnel officers                        15
(iv)   April-May 1972:  Course for stores accountants in
the agricultural development agencies                          21
(v)    June-July 1972:  Course in accounting                         210
(vi)   July-October 1972:  Course in finance and accounting
for accounts staff in public agencies                          21
(vii)  August-November 1972:  Course in government budget-
ting and accounting.                                           38
(viii) July-August 1972:  Course for registry and filing
clerks in ministries and public agencies                       22
In-Service Courses
(i)    November 1972-Auguat 1972:  Daily two-hour clerical
and language skills course                                      -
(ii)   June 1972:  Daily two-hour clerical and language
skills course                                                 40
(iii)  August 1972:  Daily two-hour clerical and language
skills course                                                  46
Pre-Service Courses
(i)    ... - June 1972:  Secretarial course in the afternoona
for secondary school leavers                                   20
(ii)   August 1972-...:  Typing course for intermediate
school leavers                                                 46
Source:  Report of Somali Institute of Public Administration, October 1972.



TABLE 5
EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS AT RADIO MOGADISCIO - 1973
Duration
Name of Programme          Typ                r          Broadcasts    Audience
perdas          (Week)       Adec
1. Somali Culture     Somali literature,
poems, history
and customas          15               2        Gene:al pubdic
2.  uiz (Kedis)       General oulture        45               1       Mainly secord-
ary and post-
secondary
students
3. Family Magazine    Cooking, house-
keeping, clothing,
child-care             15              2        Housewives and
!mothers
U. Childrents Corner  Good manners,
stories, games        15               2       Children
5. Youth Orientation  Cultural and
social              10-15              2        Youth
6. Somali language    Literacy campaign   12-15           2 per day   General public
7. Civic Education    Civic education      10-15              2        Ger.eral public
8. Agricultural        General advice        10               1        Farmers
9. Veterinary          General advice         10              2        Livestock
breeders
10. Forestry           General advice         10              2        Rural pcpula-
tion
U. Cuuntry and         Animal health,        10               2        Particularly
Urban Life         food, conserva-                                 nomads
tion.
Source: Ministry of Information, Directorate of Broadcasting.






a-,-O0,00.aa.a-ooa    nsa    aa.ao    no,..   On-as    0a-0.a-On no a-'aaaa.*a aa,,no
OaO.N000,'n  an   'ann         .000'   nan    a-oo,-    a 0a.0a-aanno Oaoa-aoa-
0.0.'a  000.OaOln      'an-   n'aaa    a,-n-   nna.a       -   ona    'a-n    n-an  0  --a
ho  a'' Onfla aaa    an       asna.   na        n-a-n     an--a,--  osa"'-
0.           0  a-  'aaannaa-naaa-  -  a 0 'a  a  n-n-n'a0'n 0l-00000gO   
nmn-g.                                             ,-.-     a-an--n
at  -    aO    aOOa                  -  at    0  ana  oa
000  0  000000 tO on,0a    n-an 0   000  'a,10(D   'a                               n  a0
Hno,op.aa-ao-n-aana-aaan-a-a a, 0  011000
na.n  a-a,  a  oa**a-   'O0   n-a-on-n,n-    'a 'a  0n,.h0nOO0'ala
00           na--n  0     a-a  n-a  n--s  --aa     an                  a  a-
gi                   a-                a--            -* a- n-nna-nana-n :2;O 'a  C oo a ono0ao    a-nana-. oaa02ag-na
Ocoonna- an-annnooan                       .n-   ,.a
C01-Y    aonn  , nnna'aaaan'nn--                0*                 0a'a  no 0 an--noc
aaaonnnno'a                a  a a  40.   a   0aannn.- a-no an..OOnnOO
Oaa   nnaooa   aan-           -       ona    aO   ooaao   -         ado   On-
nahO   0   0. a-a-ann    han    ta-n-n            as       or,,  0000   anO-
oaaaan-n.:2aan-na
onn.aa 0-na 00   -                  an
'0  000 'ann-n   n'aa    nao         n-an   -no  -   an        '04
nonnnao.-g  -   0011                    ano         2.n    -  0.n,,""00tO0  nnan000flntO
0-C  n-o:n                  a-                  -  a   nnnnn*nna aa-gOnOOflOO
0    OOahnn,a  o0.a*Oaonna
a                    a   *aon    00  0         n-an,.    a-n
g!Eiagn-,.   0C  lW  U                       n     o  i2asnoan an-so o. a
a.   a-n-n--            n-n    0                       0  a a- nOanonna,
an  -     -          -   n-s   'ama;n   a;a
#COI 0200                               n-
on no      o'a        ,.--aa.       an      2 na-a    -    a                      
na'an       0*02. a.,:  'a
*oan.oaa                    -  -      2-    a-nO        0   n--an      -0
'a  a.    a-    a.  'a    'a  0
a-
0        0    a    a-  -    0    0    -  a    -
-.  a  -        'a
-a    -   0     0      0.   0           0    0             -         r
o     0   a         t-           'a
-        a-        o             0   a-
2
Wi                                              0                                                            ________
lit
a--aNNa-a-a-a- C' ,a-a,'aa-n-a-'aaa'anJ'a"J'a'                                         0
00,-n--               -  o'aa-a-   -  'a -   0. 'a 'a a- 'a 'a a  'a  a  'a  a  0  'a a. 0.                   0
a-" 
Ca                     -         -                       -               -                            -
a-a.  'a 'aN       'a'aa-'a   'a 0'a             a'a          Oa'a'a0.0.  'a-            -
'a a. a'    'aa-.a-  a-an-  0.  'a -  0. a- -  'a 'a -  'a a             -  a. -       -  -  p
'a   -a                   a  -     a                       -C    P
'a,o                                                                                                          a.'    a
'a       -.   'a             a,a'a'an-'a                'a a-On                          0.-' 00
'a 'a  aa-a.a-naa,'a'a'a   'a a.a'a-'a'an    n0n'a  'a  -  a-   'a                        000ln'a
'a    'a    'a'    0  0.    'a    'a  a  'a    'a    'a  'a    'a    'a    'a  -  a.    'a    n-    a.    'a-    a.    'a  a'    00000
a.                                      -a
a-  -     N  'a                  *   'a  -  a-  a-    a.    'a  *  'a  'a   .  .  'a  .a.a-
a-  'a    'a    'a      a,  2-  .  'a    'a  a-  'a    'a    'a  'a  'a    'a    'a    'a,  'a  a-a-a
a-                                         0.0       a.     -           -      aWC
'a                       'a
pnO,0L*0.OnnO                                                                                                        0     'a
'a'al0C.OCnO'a                                                                                                          ,-.'a2 0.
'an-a.'aa'aa.'a                                                                                                      'aaCnn'ao       0  La
a--aN-a-a-                                                           -               n-' -  -     -            'a  a-a.             [a
a. 'a a. 'a      a.a-n--a-'a'a'aa-  a. 'a 'a -  'a 'a'a'aa'aa'gp2-
a                                              'a                  -  'a        a-       0.                onna-nonar    a
noan         na
.-dIa'aa.'aaa.a             a. 'a 'a 'a a.  a-  ' .  'a  a,n-'a   a- a- 'a 'a 'a a  a. 'a 'a n-'a   a'-a,-.--nn 0
a     a.   'a             a.      a                                                  -,ntaon-0-a
a                                                                                                             a  -
'a-'aNan-.0.N  * 'a'a'aa-'a'a'a'aa-'a'a'a'a    04* 'a
N  'a 'a a'        'a 'a 'a a  -   a- -  a-  -. 'a 0  0  -  'a C  ml 'a  0  0. 0   -.0 oaana
...a 'a                 .ca- an
'a  -  a  a- 'a  a, 'a 'a    -                    'a a-a-'a'a'a'a'a
a-               a-                               a-  ,-,      a.
- a.a,aa-'a'a'a0.'a'a'a  'aa.a-a- a. aa--ON  0.'aNN'a                                          OnOO
a. a. a a. 'a a. a.'aNa-'a'a'a'a 002-
5                     'a       a.                  'a'a           N  0
La    La         a'a-L0.O
C
a. a- a' naP2
2 2 2. 'aa-'aNa-a.'a--O na-a-
'aa-a-a-'aa-'a'a'aa-'a a-a-a- 'a 'anana
0                                                                                                             a-
-                          -          -  a-    a-     0.        a-    a-
'a  a. a, a- a,    'a a- 'a a. a-Na-a-N    a. a. a. a. 'aan  a-Na-  a. 'a  'aaa-'0
a- a- a- La a' a
11

0.a-    H                a,     -  a,         -     a,    a-      a-                  -      0.       a,    a,
a.a' a' 'a O'a'a'a'aa. a-a-a. a-a-'a.'aa-Na.'aa.'a 'a a
a-a' a                                           0  0                                                           n  
a-a'                  Na-a---                 a.'aa-a-    a,'aa-a.'aN'a  a. a. 'a a. 0  2. a-
-  a-                                                                  n--0na-a*a-
0.                      a',an   On
000
a-                 -a        0.          -  -  a.     -       'a 'a -      2         -  'a           a- a
a.;-C2                                                0                'a     -      0                               2  a
a-                                       on- n-aNNN0'  a-a-a-                         a-
.       a,                   a               -   -  .     .   -
*          a''aa.'0n  non
0.                      0  0       a-    -  a-                                       -a-- 00000
Jo 0a' 'a 'a - 'a . a- 'a -'a a a, 0 'a 'a 'a 'am a- a- a. 2






SOMALI DEMDCRATIC REPUBLIC
Stock and Requirements of Manpower by Occupation
1971, 1972-76, 1976, 1977-83, 1983
Administra-
tive, exec-                                          Skilled
Profes-                 utive and                                            & Semi-
sional      Technical  managerial    Clerical       Sales       Service      Skilled    Unskilled       Total
A. 1971, Stock
1. Private                                  150           930        220          2.490      20,280       7,380       16,310        8,950        56,710
2. Public                                   870        4.520         950          4,550          70       3,180       13,920       23,630        51,690
3. Total                                  1,020        5,450       1,170          7,040      20,350      10,560       30,230       32,580       108,400
B. 1972-76, Requirements
1. Normal requirements
a) Private                                30            90         60            350       3,410       1,420        4,550        3,400        13,310
b) Public                              1,410        4,990         530          4,440       1,920        2,960       7,070       11,210        34,530
c) Total                               1,440        5,080         590          4,790       5,330       4,380       11,620       14,610        47,840
2. Attrition
a) Private                                20           100         30            280       2,370          880       2,090        1,240         7,010
b) Public                                230           950         150           900         200          610        2,100       3,470         8,610
c) Total                                 250         1.050        180          1,180       2,570        1,490       4,190        4,710        15,620
3. Total requirements                     1,690         6,130        770          5,970       7,900        5,870      15,810       19,320        63,460
C. 1976, Stock
1. Private                                  180         1,020        270          2,840      23,690        8,800      20,870       12,350        70,020
2. Public                                 2,280         9,510      1,490          8,990       1 990        6,140      20,990       34,840        86,230
3. Total                                  2 460        10,530      1 760         11,830      25,680       14,940      41,860       47,190       156,250
D. 1977-83, Requirements
1. Normal requirements
a) Private                                40           230          90           420       3.530        2,030        3.940        1.840        12,120
b) Public                                930         4.800        610          2 070         460        1,410        3,970        5,190        19,440
c) Total                                 970         5,030        700          2,490       3 990        3.440        7,910        7,030       31,560
2. Attrition
a) Private                                30           180          60           460       3,810        1,510        3,470        1.990        11,510
b) Public                                450         2,000         290         1 550         340        1,060        3,500        5,600        14,790
c) Total                                 480         2,180        350          2,020       4,150        2,570        6,970        7,590        26,300
13  Total requirementa                    1,450         7,210       1,050         4,500       8,140        6,010       14,880       14,620        57,860
E. 1983, Stock
1. Private                                  220         1,250         360         3,260      27,220       10,830.      24,810       14, 190       82,140
2. Public                                 3 210        14,310       2,100        11,060       2,450        7,550       24,960       40,030       105,670
3. Total                                  3,430        15,560       2,460         14,320     29,670       18,380       49,770       54,220       187,810
F. 1972-83, Requirements
1. Normal requirements                    2,410        10,110      1,290          7,280       9,320        7,820       19,530       21,640        79,400
2. Attrition                                730         3,230         530         3,190       6,720        4,060       11,160       12,300        41,920
3. Total requirements                     3,140        13,340       1,820        10,470      16,040       11,880       30,690       33,940       121,320
Source:  Ministry of Labor and Sports and Bank Group staff projections.  These projections and those in Annex 2 were prepared on the basis
of a highly disaggregate model. They must be regarded as orders of magnitude only.



SOMALI DEMDCRATIC REPUBLIC
Manpower Requirements by Occupation & Educational Background
1972 - 1983
Post-secondary              Secondary              Intermediate         Elementary & Secondary          T o t a I             Total
1972-76     1977-83      1972-77  '  1977-83      1972-76  ' 1977-83       1972-76  ' 1977-83        1972-76    1 1977-83      1972-83
Professional
Private                      50           70         -            -            -           -            -            -             50           70          120
Public                    1,640        1,380         _-                                                              -         1,640        1,380         3,020
Total                     1,690        1 450         _-                        -           -            -            -         1,690         1,450        3,140
Technical
Private                       2          123          74          287          114         -            -            -            190         410           600
Public                      178        2,040       2,198        4.760       3,564          -            -            -         5,940        6,800        12,740
Total                       180        2,163       2,272        5,047        3,678          -           -            -          6,130       7,210        13,340
Admin. & Exec.
Private                      13          105          68           45            9         -            -            -             90          150          240
Public                      136          630         544          270          -            -           -            -            680          900        1,580
Total                       149          735         612          315            9          -           -            -            770        1,050        1,820
Clerical
Private                     -            -           -             88          548         792           82          -            630          880        1,510
Public                      -            -           267        1,086       4,272        2,534          801          -          5,340       3,620         8,960
Total                       -            -           267        1,174        4 820       3,326          883          -          5.970       4,500        10.470
Sales
Private                     -            -            58          367        1,965       4,404        3,757        2,569        5,780        7,340       13,120
Public                      -            -           106           80        2,014          720         -            -          2.120          800        2,920
Total                       -            -           164          447        3,979       5,124        3,757        2,569        7,900        8,140       16,040
Service
Private                     -            -           -            106          230        1 239       2,070        2,195        2,300        3,540        5,840
Public                      -            -            36          173           71          865       3.463        1,432        3.570        2,470       w 6,040
Total                       -            _            36          279          301        2,104       5,533        3.627        5,870        6,010        11,880
Skilled & Semi-skilled
Private                     -            -           -          2 223          996       4,446        5,644          741        6,640        7,410        14,050
Public                      -            -           -          2,241        1,834       4,482        7,336          747        9,170        7,470        16,640
Total                       -            -            -         4,464        2,830        8,928      12,980        1,488       15,810       14,880        30,690
Unskilled
Private                     -            -           -            -            -            -         4,640        3,830        4,640        3,830        8,470
Public                      -            -           _            _            _            _        14,680       10,790       14,680       10,790        25,470
Total                       -            -            -           -            -            -        19,320       14,620       19,320       14,620        33,940
Total
Private                      65          298         200        3 116        3,862       10 881      16,093        9,335       20,320       23,630        43,950
Public                    1,954        4,050       3,151        8,610       11,755        8,601      26,280       12,969       43,140       34,230        77,370
Total                     2,119        4,348       3,351       11.726       15,617       19,482      42,373       22,304       63,460       57,860       121,320
GRAND TOTAL
Private & Public
for 1972-83                          6467                    15,077                     5,099 
Source: Ministry of Labor and Sports and Bank Group staff projections.



SOMALI DEMDCRATIC REPUBLIC
A. Employment by Occupation, 1971-1983
(Figures rounded from Annex 2)
Administrative
Managerial                                                  Skilled &
Professional   Technical   & Executing        Clerical         Sales         Service    Semi-skilled    Unskilled
Workers       Workers        Workers       Workers          Workers       Workers        Workers         Workers        T o t a 1
1.  1971 (estimated)              1,000         5,500           1,200        7,000            20,400        10,600        30,200          32,600          108,500
2.  1983 (projected)              3,400        15,600           2,500       14,300           29,700         18,400        49,800          54,200          187,900
3.  Increase, 1971-1983           2,400         10,100          1,300         7,300            9,300         7,800        19,600          21,600           79,400
4.  Attrition                       700          3,200            500         3,100            6,700         4,100        11,100          12,300           41,700
5.  Total 3 + 4                   3,100         13,300          1,800        10,400           16,000        11,900        30,700          33,900          121,100
B.  Additional Employment by Occupation and Educational Background, 1972-1983
1.  Post-secondary level          3,100          2,300            900            -               -             -             -               -               6,300
2.  Secondary level                  -           7,300            900         1,400              600           300         4,500             -              15,000
3.  Intermediate level               -           3,700             -          8,100            9,100         2,400        11,700             -             35,000
4. Elementary level and
below                          -              -              -            900            6,300         9,200        14,500          33,900           64,800
5.  Total                         3,100        1,300           1,800        10,400           16,000        11,900        30,700          33,900          121,100
C. Requirements and Supply of Educational Output. 1972-1983
Post-secondary                   Secondary                   Intermediate                Elementary Level
Level                          Level                         Level                      and  Below
1. Required output for:
(a)  labor market                                  6,300                          15,000                        35,000                        64,800
(b)  labor market corrected for
participation rate  1/                      6,300                          16,700                        43,800                       81,000
(c)  higher education level                          -                            12.700                        71.400                      214,800
Total (b) + (c)                          6,300                           29.400                       115.200                      295.800
2.  Planned supply                                     7,000                          34,700                        141,500                      325,900 3/
3.  Shortage (-) or
Surplus  (+)                                       + 700                         + 5,300                      + 26,300                      +30,100
1/ Participation rates of 100% for post-secondary level, 90% for secondary level and 80% for intermediate and elementary level have been assumed.
2/ Includes requirements for military service.
3/ Includes those not completing 4-year cycle.
Source:  Ministry of Labor and Sports and Bank Group staff projections.



SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
Enrollments in Primnary and Secondary Schools
(1966-72)
Elementary Level
B oys                                    Gi r    s                                  T o t a I s
GRAND
Year               I         II        III        IV          I         II        III        IV          I         II        III        IV        TIA.LS
1966 - 67           3,877     4,538      4 403      3,298    1478        1,449     1,098        909      5,355     5,987      5,501      4,207      21,050
1967 - 68           4,767     4,936      4 322      3 793      1,607      1,415     1,245      1,036      6,374     6,351      5,567      4,829      23,121
1968 - 69           5,223     5,233      4 728      3,771      1,556     1,618      1,370      1.198     6,779      6,851      6,098      4,969      24.697
1969 - 70           4,016     5,364      4,973      4,283      1,028     1,614      1,404      1,160      5,044     6,978      6,377      5,443      23,842
1970 - 71           5,892     4,516      5,089      4,544      1,835     1,359      1.459      1,245      7,727      5,875     6,548      5,789      25,939
1971 - 72           8.795     5,934      4,568      4,454      3,072     1,790      1,423      1.328    11,867      7,724      5,991      5,782      31,364
1972 - 73          14,096    11,108      7,593      5,543      6,026     3,986      2,503      1,910    20,122    15,094    10,096        7,453      52,765
Intermediate Level
V         VI        VII       VIII        V          VI        VII       VIII        V         VI         VII       VIII
1966 - 67           2,282     1,157    1675          916        506        463       384        149      2,788      1,620     2,059      1,065       7,532
1967 - 68           2,500     2,509      1,309      1,272        737        897       623        209      3,237      3,406      1,932     1,481      10,056
1968 - 69           3,569    1940       1 979        926        827        534       439        395      4,396      2,474      2,418     1,321      10,609
1969 - 70           3 616      3,233     2,651      1,798        985        776       774        296      4,601     4,009       3,425     2,094      14,129
1970 - 71           3,523      2 848     2,753      2,473        990        804       658        712      4,513      3,652      3,411     3,185       14,761
1971 - 72           3,940      3 107     2 644      2.869      1,073        891       715        788      5,013      3,998      3,359     3,657       16,027
1972 - 73           5.303      5,856     4,068      3 791      1,677      1 651     1.140      1,182      6,980      7,507      5.208     4,973      24,668
Secondary Level
IX         X         XI        XII        IX          X         XI        XII        IX          X         XI         XII
1966 - 67             613        282       186         86        110         31         10         3        723        313        196         89       1,321
1967 - 68             450        436       272        159         81         70         26         9        531        506        298        168       1,503
1968 - 69             902        565       478        222        176         87         61        16      1,078        652        539        238       2,507
1969 - 70           1 235        843       537        414        292        156         83        45      1,527        999        620        459       3,605
1970 - 71           1,498      1,142       749        544        308        300        133        71      1,806      1,442        882        615       4,745
1971 - 72           1,322      1 475     1.000        694        279        263        204       108      1,601      1,738      1,204        802       5,345
1972 - 73           1,889      1.522     1,771      1,285        377        295        358       234      2.266      1,817      2,129      1.519       7,731
Source:  Current Statistical Trends in Somali Education. 1971, and Statistics of Education in Somalia, 1971/72 and 1972/73
Department of Planning, Ministry of Education, Mogadiscio.
Note:    Enrollments for 1972/73 include enrollments in the former private sector taken over by Government in 1972; figures for previous years
are for public sector schools only.  Statistics of enrollments for the private sector prior to 1972 are incomplete.



SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
Institutions, Enrollments and Teachers by Level of Education 1972-73
NUMBER OF CLASSES AND STUDENTS
Teachers
First Year            Second Year           Third Year            Fourth Year             T o t a I
LEVEL OF EDUCATION           Schools       MF    '    F          MF         F           F    '    F          MF    '    F          MF          F         Mf          F
Pre-Elementary                      13      1,101        459          37         13                                                  1,138        472         65         52
Elementary                         243     20,122      6,026    15,094       3,986    10,096       2,503       7,453      1,910    52,765    14,425        1,539        202
Intermediate                       116      6,980      1,677      7,507      1,651      5,208      1,140      4,973       1,182    24,668       5,650        915         61
Secofidary:
General                           26      2,266         377     1,817         295     2,129         358     1,519         234      7,731      1,264        436         61
Technical                          5         286         53       431          32        164         22         98         17        979        124        115           7
Teacher Training                   2        439          16        196         26        112         22                              747         64         28          -
MF  =  Male and Female                   F  =  Female
Source: Statistics of Education in Somalia 1972-73.



SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
Somali National University
Projections of Enrollment and Output, 1973/74 - 1983/84
Actual                                                        Projected
1973/74      1974/75      1975/76      1976/77       1977/78      1978/79      1979/80       1980/81      1981/82      1982/83       1983/84
E     0      E     0      E      0     E      0     E      0      E      0     E      0      E     0      E      0     E      0      E     0
Education (College of)
2-year course           270    0    270   270   270   270   270   270   270   270   270   270   300   270   300   270   300   300   300   300   300   300
4-year course           100    47   120    50   150    70   180    70   210    84   240   105   260   140   260   160   260   190   260   220   260   240
Faculty of Law             35    20   100    50   100    80   100   100   100    70   100    70   110    90   110    90   110    90   110    90   110   100
Faculty of Economics    146    19   100    65   100    90   100   115   100            85   100    70   100    90   110    90   110    90   110    90   110   100
Faculty of Veterinary    30    0        60    0       60    0      60    0      60    21    60    42    70    50    70    50    70    50    70    50    70    60
Faculty of Medicine        30    0      60    0       60    0      60    0      60    42    60    42    70    50    70    50    70    50    70    50    70    60
Faculty of Geology         30    0       60    0      60    0      60    0      60    21    60    42    70    50    70    50    70    50    70    50    70    60
Faculty of Engineering   30    0        60    0       60    0      60    0      60    21    60    42    70    50    70    50    70    50    70    50    70    60
Faculty of Agriculture   30    0         60    0      60    0      60    0      60    21    60    42    70    50    70    50    70    50    70    50    70    60
Faculty of Chemistry       30    0       60    0      60    0      60    0      60    21    60    42    70    50    70    50    70    50    70    50    70    60
Total           731    86   950   435   980   510  1010  555   1040   656  1070   767  1200   890  1200   910  1200   970  1200  1000  1200  1100
E = New Enrollment               0 - Output
-             (First Year)
Source:  Ministry of Culture and Higher Education



SOMALI DEHCRATIC REPUBLIC
Projections of Intermediate and Secondary Schools Enrollments 1973-1983
Bank Group staff Projections to accord with
MOE Projections for FYDP                             Estimated Manpower Needs
Actual            Projected                         Actual            Projected
Grades                   1972       1974     1977     1980      1983          1972     1974      1977     1980      1983
Intermediate
V                    6,980     8,630   17,210   23,170   30,750           6,980    9,900   16,000   20,000   24,OOO
VI                   7,507     6,380   14,750   19,940   26,750           7,507    7,600   12,300   16,900   20,300
VII                  5,208     6,300   10,930   17,130   23,100           5,208    6,500    9,400   14,000   17,200
VIII                 4,973     6,770    7,400   14,750   19,860           4,973    6,800    7,250   11,700   14,600
Totals              24,668    28,080   50,290   74,990  100,460          24,668   30,800   29,9_2 62600   76,100
Secondary
II                   2,991     2,970    3,460    7,990   10,790           2,991    3,300    3,530    3,930    4,520
X                    2,444     2,680    3,230    5,6io    8,780           2,444    2,960    3,150    3,390    3,870
II                   2,405     2,420    3,290    3,600    7,170           2,405    2,500    2,800    2,970    3,320
XII                  1,617      1,980    2,160    2,520    5.810          1,617    2,100    2,500    2,650    2,950
Totals               9,457    10,050   12,140   19,720   32,550           9,457   lo,86o   11,980   12,940   14,660
Transfer ratess  Grades V - VIII   =  90%
Grades IX - XII   =  95%
Average annual rates of total enrollments increases 1973-1983:
MJE Projections         Bank Group Projections
Intermediate level               13.6%                     10.8%
Secondary level                  12.0%                      4.0%
Source:  Ministry of Education and Bank Group staff.



SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
Allocations of Recurrent and Development Expenditures to the
Ministry of Education and to the MinistIr of Culture  and Hirher Education
1969       1970       1971        1972       1973        1974       1978        1983
(Actual)  (Actual)  (Actual)  (Actual)  (Estimate) (Estimate) (Estimate) (Estimate)
A. Recurrent Expenditure                                      In millions of So.Shs.
1. Total - Government      301.5       311.0      322.1       343.7      396.2       456.3      577.6       772.8
2. To Ministry of           22.7        21.8       23.2        22.4       27.9        38.9       59.2        85.7
Education
3. To Ministry of              -          -          -           -         4.0         6.2       22.1        33.0
Culture & Higher
Education
4. 2+3 as a  % of 1           7.5        7.0        7.2         6.5        8.1         9.9       141.        15.3
B. Developrent E1cpenditure
1. Total - Goverrment          -          -        36.1       163.3      325.0
2. To Ministry of              -          -         2.6        11.0       31.9
E;ducation
3. To Ministry of Culture
& Higher Education        -          -          -          -         n.a.
Sources:  MOE, MCHE, Ministry of Finance and Bank Group staff estimate,



SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
Breakdown of Recurrent Ecpenditures of the Ministry of
Education and the Ministry of Culture and Higher Education
1969       1970       1971        1972       1973        1974       1978        1983
(Actual    (Actual)   (Actual)   (Actual)   (Estimate) LEstimate) (Estimate) (Estimate)
I.   Ministry of Education                                    In millions of So.Shs.
A.  Administration        2,576       1,716      1,894       2,412      4,613       4,659      5,720       6,340
B.  Primary Education    14,370      14,907     14,469      14,028     18,168     23,670      40,760      59,500
C.  Secondary Education   4,949       4,845      5,206       4,242      5,178      10,580     12,720      19,860
D.  Higher Education         757        300      1,660       1,691                   -          -
E.  Total                22,652      21,768     23,229      22,373     27,956      38,909     59.200      8s.700
II.  Ministry of Culture and
Higher Education
A.  Higher Education        -          -           -          -         3,963       6,154     22,128      33,000
(University)
Sources:  MOE, MCHE, Ministry of Finance and Bank Group staff estimate.






SOMAI, DEMOCRATIC REPUBELIC
loSary of Es,timated Prol-ct Costs  nS.h.ao15    o    14                      coe   93Pio
Boarding Places  Total Are                      ScinIsectioo SO  motio- I1                        Section I  S-t-nn  It
Steodeot          o-loded is   in 1i of ne_         toot ot   Teaching                                            c-hiog                                         font of   Cost Ot            Ic-n  Coc
Itets                                                ~~~~~~~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~pJase  the . Prlte  C.se-tio  SOtto  and               Staff                 aod                               font of   Pr-jcc    T-ccicoi    Physc I
Sc,      S3aoco nod Locattos                       ~~~~~~~~~        ~~~~ ~~~~Add   Toed1    Add  Total  (Arose)  D-1iseon .. enol notin,         Hosn         Totai  Eonori         Ocdi& Oc0    lo           -o   Unit          An-i-n-on    In SOcSh,        in1 IlS
4.13  il-eto-y Tca-hor Ttoinicg Cnt1cgc      ogos                       1  80     6 0    405      400       6.875              371        2,004        $,560            143      3~?07        374           25         54        hI_--                                  417          870
Con-r 2 Secodar  Schools
A.14  Coo-el D-,  Secodory School - Mogcdln-io                         190    576          -        -           0(              49          4BS             -             -        436         67                      63        525           -                       U'.,          107
A1.15  Ho-   S-nod-y School - Slaadla-io                                lEO     480        -         -       1,2901              77         768             --                     768         i              -         61t     1444-                               1, 371,          7
A.16  Allos   bdtllo Paean. Seooda-y ichooi - Me-ko                     144     432        -                    45               i5         648             --                     649         62             -          2       1310          -           -         J,(7            177
4.13  Ohobelleha So...od-ny SchoolI - Jooh-                             144    432         -        -          864              62          623             --                     603         62                       6 2      415           -                     ,12.7           idA
A.18  Soo  2-nt-ra  Soc-ed-y S,,hoo  - Sahcai,                          144     432                            8  76            79          794             .-                     793         62             -          2       ItO           -           -                         2i
hi19  Sh,,.th Ali1 JonhiSco .. lodt-y Sc,hool - bonoos                  12i    306-                            620              69          492             --                     492         44             -        44        333           --918                                 1>7
6.70  CohEilh Secodary  Goos   -ibil,,Is                                120    3680                            620              44          440             --                     440         44             -        44        333                                   III0(         134
4.21  24th loss iacnsid-y School                                       INo(1to  B  432                         828BP            54          043             --                     543         62             -          2       470-                               1,013            I7N
A.22  Sheikh Soc-d-Yj Scisoa    Sh.iseih                                        288        -                   330              30          301             --                     301         31             -         31       268           -                        30           I'll
A.23  Sayoh  S-coci-y School   D.y.pho                                          241                            708PE            (18         479                                    677         35-                   -33         222           -                      _ 00           165
TyLo1 of Saonds,ty Schools:                               1 132  4,032                           7,756              577      357$                                    .LZ77Z       243                     545      3 7ZL5                               iuQJi5         c
A.325  Cenoar Ic ROAgdo  icholka  lobada  lo                            1603    167      16E      162        1,837             334          305           646           330      1,477         44            56        lAS       184           -                    2,002           134
A.26  Co..onio Ra(1loo inboika B.ydo                                    160     160      160      160        1,937             334          5(11          646          330       1,477         44            56       100        184           -           -        247              33if
A.26  C- en ,e So Egion Goholka Bapkhal                                16(1    160       160      160        1,637             334          301           646           330      1,477         44            56       170        184           --                   2,095           537
A.23  C nta  io togion inbolia Hioloo.                                  1601    160      160      160        1,837             334          5(11          646           330      1,427         44            56       120        184           -           -         ,0q             336
0.29  Canto   to Rogioc S,,oolia E(1iraed                              1SE      160      160      160        1,637             334          501          C646           330      1,477         44            36       100        084           -           -        lOS              3236
4.29  Cente  to Ro(gim  ob,,lka isdlgio                                 16(1    160      160      (160       1,837             334          551           646          330       1,477         44            51       100        184           --2,333                               336
A.30  Ceor-  to sogo  ihoIko 2104-1                                    (16(1    160      160      160        1,037             334          SQl           646           330      1,420         44            31       100        184                                   C  ,,93       330
A.32  Co-soy in RogLoo Pahailko T,,ddO-                                168      160      160      160        1,837             334          571           646           330      1,477         4',           36       100        184           -                    203              336
A.33  Co-re  Sin Re8i- CoL,oito Wagoopi Coltood                         160     160      560      160        1,837             334          5(11          646           330      1,4,71        44            56        100       184                                 2303,
-    totstiog tonnat Traioin(1 Coototo  -  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -   -  -                                              -             -          -        50           -           -            31        6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-    5  5C 
Total ol~ So-dic  ni(o1Cnoo                               1,600  1_ 410   1600    1.iSO         18_37(1           3,340       5.GIQ         6,.46         3_300    (14,7_70       440           5402     1 000     2 8711                               01 _:322.02
C.  iabo-y  -od hanSo-  Xonoa-logodinnio                            POD     388-       e5       00      _fl724              148       1A'04           3 24           48       1,476        14.4           60       204        304                  !,2>42        4_ ,124          749
D.1   A, dyo   of  oS-h  Slodioo-                                                                                               BBgosl    - - - 1645  577   -                      9737       112             -        012       281           --309                                 22
P-ojoot Snit  topeoc                                                                      ___-                                                                                 .         .                                  6          50d',2                                  6
Grand Total n,O  r-jn-t icolo,ding (iSn lSh.              3806,720    2,080   2,080             37,349           4,524       14.067         (1,344        3,4991   20,602       1,615           900      7,513     7,231         000       3.906        1,0
Consiogencinl:            ~~~~~~~~(jo 110S,80$                                                          726        2,37i        1,339            563      4,270        259           164       403      2,60           96         640                       7 ,29;6
fostiajgoonins   onndiog Pric-  T-n-ea, (Os, So.Sh.    -       -         -        -            -          1,869             -                          -    10,740            -             -    1,246      2,990         110         5,49       12,22,7             -
Uo Ofar--n  F-nt-n:                     (It 01$           -       -        -        -            -300                         -1  ,728                                          -2 00                            4837         24         7'              -        2,004
G-ed Total od Pr-lan  ion Cding              (in ioS-Sn.      -        -                              -          6.393             ---                              37,342           -             -    3 1 S     1S03221         :30      4.435        32_. '22
C-onulng-ote   ord Tao-:                  (I. s f1                                                             1,026            ---                                5,998          --                    643      1,641         12    2      02"  -         -       30, '11
Po..oigo E-h-oot  C-mpoots   010 US$                                                                                523            ---                               3,035           --                    502     1,435          29        3lid',2
In 71 od Tonal F-igl(1  E-nhoge, tonpo.... L                                                                         9- -    %     -                                     07.                                8Z 9     347           -          4;-12'
Ton3,oIOsoodooT-1on                                           -       -         -                    -37                          --                                    307,        -             -         3        1411-4                                  -42






SO1ALI DEXDCPATIC REPUBLIC
IOPLkEPNTATION AD DISOURSEMENT CRART
(US$ million)
First Year                               S--urd Year                               Third Yro                               Fourth Your                                Fifth Yerr                              sitth Year                         TOTAL
_                                                                                                                                                                             Tnc ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~olud,oi
1        2         3         4           1         2         3         4          1         2         3         4          1         2         3         4          1          2        3         4           1         2         3         4        CaoLtourooo
1.  Civil Works                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7.065
a. lire Onquiritino &
preparation             1t/       //1      111        ///        //1       111       ///       ///
b.  Phase I Cuostrul-ton /2                                                                                                                                     flu       oor xxx xxx xxx                           -4xxi
0.100    0.230    0.230    0.230    0.230          0.230    0.125                                     0.072                                                                           1. 447
p4-Phu   II C_na.rurrij    3                                                                                        on       u         nun       rxn x x x            nun xx xx    x X+1F
0.200    0.471    0.471    0.471         0,471    0.471    0.273                                      0.150                                                                 2.971
d.  Ph4-o  III CUnueruarlor /4                                                                                                    ... 550   ::x X XX x x   :       c       00x       urn 
0.200    0.400    0.400        0.400    0.400    0.400    0.310                                       0.130                                                       '.640
2.  PFro1-  Unit                                                                    ###       ff#       #ff       ###       P#P      0f#        ###       ###        ###       ###       ###       4###
0.012     0.012    0,012    0.012       0.012     0.012    0.012    0.012        0.006    0.006    0.006    0.006                                                                                                   0.120
3.  Furlrr I   xudnd  ui,oauu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2.190
a,  Ph-ur  I                                                                    111        1           1 1  *  i          t
0.218    0.250    0.250    0.250                                                                                                                                            0.968
b.  Ph.se 01                                                                              !4 [! 1   1on                           ***       *t
O.L60    0.160    0.157        0.157                                                                                                                             0.4-24
z.Plain III                                                                                      11!'      I!        00        si        000       000**   *
0.150    0,150       0.144    0.L44                                                                                                                     0.588
4.  lchonit-l A-si-t-,ra                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7.721
a.  Fishery  -nd orur-  Instit-te.                                              :         :         :         :         :         :         :         ::         :
(108 rordo0noho)                                                       0.006    0.006    0.010    0.010    0.010    D.010    0.018    0.108             0.01S    0.018    0.036    0.036         0.036    0.036       0.030    0.030       0.020    0.020    0.020    0.020                0.408
b.  Pro/jt Uair                                                                 :::       :::       :::       :::       :::       :::       :::       :::        :::       :::       :::        ::
(84 non/onarks)                                                        0.009    0.020    0.034    0.034    0.034    0.034    0.034    0.034             0.034    0.020    0.020    0.010                                                                                                   0.317
0I.._D _0TDAL5                           10.100
/L  Inpl--eulatiun ctlric from the effeti-v dart  of rho Credit Agrtcent.                                                                                S ei     /   lita  saquisitions.
#ff  =  Pro/aJt UCit.  Pr-p-ataion of drooigs,  -endriog., bid evaluation opprnowls,  -oords, a.iallrrlno.
/2  Ph.ac I Co-t-rutl-n corprises pro/eli itesn: A.14, A.15. A.16, A.17. A.18, A.19, A.20, A.21, A.22 & A.23.                  X      X      x     sConstructon,
4      Prepor-u- of fur-it-  and eqoip.cot li04tc, t-rdeaino, kid ovluru ap                   -ol,uods.
3  PhFlu  II Construation anaprtirs projalt itren: A.13, A.24, A.26, A.28, A.30 & A.32.                                                         fl      Furniture and cquipoc.t prnturruct p-io d and ibtslolati-a.
.4--  luareota  period.
'4  Ph.so III Consaruction  -onpri.es proajit icons: A.25, A.27, A.29, A.31, A.33, 4.1 & 0.1.                                                   ::':    Cr-hoi-al aooiooao.
/5 Includes Tar-s of u0O.a0 million.






ANNEX 12
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
(tUS$ million)
Accumulated             Undisbursed
Quarter          Disbursement            Disbursement              Balance
1                   -                      -                     8.000
2                   -                      -                     8.000
3                   -                      -                     8.000
4                   _                      _                     8.000
5                0.022                   0.022                   7.978
6                0.030                   0.052                   7.948
7                0.045                   0.097                   7.903
8                0.125                   0.222                   7.778
9                0.560                   0.782                   7.218
10                1.060                   1.842                   6.158
11                1.380                   3.222                   4.778
12                 1.370                  4.592                   3.408
13                1.160                   5.752                   2.248
14                0.940                   6.692                   1.308
15                 0.580                  7.272                   0.728
16                0.290                   7.562                   0.438
17                0.030                   7.592                   o.408
18                0.080                   7.672                   0.328
19                0.144                   7.816                   0.184
20                 0.120                  7.936                   O.O64
21                 0.016                  7.952                   0.048
22                 0.016                  7.968                   0.032
23                 0.016                  7.984                   0.016
24                 0.016                  8.000
L/   Starting from date of effectiveness.
Source:  Based on Annex 11.






STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM 1973/74
Higher Education Abroad
National University
1            2       3        4            EMPLOYMENT
National Teacher                    National Teacher
Education College                   Education CollegeSEODR
1  1    PRIMARY  ~rTr    3                         5    SECONDARY
TEACHERSL_j                                                TEACHERS
General Secondary Schools
{1      2        3T EMPLOYMENT
Koranicl Health
Schadisclo PRIMARYial SCHOOLSte     Asistants School
Hargeisa T-echnica Intue_                     _.
Fishery and Marin Intue_1_2 EMPLOYMENT
Mogadiscio InstitutefoAc
countants and Surveyors.
2 3     EM     YEMPLOYMENT
Burao Technical Institute,
o{infislavn3xaiaio            EMPLOYMENT
Koranic
Schools                       PRIMARY  SCHOOLS
[3 -HH   EMPLOYMENT
Mogadiscio and Hargeisa
Nursing Schools
~~~~~EMPLOYMENT
KEY                                                                                     Mogadiscio Health
*  signifies entrance examination                                                       Personnel Training Institute
O signifies leaving examination                                                                             EMPLOYMENT c
,;signifies teaching practice 
World Bank-8286(RI






CHART 2
SOMALIA
PUBLIC GENERAL SECONDARY, INTERMEDIATE
AND ELEMENTARY SCHOOL ENROLLMENTS
IN 1972 - 1973
GRADES          %OF
AGE GROUP
POST SECONDARY
XIV                                                            1 .005
XIiI                                                          .4  .03
SECONDARY
Xii                                                      1.3     .2
XI.                                                    1.8    5   .4
3.4
1.9   )     .4
BOYS                                                  GIRLS
INTERMEDIATE
VI                                     5.9 1.7
V                                        5.3                           1.
ELEMENTARY
211 ~16.4                    7.6                          I             W
114.1                                                                              J,:IE       6. 0
15 14 13 12  11 10  9   8  7  6   5  4  3  2  1  0  1  2  3  4   5  6  7
THOUSANDS OF PUPILS
World Bank-8285






SOMALIA - MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 1974
ORGANIZATION CHART
|SECRETARY OF STATE
|  FOR EDUCATION      l
|DIRECTOR GENERAL |HISECOATED
FIRST DEPARTMENT                SECOND DEPARTMENT                 THIRD DEPARTMENT                 FOURTH DEPARTMENT
DIRECTOR            DIRECTOR________________________IDIRECTOR  OF
E DUCATI ON                      Dl RECTOR                        DIRECTOR                       ADMINISTRATION
HEA                       HEADEA                                                   HA                        j       HA 
PRIMARY               SECONDARY                 HEAD                              HEAD
EDUCATiON  EDUCATION               ~~TEACHER                          BUDGET                             HEAD
EDUCAtON              SEDUCATION                TRAINING                        PREPARATION                       PERSONNEL
HEAD
PUBLICATIONS                         HE
AND                              HEAD                             HEAD
CURRICULUM                        STATISTICS                        ACCOUNTS
REGIONAL                          DEVELOPMENT
EDUCATI ON
OFFICERS (14)                          HA       
HEAD
YOUTH AND                           HEAD
PHYSICAL                      DOCUMENTATION
EDUCATION
SCHOOL l
PRINCIPALS                            HEAD
NATIONAL                           HEAD
ADULT                           PHYSICAL
EDUCATION                         PLANNING
CENTER
HEAD
WOMEN'S
EDUCATION
SECTION
World Bank-8288(R)






SOMALIA - MINISTRY OF CULTURE AND HIGHER EDUCATION 1974
ORGANIZATION CHART
NATIONAL UNIVERSITY SI............  D 1. IRECTOR GENERAL   UEuIIUSIE NATIOAL THEATRE]
SERVCE-ENTRIC  N LR   OF CS
SCO ESI                                          -    NATIONAL                 RESEARCH                        PEINSRSTONNELOA MSU                                              A..A  IR
EATRE  SSERVICEEAC
SERVICE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ IFC 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_  
SIPA: SoI lU'i , of POEVC Adnmirti-n                                                                                            WPROd 8ARTS






IBRD 10856R
'N WAQOCYI GEMOCRETI
J~~~~~Brm e                       Shiol
an~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mi
GOBC K  NIAANGIA
"I . ... ... ..  GBOLKABO0 LA EU                                            ATO         PRJC
WAOY  ALBEE DAGUJDB  oai riigCneS(0
~~                                 ~                                         Academy of Somali StGebidies
'GOBOLKA  0500   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~-f1eganQl boundaries~~~~~OBLKA NUAA
GOOLA HAELE HEG0    o    0B50cLKA0   0
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
SOMALALA
FDt JCATIO       PRO0J40ECa
BOLKA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ein
ElBrEeretr   0ece Tra0n 00 College
GnerlScnayShos(0
/GCBOLKA 4 BAKOO                     GDm/UD                      NomadicATrainingACenters ThH



