Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19486
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
BASIC EDUCATION II PROJECT
(LOAN 3003-GU)
June 30, 1999
Human and Social Development Management Unit (LCSHD)
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
I official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Guatemalan Quetzal (Q)
Average Exchange Rates
1992 Q5.2205 = US$1.00
1993 Q5.7300 = US$1.00
1994 Q5.6952 = US$1.00
1995 Q5.8731 = US$1.00
1996 Q6.0281 = US$1.00
1997 Q6.0306 = US$1.00
1998 Q6.5319 = US$1.00
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMY YEAR
February 1 to October 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BEST                          Basic Education Strengthening (project funded by USAID from 1991-
96 to support education reforn initiatives)
CENALTEX                      Textbooks National Centers
DIGEBI                        General Directorate of Bilingual Education
FIS                           Social Investment Fund
FONAPAZ                       National fund for Peace
MCPW                          Ministry of Communications, Transport and Public Works
MINEDUC                       Ministry of Education
PCU                           Project Coordination Unit
PRONADE                       National Community-managed Program for Educational Development
PRONEBI                       National Program for Bilingual Education (currently DIGEBI)
SIMAC                         Curricular Improvement System
SPEB                          Second Basic Education Project
UNDP                          United Nations Development Program
UCEE                          School Construction Unit of MCPW
URL                           Universidad Rafael Landivar
USAID                         United States Agency for Intemational development
USIPE                         Sectoral Unit for Educational Planning (MINEDUC)
SAR                           Staff Appraisal Report
IBRD                          Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
NGO                           Non-Governmental Organization
Vice President                S. Javed Burki
Country Unit Director         Donna-Dowsett-Coirolo
Country Sector Leader         Ana-Maria Arriagada
Task Manager - Proj.          Carlos Rojas



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE ...........................................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .......................................................... ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION EVALUATION                                                            ..........................................1
A.  Project Background ...........................................................1
B.  Project Objectives and Description ..........................................................2
C.  Project Implementation  ..........................................................                                              S5
D.  Achievements of Project Objectives ...........................................................8
E.  Factors Affecting Project Implementation .........................                           ................................. 10
F.  Evaluation of Results  .......................................................... 11
G.  Project Sustainability ..........................................................                                              14
H.  Borrower Performance ..........................................................                                                15
I.   Bank Performance ..........................................................                                                   15
J.   Key Lessons Leamed  .......................................................... 15
K.  Current and Future Operations   .......................................................... 16
PART  H:  STATISTICAL  TABLES  .......................................................... 18
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments ..........................................................                                        19
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits .......................................................... 20
Table 3:  Project Timetable ..........................................................                                            20
Table 4:  Loan Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .................................. 21
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation  ..........................................................    21
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation  ...........................                         ............................... 22
Table 7:  Studies Included in the Project .......................................................... 22
Table 8:  Project Cost and Financing by Component ..........................................................     23
Table 9    Economic Costs and Benefits .......................................................... 23
Table 10  Key Indicators for Project Operation  ...........................                         ............................... 24
Table I 1: Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs .......................................................... 25
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions ..........................................................                                     26
PART III: APPENDIXES
Appendix A:                           ICR Mission's Aide Memoire
Appendix B:                           Borrower Contribution to the ICR
Appendix C:                           Map IBRD No. 19486
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
SECOND BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3003-GU)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of the Second Basic
Education Project in Guatemala, for which IDA Credit 3003-GU in the amount of US$
30 million for a total project of $68 million was approved on December 6, 1988 and
made effective on June 22, 1993.
The loan was closed December 31, 1998. This date reflects three extensions with
respect to the original date of December 31, 1994. These extensions accommodated a
long suspension and inactive period from 1990 through 1993 caused by the Government's
non-accrual status even before it became effective. As a result, the Guatemalan
authorities requested a restructuring and downsizing of the Project in 1994 to a $18
million loan and $40 million total project cost.
The ICR was prepared by Antonio Gomes Pereira, Education Specialist,
Consultant, Xiaoyan Liang, Young Professional, Mario Marcone, Consultant, all with
able assistance from Natalia Moncada, Task Assistant. Reviewers were Ana Maria
Arriagada, Sector leader, Carlos Rojas, Task Manager, Eduardo Velez, former Task
Manager and Maria Elena Anderson, Consultant. Preparation of this ICR was based on a
review of project files and a completion mission carried out on March 15 - 19, 1999
(Appendix A). Borrower's comments were incorporated into the Bank's document and
constitutes Appendix B. The Borrower's kind cooperation in providing the necessary
information and participation in numerous discussion meetings during preparation of the
ICR are gratefully acknowledged.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
SECOND BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3003-GU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
I. Introduction
1.    Signed on January 10, 1990, as part of the national development strategy to reduce
social inequities and strengthen democratic processes, the Second Basic Education
Project (SPED) addressed problems in coverage, quality, efficiency and equity in the
provision of educational services. The Project's conceptual and operational design
responded to these needs, a key objective being to increase access to schooling and to
improve the quality of basic education in rural areas. Implementation however was
marred by financial and administrative factors which resulted in initial delays, subsequent
adjustments, and a longer execution timeframe. The project completion date was
originally December 31, 1994. However, it was necessary to extend the closing date three
times to a final loan closing on December 31, 1998. Substantial efforts brought the
project later to satisfactory completion in 1998, with meaningful and sustainable impact
on the national basic education system.
II. Project Objectives
2.    The objectives of the project were to increase coverage of basic education,
improve quality and efficiency of the education, and improve the management of the
education system, especially in rural areas of the country. One of the principal goals was
to support the Government in reaching an 80% rate of schooling coverage for children
between 6 and 9 years of age.
3.    Project Components: To achieve the objectives, the project financed three core
components: (i) increase of net enrollment (71.5% of resources) by expanding the
existing school capacity at the lower primary level; (ii) improvement of quality and
efficiency (18% of resources) by providing learning materials and teacher training
programs; and (iii) strengthening of the Ministry of Education management (10.5% of
resources) by upgrading the Government's capacity to effectively manage the education
system. Of the original estimated cost of SPEB, US$68.0 million, the World Bank only
financed US$30.0 million.



ii
Ill. Project Implementation
4.    The project had a slow-motion initial stage. During 1990 and 1992, the Bank
suspended disbursements on all loans to Guatemala because the Government failed to
fulfill its financial obligations and was in arrears. Once the country was able to service its
debt payments, loan adjustments were needed due to accumulation of commitment fees
and the lack of institutional capacity to disburse all the resources programmed by the
expected closing date (December 1994). While the original objectives were retained, the
project was scaled down by eliminating certain activities and modifying others. The
Project was finally restructured on February 24, 1994, and its total cost was reduced to
US$40.0 million, of which 45% (US$18.0 million) was financed by the World Bank.
5.    Several factors affected the implementation of the project: (i) suspension of
disbursements on loans to Guatemala between 1990 and 1993; (ii) limited ownership on
the part of MINEDUC during the period from 1993-1996, as result of the political crisis
in 1993 and the consequent change in authorities; (iii) lack of continuity in PCU staffing;
(iv) centralization of activities by the Ministry of Finance; and (v) lack of knowledge of
World Bank procurement and disbursement procedures, due to continuous rotation of
PCU staff.
6.    The history of SPEB can be divided in two stages. A first period from 1993 to
1996 was characterized by a highly centralized PCU which did not always have the
highest level of political support within the Ministry of Education. Nonetheless, project
execution initiated, with support from UTNDP and the Bank. The PCU managed various
international bidding for the printing of textbooks and acquisition of school furniture.
The second period stated with the Government of 1996 and lasted until the closing of the
Project in 1998. This period was characterized by a more decisive SPEB support and
ownership from the Ministry of Education. Thus, a more supported and responsive PCU
achieved a higher level of execution.
7.   In spite of the initial difficulties and limitations, the Second Basic Education
Project advanced toward its objectives, especially those related to increased coverage and
strengthened administrative capacity of the Ministry.
8.    The Project contributed to increase school capacity through the construction of
504 new schools and introduced the afternoon shift to optimize the existing infrastructure.
It also contracted 1,839 teachers for the additional and existing classrooms. The
specialists who supervised this project component considered the schools financed with
loan resources to be of fairly good quality. Taking into account the capacity (40 students)
of each new classroom, the opening of the Afternoon Shift, and the number of newly
hired teachers, estimates indicate that the Project has contributed to increasing enrollment
by over 55,000 students per year, of which around 15,000 attend new classrooms, while
over 40,000 have benefited from the introduction of the Afternoon Shift in
already-existing schools. It is worth mentioning that almost all the new classrooms were
built in rural areas with high concentrations of indigenous peoples whose participation
and assistance had been the lowest in the country. The rehabilitation and provision of



iii
equipment for the Ministry of Education was a key incentive for future investments to
improve the technical and managerial capacity of the Ministry of Education.
9.    The Project supported improvements in education quality and efficiency through
the production and distribution of 1.7 million textbooks in Spanish for the first three
grades of basic education, and of 463,000 textbooks for bilingual education, as well as the
distribution of manuals and work books for teachers, and classroom mini-libraries and
materials for the Afternoon Shift and the Girls' Program.
10.  In general, project activities such as the adoption of afternoon shifts, provision of
teaching books and materials, construction of classrooms and rehabilitation of the site of
the Ministry of Education, among others, responded to some of the most crucial needs of
the sector.
11.   Client Performance. The Second Basic Education Project went through various
changes due to political instability. Between 1990 and 1996, the Government of
Guatemala faced exceptional challenges, including the suspension of World Bank funding
and the Coup d'etat in 1993. The Government was able not only to overcome a difficult
situation for executing a project which many considered to be "dead at birth", but also
capable to drive it further and convert project interventions into a key strategy for the
development of the sector. Under the project, the coverage rate between 1988 to 1997
increased from 54% to 73%.
12.   World Bank Performance. The Bank demonstrated much flexibility and
constant support to the country, facilitating solutions to difficult implementation
obstacles. A cordial relationship and mutual trust also contributed to overcoming both
political and administrative challenges. In 1996, the new administration further
strengthened working relationships with the World Bank, resulting in the preparation of a
new project: the Basic Education Reform Project (Loan 4167-GU).
IV. Future Operations and Lessons Learned
13.   The Ministry of Education and the Bank learned important lessons during the
execution of the Second Basic Education Project, which benefited the design and
preparation of the Basic Education Reform Project, approved by the Bank on April 30.
1997. The following lessons were drawn from the SPEB and its implementation process:
* Political Commitment. The political commitment of the Ministry of Education
authorities to the Project is a strong factor for project success. During the Project's
lifetime, the country suffered a Coup d'etat in 1993, and a change in government in
1995. The changes in authorities in the executing branches, and the policy priorities of
the Government contributed to the delay in project execution. It was not until 1996
that the new administration took the reigns of the Project, paving the way for the
achievement of its development objectives.



iv
*  Ownership and Participation of the Ministry. The best form of assuring the
ownership and commitment necessary for project execution is to assure the
participation of the different units and offices of the Ministry of Education. This is not
an easy task but must be in the agenda since the early preparation steps. It was not
until the consolidation of a new administration in 1996 that the Ministry saw SPEB
execution not only as a means unto itself, but also as a herald ushering in more
ambitious investments for a national education reforn.
*  Continuity in Project Coordination. The problems caused by the lack of continuity
in the coordination of interventions can be minimized through the decentralization of
execution and the establishment of mechanisms for collaboration and communication
with executing units. As its name indicates, the Coordination Unit should coordinate
and facilitate the activities, rather than being an executing unit.
*  Flexible Design. The design of the project should allow a lot of flexibility for
modifying the implementation strategies and ensuring that the development objectives
are appropriate for the country's changing circumstances and conditions, whether they
be political crises or financial problems.
*  Baseline. Project design should include a baseline and implementation of a
sustainable system for monitoring activities to evaluate the impact of the intervention,
redefine mechanisms for implementation, and develop strategies for its sustainability.
*  World Bank Supervision Missions. The World Bank's supervision missions should
concentrate as much in aspects of execution as on technical assistance to support the
interventions. To focus only on mechanical or procedural aspects could be a
misleading strategy.
*  Simple Procedures for Procurement and Disbursement. It is important to establish
and be aware of simple procurement and disbursement mechanisms. In the case of the
Second Basic Education Project, the absence of a Special Account - due to the fact
that the existing government restrictions did not allow this - and other constraints,
contributed to the delay in implementation. The UNDP assistance as a purchasing
agent recuperated some of the delays in national purchasing and contracting.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
SECOND BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3003-GU)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION EVALUATION
A.  Project Background
1.    The Second Basic Education Project (SPEB), prepared in 1988 and signed on
January 10, 1990 as part of the national development strategy, addressed problems in
coverage, repetition, drop-outness, inequity, quality and inefficiency in educational
services. The Project's conceptual design and operation responded to these needs, but
implementation was challenged by financial and administrative obstacles which resulted
in initial delays, subsequent adjustments, and a longer implementation timeframe.
Substantial efforts brought the project to satisfactory completion in 1998, with
meaningful and sustainable impact on the national basic education system.
2.    SPEB is the fifth World Bank project in support of educational development in
Guatemala, and it came about at a crucial political and social time in the country. The
democratic Government which assumed power in 1986 had proposed a development
program which strove to (i) consolidate Guatemalan democracy through increased
participation and productivity; (ii) reduce poverty through expansion of health and
education services; and (iii) decentralize public administration through the creation of
regional offices. It was in this context that the National Education Plan - 1987 presented
a strategy based on three basic priorities: (i) reduced illiteracy through the expansion of
primary education; (ii) strengthening links between education and work; and (iii)
administrative regionalization of the sector. This strategy was described in the National
Education Law, and in the document Educational Philosophy, Politics and Strategies
1986-1990. At the same time, the Government approved (in September 1987) a tax
reform which increased the budget of the education sector.
3.   It was in this political and administrative framework that the Second Basic
Education Project pulled together the most tangible government measures in support of
national education. In 1985, Guatemala had one of the highest illiteracy rates in Latin
America (47%). 88% of its economically active population had no formal education, or
had only attended the first grades of primary school (an average of 3.1 years of
schooling), which did not result in significant differences in returns to education.
Therefore, the majority of the national workforce consisted of unskilled labor, with
negative results on the country's production and productivity.
4.    Although according to a constitutional ruling education was mandatory between 5
and 15 years of age, only about 63% (or 1.2 million) of school age children were enrolled
in pre-primary (11.6%) and primary school (88.4%), making Guatemala the country with
the second worst rate of basic education coverage in Latin America. Among enrolled
students, only 9% completed primary education. This situation was especially



- 2 -
pronounced in rural areas, where only 53% of school age children attended schools, and
of these, only 6% completed primary school. For indigenous populations, the situation
was even worse, the average schooling length being only 1.3 years. The
under-enrollment, as well as the high rates of repetition (36.6% in the first three grades),
and drop-out rates (7.5% in the first three grades), resulted in an excess concentration of
students from various ages in the first years of school, clearly indicating the inefficiency
of the system. In 1995, 10.8 years were still spent to complete the six years of primary
education.
5.    The Government was aware of this situation, but did not have the financial and
administrative capacity to provide schooling for all of the population in need. On one
hand, close to 91 % of the education budget was used to pay salaries, leaving few
resources for teaching materials, teacher training, new technology, rehabilitation and
maintenance of local schools. On the other hand, the Ministry of Education had serious
administrative deficiencies, resulting in excessive centralization and lack of coordination
within the Ministry and with schools. Seventeen administrative units, located in 13
different buildings throughout the capitol, reported to the Minister of Education.
Centralized, uncoordinated and dispersed, the Ministry of Education had serious
difficulties influencing the school system. In order to increase financial and technical
resources, the Government devised an educational strategy which included the assistance
of international agencies and donor countries. Thus, the Government contacted the
World Bank, USAID and the Government of Holland as likely participants in the
strategy.
6.    Through the Second Basic Education Project, the Government had, at last, access
to resources which enabled it to design and support educational programs to achieve the
objectives of coverage and quality. SPEB was preceded by the 1983 World Bank's first
Basic Education Project (Loan No. 2328-GU; US$18.5 million), which had emphasized
quantitative and qualitative improvements in basic education, had provided textbooks and
built schools in marginal urban areas. The Second Basic Education Project proposal
opted for better use of the capacity in place, increase in the number of classrooms,
availability of materials and textbooks and the rationalization and decentralization of the
system. In July, 1987 the Government of Guatemala requested World Bank support
through a document called Minimum Education Strategy. The Bank response in
preparing the project was prompt, and project appraisal was carried out in September
1987. Negotiations took place in Washington in September, 1988, and due to national
circumstances, effectiveness was delayed until June 1993.
B.  Project Objectives and Description
Government Objectives
7.    Concerned with coverage and efficiency in the initial years of basic education, the
Government proposed that for 1991, a minimum of four years of primary schooling
would be provided to 80% of the population between 6 and 9 years of age. These
objectives were part of the proposed Law for National Education, and the document
Educational Philosophy, Policies and Strategies, 1986-1990, in which problems were
identified and programs proposed for their solution, including: (i) motivating school



enrollment at an early age (initial education) through programs directed at teachers and
parents; (ii) promoting efficient use of the capacity already in place, adopting the
double-shift school day at the primary level and supporting multi-grade teaching, both of
which developed greater capacity to meet the increased schooling demands; (iii)
separating the first grade of primary school into two levels (one for newly-enrolled
students, and the other for those repeating) in order to gradually face problems of low
academic productivity and bottle-necking; (iv) emphasizing implementation of better
methods to improve low academic productivity in rural and bilingual areas; and (v)
upgrading the capacity of the Ministry of Education to improve the system and provide
more efficient coordination, planning and monitoring mechanisms.
Project Objectives
8.    The objectives of the project were to increase coverage of basic education, boost
quality and efficiency and improve the management of the education system, especially
in rural areas of the country.
Project Components
9.    Increased Coverage (71.5% of resources): This component strove to increase
net school enrollment through expansion and improved coordination of the existing
capacity, introduction of the pre-school level, adoption of the double-shift school day (for
two different groups - morning and afternoon), and provision of distance education for
higher grades of basic education. For this component, specific activities such as the
construction and repair of classrooms, as well as equipment and furniture for the
classrooms, especially for the implementation of the Afternoon Shift school program. At
the same time, this component strove to increase demand for schooling through: (a)
mobilization campaigns to inform and motivate the population; and (b) school nutrition
programs including the construction of storerooms and kitchens in rural schools.
10.  Improvement in Quality and Efficiency (18%): This component was originally
focused on reducing rates of repetition, as well as the drop-out rate for students in the
first three years of basic education. In support of quality, it supported investments in the
production and distribution of textbooks and manuals for teachers, acquisition of
mini-libraries for new classrooms, and in those with double shift school days. To achieve
this, training was planned for 16,000 teachers (3,200 new and 12,800 existing) for
pre-school and the three first grades of primary school. The training would emphasize
utilization of textbooks, multi-grade teaching, productive interaction in the classroom,
evaluation of students' academic performance, and community participation.
11.   Strengthening Educational Administration (10.5%): The initial proposal for
this component was to strengthen the administrative capacity of the Ministry of
Education for the efficient provision of services. The component consisted of four
activities: (i) strengthening the management capacity of the Ministry of Education; (ii)
increasing efficiency at the central level by placing all the offices in one single location;
(iii) decentralizing the administration to regional and local levels, including the training
of supervisors, regional and school directors in planning and management techniques;



- 4 -
and (iv) helping manage the project by creating and financing the project coordination
unit.
Assessment of Project Objectives
12.   The Second Basic Education Project was developed within the framework of
policies and priorities of national development geared to reduce social inequities and
strengthen national democracy processes. Project objectives aimed to confront the
challenges of training new human resources on an equity basis, through expansion of
access to educational services and improvement in the quality of basic education in rural
areas. The opening of the Afternoon Shift, together with selective construction and
equipment of new classrooms brought about a commendable increase in efficiency in the
utilization of physical infrastructure. At the same time, the level of learning conditions
increased through the offer of higher quality services such as better trained teachers,
well-designed textbooks, other materials and utilities, and nutritional ingredients. The
goals were clear and the methods were well-selected to achieve them.
13.   The Project aimed to:
•   increase the functionality and productivity of the population through the provision
of the first four years of schooling. In this way, the project would contribute, in the
medium and long-term, to better prepare rural populations for planned production
and community participation;
*    increase access and equity in the provision of educational services in rural areas,
especially for indigenous people. The Project responded to the serious inequities
observed between urban and rural populations with regard to the availability of
schools in their communities;
*    improve efficiency in primary education, reducing rates of repetition, especially in
the first years of primary school. Reaching an adequate level of efficiency would
contribute to saving resources which could finance the expansion of the system and
consistently increase quality;
*    improve the administration and operation of the educational system at the macro
and micro levels. Capacity for planning, monitoring and evaluating at the system,
region, and school level has demonstrated its importance in the overall promotion
of the objectives of education coverage and quality.
14.   The original project document correctly identified as possible risks, the problems
with counterpart funding and the Ministry's capacity for implementation. In order to
reduce these potential risks, the Project prepared implementation plans, and established
detailed structure and functions for the Project Coordination Unit (PCU). Another risk
identified was the possible resistance to change from administrators, teachers and parents,
which would reduce the impact of publicity campaigns and mobilization programs
directed at the interested groups.



-5 -
C.  Project Implementation
15.   Of the original estimated cost of SPEB, US$68.0 million, the World Bank would
finance only US$30.0 million, or 44.1%. Of the US$38.0 million to be covered by the
Government, 45% would be used to hire the new teachers needed to support the
expansion of educational services and the implementation of the Afternoon Shift; 20%
would be used for civil works; and 35% would be used for construction and equipment
for a site for the Ministry of Education. The bulk of the investrnent would be used for the
primary objective of expanding coverage - for things such as: equipment and furniture for
existing classrooms, necessary for implementation of the Afternoon Shift, and the
rehabilitation or construction and equipment for the new classrooms, whenever justified.
16.  Implementation was carried out through a Project Coordination Unit located
within the Ministry of Education (MINEDUC) with the primary function of coordinating
and facilitating project execution through various Ministry offices. It was hoped that
having this unit within the Ministry would strengthen the capacity of the MINEDUC.
The following units were also responsible for execution of specific components: (i) the
School Building Construction Unit (UCEE) in the Ministry of Communications,
Transport and Public Works, was made responsible for classroom construction and the
acquisition of equipment and furniture; (ii) the National Textbook Center (CENALTEX)
created during the first Basic Education Project, was in charge of the production and
distribution of textbooks; and (iii) the Sectoral Unit for Educational Research and
Planning (USIPE) was responsible for the teacher training component.
17.   The project completion date was set originally for December 31, 1994. However,
due mainly to financial problems faced by the Government of Guatemala between 1990
and 1992, project execution was considerably delayed in the initial stages. During this
period, the Bank suspended disbursements on all loans to Guatemala. Only when the
country was able to service its debt payments, SPEB became effective, on June 22, 1993,
three years after its signing. In the meantime, the PCU managed to advance as much as
possible on some of the project activities with local funds, and to implement a related
USAID-sponsored education project.
18.   When the Project became effective (June 1993), the need for adjustments was
obvious. The accumulation of commitment fees and the lack of institutional capacity to
disburse all the resources programmed by the expected closing date (December 1994),
brought about the restructuring of the Project on February 24, 1994. Through the
modification of certain project activities, (see Table 1), US$11.2 million of the original
US$30.0 million was cancelled. Finally, the total cost of the Project was reduced to
US$40,0 million, of which 45% (US$18.0 million) was financed by the World Bank. It
was also necessary to extend the closing date three times, with the final extension on
December 31, 1998.



- 6-
Table 1: Costs of the Project Before and After the Restructuring by Component
(US$ milnion
Investment Categories            Initial Cost    Revised Cost
1. Increased Coverage                         42.8           22.9
2. Improvement in Quality and Efficiency       9.0            5.0
3. Strengthening Educational Administration    5.1            6.6
4. Interest and other charges                  7.5            1.9
5. Price Contingencies                         3.6            3.6
Total                                         68.0           40.0
19.   For the restructuring of the project, the Government and the Bank agreed on
reviewing the information and priorities identified during project preparation. this
activity was carried out with the support of a new document. Educational Philosoph,
Policies and Strategies 1991-1996, in which the Government reexamined and clarified its
strategies for the sector. As a result of these redefinitions, some emphasis was shifted to
bilingual education and poverty reduction. With poverty heavily concentrated on its
massive indigenous population, the Government decided to reorient its efforts toward the
improvement of the socioeconomic conditions of this population. Regarding in particular
the problem of coverage and quality in rural areas, it was necessary to devise strategies
and instruments to address the educational deficits of the indigenous population, and
more specifically of girls' education.
20.   Based on these criteria and on the cumulative experience of the ongoing USAID
project, the restructuring of the SPEB resulted in cutbacks in construction and equipment
activities, teacher hiring, provision of textbooks and workbooks, and mobilization
campaigns (see Table 2). Along the same lines, activities for distance education and four
of the programmed studies were eliminated. Activities which were maintained included
bilingual education, teacher training, and ratification of SIMAC-originated textbooks.
Provision of educational materials included the production and distribution of 156,000
bilingual textbooks; 130,000 bilingual workbooks; as well as the creation of 1,760 school
mini-libraries. As certain mobilization campaigns were eliminated, two new campaigns
were designed to promote early child schooling and girls' education of girls, especially in
indigenous areas.
21.   The new Government strategy for 1991-1994 consisted of the following actions:
(i) increasing coverage in rural and marginal urban areas, expanding pre-primary
education and girls' education; (ii) improving the quality of education, involving parents
and communities; (iii) strengthening the literacy program using indigenous languages;
(iv) orienting education toward the labor market; (v) promoting peaceful coexistence with
and respect for ethnic groups through civic, bilingual education, and cultural programs;
(vi) improving the efficacy and efficiency in the administration of the educational system;
and (vii) strengthening environmental education.



- 7 -
Table 2: Project Design Before and After the Restructuring (1994)
Original Goals     Restructured Goals
Comp. A: Increased Coverage
(a) Expanding Access
New or rehabilitated classrooms             1,100                    500
Furniture: bookshelves, desks, etc.    3,200 classrooms      1,760 classrooms (10%
bilingual)
*  New classrooms                           1,100                    500
*  Aftemoon Shift                           2,100                    1,260
Contracting Teachers                        3,200             1760 (176 bilingual)
*  Morning Shift                            1,100                    500
*  Afternoon Shift                          2,100                    1,260
(b) Distance Education                       Yes                   Cancelled
(c) Mobilization Campaigns
Community Participation                      Yes                   Cancelled
Distance Education                           Yes           Cancelled. The  USAID
project covered this with a
similar pilot program.
Multigrade                                   Yes           Incorporated  in  other
campaigns.
Benefits of Early Education                  No                      Yes
Girls' Education                             No                      Yes
(d) School Nutrition
Kitchen and storerooms                       500                     250
Comp. B: Improvement in Quality
and Efficiency
(a) Learning Materials
Qualitative change                    CENALTEX Books   (1) Bilingual texts and
notebooks; (2) validation
of SIMAC texts; and (3)
revision of CENALTEX
_______  _ _ books.
Quantitative change                   1,182,000 textsbooks   970,000 textsbooks
3,000,000 workbooks   1,850,000 workbooks
(b) Teacher training (multigrade and
others)                                     16,200                  4,660
*  New teachers                             3,200                    1,760
*  Teachers in service                      13,000                  2,900
*  Supervisors                                                  342 supervisors
(c) Studies                                   7                       3
COMP. C: STRENGTHENING
EDUCATIONAL ADMINISTRATION
(a) Strengthening at the Central Level
Management Information System (MIS)                        Cancelled. Carried out
with USAID funds.
Training                           Regional Administration  Regional Administrators
Central Offices                          Construction            Rehabilitation
Project Administration                       UCP                     UCP
Total Cost                              US $68 million          US $40 million



- 8 -
22.   As a consequence, SPEB supported the activities of the National Program of
Bilingual Education (PRONEBI) in the publication of textbooks and materials in the
Mayan language. Through bilingual education it was hoped to improve the quality of
teaching and reduce repetition and drop-out rates in the indigenous population. With the
same objectives, support was given to the campaign for girls' education and multigrade
teaching.
23.   From the point of view of project execution, the history of SPEB can be divided
in two periods. A first period running from 1993 to 1996 was characterized by an
extremely centralized PCU which did not always have the highest level of political
support within the Ministry of Education. In spite of that, the PCU was able to
implement part of the loan, and to initiate, with support from the U'NDP and the Bank,
various processess of international bidding for the printing of textbooks and acquisition
of school furniture which later were received and distributed by the new administration.
The second period was initiated with the Government of 1996 and lasted until the closing
of the Project in 1998. This period was characterized by more decisive support for and
ownership of SPEB in the Ministry of Education, fostering the consolidation of a more
diverse PCU which achieved a significantly higher level of execution.
24.   The centralization and isolation of the PCU during the first period was
fundamentally the result of the original project design. According to the original project
design, the PCU would depend on the support and consultation of a high-level
Implementation Steering Committee in which different Ministry offices would
participate. This committee did not function in a sustainable manner, and in practice the
PCU -consisting of a Coordinator, a Secretary and an Accountant - did not did never find
its place as a catalyst in the functional structure of the Ministry, in spite of the integrating
efforts. This situation helps to explain why the PCU became highly centralized and
isolated from the Ministry, and achieved little execution during the first period.
25.   The new authorities who assumed administration of the Ministry of Education in
1996 introduced a new concept of management. In order to inspire project execution, the
Ministry placed in the PCU: (a) a technical group which allowed the execution of many
activities with autonomy from, but coordination with, other Ministerial units; and (b) a
more systematic presence of the Vice-Minister who could make important technical and
administrative decisions. This helped the project to create its own space within the
Ministry and gradually increased the participation and coordination of other units in the
implementation of SPEB.
D.  Achievement of Project Objectives
26.  In spite of the initial difficulties and limitations, the Second Basic Education
Project advanced toward its objectives pursuing the key original ideas of expanded
student coverage and strengthened administrative capacity of the Ministry of Education.
At the same time, the Project made significant advances in its goal of improving quality
and efficiency in the first three grades of primary school. At the time of project closing
in December 1998, the Project had disbursed US$16.8 million, or 90% of the loan after
the restructuring (see Table 3). Four months later, by April 1999, the Project had
disbursed 100% of the loan resources or US$18.1 million.



-9 -
Table 3: Total Cost per Comp nent (in US$) June 1998
IBRD        Government     Total
Classroom Construction        5,456.30     1,364.10      6,820.40
Acquisition of Goods          5,267.80       585.3       5,853.10
Teachers' Salaries                  0    17,313.80      17,313.80
Textbooks                     2,455.20       272.8       2,728.00
Training                         170.5       255.8         426.3
Technical Assistance          1,712.80           0       1,712.80
Operation Costs                 230.4         57.6           288
Building for MINEDUC          1,876.70         982       2,858.70
Interest                        995.5            0         995.5
TOTAL COSTS                  18,165.20    20,831.40     38,996.60
27.  In extending the student coverage of public education services at the preschool
and primary levels, the Project supported the Afternoon Shift as a means to optimize the
existing infrastructure. Likewise, the Project increased school capacity through the
construction of 504 new schools, and the hiring of 1,839 teachers for the additional and
existing classrooms where Afternoon Shift had been introduced. All these activities
outnumbered the original goals.
28.   Significant steps toward improvements in quality and efficiency included the
production and distribution of 1.7 million textbooks in Spanish for the first three grades
of basic education, and of over 463,000 bilingual education textbooks, as well as the
distribution of manuals and workbooks for teachers, and classroom minilibraries and
materials for the Afternoon Shift and the Girls' Program. It is important to point out that
these efforts surpassed similar achievements by previous programs and projects. Not
only were textbooks and materials distributed to all students for the first time in
Guatemala, but these activities also surpassed what was originally planned for the
Project. One of the actions associated with this was the training of teachers in the right
utilization of textbooks, use of the mini-libraries, as well as the implementation -albeit
incomplete-of teacher training programs developed by the Universidad Rafael Landivar,
and the promising Teacher Circles organized by SIMAC and DIGEBI.
29.  In terms of strengthening the administrative capacity of the Ministry of Education,
the Project contributed to the decentralization and modernization of technical-
administrative and technical-pedagogical processes of the Ministry through the redesign
and support of participatory management mechanisms at the departmental level.
However, the most impact-oriented and enduring SPEB contributions in the management
area was the organization of the Ministry of Education under the same roof. The
rehabilitation of a deteriorated high school (whose students were carefully placed in other
institutions) and the provision of equipment created the operating conditions that so far
have far exceeded the expectations of coordination and productivity.
30.   Beyond the planned results, the Project also provoked unexpected achievements.
Examples include: (a) the change in procedures for hiring teachers, especially those for



- 10-
double shifts. Teachers were traditionally contracted for morning shifts and resisted
joining the innovative Afternoon Shift; (b) the consolidation of the School Building
Construction Unit (UCEE), in the Ministry of Communications, Transport and Public
Works. Participation in the Project and ensuing strengthening and organization allowed
for expansion of its functions and responsibilities, converting it into the Unit for Building
Construction for the State; and (c) the development of a prototype for pre-manufactured
schools (classroom, storage room and kitchen), which was adopted by other agencies
financing school construction such as FIS and FONAPAZ.
E.  Factors Affecting Project Implementation
31.   Execution of SPEB did not have, especially in its initial phase, the fluidity,
effectiveness and efficiency foreseen. The following factors help explain the delays and
adjustments.
Factors Under Government Control
32.   Closing Credit to Guatemala. One of the main obstacles on the way of the
Second Basic Education Project was the early implementation delay prompted by the
suspension of disbursements on loans to Guatemala between 1990 and 1993. The
interruption of activities resulted in the accumulation of financial costs and the loss of a
US$4.5 million grant from the Government of Holland which had been intended to help
the Government fund the training component of the Project. Under these circumstances,
the Government asked the World Bank to reduce the original loan amount in 1994, which
resulted in adjustments to certain project activities. The 3,5 years of inactivity were the
principal motivation for extensions of the closing date.
33.   Limited Ownership. The 1995 elections, the subsequent change in authorities
and the lack of ownership on the part of MINEDUC were reflected in the 1993-1996
period. It was not until the consolidation of a new administration in 1996 that the Project
could stand on its own, and in a little more than two years it managed to execute the
greater part of the US$18.0 million loan. The 1996 administration in the Ministry saw
SPEB execution not only as a means unto itself, but also as a herald ushering in more
ambitious investmnents for a national education reform.
Factors Under PCU Control
34.   Changes in Project Coordination. Following the changes in national policy, the
lack of continuity in the coordination of the PCU added to the difficulties in project
implementation. There were five changes in project coordinators, three of which between
1996 and 1998. This made it difficult to ensure sustainability or consistency in project
activities. Although each coordination -with its own style and context was not
necessarily negative, the repeated changes in leadership contributed to weakening a
centralized administration in which the distinct Ministry units and technical offices had
little participation. Similarly, on the World Bank's side there also were, from project
preparation until closing, four project management changes.



- 11-
35.   Lack of Knowledge of Procedures. In general, PCU coordinators and teams, as
well as Government officials - were insufficiently informed of World Bank procurement
and disbursement procedures. These limitations considerably delayed execution and
financial advancement of the loan funds. Many of these procedures, such as calls for
bidding for procurement of goods and services, were later facilitated (January 1994)
through the experienced assistance and cooperation of UNDP.
Factors Outside Government Control
36.   Centralization of Activities at the Ministry of Finance. Another hindering
factor were the delays in national administrative procedures. This resulted, in part, in
limitations in the use of a Special Account, and limitations in autonomy in terms of
requesting no-objections from the Bank, as well as the need to turn to the Ministry of
Finance for every transaction related to the Project.
F.  Evaluation of Results
37.  In general, the activities financed by the Project had a favorable impact on the
Guatemalan educational system. Activities such as the adoption of the Afternoon Shift,
provision of textbooks and materials, construction of classrooms and rehabilitation of the
site of the Ministry of Education, among others, responded to some of the most crucial
and urging needs of the sector. It is difficult to determine now the cumulative impact of
the efforts toward student learning performance, especially because some of the more
decisive activities were carried out in the last two years of the Project (1996-1998), and
many educational interventions require more time to yield measurable effects. Some of
the results observed are described below.
Increased Coverage
38.   The Second Basic Education Project attracted more students by building
classrooms according to a standard model designed for forty students. The specialists
who supervised this project component considered the schools financed with loan
resources to be of fairly good quality. Taking into account the capacity (40 students) of
each classroom (total of 504), the opening of the Afternoon Shift, and the number of
newly hired teachers (1,839), estimates indicate that the Project has contributed to
increasing enrollment by over 55,000 students per year, of which around 15,000 attend
new classrooms, while over 40,000 have benefited from the introduction of the Afternoon
Shift in already-existing schools. Under the project the coverage rate increased from
54% in 1988 to 73% in 1997. It is worth mentioning that almost all the new classrooms
were built in rural areas with high concentrations of indigenous peoples whose
participation and assistance had been the lowest in the country.
39.   The Double Shift, or Afternoon Shift, was a SPEB first-time innovation as a way
of taking advantage of the already-existing school infrastructure capacity. In general, the
afternoon classes have had recognized success in marginal urban areas, where they were
immediately viewed as a solution to the problem of crowded classrooms.
Notwithstanding, the double shift was not immediately accepted by everybody. Some of
the reasons for this were (i) afternoon classes were not offered in all grades, meaning that



- 12-
in some cases children from the same family attended schools at different times, some in
the morning, and some in the afternoon; (ii) microplanning had not duly carried out to
justify the opening of afternoon shifts in a certain number of communities; and (iii)
parents' concern about sending their young sons and daughters to school in the afternoon
due to risks involved on the way to and from the schools, in rural areas where children
had to walk longer distances through territories with recent and hard-won peace
agreements.
Improvement in Quality and Efficiency
40.   Textbooks. The Project financed the production of Spanish, Mathematics, Natural
Sciences and Social Studies textbooks for the first three grades of basic education. This
was one of the main achievements for which the Ministry of Education feels and
deservedly so- a great sense of ownership and pride. A preliminary study in which
supervisors and teachers were interviewed about the use of the textbooks found that there
is consensus that the availability of textbooks, the overall quality of their production, and
their use in the classroom were very positive achievements. Among those showing some
level of dissatisfaction, 50% complain that the textbook set arrives incomplete to schools
and 35% indicate some disagreement over segments of contents and concepts, that they
think should be reexamined and further perfected in future editions.
41.   Acceptable methodological studies carried out in distinct development contexts
show that the availability of textbooks and other teaching materials contribute
significantly to improvements in students' academic performance. Teachers interviewed
by the completion mission indicated that their students were able to read by the end of the
first grade, and in fact, some first graders in the classrooms visited were able to read
aloud paragraphs out of a textbook. A remarkable achievement given the poor
socioeconomic environment, but it remains to be seen if these students were exceptional
cases, or if this was the norm.
42.   Teacher Training is one of the areas in which the Project was not as successful.
In the original project design it was expected that 60% of the funds for training would
come from counterpart funds. For this, the Government initially counted on a US$4.5
million grant from the Netherlands. However, due to the period of inactivity, the Dutch
authorities withdrew its support of SPEB, and the Government thus had great difficulty
finding elsewhere the 60% of counterpart funding needed. As a result, the money which
was used (US$170,526) was provided only by the World Bank.
43.   The Project supported three types of teacher training: (i) training on the use of
textbooks and classroom libraries; (ii) training in the context of Teacher Circles, or
Quality Circles, a peer-supported strategy with satisfactory results in several systems; and
(iii) a more formal training and degree-oriented program at the Universidad Rafael
Landivar. According to a study carried out by the Ministry of Education, approximately
80% of the schools had received training in the use of the textbooks (MULTIVEX, 1998).
As to the remaining 20% the training materials did not arrive on time, or the supervisors
did not have sufficient knowledge about the textbooks to direct the training. In addition,
there was no agreement on a follow-up strategy for this kind of training.



- 13-
44.   Regarding training through the Quality Circles, the Government decreed that all
teachers should belong to one of the Circles, where they would discuss in a systematic
manner topics related to teaching and learning. In 1998, 90% of the teachers had
somehow participated in the Quality Circles. However, although the instructions called
for monthly meetings, in practice the teachers only met every two months and a half.
Many of the teachers claimed that there was not enough time, nor did they have adequate
transportation to attend the meetings. At the same time, the program was criticized for
being inflexible: the teachers had to attend the same circle even when they had changed
their assignment. Only 40% of the teachers considered the Circles to be useful (Steele,
1998). Many of them were never aware of the objectives and functions of the Circle, and
the supervisors did not have the will or the sufficient preparation to direct the Quality
Circles in a successful manner.
45.   The training program at the Universidad Rafael Landivar achieved half of its
expected results. Of the 800 teachers originally identified, only 362 completed the two
years required for the university diploma. The reasons identified were multiple: (i) lack
of coordination between the PCU and the corresponding technical unit within the
Ministry of Education; (ii) the lack of incentives for teachers to complete the program;
(iii) PCU's delays in providing training materials; (iv) transportation and food had not
been considered; and (v) lack of a publicity campaign to motivate participation in the
diploma program. In addition, an evaluation of the impact of the training on teachers'
knowledge and methods was never carried out.
46.   In spite of previous actions and initiatives, as of 1998 there had not been a
systematic evaluation of the academic achievement of students in third and sixth grade in
Math and Spanish. Preliminary studies indicated that students in rural areas were still far
behind those in urban areas in Math and Spanish. This difference was less pronounced in
the sixth grade (4 points in Math, and 2 points in Spanish). Indigenous students in the
bilingual education programn had the lowest results in the sixth grade. However, when
exams were given in their native language the results were equal to, or better than,
non-indigenous students (Yetilu de Baessa, 1998). These results give us an idea of the
potentially positive impact of the interventions directed toward the indigenous
population.
Strengthening EducationalAdministradon
47.   In this component, there are more tangible results. The Second Basic Education
Project contributed substantially to the institutional strengthening of the Ministry of
Education, especially in placing all the sectors under the same roof in a single building
rehabilitated for the Ministry. Although the project had planned from the beginning to
foster interaction among different Ministry units and offices, first by placing them in a
single location, this activity - full of barriers and obstacles - was not carried out until
December 1998, the last month of project supervision. The construction initially
expected was never carried out. Instead, a historic but decaying building located in a
central area, and which was serving as a secondary school, was remodeled and prepared
for its new role. For the first time in Guatemalan history, the Ministry of Education could
count on adequate conditions to function as a closely coordinated and unified body.



- 14-
48.   In practical terms, the centralization of the MINEDUC offices not only reduced
operational costs, but also minimized the risks from lack of communication and interior
collaboration of the institution. Independent from the Project's specific actions for
institutional strengthening, the intervention also had unexpected impacts. This is to say
that the Project did not only facilitate the relocation of the Ministry, but also initiated and
gradually increased the institutional capacity required to direct educational reforms
throughout the system. From a highly centralized administration of the PCU, there was a
shift to a situation in which different units and offices of the Ministry were more and
more capable of participating in project execution. This was especially evident in the
perspective of the new education project financed by the World Bank.
49.   At the same time, SPEB contributed to strengthening the private sector,
successfully involving NGOs in the distribution of textbooks and educational material, as
well as subcontracting consultants for research. In the same way, the Project supported
the establishment of four management committees whose function is the development of
educational proposals and strategies related to the Peace Agreement. It also contributed
to the design and preparation of the newly designed and prepared education project which
embodies the educational vision sponsored by the new administration which took over in
1996.
G.  Project Sustainability
50.   Project sustainability is likely beyond strategies and activities explained below,
the key instrument for SPEB sustainability is the Basic Education Reform Project,
approved by the Bank on April 30, 1997, which reflects the commitmnent of the
govemrnment to continue strengthening basic education in the country, as mandated in the
Peace Agreements signed in 1996. This means persistence, improvement and corrections
of the Second Basic Education Project.
51.   Construction. The Project strove to achieve maintenance and care for the
infrastructure constructed (504 classrooms) through the organization of permanent school
committees who will administer funds from the Ministry of Education for such expenses.
The form of transferring money and a guide for efficient and transparent admninistration
of the funds has yet to be defined. On the other hand, the building of the Ministry of
Education is still covered under the contractor's guarantee. Independently from this
situation, the Ministry has reserved a budget line to cover the successive financing of the
operations and maintenance of the building.
52.   Textbooks and other educational materials. The Government has instituted a
policy to continue distributing Spanish, Math, Social Science and Natural Science
textbooks in the schools for the first three grades of primary school at the rate of one
book for every two students. The Government has also promised to continue the
provision of educational materials. Although debates still continue about the type of
material to provide, the distribution mechanisms, and how to lower costs, the provision of
teaching and leaming materials seems to be certain.



- 15-
H.   Borrower Performance
53.   The Second Basic Education Project suffered from various changes and periodic
political instability. Between 1990 and 1996 the Government of Guatemala had to face
exceptional challenges such as the 1993 coup d'etat and the withdrawal of World Bank
funding. It was not until the consolidation of a new administration in 1996 that the
Project accelerated its execution and in a little more than two years it managed to
disburse the greater part of the US$18.0 million loan. Finally, after various changes in
coordinators, the new administration took ownership of the Project and firmly embraced
its execution.
54.   Once given the institutional conditions, the Government proved to be a competent
mediator, capable of designing and directing its own initiatives, such as the production of
textbooks and the successful centralization of its offices in a single location. The
Government did not only overcome a difficult situation for executing a project which
many considered to be "dead at birth", but it was also capable of driving it further,
creating capacity and institutional strength to use it as a springboard for a third education
project.
I.   Bank Performance
55.   The actions of the World Bank in the sphere of the Project were rapid in the
beginning, and always conducive to fruitful dialogue. In this sense, the Bank
demonstrated much flexibility and constant support to the country which facilitated the
agreed upon search for better solutions throughout the many obstacles faced by the
Second Basic Education Project since beginning. One of the most crucial moments in the
history of the Project occurred in June 1993 when instead of canceling the project
(favored by some) after a delay of two and a half years, the Bank agreed with the
Government to restructure the activities instead. It was a right and timely decision.
56.  It is important to mention also that the World Bank had various changes in project
management. This trend was reversed in 1996 when one permanent staff member kept
responsibility for the SPEB execution through the closing date. Given the initial history
of the Project, the World Bank had to be a bit cautious with some of the Ministry's
initiatives. However, through the execution of the Project, the institutions achieved a
friendly relationship grounded on mutual trust. The new administration which came to
power in 1996 further strengthened the existing relationship with the World Bank. The
solid and fast preparation of the 1997 Basic Education Reform Project was the result of
this.
J.   Key Lessons Learned
57.   Political Commitment The political commitment of the Ministry of Education
authorities to the Project is a strong factor in project success. During the Project's
lifetime, the country suffered a coup d'etat in 1993, and a change in government in 1995.
The changes in authorities in the executing branches, and the policy priorities of the
Government contributed to the delay in project execution. It was not until 1996 that the



- 16-
new administration took the reigns of the Project, paving the way for the achievement of
its development objectives.
58.   Participation of the Ministry. The best form of assuring the ownership and
commitment necessary for project execution is to assure the participation of the different
units and offices of the Ministry of Education. This is not an easy task but must be in the
agenda since the early preparation steps.
59.   Continuity in Project Coordination. The problems caused by the lack of
continuity in the coordination of interventions can be minimized through the
decentralization of execution and the establishment of mechanisms for collaboration and
communication with executing units. As its name indicates, the Coordination Unit
should coordinate and facilitate the activities, rather than being an executing unit.
60.   Flexible Design. The design of the project should allow a lot of flexibility for
modifying the implementation strategies and ensuring that the development objectives are
appropriate for the country's changing circumstances and conditions, whether they be
political crises or financial problems.
61.   Baseline. Project design should include a baseline and implementation of a
sustainable system for monitoring activities to evaluate the impact of the intervention,
redefine mechanisms for implementation, and develop strategies for its sustainability.
62.   World Bank Supervision Missions. The World Banl's supervision missions
should concentrate as much in aspects of execution as on technical assistance to support
the interventions. To focus only on mechanical or procedural aspects could be a
misleading strategy.
63.   Simple Procedures for Procurement and Disbursement. It is important to
establish and be aware of simple procurement and disbursement mechanisms. In the case
of the Second Basic Education Project, the absence of a Special Account - due to the fact
that the existing government restrictions did not allow this - and other constraints,
contributed to the delay in implementation. The UNDP assistance as a purchasing agent
recuperated some of the delays in national purchasing and contracting.
K.   Current and Future Activities
64.   The Ministry of Education and the Bank have recognized important lessons in the
execution of the Second Basic Education Project. The majority of these lessons were
incorporated in the design and preparation of the 1997 Basic Education Reform Project,
also financed by the World Bank. An important lesson was related to project
coordination. In actuality, the PCU did not only count on complete political support from
the Government, technical assistance from the Vice-Minister of Education and the
experiences from the Second Basic Education Project and other interventions, but also
from an institutional and technical presence within the Ministry of Education, being the
unit in charge of all projects financed through external cooperation.



- 17-
65.   The Basic Education Reform Project inherited from the previous project the
objectives of extending coverage of basic education, and supporting decentralization.
However, in this case, the Project more clearly directed its efforts toward bilingual
education, gender equity and populations affected by the years of conflict. Based on
constitutional mandates, the Project established the strategies of increased participation of
NGOs and local communities in the national education system. The activities in support
of PRONEBI and the Girls' Program within the project have been important mechanisms
in the design of the Government's strategy.
66.   The new project also picked up some of the objectives of the Government's
Action Plan for Social Development and the Peace Accords, including: (i) increased
coverage and equity in the school system, especially at the pre-primary and primary
levels, with emphasis on rural areas, with preference for girls' education; (ii) improved
quality and efficiency of education through improvements in curriculum, consolidation
and expansion of bilingual education, multigrade schools, and the implementation of a
national academic evaluation system; and (iii) improved effectiveness and efficiency of
the administration of the education system through decentralization of the
technical-administrative and technical-pedagogical processes, strengthening of
participatory management and community participation strategies.



- 18-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
SECOND BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3003-GU)
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Inplementation
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:   Studies Included in the Project
Table 8:   Project Cost and Financing by Component
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions



- 19-
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievements of Objectives  Substantial   Partial   Negligible  Not Applicable
Macro Policies                                                       x
Sector Policies                 x
Financial Objectives                                                 x
Institutional Development                   x
Physical Objectives             x
Poverty Reduction                           x
Gender Issues                   x
Other Social Objectives                     x
Environmental Objectives                                             x
Public Sector Management                    x
Private Sector Development                                           x
Other (specify)
B. Project Sustainabilitv           Likely           Unlikely         Uncertain
x
C. Bank Performance                 HighlY          Satisfactory      Deficient
Satisfactorv
Identification                                       x
Preparations Assistance                              x
Appraisal                                            x
Supervision                                          x
D. Borrower Performance             Highly          Satisfactory      Deficient
Satisfactory
Preparation                                          x
Implementation                                       x
Covenant Compliance                                  x
Operation (if applicable)                            x
E. Assessment of Outcome     Highly     Satisfactory    Highly      Unsatisfactorv
Satisfactory               Satisfactory
x



- 20 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Preceding
operations in
lending program:
1. Loan 576-GU    Assisted in expansion and    1968      Closed
improvement of secondary
schools & teacher training
2. Loan 1212-GU    Supported pre-vocational    1976      Closed
groups and improved
education data                        _____
3. Loan 1314-GU    Rehabilitation of primary   1976      Closed
schools damaged by
earthquake of 1976
4. Loan 2328-GU    First Basic Education       1983      Closed
Project
Following
operations in
lending program
1. Loan 4167-GU   Basic Education Reform       1997      On-going
Project
Table 3: Project Timetable
Identification (Executive Project    8/8/86          8/8/86
Summary)
Preparation                          7/2/87          7/2/87
Appraisal                            9/9/87          9/9/87
Negotiations                        9/26/88          9/26/88
Board Presentation                  12/6/88          12/6/88
Signing                              1/6/89          1/10/90
Effectiveness                       4/10/90          6/22/93
Project Completion                  12/31/94        12/31/98
Loan Closing                        6/30/95         12/31/98



- 21 -
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
Fiscal Year       ;FY89  FY90 i Y93 F          4 !9FY2                  _     FY_      iY97   FY98
Appraisal Estimate    0.6    3.0    10.2    17.8    24.6    28.8    30.0
Actual              0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.8     2.7      4.5     9.7    15.4    18.8
Actual as % of      0%       0%      0%       0%      3.3     9.4      15.0    32.3    51.3    62.7
Estimate                  I       I        I       I                                 I_I
Date of final disbursement: December 23, 1998
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key ldicatr fo;r Po*et Implemtati"n (According   Estimate  Atual
to amendment of t         eement #1/y0f    ' '   --.-
A. Increasing Net Enrollment
a) Construction of classrooms                             500        504
classrooms classrooms
b) Procurement of furniture and equipment (teachers and    1,760    2,540
students
c) Introduction of Double Shifts (classrooms)            1,260      1,456
d) Teacher Recruited                                     1,760      1,839
.___   e) Public Campaigns                                        2          0
iii_ |f)  Support to School Nutrition (kitchen and storage)      250         0
B. Improving Quality and Efficiency
1.  Teacher Training
a) in service                                            2,900      1,082
l___   b) new teachers                                          1,760      1,760
c) supervisors                                            342        404
2.  Bilingual Textbooks and Workbooks                         286,000    463,160
3. Textbooks and Workbooks (Grades IA, I, II, y III)
a) Textbooks and Workbooks                             2,822.490   1,696,680
b) Teachers' Guides                                     16,000     56,100
c) Support Books                                                   304,619
4  Micro-libraries                                             1,760      2,188
5.  School supplies                                           788,000   1,355,878
6.  Studies                                                     4           4
C. Improving Education Mangement
1. Preliminary studies for construction of Central Offices Building  1      1
_   (MINEDUC)
2.  Contruction  and  equipment of Central Offices Building      1          1
(MINEDUC)                                               _



- 22 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operations
Civil Works
1. Construction of Classrooms                                       500 classrooms     504 classrooms
2. Restoration, partial construction and equipment of Central Offices    Constructed    Restored and partially
Building (MINEDUC).                                                building      constructed building
Furniture, Equipment and Supplies
1. Procurement and use of furniture for teachers and students      1,760 classrooms    2,540 classrooms
2. Supply of Textbooks and Workbooks                                  2,822,490          2,464,459
3. Supply of Teachers' Guides                                           16,000             56,110
4. Purchase of Blackboards to PRONADE                                                      2,028
5. Purchase of Micro-libraries                                          1,760              2,188
Recruitment of Teachers                                                 1,760              1,839
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Stud y"                           Status                          Study Impact,'.,i'&:',tl:;  =  l
This study supported program
1. Evaluation of Double Shift     Completed                          continuation
2. Criteria to be used in evaluating                                  Substantial
and   promoting   innovative Completed
programs in education
3. Preliminary study for the need
of school mapping.             Completed                          Preliminary results
4. Descentralization in Education   Completed                         Substantial



- 23 -
Table 8: Project Cost and Financing by Component
-1      Estimated             Actual/Latest Estimated
;   .(.U-S-$-M'   '  --                 (U SS ' )
item        --Locait. 
t.                         L..  ....  -    .. Tocal I Foreign    TC3   Freign    Local  Total
~cost1    ot                   ot        ot
A. Increasing Net Enrollment                  15,326.9   7,578.0  22,904.9  10,724.1   19,263.2   29,987.3
School Buildings                        1,411.7    5,646.   7,057.7  5,456.3    1,364.1    6,820.4
Goods                                     215.2   1,932.0   2,147.2  5,267.8     585.3    5,853.1
Teacher Salaries                       13,700.0        0  13,700.0        0   17,313.8   17,313.8
B. Improving Quality and Efficiency             570.7   4,429.0   4,999.7  4,338.5      528.6    4,867.1
Textbooks                                 366.7   3,300.0   3,666.7  2,455.2     272.8    2,728.0
Training                                  204.0    136.0    340.0    170.5       255.8      426.3
Technical Assistance                         0      993.0    993.0  1,712.8          0     1,712.8
C. Improving Education Management              2266.3   4281.0   6547.3   2107.1    1039.6    3146.7
Operating Costs                            34.5    135.0    169.5    230.4        57.6      288.0
Ministry of Education Building          2,231.8   4,146.0   6,377.8  1,876.7     982.0    2,858.7
Total Base Costs                              18,163.9  16,288.0  34,451.9  17,169.7   20,831.4   38,001.1
Interest and Other charges to the Loan        1,104.8    800.0   1,904.8    995.5                 995.5
Contingencies                                  1,940.3   1,700.0   3,640.3       0         0          0
Total Project Costs                           21,209.0  18,788.0  39,997.0  18,165.2   20,831.4   38,996.6
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
No economic rate of return was calculated in the SAR. Project benefits were expressed in terms of reducing illiteracy
rates, improving efficiency of primary education, increasing equity in opportunities for the rural poor/indigenous families
and improving management and operation of the education system.



- 24 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
3.03(b)    10          C                                Semi-Annual Report             Complied with
3.04       13          C                                Borrower to furnish to the Bank a  Complied with
work plan specifying actions to be
carried out by executing agencies
to meet budgetary provisions.
3.05(a)    09          C                                PICU to submit to the Bank each   Complied with
year a detailed list of new
classroom to be constructed.
3.06(a)    13          C                                MOE to submit to Bank the      Complied with
Operational Manual.
3.06(b)    10          C                                MOE and MCTPW will ensure    The Operational
that Operational Manual is used    Manual was
by all executive Agencies in  updated on
carrying out their task.      11/30/95.
3.08       10          C                                PEAC to carry out studies on   This was cancelled
distance education with TOR   according to last
acceptable to the Bank.       projaect
amendment.
3.09      09           C                                Borrower to exchange views with   Nutrition study
the Bank by 12/31/94 on progress  canceled according
and results on nutrition      to last project
component of the project and by    amendment.
12/31/95 on progress and results   Discussions on
in textbook component of the  textbooks
project.                      component have
taken place.
4.01(a)    01          C                                Complied with.
(b) (c)
7.01 (b)    10                                          Complied with.



- 25 -
Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs (SW, Actual)
I Stagge                                       _                         iY
84     85      86      87      88      89      90     91      92      93      94      95      96      97      98    Total
Preparation    0.3    0.1    0.3    22.0    6.0    0.1                                                                               28.8
Appraisal                                     32.8                                                                                   32.8
| Negotiations                                0.4    10.2                                                                            10.6
| Supervision                                         6.0    6.1      1.2    21.4   13.7   16.8    6.8    13.6   13.9    11.8   111.3
Completion    .                                                                                                              2.1     2.1
|TOTAL         0.3    0.1    0.3    22.0   39.2   16.3    6.1    1.2    21.4   13.7    16.8    6.8    13.6   13.9    11.8,  183.5



- 26 -
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions
Number                         pcaie                   npenetto           eeomn
Stage of      oA4thl       of      Days               S    S                       Sta             Obet                                Types of
Projec Cycl  Year   Persons     inRrenedrolm
Appraisal       8/87      3           22      Sr. Educator Planner, Architect,
through Board                                 Education Consultant.
Approval                 I
Supervision 1    1/89     2          5        Education Specialist, Operations   2                  2              Borrower submitted Loan Agreement to the Ministry of
Assistant.                                                           Finance to initiate the congressional ratification process.
Supervision 2    8/89     3           5       Education Specialist, Operations   2                  2              Congress has yet to ratify the project. The latest estimate is
Assistant, Architect.                                                that the process may be completed by the end of October.
The two conditions for effectiveness should be resolved by
October also.
Supervision 3    3/90     2          4        Sr. Project Officer, Operation     3                  1              Delay by the three executing agencies in their submission of
Assistant.                                                           the audit reports.
Supervision 4    6/90     2          4        Operations Assistant, Consultant.  3                  1              The executing agencies and the PICU are working to start-up
activities for project implementation, however, they are
limited by the lack of counterpart funds, a problem that will
greatly constrain proj. implementation.
Supervision 5    2/91     1          3        Operation Analyst.                 3                  1
Supervision 6    9/91     4           11      Operations Assistant, Sr. Project  3                  1              The MINED is in the process of decentralizing operational
Officer, Education Specialist, Sr.                                   and administrative functions to eight regions and is also
Facility Planning.                                                   undergoing a re-organization.
Supervision 7    03/92    4           9       Proj. Analyst, Educ. Specialist,   3                  1              Lack of financial resources. However, the mission obtained
Architect, Architect.                                                UNDP's commitment to provide a bridge loan of $500,000
until disbursements resume.
Supervision 8    8/92     2           4       Operations Analyst, Education      2                  I              MOF decided to make local funds available through a
Specialist.                                                          revolving fund rather than a bridge.



- 27-
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions (cont.)
Supervision 9    2/93    1          5       Operations Analyst.               2                 1             An outstanding project implementation issue that requires
the MOE's decision to the printing and distribution of
textbooks.that lacks didactic materials.
Supervision 10   4/93    2          4       Education Specialist, Operation  2                 1
Analyst.
Supervision 11   9/93    4          5       Sr. Education Specialist, Education.    2           1             The new Minister had been reluctant to support
Specialist, Operation Analyst,                                    administrative decisions necessary for project
Architect                                                         implementation
Supervision 12   12/93   4          9       Sr. Education Specialist, Education  2              1             Ministry officials requested the restructuring and downsizing
Specialist, Consultant, Consultant.                               of the project to reduce the total loan amount from US$30.0
to US$18.7.
Supervision 13   6/94    2          4       Sr. Education Specialist, Operations    S          S              The fragility of the country's current political situation
Specialist                                                        remains a constraint for the overall performance of the sector
and implementation of the project.
Supervision 14   10/94   1          4       Sr. Education Specialist.         S                S
Supervision 15   3/95    2          5       Sr. Education Specialist, Architect.    U          U              Overall implementation has been affected as a result of the
delay in approval of the UNDP contract with SEGEPLAN.
Supervision 16   6/95    2          4       Sr. Education Specialist, Operation  U             U
Analyst.                                                                                                              l
Supervision 17   11/95   3          5       Sr. Education Specialist, Education  U             S              The major issue is the delay of the construction of the
Specialist, Education Specialist.                                 Central MOE building.
Supervision 18   3/96    4          10      Education Specialist, Sr. Education  S             S              The Minister of Education will evaluate whether to use the
Specialist, Education Specialist,                                 remaining loan funds for school construction or to cancel
________  Implementation Specialist.                                       that part of the loan.
Supervision 19   11/96   3          4       Education Specialist, Consultant,  S                S
Operation Analyst.              I__                                            _        ___



- 28 -
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions (cont.)
Supervision 20   2/97     2           5       Education Specialist, Procurement  S                  S              The mission noted that there is a significant amount of
I specialist                                                          resources still to be committed before the closing date.
Supervision 21   6/97     2           3       Education Specialist, Financial    S                  S              In order to fully implement the project and fulfill its goals,
Analyst.                                                            the ROG is requesting additional extension of closing date to
3/98.
Supervision 22   1/98     2           5       Sr. Education Specialist, Financial  S                S              Project should be closed on 3/98, unless the GOV fornally
Analyst.                                                             requests an extension.
Supervision 23   6/98     5           6       Sr. Education Specialist, Financial  S                S              The only activity to be finalized is the
Analyst, Architect, Consultant,                                      construction/rehabilitation of the site of the MINED
Consultant.                                                          (Tezulutlan).
Supervision 24   12/98    8           11      Sr. Education Specialist, Education  S                S              The mission visited the site and confirmed with the chief
Specialist (YP), Inst. Dev. Specialist,                              resident architect that according to their plan, the building
Procurement Specialist, Financial                                    should be finalized by mid-December.
Analyst, Architect, Consultant,
Consultant.



- 29 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
SECOND BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3003-GU)
PART III. APPENDIXES
Appendix A:      ICR Mission's Aide Memoir
Appendix B:      Borrowers Contribution to the ICR
Appendix C:      Map IBRD No. 19486






AYUDA MEMORIA
SEGUNDO PROYECTO DE EDUCACION BASICA
(PRESTAMO BIRF 3003 GU)
MISION DE CIERRE DE IMPLEMENTACION
(15 -19 DE MARZO 1999)
1. Una misi6n del Banco Mundial, compuesta por los Sres./Sras. Antonio Gomez Pereira,
Maria Elena Anderson, Xiaoyan Liang y Mario Marcone, visit6 Guatemala desde el 15 al
19 de marzo de 1999 para trabajar con sus contrapartes del Gobierno en la preparaci6n
del informe de cierre del Segundo Proyecto de Educaci6n Basica (SPEB) para el cual se
firm6 un prestamo el 10 de enero de 1990. Representando al Ministerio de Educaci6n
participo de la Misi6n de Cierre de Implementaci6n el Lic. Jose Antonio Perez.
2. La misi6n se reuni6 con el Vice Ministro de Educaci6n, funcionarios del mismo
ministerio (DIGEBI y UPE), el personal tecnico y administrativo que apoy6 la ejecuci6n
del SPEB, asi como con los responsables de la capacitaci6n de la Universidad Rafael
Landivar, y la Unidad de Construcci6n de Edificios del Estado (UCEE). El equipo del
Banco Mundial agradece mucho la cooperaci6n y hospitalidad del Ministerio, y de los
directores y maestros de los tres centros escolares que se visito durante la misi6n.
3. El proyecto fue disefiado para ampliar la cobertura escolar, mejorar la calidad y eficiencia
de la educaci6n, y mejorar la administraci6n de la educaci6n, especialmente en las areas
rurales del pais. A grandes rasgos, SPEB se concentr6 en la construcci6n y equipamiento
de aulas, la producci6n y distribuci6n de textos y materiales educativos, y el
establecimiento de la Jornada Vespertina.
4. La fecha de terminaci6n del Proyecto se fij6 inicialmente para el 31 de diciembre de
1994; sin embargo, debido principalmente a los problemas financieros que tuvo que
enfrentar el Gobierno de Guatemala entre 1990 y 1992, la ejecuci6n del mismo se atras6
considerablemente. A fin de hacer frente a esta situaci6n se desobligaron US$ 11.2
millones de los US$ 30 millones establecidos originalmente en el Convenio de Prestamo.
De la misma forma, se hizo necesaria la extensi6n de la fecha de cierre en tres
oportunidades, siendo la ultima el 31 de diciembre de 1998.
5. De las entrevistas sostenidas con los ex-coordinadores del Proyecto y otros funcionarios
del Ministerio, la misi6n concluy6 que la ejecuci6n del proyecto se inici6 a partir de 1993
con la consolidaci6n de una Unidad Ejecutora. Aunque queda todavia pendiente medir el
impacto real de la intervenci6n, los objetivos iniciales del proyecto en cuanto a ampliar la
cobertura y mejorar la administraci6n del servicio educativo fueron alcanzados.
Asimismo, se hicieron avances en el prop6sito de mejorar la calidad y eficiencia de los
tres primeros grados de primaria.
6. Para la ampliacion de cobertura de los servicios de educaci6n publica en los niveles de
educaci6n pre-escolar y primaria, el proyecto apoy6 la Jornada Vespertina para la
optimizaci6n de la infraestructura existente. Con este mismo objetivo, se contribuy6 al
aumento de la capacidad escolar mediante la construcci6n de nuevas aulas en centros
educativos rurales,  la dotaci6n de mobiliario y equipo para estas mismas y la



contrataci6n de docentes para las aulas adicionales y existentes donde se introdujo la
Jomada Vespertina.
7. En lo referido al fortalecimiento de la capacidad administrativa del Ministerio de
Educaci6n, el proyecto contribuy6 a la descentralizacion y modernizaci6n de procesos
tecnico-administrativos y tecnico-pedag6gicos del ministerio por medio del
fortalecimiento de la gesti6n participativa en el nivel departamental. Uno de los logros
mas representativos  en este aspecto fue la construcci6n parcial, rehabilitaci6n y
equipamiento del actual edificio sede del Ministerio.
8. Pasos significativos hacia el mejoramiento de la calidad y eficiencia de la educacion
comprendieron la producci6n y distribuci6n de libros de texto para los tres primeros
grados de primaria -incluyendo libros de texto para educaci6n bilingiue, manuales y
cuadernos de trabajo para docentes y microbibliotecas de aula y material educativo
variado en apoyo de la Jornada Vespertina. Otro de las acciones asociadas a este
componente fue la capacitaci6n de docentes en la utilizaci6n de textos, uso de las
microbibliotecas, asi como la implementaci6n del Diplomado con la participaci6n de la
Universidad Rafael Landivar. En terminos de los objetivos logrados, el impacto de este
componente es el mas dificil de observar con la informaci6n recogida y hasta ahora
disponible.
9. Conclusiones
10. Pese a las dificultades y limitaciones que experiment6 el proyecto, el SPEB trabaj6 a
favor de los objetivos que se trazaron en un principio, especialmente aquellos
relacionados con el fortalecimiento de la capacidad administrativa del Ministerio y la
ampliaci6n de cobertura. Sin embargo, aun queda por establecer que metas iniciales se
cumplieron, asi como medir el impacto del proyecto en el mejoramiento de la calidad y
eficiencia.
1 1. De acuerdo a las entrevistas y reuniones sostenidas durante la misi6n, el proyecto ha sido
muy afectado por los siguientes problemas:
* Atraso en el inicio de la ejecuci6n debido a los problemas financieros que enfrent6 el
pais entre 1990 y 1993 y que no permitieron la disponibilidad del financiamiento.
* A esto iultimo se sum6 la crisis politica de 1993 y el consecuente cambio de
autoridades.
* Falta de continuidad en la coordinaci6n del proyecto. Durante la vida del mismo
existieron cinco coordinaciones diferentes, lo cual hacia dificil el seguimiento y la
consistencia de actividades.
*  La tendencia a una administraci6n centralizada del proyecto de parte de la Unidad
Ejecutora.
* La lentitud de los procedimientos administrativos debidos en parte a las limitaciones
en el uso de una Cuenta Especial y de limites aut6nomos. Muchos de estos tramites
lograron agilizarse con la intervenci6n y asistencia del PNUD.



*  Falta de continuidad en la gerencia del proyecto dentro del Banco Mundial. Esta
situaci6n se regulariz6 a partir de 1996 cuando un solo funcionario de dicha
instituci6n acompafi6 la ejecuci6n del SPEB.
*  Las misiones de supervisi6n del Banco se concentraron especialmente en la ejecuci6n
a medida que los componentes se implementaban.
12. El Ministerio y el Banco han sabido recoger lecciones importantes de la ejecuci6n del
SPEB. La mayoria de estas lecciones se han incorporado en el disefno y preparacion del
actual Proyecto de Reforma a la Educaci6n Basica financiado tambien por el Banco
Mundial.
13. La misi6n acord6 enviar una primera versi6n del informe de cierre al Ministerio para sus
comentarios hacia mediados de abril del presente afno y solicit6 la elaboraci6n de la
primera versi6n del reporte para la misma fecha.
Por el Ministerio de Educaci6n                Por el Banco Mundial
Carlos Rojas C
(ordinadora UCP                  Especialista en Educaci6n



MINISTERIO DE EDUCACION
UNIDAD COORDINADORA DE PROYECTOS DE REFORMA A
LA EDUCACION BASICA
Contrato
No. 054-99      4Q              YVAJDE
Local-Individual    SOJIO     ~     ~    ~    CC6
PRtSTAMO                       ASC
BIRF 4167-GU
Ciudad de Guatemala, mayo, 1999



CONTENIDO
Pagina
Presentaci6n
Resumen Ejecutivo                                                  i
I.    Diseilo Original del Proyecto                                1
II.    Reestructuraci6n del Proyecto                               7
III.   Analisis del Logro de los Objetivos, Resultados y Actividades  10
IV.   Implementaci6n y Sostenibilidad del Proyecto                 18
V.   Administraci6n y Gerencia del Proyecto                        20
VI.   Aspectos Financieros                                         22
VII.  Conclusiones y Recomendaciones                               23
Anexo Estadistico                                                  26



GLOSARIO DE ABREVIATURAS Y ACRONIMOS
ASIES             Asociaci6n de Investigaci6n y Estudios Sociales
BEST              Proyecto de Fortalecimniento de la Educaci6n Basica de USAID
BIRF              Banco Intemacional de Reconstrucci6n y Fomento
CENALTEX          Centro Nacional de Libros de Texto y Material Didactico
DGE               Direcci6n General de Educaci6n
DIGEBI            Direcci6n General de Educaci6n Bilingue Intercultural
FIS                Fondo de Inversi6n Social
IGER              Instituto Guatemalteco de Educaci6n Radiofonica
MINEDUC           Ministerio de Educaci6n Publica
ONG's             Organizaciones no Gubernamnentales
PNUD              Programa de las Naciones Unidas para el Desarrollo
PRONADE           Programa Nacional de Autogesti6n para el Desarrollo Educativo
PRONEBI           Programa Nacional de Educaci6n Bilinguie Intercultural (actualmente
DIGEBI)
SAR               Staff Appraisal Report (Documento de proyecto)
SIMAC             Sistema de Mejoramiento de los Recursos Humanos y Adecuacion
Curricular
SPEB              Segundo Proyecto de Educaci6n Basica
UCEE              Unidad de Construcci6n de Edificios Educativos (actualmente
UCEE: Unidad de Construcci6n de Edificios del Estado)
UCONIME            Unidad de Cooperaci6n Nacional e Internacional del Ministerio de
Educaci6n
UCEP              Unidad Coordinadora de la Ejecuci6n del Segundo Proyecto de
Educaci6n Basica
UNESCO             Organizaci6n de las Naciones Unidas para la Educaci6n, la Ciencia y
la Cultura
URL               Universidad Rafael Landivar
USAID             Agencia de los Estados Unidos de America para el Desarrollo
Internacional
USIPE             Unidad Sectorial de Investigaci6n y Planificaci6n Educativa
(actualmente UPE: Unidad de Planeaci6n Educativa)



PRESENTACION
El prop6sito de este documento es presentar un informe final y evaluar la ejecuci6n de las
principales actividades desarrolladas por el Segundo Proyecto de Educaci6n Basica. Este
proyecto fue financiado parcialmente por el prestamo 3003-GU otorgado al gobierno de
Guatemala por el Banco Intemacional de Reconstrucci6n y Fomento, y ejecutado por el
Ministerio de Educaci6n. La evaluaci6n incluy6 un examen general del progreso alcanzado
por el proyecto en el logro de los objetivos, resultados y actividades propuestos. Ese
analisis permiti6 identificar los factores mas importantes que incidieron de manera positiva
o negativa en el proyecto, incluyendo los aspectos de gesti6n y administraci6n y los
mecanismos de ejecuci6n financiera utilizados.
La metodologia que se sigui6 para preparar este informe se baso principalmente en
reuniones y entrevistas y en la recopilaci6n, revisi6n y analisis de los documentos basicos,
estudios, informes de avance y diversa informaci6n generados por el proyecto. Las
entrevistas se hicieron en forma conjunta con la misi6n designada por el BIRF para
preparar el informe de cierre e incluyeron a los funcionarios del MINEDUC, PNUD y de la
UCEE relacionados directamente con el proyecto. Tambien se entrevist6 a algunos
consultores que en su oportunidad fueron contratados por el proyecto y a los profesionales
que tuvieron la responsabilidad de coordinar y/o dirigir el proyecto durante su fase de
ejecuci6n.
El documento esta estructurado de la manera siguiente: el primer capitulo presenta una
breve descripci6n del disefio original del proyecto, tal y como fue formulado en 1988 y se
acord6 en el convenio de prestamo en enero de 1990. En el capitulo II se consider6
necesario resumir los principales cambios a que fue sometido el proyecto, en especial las
enmiendas introducidas en 1993 y 1994 que modificaron sustancialmente su alcance. El
capitulo III incluye un analisis global del logro de los objetivos, resultados y actividades de
cada uno de los componentes. El capitulo IV contiene algunas consideraciones sobre la
forma en que fue implementado el proyecto y la posible sostenibilidad de sus
contribuciones.  El capitulo V describe las modalidades que se adoptaron en la
administraci6n y gerencia del proyecto y que tuvieron efectos importantes en el logro de los
objetivos. El capitulo VI sintetiza los aspectos financieros del proyecto. Finalmente, el
capitulo VII trata de destacar las conclusiones que se derivaron del proyecto y las lecciones
que podrian ser iitiles para nuevas operaciones similares. Por aparte, se presenta un anexo
estadistico ajustado a los forrnatos establecidos por el BIRF para este tipo de evaluaciones.






RESUMEN EJECUTIVO
Disefio Original del Proyecto
1.    El Segundo Proyecto de Educaci6n Basica -SPEB- fue formulado en 1988, pero la
suscripci6n del prestamo con el BIRF (3003-GU) que financiaria parcialmente el proyecto
no se llev6 a cabo sino hasta el 10 de enero de 1990. El SPEB constituye el quinto
proyecto destinado a financiar este sector por parte del BIRF.
2.    El proyecto contemplaba originalmente un disefio relativamente sencillo integrado
por tres componentes: El componente "A" tenia como objetivo aumentar la matricula
escolar neta mediante cuatro subcomponentes: i) el aumento de la capacidad escolar; ii) un
programa de educaci6n primaria a distancia; iii) campanias publicitarias anuales con el
prop6sito de sensibilizar a la poblaci6n; y iv) el apoyo a los programas de nutrici6n en las
escuelas.
3.    El Componente "B" pretendia mejorar la calidad y eficiencia de los tres primeros
grados de la educaci6n primaria por medio de los subcomponentes siguientes: i)
proporcionar un total de 4,613,00 ejemplares de materiales educativos, entre libros de texto
para los alumnos y manuales para los maestros, ademas de uttiles escolares; ii) capacitar a
un total de 16,000 maestros, de los cuales 3,200 deberian ser nuevos maestros y 12,800
maestros en servicio; y iii) elaborar siete estudios.
4.    El componente "C" estaba enfocado a mejorar la administraci6n del sistema
educativo por medio de cinco subcomponentes: i) fortalecimiento de la capacidad gerencial
del MINEDUC; ii) construir, dotar de mobiliario y equipar un edificio para ser utilizado
como sede central del MINEDUC; iii) prestar asistencia tecnica al MINEDUC para
preparar y utilizar manuales administrativos; iv) prestar asistencia tecnica para delegar
autoridad y fortalecer la capacidad de los supervisores locales y regionales y los directores
de escuela; y v) prestar asistencia tecnica en la administraci6n del proyecto.
5.    El costo total del proyecto se estim6 originalmente en US$ 68.0 millones. Los
recursos de prestamo aprobados ascendian a US$ 30.0 millones y el aporte con recursos
locales a un monto de US$ 38.0 millones. La mayor parte de los recursos nacionales se
asign6 al pago de las remuneraciones de los 1,760 maestros que serian contratados para
ampliar la cobertura. El financiamiento local cubriria tambi6n el 20 por ciento del costo de
construir y equipar las aulas, los intereses y otros cargos generados durante la ejecuci6n del
proyecto y el 35 por ciento de la construcci6n, dotaci6n de mobiliario y equipamiento del
edificio sede del MINEDUC.
6.    El SPEB formaba parte de un esfuerzo mas amplio que se complementaba con otros
proyectos y la participaci6n de otras instituciones y paises cooperantes. El MINEDUC
negoci6 durante la etapa de formulaci6n del proyecto, cooperaci6n financiera con caracter
de donaci6n con la USAID para ejecutar el proyecto denominado "Fortalecimiento de la
Educaci6n Basica" y tambien con el gobiemo de Holanda.



7.    En general el disefio del SPEB respondi6 a los objetivos que el gobiemo consider6
prioritarios, tanto en el momento en que el proyecto fue formulado, como durante el
proceso de ejecuci6n, aunque debe indicarse que por las particulares circunstancias que
imperaron durante su implementaci6n, debi6 ser reformulado y readecuado posteriormente
a la capacidad real de ejecuci6n fisica y financiera del gobierno.
Reestructuraci6n del Proyecto
8.    El SPEB tuvo un inicio muy desafortunado. Antes de que el BIRF aprobara que se
habia cumplido con las condiciones previas para la efectividad del prestamo, el pais fue
declarado en situaci6n de "non-accrual" debido al incumplimiento del servicio de la deuda
por parte del gobierno. Como consecuencia de esa situaci6n, el BIRF suspendi6 todas las
operaciones de prestamo con Guatemala, incluyendo el prestamo 3003-GU que financiaba
al SPEB. La efectividad del prestamo no se pudo iniciar sino hasta el 22 de junio de 1993,
despues de que el gobierno regulariz6 sus compromisos de atrasos de la deuda.
9.    El gobiemo de la Repuiblica y el banco decidieron reestructurar el proyecto y el
prestamo, para lo cual se introdujeron modificaciones sustanciales en 1993 y 1994. No
obstante que los objetivos del SPEB continuaron inalterables, se suprimieron algunas
actividades y se redimensionaron y reprogramaron las metas. La fecha de cierre del
proyecto se traslad6 inicialmente al 31 de diciembre de 1995 y mas tarde al 31 de
diciembre de 1998. El costo total del proyecto se redujo de US$ 68.0 millones a US$ 40.0
millones y el monto del prestamo se disminuy6 en US$ 11.2 millones.
10.   El presupuesto para la construccion y equipamiento de aulas se redujo a la mitad; la
meta de construcci6n, dotacion de mobiliario y equipamiento de aulas se disminuy6 desde
las 1,100 aulas iniciales a 500 aulas. El mobiliario y equipo baj6 desde una meta de 2,100
aulas a solainente 1,260. Se convino que se contrarian 1,760 docentes en lugar de los
2,800 iniciales. El subcomponente de educaci6n a distancia se cancel6. Las campafias
publicitarias se redujeron a s6lo dos. El subcomponente de nutrici6n escolar se disminuy6
tambien a la mitad.
11.   Los cambios en la provisi6n de los materiales educativos consistieron en una
disminuci6n de la cantidad y tambien en el tipo libros de texto que se imprimirian y
distribuirian. Se consider6 conveniente financiar la impresi6n y distribuci6n de por lo
menos 156,000 libros de texto bilingiues y 130,000 cuademos de trabajo para la preprimaria
bilingiue desarrollados por PRONEBI. En total, se decidi6 imprimir 972,490 libros de texto
y 1,850,000 cuademos de trabajo, comparados con la meta original de 1,182,000 y
3,000,000 respectivamente Se decidi6 incorporar un nuevo subcomponente para apoyar la
creaci6n de 1,760 microbibiliotecas. De los 3,200 nuevos maestros que se habia previsto se
disminuy6 a 1,760, en tanto que de los 13,000 maestros en servicio que se esperaba
capacitar solamente se incluyeron 2,900. Los siete estudios originalmente considerados se
redujeron a cuatro y se incorpor6 un nuevo estudio cuyo proposito era evaluar el nuevo
programa de "rincones de lectura".
12.   En el componente de mejoramiento de la administracion educativa se eliminaron las
actividades de apoyo al sistema de informaci6n gerencial por considerarse que el proyecto



BEST ya estaba financiando un programa similar. El unico subcomponente cuyo costo se
increment6 fue la construcci6n del edificio central del MINEDUC.
13.   Posteriormente, con el prop6sito de readecuar el presupuesto del proyecto a los
avances alcanzados en el periodo 1990-1996 y tomar en cuenta las nuevas prioridades del
gobierno, en 1997 y 1998 se realiz6 una nueva reasignaci6n de recursos que no alter6
significativamente los componentes y actividades.
Logro de los Objetivos, Resultados y Actividades
14.   A pesar de las dificultades que se presentaron, los objetivos y metas previstos
despues de la reformulaci6n introducida en 1994 fueron en general alcanzados. En algunos
de los componentes incluso se sobrepasaron las metas cuantitativas fijadas. El proyecto
contribuy6 de manera significativa a la ampliaci6n de la cobertura educativa que era su
objetivo principal. No obstante las deficiencias que se registraron en algunas de las
actividades que se ejecutaron para contribuir a mejorar la calidad y eficiencia de la
educaci6n, el prop6sito fue alcanzado. Se logr6 la impresi6n y distribuci6n de una
cantidad considerable de materiales educativos, tanto en espafiol como en idiomas mayas,
se capacitaron a los docentes utilizando diversas modalidades, se distribuyeron uitiles
escolares a los nifios y nifias y se crearon los rincones de lectura. Finalmente, el proyecto
contribuy6 de manera importante a la modernizaci6n y descentralizaci6n del sistema
educativo, apoyando la construcci6n del edificio sede de la planta central del MINEDUC.
15.   La ejecuci6n del proyecto requiri6 de casi nueve anos si se mide desde la
suscripci6n del prestamo en enero de 1990 hasta el cierre final en diciembre de 1998. Sin
embargo, si se toma en consideraci6n la inactividad de los desembolsos del prestamo
durante casi dos afios y medio, debido a factores ajenos al proyecto y se toma como inicio
la fecha de efectividad del prestamo en junio de 1993, la duraci6n real de la
implementaci6n del proyecto fue de s6lo cinco afios y seis meses.
16.   En el disenlo original del proyecto se perseguia ampliar la cobertura de la educaci6n
primaria mediante tres acciones estrategicas: i) aumentar la capacidad fisica escolar
mediante la construcci6n de aulas en los centros poblados donde no se contaba con
instalaciones educativas;  ii) utilizar mas intensivamente la infraestructura existente
introduciendo una doble jomada; y iii) utilizar la radio y otras modalidades de educaci6n a
distancia para que los nifios pudieran completar la educaci6n primaria.  De estas tres
acciones se ejecutaron las dos primeras. La tercera fue suprimida en la reformulaci6n del
proyecto de 1994.
17.   La ejecuci6n y supervisi6n de la construcci6n de aulas estuvo a cargo de la UCEE
mediante el sistema de contratos con empresas privadas. Se licitaron y suscribieron 32
contratos para la edificaci6n de 541 aulas. De este total se lograron terminar 504 aulas,
incluyendo la construcci6n de 80 escuelas completas. Al final del proyecto solamente se
registr6 el incumplimiento de dos empresas contratistas. La meta fijada en el proyecto de
construir 500 aulas fue ligeramente sobrepasada. Para comprobar la calidad de las escuelas
construidas por la UCEE y verificar que se hubieran cumplido con las especificaciones y
criterios del proyecto, el MINEDUC contrat6 a tres empresas independientes que realizaron



una inspecci6n y evaluaci6n fisica y documental. Esas evaluaciones mostraron que en
general las escuelas se ajustaban a las especificaciones acordadas en los contratos, aunque
se detectaron deficiencias menores que afectaban a la calidad de las propias construcciones,
asi como irregularidades de tipo administrativo relacionadas con el incumplimiento de las
normas contractuales pactadas. En opini6n de las firmas evaluadoras, la mayoria de las
deficiencias eran atribuibles a la falta de una adecuada supervisi6n por parte de la UCEE y
de la UCEP.
18.   La jornada vespertina constituy6 una estrategia para incrementar la cobertura
educativa mediante el uso de la infraestructura escolar existente, lo que permiti6 reducir los
costos en la apertura de servicios y aprovechar al maximo los espacios educativos
disponibles. El total de puestos creados para docentes de lajomada vespertina fue de 1,509,
cifra que super6 los 1,260 puestos que se habia establecido como meta del proyecto.
19.   La contrataci6n de maestros represent6 el costo mas elevado dentro del proyecto
pues se estima que ascendi6 a US$ 17.3 millones durante el periodo 1994-1998. En total se
incorporaron 1,839 nuevos docentes, lo que signific6 sobrepasar la meta de 1,760 maestros
fijada por el proyecto. De ese total 1,509 correspondieron a la jornada vespertina y 330 a la
jornada matutina.
20.   Con recursos del SPEB se fmanci6 la compra y distribuci6n de mobiliario y equipo.
El mobiliario adquirido cubri6 2,540 aulas, incluyendo las construidas por la UCEE, las
escuelas atendidas por PRONADE y las aulas donde funciona la jomada vespertina. El
nOmero de juegos de silla y mesa para los estudiantes fue de 75,302. Las catedras y sillas
para el uso de los maestros ascendieron a un total de 2,540. Adicionalmente, se entregaron
2,028 pizarrones para el uso en el aula. Estos resultados sobrepasaron la meta del proyecto
que solamente previ6 el amoblamiento de 1,760 aulas.
21.   La contribuci6n del proyecto en la provisi6n de textos y materiales educativos fue
considerable. Se imprimi6 y distribuy6 1,696,680 libros de texto para 10, 20, y 30 grados
del nivel primario, para las asignaturas de matematica, lenguaje, ciencias naturales y
estudios sociales. Asimismo, se entregaron 463,160 libros de texto y 31,970 guias
didacticas en idiomas mayas. Se produjeron 304,619 libros de apoyo de los cuales 54,000
se refieren al tema de la intercultarilidad, 200,000 de lectura, 32,619 para matematica y
18,000 constituciones politicas de la Republica. A finales de 1998 se imprimieron 12,000
libros de historia. Para apoyar los programas de capacitaci6n de los maestros se imprimi6 y
distribuy6 un total de 56,110 manuales y guias docentes. Ademas, con recursos del SPEB
se redactaron, revisaron e ilustraron los prototipos de 25 textos, incluyendo un texto de
aprestamiento para el nivel preprimario, y seis (6) textos para matematica, estudios
sociales, ciencias naturales e idioma espaniol, para cada uno de los grados de educaci6n
primaria. Estos textos denominados "Caminos a la Excelencia" fueron impresos y
distribuidos en 1998 con financiamiento propio del MINEDUC a todos los alumnos de las
escuelas oficiales del pais.
22.   Una de las modalidades para capacitar a los docentes en servicio apoyado por el
SPEB fue el programa de "diplomado" con el que se esperaba capacitar hasta un maximo
de 3.000 maestros en un periodo de 16 meses, aunque posteriormente esa meta se redujo a



800 docentes. La actividad estuvo a cargo de la URL, que fue seleccionada despues de un
proceso de concurso en el que participaron otras universidades del pais. A pesar de que
durante la ejecuci6n del programa se trat6 de corregir una serie de deficiencias, el
programa registr6 un baj6 nivel de inscripci6n y un alto grado de deserci6n. De un total de
447 docentes inscritos, solamente obtuvieron el diplomado 279 maestros. El costo por
maestro graduado result6 excesivamente elevado.
23.   El SPEB apoyo tambien la capacitaci6n de maestros con un modelo tecnico-
administrativo que sigue el sistema de cascada denominado circulos de calidad docente,
mediante el cual fueron capacitados tres niveles, dos tecnicos y uno docente. En total se
capacitaron bajo esa modalidad con la participaci6n de SIMAC y PRONEBI a 2,842
docentes, de los cuales 1,760 fueron maestros de nuevo ingreso al sistema y 1,082 en
servicio. La capacitaci6n consisti6 en siete m6dulos sobre diferentes areas del desempeno
en el aula y organizaci6n escolar para la implementaci6n del modelo.
24.   La creaci6n de los rincones de lectura consisti6 en la adquisici6n y entrega de 2,188
microbibliotecas a igual nuimero de escuelas que desarrollan la metodologia activa,
superando asi en 428 a la meta del proyecto. Ademas, se distribuyeron un total de 1,709
rotafolios y 1,652 libreras para equipar a las escuelas construidas con fmanciamiento del
proyecto y las que fueron seleccionadas para establecer la jomada vespertina. Asimismo,
se capacitaron a los nuevos maestros en el manejo y uso de las microbibliotecas.
25.   El proyecto incluy6 la provisi6n de bolsas minimas de uitiles escolares a todos los
nifios y nifias inscritos en 12,082 escuelas oficiales en el ciclo escolar 1998. En total se
entregaron 1,355,878 bolsas a igual nuimero de alumnos de los niveles de preprimaria y
primaria. El SPEB apoy6 los esfuerzos para promover la educaci6n de la nifia. Para ese
efecto se imprimieron y distribuyeron 40,888 libros, 15,000 trifoliares, 2,000 afiches, 1,000
rotafolios, 1,000 manuales para el maestro, 3,000 blocs, 5,000 libros en cinco idiomas y
1,950 guias en idioma k'iche'. Como parte del apoyo prestado por el SPEB a PRONDADE
adernas del mobiliario entregado, se distribuyeron en las escuelas apoyadas por ese
programa un total de 2,028 pizarrones y se financi6 un seminario sobre innovaciones
educativas.
26.   Se elaboraron los estudios siguientes: i) validaci6n de los libros de texto elaborados
por SIMAC para las asignaturas de matematica e idioma espafiol para primero, segundo y
tercer grado; ii) se contrat6 a la URL para la elaboraci6n, traducci6n y diagramaci6n de
libros de texto bilingiue; iii) se prepar6 un estudio para evaluar el programa de jornada
vespertina a cargo de la UPE y apoyar la identificaci6n de necesidades educativas a ser
incluidas en un proyecto de cooperaci6n con recursos no reembolsables del Jap6n; y iv) se
elaboraron criterios para evaluar experiencias educativas innovadoras.
27.   La construcci6n del edificio sede de las oficinas centrales del MINEDUC es uno de
los logros mas significativos alcanzados por el proyecto, por su impacto en el mejoramiento
de la coordinaci6n, operaci6n y eficiencia del MINEDUC. El ministerio decidi6 la
restauraci6n de un edificio localizado en la zona 10, que se encontraba subutilizado como
centro de ensefianza de nivel secundario. El proyecto financi6 tanto el disefio como la
construcci6n, restauraci6n y equipamiento del edificio. A pesar de los atrasos, la obra fue



completada satisfactoriamente. El area techada total del edificio comprende 5,426 metros
cuadrados, de los cuales 3,397 metros corresponden al area restaurada y 2,029 metros a las
nuevas areas construidas. El equipamiento del edificio incluye 310 puestos de trabajo con
m6dulos diferenciados.
28.   Para promover la participaci6n de las comunidades en el proceso de reforma
educativa, el SPEB financi6 la organizaci6n de once (11) seminarios departamentales -uno
por cada departamento- en el que participaron los diferentes actores del proceso educativo:
padres de familia, docentes, administradores, tecnicos y otros sectores de la sociedad civil.
Estos eventos permitieron al MINEDUC promover consensos y obtener importante
informaci6n para apoyar la reforma educativa. Adicionalmente, los foros fueron utilizados
para divulgar los compromisos educativos incluidos en los acuerdos de paz.
29.   El proyecto financi6 varios estudios para apoyar la modernizaci6n del MINEDUC:
i) con el apoyo de ASIES se llev6 a cabo un estudio piloto en siete municipios para
establecer los consejos locales de educaci6n y se realiz6 un estudio sobre la
descentralizaci6n de la educaci6n; ii) se elabor6 un estudio inicial de necesidades de
mapeo escolar; y iii) se apoyo la actividad de seguimiento y evaluaci6n de los jurados de
oposici6n.
30.   El SPEB contribuy6 a superar los efectos causados en la infraestructura escolar en
1998 por la tormenta tropical "Mitch", mediante una evaluaci6n de 311 centros educativos
oficiales que resultaron dafiados. La evaluaci6n incluy6 la determinaci6n del presupuesto
para rehabilitar o reconstruir totalmente cada una las escuelas, segun el caso.
Implementaci6n y Sostenibilidad del Proyecto
31.   El SPEB fue ejecutado utilizando modalidades descentralizadas. Las actividades
fueron desarrolladas casi en su totalidad mediante la contrataci6n de bienes y servicios con
empresas privadas y entidades no gubemamentales.
32.   El MINEDUC solicit6 la asistencia tecnica del PNUD, la que se concret6 a partir
de 1994 y se extendi6 hasta la finalizaci6n del proyecto. Esa organizaci6n actu6 como
administrador de la mayoria de los recursos y asumi6 la mayoria de los procesos de
licitaci6n y contrataci6n, asistencia tecnica y capacitaci6n. La intervenci6n del PNUD
puede considerarse exitosa, pues contribuy6 de manera decisiva a la ejecuci6n del proyecto.
La participaci6n del PNUD favorecio una total transparencia en la administraci6n de la
operaci6n.
33,   Los resultados alcanzados por el SPEB han mostrado un alto grado de sostenibilidad
y de replicabilidad. Las aulas construidas estan siendo utilizadas normalmente dentro del
sistema educativo, al igual que el mobiliario y equipo adquirido por el proyecto para el uso
de los docentes y alumnos, La jornada vespertina ha operado satisfactoriamente en la
mayoria de los casos y el MINEDUC ha tomado en cuenta la experiencia del SPEB para
adoptar mas intensivamente esa estrategia. La producci6n y distribuci6n de libros de texto
ha cobrado un gran impulso.



34.   El proceso de modernizaci6n del MINEDUC, que era uno de los objetivos del
SPEB, se ha fortalecido. El SPEB contribuy6 a los esfuerzos de las autoridades para
generar una nueva dinamica, que incluye la redefinici6n de las fimciones del ministerio a
nivel central y departamental.
Administraci6n y Gerencia del Proyecto
35.   El proyecto estuvo a cargo de una unidad administrativa creada dentro del
MINEDUC. La direcci6n del proyecto oper6 de manera muy distinta de la planificada. La
inexistencia de un comite directivo y la vinculaci6n directa del coordinador de la UCEP
con el despacho ministerial, dio lugar a un estilo de gerencia excesivamente centralizado, lo
que no permiti6 un adecuado apropiamiento del proyecto por parte de las unidades
ejecutoras. La UCEP desvirtu6 su papel de coordinadora del proyecto y se transform6 en
una unidad ejecutora. El cambio constante de coordinadores de la UCEP y del personal
tecnico no favoreci6 la administraci6n del proyecto. La UCEP no prest6 el suficiente apoyo
tecnico a los diferentes componentes. Los puestos contemplados en la estructura
organizacional no se cubrieron y el manual de operaciones no se puso en practica lo que
provoc6 un bajo nivel de gerencia y eficiencia operativa. Estas insuficiencias fueron en
gran parte corregidas en los iltimos afios del proyecto.
36.   Durante su uiltimo afno de ejecuci6n, el proyecto financi6 el funcionamiento de
cuatro gerencias ministeriales: i) Modernizaci6n; ii) Calidad de la Educaci6n; iii) Paz; y iv)
Comunicaci6n. Las gerencias plantearon e impulsaron el proceso de reforma educativa
desde la perspectiva tecnica y administrativa.
Aspectos Financieros
37.   El costo total del proyecto, incluyendo las remuneraciones pagadas a los maestros
ascendi6 a US$ 39.0 millones. El gobierno aport6 US$ 20.8 millones (53.4%) y el BIRF
US$18.8 millones (46.6%). El componente "A" cuyo objetivo era aumentar la matricula
escolar neta requiri6 la mayor asignaci6n de recursos (US$ 30.0 millones). El componente
"B" orientado a mejorar la calidad y eficiencia de la educaci6n primaria incluy6 gastos de
US$ 2.7 millones para la provisi6n de textos y materiales educativos y US$ 0.4 millones
para la capacitaci6n de maestros. En el componente "C" que perseguia mejorar la
administracion de la educaci6n se asignaron US$ 2.9 millones para la restauraci6n,
construcci6n parcial y equipamiento del edificio central del MINEDUC y US$ 0.3 millones
para gastos de operaci6n de la UCEP. El monto reestructurado del prestamo de US$ 18.8
millones fue utilizado casi en su totalidad.
Conclusiones y Recomendaciones
38.   Considerados en su conjunto, los objetivos y metas del SPEB, tal y como fueron
reformulados en 1994, fueron alcanzados. Algunos de los componentes incluso
sobrepasaron las metas fijadas. Aun con los desfases iniciales, el proyecto signific6 una
contribuci6n importante a la soluci6n de la problematica educativa de Guatemala, en
especial al aumento de la cobertura escolar.



39.   Debido a las demoras que el proyecto confront6 en la fase inicial de ejecuci6n,
principalmente durante los cuatro primeros afios, no se acompafi6 de una manera adecuada
por las dependencias del ministerio. La UCEP funcion6 durante un largo periodo como si
tuviera "vida propia" virtualmente al margen de la organizaci6n del MINEDUC. La UCEP
no disponia de la capacidad tecnica necesaria, en gran parte por la misma desvinculaci6n
con el resto del MINEDUC.
40.  La introduccion de la jomada vespertina en el area rural y urbano-marginal ha
logrado incidir favorablemente en muchas comunidades del pais; sin embargo, para evitar
los problemas detectados debe mejorarse el sistema para identificar y seleccionar a las
escuelas tomando en cuenta la ubicaci6n de la escuela, la poblaci6n escolar desatendida, el
acceso del edificio escolar y otros factores, asi como realizar campafias previas de
promoci6n y sensibilizaci6n dirigidas a los padres de familia.
41.   La asistencia tecnica prestada fue valiosa, ya que permiti6 elaborar diversos
estudios de base, entre ellos los de descentralizaci6n del ministerio, el de participaci6n
comunitaria y otros.
42.   Una de las limitaciones del SPEB consisti6 en que nunca se plante6 una evaluaci6n
que partiera de una linea base para establecer el impacto real de los diversos componentes e
intervenciones. Tampoco logr6 establecer un   sistema efectivo y sistematico de
programaci6n, seguimiento, monitoreo y control de las actividades realizadas.
43.   El SPEB debi6 enfrentar una serie de problemas, incluyendo el hecho de haberse
ejecutado durante la gesti6n de cuatro gobiemos y el cambio constante de autoridades del
MINEDUC, de coordinadores de la UCEP e incluso de los oficiales del BIRF.
44.   La ejecuci6n del proyecto permiti6 una mejor definici6n de los componentes y las
actividades que posteriormente se incorporaron al nuevo proyecto de reforma a la
educaci6n bAsica, mejorar la comunicaci6n entre el MINEDUC y el BIRF y establecer
procedimientos y procesos que facilitaran operaciones futuras.
45.   Una lecci6n de caracter general que se puede extraer del SPEB, es la necesidad y
conveniencia que los proyectos respaldados por la cooperaci6n financiera internacional se
basen en diagn6sticos y politicas compartidas. Los proyectos se deben formular y ejecutar
de una forma cooperativa y ser el resultado de un dialogo abierto entre el gobiemo y las
entidades cooperantes. En tal sentido, la formulaci6n del SPEB se bas6 en el "Proyecto de
Educaci6n Minimat" elaborado por el MINEDUC por intermedio de USIPE.
46.   El BIRF debiera poner a disposici6n y compartir con el pais las amplias
experiencias que posee dado su ambito mundial y evitar que se impulsen componentes o
actividades que despues se cancelan por resultar inadecuados. En tal sentido debe haber
una relaci6n mas estrecha entre los programas que ahora se respaldan y los esfuerzos que se
hagan en el futuro



47.   Es conveniente, tanto para la instituci6n que financia el proyecto, como para el
gobierno, mantener una actitud flexible para realizar los ajustes y adecuar el proyecto a las
circunstancias necesariamente cambiantes de este tipo de proyectos.
48.   Previo a la formulaci6n de nuevos proyectos, es necesario evaluar los anteriores y
hacer estudios sobre lineas base que permitan una posterior evaluacion y monitoreo de
resultados
49.   Para asegurar una ejecuci6n efectiva de los proyectos, el MINEDUC debe realizar
los menores cambios posibles, mantener un programa permanente de capacitaci6n de los
profesionales y tecnicos y proveer los estimulos necesarios para retener al personal
calificado con el que cuenta.
50.   El personal del BIRF a cargo del seguimiento y monitoreo de los proyectos deberia
privilegiar y apoyar con mayor atenci6n los aspectos sustantivos, en lugar de centrar su
preocupaci6n en el mayor o menor monto de desembolsos de recursos del prestamo.






INFORME FINAL Y EVALUACION DEL SEGUNDO PROYECTO DE
EDUCACION BASICA
I.    Disefno Original del Proyecto.
El Segundo Proyecto de Educaci6n Basica -SPEB- fue formulado en 1988, pero la
suscripci6n del prestamo con el BIRF (3003-GU) que financiaria parcialmente el proyecto
no se llev6 a cabo sino hasta el 10 de enero de 1990. El 10 de abril de 1990 se estableci6
como la fecha de entrada en vigor a partir de la cual se podian iniciar los desembolsos del
prestamo, una vez que el gobiemo cumpliera con las condiciones de efectividad que se
indican en el convenio. El cierre del prestarno se fij6 para el 30 de junio de 1995. Como se
vera mas adelante en el desarrollo de este informne, esta programaci6n fue alterada
significativamente por eventos ajenos al proyecto.
1.1   Antecedentes de proyectos financiados por el BIRF en el sector educacion. El
sector educaci6n de Guatemala ha contado con el respaldo financiero del BIRF desde 1968.
El SPEB constituye el quinto proyecto destinado a financiar este sector por parte del BIRF.
El primer prestamo (576-GU), por un monto de US$ 6.3 millones, se suscribi6 en
diciembre de 1968 y se finaliz6 en octubre de 1975. La segunda operaci6n de prestamo por
un total de US$ 14.5 millones se ejecut6 entre 1976 y 1984 (1212-GU). El tercer prestamo
se aprob6 por US$ 4.2 millones y abarc6 el periodo entre 1976 y 1980 (1314-GU). Al
cuarto proyecto (2328-GU), que se le denomin6 Primer Proyecto de Educaci6n Basica, se
le asign6 un total de recursos de prestamo de US$ 18.5 millones y se ejecut6 entre 1983 y
1988. Las evaluaciones posteriores que se realizaron sobre estos proyectos, mostraron que
en general alcanzaron los objetivos fijados, aunque en algunos casos se presentaron
demoras considerables y se evidenci6 una debil capacidad de ejecuci6n por parte de las
dependencias responsables.
1.2   Situaci6n del sector educaci6n en 1988: contexto del proyecto. El documento de
proyectol (SAR), basado en informaci6n estadistica de 1985, present6 un diagn6stico
general del sector educaci6n que se puede resumir en los siguientes aspectos: i) altos
indices de analfabetismo (47%); ii) bajo nivel educativo de la poblaci6n econ6micamente
activa (alrededor del 88% no contaba con ninguna educaci6n formal o solamente pocos
afios de educaci6n primaria); iii) bajo nivel de cobertura neta de la educaci6n primaria
(63%), especialmente en el area rural (53%); iv) ineficiencia del sistema educativo (18 afios
en promedio se requerian para graduar un alumno de la escuela primaria); y v) limitaciones
financieras y deficiencias en la gesti6n del sector afectaban la operaci6n efectiva y el
desarrollo del sistema educativo, en particular debido a la excesiva centralizaci6n de todos
los procesos administrativos del MINEDUC, a la falta de un adecuado sistema de
informaci6n y al insuficiente personal capacitado.
1.3   Objetivos y estrategias del SPEB. Segun se indica en el SAR del proyecto, los
objetivos y estrategias respondian a las orientaciones generales fijadas por el gobiemo
respecto a: i) el pago de la deuda social; ii) alcanzar una mejor integraci6n de los pobres en
1 The World Bank (1988). Staff Appraisal Report, Guatemala, Second Basic Education Project.
Report No. 7004.GU



el proceso de desarrollo, mediante el incremento de su productividad y el mejoramiento del
acceso a los servicios basicos, incluyendo educaci6n; y iii) la descentralizaci6n del sector
publico en las ocho regiones en que fue dividido el pais. Asimismo, el proyecto se
vinculaba en terminos mas especificos al Plan Nacional de Educaci6n que proponia tres
prioridades: i) la erradicaci6n del analfabetismo por medio de la educaci6n primaria y de
adultos; ii) el fortalecimiento de los vinculos entre educaci6n y trabajo; y iii) la
regionalizaci6n de la administracion de la educaci6n. La Ley de Educaci6n Nacional --
entonces en proceso de aprobaci6n-- y el documento "Filosofia, Politicas y Estrategias
Educativas 1986-1990" del MINEDUC, definian las prioridades del sector de la manera
siguiente: i) mejoramiento de la administraci6n y gesti6n en todos los niveles del sistema;
ii) participaci6n de las comunidades; iii) adopci6n de un proceso continuo de reforma
curricular y capacitaci6n de maestros; iv) definici6n de modalidades de regionalizaci6n y
descentralizaci6n; v) apoyo a grupos marginales por medio de programas nutricionales,
uitiles escolares, libros de texto y materiales didacticos; vi) apoyo al programa nacional de
educaci6n bilinguie; vii) promoci6n de un programa sistematico de erradicaci6n del
analfabetismo; y viii) atenci6n de las necesidades de los nifios entre 6 y 9 afios, por medio
de la expansi6n de la cobertura. En los planes indicados el gobierno asign6 la mas alta
prioridad a los primeros afnos de la educaci6n primaria y fij6 como meta para 1991 la
provisi6n de un minimo de cuatro afios de educaci6n a por lo menos el 80 por ciento de la
poblaci6n entre los 6 y 9 afios.
En concordancia con esos objetivos y estrategias, el proyecto perseguia: i) aumentar la
matricula escolar neta de la educaci6n primaria; ii) mejorar la calidad y eficiencia de la
preprimaria y los tres primeros grados de primaria; y iii) mejorar la administraci6n
educativa.
1.4   Descripci6n de los componentes y actividades del proyecto. El proyecto
contemplaba originalmente un disenlo relativamente sencillo integrado por tres
componentes y los subcomponentes y actividades siguientes:
El componente "A" tenia como objetivo aumentar la matricula escolar neta mediante
cuatro subcomponentes:
A. 1   El aumento de la capacidad escolar por medio de:
*  Construcci6n, dotaci6n de mobiliario y equipo de 1,100 aulas adicionales en
escuelas existentes, incluidas 110 aulas para educaci6n bilingiue.
*  Reparaci6n, dotaci6n de mobiliario o equipamiento de 2,100 aulas existentes
para introducir la jomada vespertina, incluyendo 210 para educaci6n bilingile.
.  Contrataci6n de 3,200 nuevos maestros, de los cuales un minimo de 320
deberian ser maestros bilingiies. Del total, 1,100 maestros serian nombrados en
la jornada matutina en las nuevas aulas construidas por el proyecto y 2,100 en la
jornada vespertina.
A.2   La ejecuci6n de un programa de educaci6n primaria a distancia para atender a 4,500
estudiantes en los grados del 4° al 6°. Este programa incluia la adquisici6n y
utilizaci6n de material didactico y otros insumos para fortalecer el Programa



Nacional de Educaci6n de Adultos. Previo a desarrollar este subcomponente se
estim6 necesario preparar un estudio para determinar las opciones y estrategias mas
eficaces de esta modalidad educativa.
A.3   La realizaci6n de campafias publicitarias anuales con el prop6sito de sensibilizar a la
poblaci6n sobre cuatro temas: i) matriculaci6n temprana de todos los nifios, en
especial de los nifios mayahablantes; ii) promoci6n de la educaci6n multigrado; iii)
movilizaci6n de la participaci6n comunitaria en la construcci6n de aulas; y iv)
promoci6n de la educaci6n a distancia para los tres ultimos grados de primaria.
A.4   El apoyo a los programas de nutrici6n en las escuelas, incluida la construcci6n de
bodegas y cocinas para unas 500 escuelas rurales.
El Componente "B" pretendia mejorar la calidad y eficiencia de los tres primeros grados de
la educaci6n primaria por medio de los subcomponentes siguientes:
B. 1   Proporcionar un total de 4,613,00 ejemplares de materiales educativos, entre libros
de texto para los alumnos y manuales para los maestros, ademas de litiles escolares
conforme a la distribuci6n siguiente:
* Elaborar, publicar y distribuir 380,000 libros de texto para preprimaria.
* Imprimir y distribuir 666,000 nuevos libros de texto para primer grado, 281,000
para el segundo grado y 235,000 para el tercer grado.
. Imprimir y distribuir por lo menos 15,000 manuales para los maestros y
3,036,000 cuademos de trabajo de matematica y espafiol.
*  Suministrar utiles adicionales para 2,500 aulas y 780,000 nifios.
Los materiales anteriores deberian haber incluido como minimo 200,000 libros de
texto y 225,000 cuademos de trabajo para la educaci6n bilingiue.
B.2   Capacitar a un total de 16,000 maestros, de los cuales 3,200 deberian ser nuevos
maestros y 12,800 maestros en servicio.
B.3   Elaborar siete (7) estudios para los fines siguientes:
Mejorar la capacitaci6n de los maestros.
* Reformar los planes de estudio.
* Ampliar los programa de educaci6n bilingue.
* Disefiar tecnicas de evaluaci6n de los estudiantes, incluyendo la definici6n de
estandares de promoci6n.
Mejorar los metodos de fabricaci6n y mantenimiento del mobiliario escolar.
Utilizar tecnicas locales en la construcci6n de aulas y evaluar la participaci6n
de la comunidad en la construcci6n de aulas del proyecto.
* Mejorar el mantenimiento de los edificios escolares.
El componente "C" estaba enfocado a mejorar la administraci6n del sistema educativo por
medio de cinco subcomponentes:



C. 1   Fortalecimiento de la capacidad gerencial del MINEDUC mediante la capacitaci6n
de administradores y planificadores regionales y el apoyo para mejorar el sistema de
informaci6n.
C.2   Construir, dotar de mobiliario y equipar un edificio para ser utilizado como sede
central del MINEDUC.
C.3   Prestar asistencia tecnica al MINEDUC  para preparar y utilizar manuales
administrativos.
C.4   Prestar asistencia tecnica al MINEDUC para delegar autoridad y fortalecer la
capacidad de los supervisores locales y regionales y los directores de escuela.
C.5   Prestar asistencia tecnica en la administraci6n del proyecto incluyendo el
establecimiento, la organizaci6n y el funcionamiento de la Unidad Coordinadora del
proyecto -UCEP; la preparaci6n y seguimiento de programa anual de trabajo; la
preparaci6n de los informes sobre el proyecto; y la revisi6n del manual de
operaciones.
1. 5   Costos y financiamiento. El costo total del proyecto incluyendo contingencias
fisicas y de precios e intereses generados durante la ej ecucion se estim6 originalmente en
US$ 68.0 millones. Los recursos de prestamo aprobados ascendian a US$ 30.0 millones, lo
que permitiria financiar con recursos extemos el 44 por ciento del costo del proyecto. El
credito del BIRF incluy6 US$ 3.1 millones que serian utilizados para el financiamiento de
los intereses generados por el propio prestamo durante el periodo de ejecuci6n. Tambien se
previeron US$ 5.3 millones de costos en concepto de contingencias (fisicas y de precios).
El aporte con recursos locales ascendia a un monto de US$ 38.0 millones, equivalente al 56
por ciento del costo total del proyecto. La mayor parte de los recursos nacionales (US 25.7
millones) se asign6 al pago de las remuneraciones de los 1,760 nuevos maestros que serfan
contratados para ampliar la cobertura de los servicios educativos, tanto en la jornada
matutina como en la vespertina. El financiamiento local cubriria tambien el 20 por ciento
del costo de construir y equipar las aulas (US$ 3.2 millones), los intereses y otros cargos
generados durante la ejecuci6n del proyecto (US$ 4.4 millones) y el 35 por ciento (US$ 1.6
millones) de la construcci6n, dotaci6n de mobiliario y equipamiento del edificio sede del
MINEDUC. A continuaci6n se presenta la asignaci6n de recursos por categorias de
inversi6n y fuente de financiamiento:



SEGUNDO PROYECTO DE EDUCACION BASICA
COSTOS POR CATEGORIAS DE INVERSION, SEGUN FUENTE FINANCIERA
(Millones de US d6lares)
Prestamo    Recursos
Categorias de Inversi6n       Costo Total  3003-GU       loculs
3003-GU      locales
1. Construcci6n y equipamiento de aulas  14.2         11.0        3.2
2. Construcci6n y equipamiento del
edificio central del MINEDUC          4.5         2.9          1.6
3. Bienes (excluyendo libros de texto)    2.9         2.5          0.4
4. Libros de texto                        5.9         5.3          0.6
5. Capacitaci6n                           2.0         0.8          1.2
6. Asistenciatecnica                      1.1         1,1          0.0
7. Costos de operaci6n                    0.6         0.5          0.1
8. Salarios de maestros                  25.7         0.0         25.7
9. Intereses y otros cargos               7.5         3.1         4.4
10. Contingencias de precios              3.6         2.8         0.8
Total                                    68.0         30.0        38.0
En orden de importancia, el plan financiero original asignaba el 70.5 por ciento de los
recursos a la expansi6n de la capacidad escolar, el 12.3 por ciento a la provisi6n de
materiales educativos, el 9.4 por ciento al fortalecimiento de la administraci6n educativa en
el nivel central -principalmente a la construcci6n del edificio del MINEDUC- y el 3.5 por
ciento a la capacitaci6n de maestros. El restante 4.3 por ciento se distribuia entre los demas
componentes.
1.6   Aspectos organizativos y de administraci6n. El proyecto contemplaba que la
implementaci6n de las actividades seria realizada dentro de la estructura organizacional
existente del gobierno, tanto por medio de las direcciones y otras dependencias del
MINEDUC que estaban directamnente relacionadas con los componentes del proyecto,
como por la UCEE, entidad dependiente del Ministerio de Comunicaciones, Transporte y
Obras Puiblicas, en lo que correspondia a la construcci6n y equipamiento de aulas y a la
construcci6n del edificio del MINEDUC.   El objetivo era fortalecer la capacidad



institucional existente aprovechando la experiencia ganada en operaciones previas,
especialmente con el Primer Proyecto de Educaci6n Basica. En el SAR se habia previsto la
organizaci6n de una pequefia unidad coordinadora para la implementaci6n del proyecto -
UCEP- dirigida por el Director General de Educaci6n -DGE-. En el convenio de prestamo
se acord6 que la UCEP formaria parte de la DGE y que seria administrada por un
coordinador y dotada del personal tecnico necesario.
1.7   Cooperaci6n financiera de otras fuentes. El SPEB formaba parte de un esfuerzo
mas amplio del MINEDUC, que se complementaba con otros proyectos y la participaci6n
de otras instituciones y paises cooperantes. Para enfrentar la problematica de la educaci6n
primaria rural, ademas de los recursos previstos en el pr6stamo del BIRF, el MINEDUC
negoci6 durante la etapa de formulaci6n del proyecto, la movilizaci6n de cooperaci6n
financiera con caracter de donaci6n con la Agencia de los Estados Unidos de America para
el Desarrollo  Intemacional -USAID-   para ejecutar el proyecto  denominado
"Fortalecimiento de la Educaci6n Basica" (BEST, por sus siglas en ingles) y tambien con
el gobiemo de Holanda. La distribuci6n de responsabilidades que deberia atender cada uno
de los proyectos indicados, determin6 que el SPEB otorgara un mayor enfasis a los
aspectos de cobertura, mientras que el BEST se hizo cargo de los factores cualitativos de la
educaci6n, en particular de la introducci6n de modalidades educativas innovadoras.
Asimismo, ambos proyectos pretendian fortalecer institucionalmente al MINEDUC en su
papel de entidad rectora de la educaci6n nacional por medio de componentes que se
apoyaban y complementaban. El gobiemo de Holanda, por su parte, habia comprometido
recursos que se otorgarian en concepto de donaci6n para cofinanciar algunas de las
actividades previstas en el SPEB, concretamente la capacitaci6n de los maestros. La
administraci6n de los recursos de Holanda seria confiada al BIRF. Por esta raz6n, en el
prestamo del BIRF solamente se previ6 el financiamiento de un 40 por ciento del costo
estimado de esa actividad y se confi6 que los recursos provenientes de Holanda cubririan la
contrapartida restante del 60 por ciento.
1.8   Validez del disefio original y congruencia del proyecto con la problemitica
educativa. Si el SPEB se analiza desde una visi6n retrospectiva, puede afirmarse que en
general su disefio respondi6 a los objetivos que el gobierno consider6 prioritarios, tanto en
el momento en que el proyecto fue formulado, como durante el proceso de ejecuci6n,
aunque debe indicarse que por las particulares circunstancias que imperaron durante su
implementaci6n -crisis recurrentes de las finanzas publicas, en especial durante el periodo
1990-1992- debi6 ser refonnulado y readecuado posteriornente a la capacidad real de
ejecuci6n fisica y financiera del gobierno. MAn mas, la problematica a cuya soluci6n
perseguia contribuir parcialmente -el bajo nivel de la cobertura de los servicios pudblicos de
educaci6n primaria en el area rural y la modernizaci6n del MINEDUC, que concentraba la
mayoria de los recursos del proyecto- se mantuvo como uno de los desafios mas
importantes del sector educaci6n durante toda la presente decada. Lo anterior se evidencia
en los diagn6sticos y en los planes de gobiemo posteriores a la formulaci6n del proyecto,
entre ellos el "Plan de Acci6n de Desarrollo Social 1996-2000" y el "Plan de Acci6n de
Desarrollo Social y Construcci6n de la Paz", cuyos objetivos basicos coinciden con los del
SPEB. Adicionalmente, el Acuerdo sobre Aspectos Socioecon6micos y Situaci6n Agraria,
suscrito por el gobiemo de la RepuTblica y la Unidad Revolucionaria Nacional Guatemalteca
-URNG- en mayo de 1996 en el marco de los acuerdos de paz, ratific6, entre otros



aspectos, la importancia de aumentar la cobertura del sistema educativo de manera que se
facilitara el acceso de toda la poblaci6n entre 7 y 12 afnos de edad a por lo menos tres afios
de escolaridad, antes del afio 2,000.
II.   Reestructuracion del Proyecto
2.1   Efectos de la crisis financiera del periodo 1990-1992. El SPEB tuvo un inicio
muy desafortunado. Antes de que el BIRF aprobara que el MINEDUC habia cumplido con
las condiciones previas para la efectividad del prestamo, y por tanto comenzara el
desembolso de los recursos, el pais fue declarado en situaci6n de "non-accrual" por el
banco debido al incumplimiento en el pago del servicio de la deuda por parte del gobiemo.
Como consecuencia de esa situaci6n, el BIRF suspendi6 todas las operaciones de prestamo
con Guatemala, incluyendo el prestamo 3003-GU que financiaba al SPEB. La efectividad
del prestamo no se pudo iniciar sino hasta el 22 de junio de 1993, despues de que el
gobiemo regulariz6 sus compromisos de atrasos de la deuda. Entretanto, transcurrieron
mas de dos anos y tres meses desde la fecha de suscripci6n del prestamo. Se debe resaltar
que durante el periodo de inactividad del prestamo, la Unidad de Gerencia de Proyectos
creada mediante acuerdo ministerial para coordinar la ejecuci6n de proyectos con
financiamiento extemo, y de la cual formaba parte la UCEP, llev6 a cabo importantes
avances tecnicos, juntamente con la USIPE en lo que se refiere a la identificaci6n de
necesidades de construcci6n de aulas, la Direcci6n General de Educaci6n de Adultos en lo
relativo a la propuesta de educaci6n a distancia para nifios y PRONEBI en la revisi6n de
materiales educativos bilingues. El MINEDUC financi6 durante esos a-nos un equipo de
cinco profesionales y tecnicos que conformaban la UCEP, pero que desafortunadamente fue
disuelto cuando se produjo el primer cambio de coordinador. No obstante, se lograron
pocos avances en la ejecuci6n del proyecto, debido a las dificultades presupuestarias del
gobiemo que impidieron que se dispusiera de los recursos programados.
2.2   Modiflcaciones y enmiendas introducidas al proyecto en 1993 y 1994.
Considerando el atraso en el inicio del proyecto, la persistencia de los problemas
presupuestarios y los gastos financieros que representaba el prestamo en concepto de
comisiones de compromiso, el gobiemo de la Republica y el banco decidieron de mutuo
acuerdo reestructurar el proyecto y el prestamo, para lo cual se introdujeron modificaciones
sustanciales en abril y junio de 1993 y febrero de 1994. No obstante que los objetivos del
SPEB continuaron inalterables, se suprimieron algunas actividades y se redimensionaron y
reprogramaron las metas, reduciendolas a una magnitud significativamente menor que las
previstas inicialmente. Asimismo, la fecha de cierre del proyecto fue recalendarizada.
Inicialmente se traslad6 al 31 de diciembre de 1995 (un afno adicional respecto a la fecha
inicial) y mas tarde, mediante dos enmiendas, al 31 de diciembre de 1998 (en conjunto un
aumento de tres afios). El costo total del proyecto se redujo de US$ 68.0 millones a US$
40.0 millones, lo que representa un recorte del 41.2 por ciento. El monto del prestamo se
disminuy6 en US$ 11.2 millones, pues pas6 de US$ 30.0 millones a solamente US$ 18.8
millones, una baja de 37.3 por ciento. En el cuadro siguiente se muestran los cambios mas
importantes por categoria de inversi6n:



COMPARACION ENTRE LOS COSTOS INICIALES Y LOS COSTOS
REVISADOS DEL PROYECTO2
(Millones de US d6lares)
Categorias de Inversi6n          ICniociaol    Revisado    Variacion
1. Construcci6n y equipamiento de aulas  14.2         7.1         -7.1
2. Construcci6n y equipamiento del
Edificio central del MINEDUC          4.5         6.4          1.9
3. Bienes (excluyendo libros de texto)    2.9         2.1         -0.8
4. Libros de texto                        5.9         3.7         -2.2
5. Capacitaci6n                           2.0         0.3         -1.7
6. Asistencia tecnica                     1.1         1.0         -0.1
7. Costos de operaci6n                    0.6         0.2         -0.4
8. Salarios de maestros                  25.7         13.7       -12.0
9. Intereses y otros cargos               7.5         1.9         -5.6
1 0. Contingencias de precios             3.6         3.6         0.0
Total                                    68.0         40.0       -28.0
2.3   Actividades que fueron modificadas
Aumento de la capacidad escolar. El presupuesto para la construcci6n y equipamiento de
aulas fue reducido a la mitad considerando la capacidad de ejecuci6n de la UCEE y el
periodo de solamente tres ai'os que entonces se estim6 que se disponia para la culminaci6n
del proyecto. La meta de construcci6n, dotacion de mobiliario y equipamiento de aulas
destinada a la educaci6n primaria rural se disminuy6 desde las 1,100 aulas que se
contemplaron inicialmente a 500 aulas. El mobiliario y equipo destinado a apoyar la
introducci6n de la doble jornada baj6 desde una meta original de 2,100 aulas a solamente
1,260. En cuanto a la ampliacion del nuimero de maestros se convino que se contrarian
1,760 docentes en lugar de los 2,800 iniciales.
2 Presupuesto del proyecto de acuerdo a las modificaciones acordadas en febrero de 1994.



Educaci6n a distancia. El subcomponente de educaci6n a distancia con el cual se habia
programado atender a 4,500 estudiantes en el 40, 50, y 60. grados de primaria y para la cual
se habia preparado un perfil que estaba siendo negociado con IGER y ASIES, se cancel6
debido a que entonces la USAID estaba implementando dentro del proyecto BEST un
programa piloto de educaci6n por radio en las asignaturas de matematica e idioma espaniol,
que cubria tanto el area urbana como rural. Se estim6 que el SPEB no resultaria afectado
como consecuencia de que en apariencia estas actividades se duplicarian si ambos
proyectos las desarrollaban simultaneamente. Sin embargo, es importante indicar que la
experiencia piloto impulsada por el proyecto BEST no logr6 expandirse posteriormente, a
pesar de que una evaluaci6n a que fue sometida esa actividad por la misma USAID
demostr6 que se habian obtenido resultados satisfactorios.
Campafias publicitarias. Las campanas publicitarias se redujeron a s6lo dos con el
objetivo de concentrarse en aquellas que se consideraron de mayor importancia para la
educaci6n. Las tres campafnas que se cancelaron fueron: i) la campafia para movilizar la
participaci6n de la comunidad en la construcci6n de escuelas se suprimi6, al estimarse que
en un proyecto a ser ejecutado pr6ximamente por el FIS, y que contaba con financiamiento
del banco, podria lograr mejores resultados; ii) la campafia para fomentar el programa de
educaci6n a distancia se elimin6 al suprimirse ese subcomponente; y iii) la campania para
promover la ensefianza multigrado tambien se cancel6 por considerarse que podria ser
incorporada en las campafias remanentes. Las dos campafias publicitarias que continuaron
dentro del proyecto fueron: i) la que estaba encaminada a promover los beneficios de la
incorporaci6n temprana de los nifios a la escuela; y ii) la que se dirigia a estimular la
educaci6n de la nifia, en especial de la nifia indigena del area rural.
Nutrici6n escolar.  El subcomponente de nutrici6n escolar, incluido como un
complemento de la construcci6n de aulas, se disminuy6 tambien a la mitad, pues la meta de
construcci6n de bodegas y cocinas en las escuelas pas6 de 500 a 250.
Provisi6n de materiales educativos. Los cambios introducidos a este subcomponente
consistieron en una disminuci6n de la cantidad de materiales y tambien en el tipo libros de
texto que se imprimirian y distribuirian. Originalmente, s6lo se habia previsto imprimir los
materiales producidos por CENALTEX, pero con las modificaciones al proyecto se
consider6 conveniente financiar la impresi6n y distribuci6n de por lo menos 156,000 libros
de texto bilingiues y 130,000 cuadernos de trabajo para la preprimaria bilingtie
desarrollados por PRONEBI con el apoyo de USAID. La revisi6n del proyecto incluy6 la
asignaci6n de recursos para la validaci6n de los libros de texto de SIMAC que habian sido
desarrollados recientemente con la asistencia tecnica de UNESCO y tambien la revisi6n de
los libros de texto de CENALTEX. En total, se decidi6 imprimir 972,490 libros de texto y
1,850,000 cuadernos de trabajo, comparados con la meta original de 1,182,000 y 3,000,000
respectivamente Dentro de la revisi6n del proyecto se decidi6 incorporar un nuevo
subcomponente, que consistia en apoyar la creaci6n de 1,760 microbibiliotecas para
establecer "rincones de lectura"
Capacitaci6n de maestros. Las metas de este subcomponente sufrieron una reducci6n
considerable. De los 3,200 nuevos maestros que se habia previsto capacitar se disminuy6 a



1,760, en tanto que de los 13,000 maestros en servicio que se esperaba capacitar solamente
se incluyeron 2,900. Tambien se incluy6 la capacitaci6n de 342 supervisores educativos.
Elaboraci6n de estudios. De los siete estudios originalmente considerados en el SAR se
suprimieron cuatro. Los tres estudios que se mantuvieron fueron: i) ampliar el programa de
educaci6n bilingiie de los cuatro idiomas mayas que atendia PRONEBI a uno o dos idiomas
mayas adicionales; ii) reformar los planes de estudio de los grados 1P a 3° mediante la
validaci6n de los libros de texto de SIMAC; y iii) mejorar la capacitaci6n de maestros. La
raz6n que se argument6 para eliminar los demas estudios fue que dos de ellos podrIan
incluirse en una operaci6n de credito que el banco suscribiria con el FIS y los otros dos por
considerarse innecesarios. Por aparte, se incorpor6 un nuevo estudio cuyo prop6sito era
evaluar el nuevo programa de "rincones de lectura" que se habia introducido con las
reformas al proyecto.
Mejoramiento de la administraci6n de la educaci6n. En este componente se eliminaron
las actividades de apoyo al sistema de informaci6n gerencial por considerarse que el
proyecto BEST de la USAID ya estaba financiando un programa similar.
Construccion de las oficinas centrales del MINEDUC. El unico subcomponente cuyo
costo estimado se increment6 fue la construcci6n del edificio central del MINEDUC, ya
que se consider6 que se habian incrementado los costos, desde un costo inicial de US$ 4.5
millones a US$ 6.4 millones.
2.4   Enmiendas (2) introducidas en 1997 y 1998. Con el prop6sito de readecuar el
presupuesto del proyecto a los avances alcanzados en el periodo 1990-1996 y tomar en
cuenta las nuevas prioridades del gobierno, en 1997 y 1998 se realiz6 una nueva
reasignaci6n de recursos que no alter6 significativamente los componentes y actividades.
Los cambios introducidos implicaron transferencias de recursos de unas categorias de
inversi6n a otras, pero sin modificar el monto total del prestamo. En estas dos enmiendas
se modific6 tambien la fecha de cierre del proyecto, la que se fij6 finalmente para el 31 de
diciembre de 1998.
III.   Anialisis del logro de los Objetivos, Resultados y Actividades
3.1   Perspectiva general. A pesar de las dificultades de diverso tipo que se presentaron
durante la ejecuci6n del proyecto, los objetivos y metas previstos despues de la
reformulaci6n introducida en 1994 fueron en general alcanzados. En algunos de los
componentes, tales como la introducci6n de la jomada vespertina y la impresi6n y
distribuci6n de textos educativos, incluso se sobrepasaron las metas cuantitativas fijadas. El
proyecto contribuy6 de manera significativa a la ampliaci6n de la cobertura educativa
primaria en el area rural que era su objetivo principal, pues se estima que con las aulas
construidas y equipadas y con el nombramiento de 1,839 nuevos maestros se proporciona
actualmente servicios a 55,170 nifnos por anlo, de los cuales alrededor de 15,000 nifios son
atendidos en las nuevas aulas, mientras que 40,170 ninos, han sido cubiertos por el sistema
educativo gracias a la introducci6n de la jomada vespertina en escuelas ya existentes. La



ampliaci6n de la cobertura representa un total de 5.8 por ciento de los alumnos inscritos
(inscripci6n inicial) en el nivel primario del area rural.
No obstante las deficiencias que se registraron en algunas de las actividades que se
ejecutaron en el componente "B", que tenia como objetivo contribuir a mejorar la calidad y
eficiencia de la educaci6n, tal el caso de algunos de los textos educativos impresos, asi
como los pobres resultados del programa de capacitaci6n ejecutado con la intervenci6n de
una universidad del pais, se estima que el objetivo fue alcanzado. Se logr6 la impresi6n y
distribuci6n de una cantidad considerable de materiales educativos, tanto en espafiol como
en idiomas mayas, se capacitaron a los docentes utilizando diversas modalidades -
diplomados, circulos de calidad -, se distribuyeron utiles escolares a los nifios y nifias y se
crearon los rincones de lectura. Finalmente, el proyecto contribuy6 de manera importante a
la modernizaci6n y descentralizaci6n del sistema educativo, apoyando la construcci6n del
edificio sede de la planta central del MINEDUC, la creaci6n y funcionamiento de las
direcciones departamentales y el financiamiento inicial de las cuatro gerencias ministeriales
a cargo del proceso de modernizaci6n emprendido por el ministerio.
Periodo de ejecuci6n La ejecuci6n del proyecto requiri6 de casi nueve afios si se mide
desde la suscripci6n del prestamo en enero de 1990 hasta el cierre final en diciembre de
1998. Este periodo en principio podria calificarse como excesivarnente largo para un
proyecto de esta naturaleza. Sin embargo, si se toma en consideraci6n la inactividad de los
desembolsos del pr6stamo durante casi dos anios y medio, debido a factores claramente
ajenos al proyecto y sobre los cuales el MINEDUC no podia ejercer ninguTn control, y se
toma como inicio del proyecto la fecha de efectividad del prestamo en junio de 1993, la
duraci6n real de la implementaci6n del proyecto fue de s6lo cinco afios y seis meses; es
decir, apenas seis meses adicionales a los cinco afios planificados originalmente en el SAR
y en el convenio de prestarno.
3.2   Componente de aumento de la matricula escolar neta. En el disefno original del
proyecto se perseguia ampliar la cobertura de la educaci6n primaria rural mediante tres
acciones estratdgicas: i) aumentar la capacidad fisica escolar mediante la construcci6n de
aulas en los centros poblados donde no se contaba con instalaciones educativas; ii) utilizar
mas intensivamente la infraestructura existente introduciendo una doble jomada por las
tardes -jornada vespertina-; y iii) utilizar la radio y otras modalidades de educaci6n a
distancia para que los nifios pudieran completar los tres udltimos afios de la educaci6n
primaria. De estas tres acciones solamente se ejecutaron las dos primeras. La tercera fue
suprimida en la reformulaci6n del proyecto de 1994.
Aumento de la capacidad fisica escolar. La ejecuci6n y supervisi6n de esta actividad
estuvo a cargo de la UCEE (actualmente Unidad de Construcci6n de Edificios del Estado),
dependencia del Ministerio de Comunicaciones, Transporte, Obras Publicas y Vivienda. La
construcci6n de las escuelas se realiz6 mediante el sistema de contratos con empresas
privadas. Para el efecto, se licitaron y suscribieron 32 contratos para la edificaci6n de 541
aulas ubicadas en el area rural de doce departamentos (517 aulas), principalmente del
occidente del pais, y en el Area urbano-marginal de la Ciudad de Guatemala (24 aulas). De
este total, a diciembre de 1998 se lograron terminar 504 aulas, incluyendo la construcci6n
de 80 escuelas completas. AdemAs de las aulas se construyeron tambien letrinas, bodegas y



pemoctancias para los maestros. Al final del proyecto solamente se registr6 el
incumplimiento de dos empresas contratistas, por lo que con base en la ley de
contrataciones del Estado la UCEE decidi6 ejecutar las respectivas fianzas de
cumplimiento. Para completar las 37 aulas pendientes de construir se contrataron otras
empresas privadas utilizando recursos nacionales incluidos en el presupuesto del gobierno
de 1999. Por consiguiente, la meta fijada en el proyecto de construir 500 aulas fue
ligeramente sobrepasada. Es interesante sefialar que ademas de la construcci6n de las
aulas, esta actividad permiti6 la estandarizaci6n de un "modelo tipo" de disefio modular de
escuela que esta siendo aplicado por las otras unidades del gobierno que tienen a su cargo
la construcci6n de escuelas. Asimismo, con base en la experiencia adquirida durante la
ejecuci6n del proyecto se logr6 crear un registro de empresas constructoras de escuelas que
identifica tanto aquellas que cuentan con capacidad real como las que demostraron diversas
deficiencias.
Para comprobar la calidad de las escuelas construidas por la UCEE y verificar que se
hubieran cumplido con las especificaciones y criterios del proyecto, el MINEDUC contrato
en 1997 a tres empresas independientes, las que realizaron una inspecci6n y evaluaci6n
fisica y documental. Esta evaluaci6n abarc6 una muestra de 45 escuelas (15 escuelas por
empresa). Los resultados de esas evaluaciones mostraron que en general las escuelas se
ajustaban a las especificaciones acordadas en los contratos correspondientes, aunque se
detectaron algunas deficiencias menores, que afectaban a la calidad de las propias
construcciones, asi como diversas irregularidades de tipo administrativo relacionadas con el
incumplimiento de las normas contractuales pactadas.  En opini6n de las firmas
evaluadoras, la mayoria de las deficiencias eran atribuibles a la falta de una adecuada
supervisi6n por parte de la UCEE y de la UCEP. Estos problemas habian sido sefialados
tambi6n en los infornes presentados por las fmnas auditoras. Para mejorar la supervisi6n
en la construcci6n de las escuelas y evitar muchos de los problemas encontrados, los
consultores recomendaron, entre otros aspectos, delegar esa funci6n en contratistas
privados.
Jornada Verspertina. La aplicaci6n de la jornada vespertina constituy6 una estrategia
que impuls6 el SPEB para incrementar la cobertura educativa mediante el uso de la
infraestructura escolar existente. Esta acci6n permiti6 reducir los costos en la apertura de
servicios y aprovechar al maximo los espacios educativos disponibles. El total de puestos
creados para docentes de la jornada vespertina fue de 1,509, cifra que super6 los 1,260
puestos que se habia establecido como meta del proyecto. Debe senlalarse, sin embargo,
que una evaluaci6n realizada por el MINEDUC revel6 la existencia de algunos problemas
en el funcionamiento de la jornada vespertina, entre ellos el traslado no autorizado de
docentes de lajornada vespertina a la matutina y la inadecuada selecci6n de algunos centros
poblados, cuyas comunidades no fueron consultadas y sensibilizadas previamente. Para
evitar que se continuaran registrando estos inconvenientes, el MINEDUC ya ha adoptado
las medidas correctivas necesarias.
Contratacion de maestros. La contrataci6n de maestros represent6 el costo mas elevado
dentro del proyecto pues se estima que ascendi6 a US$ 17.3 millones durante el periodo
1994-1998. En total se incorporaron 1,839 nuevos docentes, lo que signific6 sobrepasar la
meta de 1,760 maestros fijada por el proyecto. De ese total 1,509 correspondieron a la



jomada vespertina, mientras que 330 fueron nombrados para prestar sus servicios en la
jornada matutina.
Numero de Puestos Docentes Creados Para el Segundo Proyecto de
Educacion Basica
Ano de Creaci6n   Jornada Matutina3  Jornada Vespertina         Total
1994                108                428                 536
1995                105                518                 623
1996                117                563                 680
Total               330                1,509               1,839
Fuente: Unidad de Planeaci6n Educativa
Dotaci6n de mobiliario y equipo. De manera complementaria a la construcci6n de nuevas
aulas y al nombramiento de maestros en la jornada vespertina, con recursos del SPEB se
financi6 la compra y distribuci6n de mobiliario y equipo. El mobiliario adquirido cubri6
2,540 aulas, que fueron utilizadas en las aulas construidas por la UCEE, en las escuelas
atendidas por PRONADE y en las aulas donde funciona la jomada vespertina. El niumero
de juegos de silla y mesa para los estudiantes fue de 75,302, distribuidos en 11,880 para las
escuelas de UCEE, 20,702 para PRONADE y 42,720 para la jornada vespertina. Las
catedras y sillas distribuidas para el uso de los maestros ascendieron a un total de 2,540.
Adicionalmente, se entregaron 2,028 pizarrones para el uso en el aula. Estos resultados
sobrepasaron considerablemente la meta del proyecto que solamente previ6 el
amoblamiento de 1,760 aulas.
Evaluaci6n de los dafios ocasionados por la tormenta tropical "Mitch". Como parte del
apoyo prestado por el proyecto a la infraestructura escolar, el SPEB contribuy6 a finales de
1998 a la evaluaci6n de los dafios ocasionados por la torrnenta tropical "Mitch" en los
centros escolares del pais. Con recursos del proyecto se contrataron a 14 profesionales que
evaluaron 311 escuelas en 13 departamentos, donde se habian sido reportados danios. Esa
evaluaci6n fue trasladada a las entidades responsables del programa de rehabilitaci6n para
su atenci6n inmediata.
3 El total de plazas creadas para los maestros de la jornada matutina (330) no coincide con el
ntumero de aulas construidas por la UCEE (504), debido a que el programa de edificaci6n incluy6
no solamente aulas nuevas, sino tambien la sustituci6n de aulas existentes en mal estado. Las aulas
demolidas ya contaban con un docente nombrado.



3.3   Componente de mejora de la calidad y eficiencia de la educaci6n primaria. El
SPEB ejecut6 los tres subcomponentes inicialmente previstos: i) la provisi6n de libros de
texto, cuadernos de trabajo y otros materiales educativos; ii) la capacitaci6n de maestros; y
iii) la preparaci6n de estudios. Durante la implementaci6n del proyecto se adicionaron otras
actividades complementarias: la creaci6n de los rincones de lectura y el apoyo al programa
de la nifia y a PRONADE.
Provisi6n de textos y materiales educativos. La contribuci6n del proyecto en esta
actividad fue considerable. Se imprimi6 y distribuy6 1,696,680 libros de texto para 10, 20,
y 30 grados del nivel primario, para las asignaturas de matematica, lenguaje, ciencias
naturales y estudios sociales. Asimismo, se entregaron 463,160 libros de texto y 31,970
gufas didacticas en idiomas mayas. Por aparte, se produjeron 304,619 libros de apoyo de
los cuales 54,000 se refieren al tema de la intercultarilidad, 200,000 de lectura, 32,619 para
matematica y 18,000 constituciones politicas de la Republica de Guatemala. A finales de
1998 se imprimieron 12,000 libros de historia. Para apoyar los programas de capacitaci6n
de los maestros se imprimi6 y distribuy6 un total de 56,110 manuales y guias docentes y se
entreg6 valijas didacticas a 603 maestros.
Ademas, con recursos del SPEB se redactaron, revisaron e ilustraron los prototipos de 25
textos, incluyendo un texto de aprestamiento para el nivel preprimario, y seis (6) textos para
matematica, estudios sociales, ciencias naturales e idioma espafiol, para cada uno de los
grados de educaci6n primaria. Estos textos denominados "Camino a la Excelencia" fueron
impresos y distribuidos en 1998 con financiamiento propio del MINEDUC a todos los
alumnos de las escuelas oficiales del pais, lo que constituy6 un logro importante, ya que por
primera ocasi6n se realiz6 una acci6n de esa magnitud y alcance.
Capacitaci6n de maestros. Como ya se indic6, esta actividad se habia previsto financiar
originalmente por medio de dos fuentes de recursos: el prestamo 3003-GU del BIRF (40%)
y una donaci6n proveniente de Holanda. El hecho de no haberse logrado concretar
posteriormente la aprobaci6n del convenio con Holanda impidi6 su ejecuci6n normal, pues
debido a las limitaciones que registraban las finanzas del estado, fue muy dificil para el
MINEDUC presupuestar los recursos en concepto de contrapartida del gobiemo que se
requerian en esta categoria de inversi6n (60% del costo total). La capacitaci6n a los
docentes se desarroll6 principalmente en dos modalidades: i) el programa de diplomado con
la participaci6n de la Universidad Rafael Landivar -URL-; y ii) la capacitaci6n a traves de
los circulos de calidad a cargo de SIMAC y DIGEBI.
Programa de capacitaci6n en servicio de maestros en los tres primeros grados de la
educaci6n primaria (Diplomado). Durante la ejecuci6n del proyecto esta actividad se
habia redisefiado respecto a la estrategia inicial de capacitaci6n. Con la nueva modalidad
se esperaba capacitar hasta un maximo de 3.000 maestros en un periodo de 16 meses,
aunque posteriormente esa meta se redujo a 800 docentes. De este total se habia previsto
atender a 450 maestros de educaci6n primaria bilingiie y a 350 monolingiues de los tres
primeros grados de primaria en los departamentos de Alta y Baja Verapaz. El disefno de la
capacitaci6n se bas6 en una experiencia previa del BIRF en la Republica Dominicana. La
capacitaci6n comprendia 10 cursos academicos distribuidos en cinco ciclos, mediante una
metodologia combinada de docencia presencial y a distancia.



La actividad estuvo a cargo de la URL, que fue seleccionada despues del correspondiente
proceso de concurso en el que participaron otras universidades del pais. Conto con el
apoyo del asesor pedag6gico de la UCEP, personal de SIMAC y asesoria externa
proporcionada por el BIRF. Uno de los incentivos del programa consistia en que los
participantes que aprobaran los cursos recibirian el "Diploma de Educaci6n Primaria", a
nivel superior, y el reconocimiento academico para continuar sus estudios en la universidad
contratada, para obtener grados academicos superiores a nivel de licenciaturas. A pesar de
que durante la ejecuci6n del programa se trat6 de corregir una serie de deficiencias y de
promover un mayor interes de los maestros de la regi6n, el programa registr6 un baj6 nivel
de inscripci6n y un alto grado de deserci6n. De un total de 447 docentes inscritos, la
mayoria de ellos procedentes de escuelas rurales de la jornada matutina, solamente
obtuvieron el diplomado 279 maestros. Como consecuencia, el costo por maestro graduado
result6 excesivamente elevado (alrededor de Q 4,900 por maestro).
La capacitaci6n result6 afectada desfavorablemente por algunos desencuentros entre el
personal de la UCEP a cargo de los aspectos tecnico-pedag6gicos y los responsables de la
ejecuci6n del programa, y por el hecho de haberse desarrollado durante la gesti6n de tres
distintos coordinadores de la UCEP. Entre los factores que influyeron negativamente se
han sefialado: i) inexistencia de incentivos monetarios y no monetarios a los maestros
despues de obtener el diplomado; ii) falta de asignaci6n de viaticos a los docentes que
participaron en el programa y problemas de transporte a los lugares sedes; iii) utilizaci6n de
materiales de mala calidad (fotocopias poco legibles); y iv) asistencia de promotores
bilingies que no contaban con la base academica necesaria, particularmente en matematica.
Entre los logros alcanzados se mencion6 la elaboraci6n de materiales educativos escritos y
grabados que pueden ser aprovechados en nuevos eventos similares de capacitaci6n.
Apoyo a los Circulos de Calidad Docente. El SPEB apoyo tambien la capacitaci6n de
maestros con un modelo tecnico-administrativo que sigue el sistema de cascada
denominado circulos de calidad docente, mediante el cual fueron capacitados tres niveles,
dos tecnicos y uno docente. En total se capacitaron bajo esa modalidad con la participaci6n
de SIMAC y DIGEBI a 2,842 docentes, de los cuales 1,760 fueron maestros de nuevo
ingreso al sistema y 1,082 en servicio. La capacitaci6n consisti6 en siete m6dulos sobre
diferentes areas del desempefio en el aula y organizaci6n escolar para la implementaci6n
del modelo. Dentro de estas actividades se capacitaron a los supervisores de distrito (404),
coordinadores tecnico pedag6gicos y a los coordinadores departamentales de educaci6n.
Otras capacitaciones. Se realizaron actividades de seguimiento y evaluaci6n a la
capacitaci6n de los integrantes de las juntas de oposici6n, que fue una actividad previa al
inicio del Proyecto de Reforna a la Educaci6n Basica.
Rincones de lectura o microbibliotecas. Esta actividad se incorpor6 dentro de las
enmiendas introducidas al proyecto en 1994. Consisti6 en la adquisici6n y entrega de 2,188
microbibliotecas a igual niumero de escuelas que desarrollan la metodologia activa,
superando asi en 428 a la meta del proyecto. Ademas, se distribuyeron un total de 1,709
rotafolios y 1,652 libreras para equipar a las escuelas construidas con financiamiento del



proyecto y las que fueron seleccionadas para establecer la jomada vespertina. Asimismo,
se capacitaron a los nuevos maestros en el manejo y uso de las microbibliotecas.
Utiles escolares. Dentro de las actividades del SPEB se incluy6 la provisi6n de bolsas
minimas de uitiles escolares -que incluian dos cuadernos, lapiz, boligrafo, borrador,
sacapuntas y crayones- a todos los nifnos y ninas inscritos en 12,082 escuelas oficiales en el
ciclo escolar 1998. En total se entregaron 1,355,878 bolsas a igual niimero de alumnos de
los niveles de preprimaria y primaria. Es interesante mencionar, que para asegurar la
adecuada y oportuna distribuci6n de los uitiles en cada una de las escuelas, se contrat6 los
servicios de una empresa privada internacional como agente compras. El contrato fue
adjudicado a una empresa nacional, la que a su vez utiliz6 los servicios de organizaciones
no gubemamentales del pais. Esta experiencia ha sido valorada positivamente por el
MINEDUC, pues ha permitido replicar esa misma estrategia y metodologfa con empresas
guatemaltecas.
Apoyo al programa de la nifia. El SPEB apoy6 los esfuerzos que esta desarrollando el
ministerio y diversas organizaciones no gubemamentales para promover la educaci6n de la
nifia. Para el efecto se imprimieron y distribuyeron 40,888 libros, 15,000 trifoliares, 2,000
afiches, 1,000 rotafolios, 1,000 manuales para el maestro, 3,000 blocs, 5,000 libros en cinco
idiomas y 1,950 guias en idioma k'iche' para 2° y 30 grados
Apoyo a PRONADE. Como parte del apoyo prestado por el SPEB a PRONADE ademas
del mobiliario entregado, se distribuyeron en las escuelas apoyadas por ese programa un
total de 2,028 pizarrones y se financi6 un seminario sobre innovaciones educativas.
Contrataci6n de estudios. En este campo se elaboraron los estudios siguientes:
* En 1993 se validaron los libros de texto elaborados por SIMAC para las asignaturas de
matematica e idioma espafnol para primero, segundo y tercer grado.
* En 1994 se contrat6 a la URL para la elaboraci6n, traducci6n y diagramaci6n de libros
de texto bilingtie.
* En 1997 se prepar6 un estudio para evaluar el programa de jornada vespertina a cargo
de la UPE.
*  Se elaboraron criterios para evaluar experiencias educativas innovadoras (1997).
3.4   Componente de mejora de la administraci6n de la educaci6n
Construcci6n parcial, restauraci6n y equipamiento del edificio central del Ministerio
de Educaci6n. La construcci6n del edificio sede de las oficinas centrales del MINEDUC
es uno de los logros mas significativos alcanzados en la ejecuci6n del SPEB, no solamente
por los ahorros monetarios (Q 1,400,000 anuales) previstos en el pago del arrendamiento de
los inmuebles que ocupaban las distintas dependencias del ministerio -que garantiza una
adecuada tasa intema de retorno de la inversi6n- sino fumdamentalmente por el
mejoramiento en la coordinaci6n, operaci6n y eficiencia del MINEDUC, al concentrarse en
un solo espacio fisico las dependencias que anteriormente se encontraban dispersas. En el
SAR del proyecto se habia previsto que la construcci6n del edificio estaria a cargo de la
UCEE, la que se previ6 recibiria asistencia tecnica especializada para determinar las



necesidades existentes y futuras de ministerio y la correspondiente planificaci6n del espacio
fisico; sin embargo, la responsabilidad del proceso de licitaci6n, contrataci6n y supervision
fue asumida por el propio MINEDUC con el apoyo decidido del PNUD, tanto en la fase del
disefio como de la construcci6n.
La decisi6n final sobre la ubicaci6n del edificio del MINEDUC no fue una tarea facil. Al
inicio del proyecto se habia identificado un inmueble propiedad del ministerio que se
encontraba disponible en la zona 1 de la ciudad de Guatemala. Posteriormente, se habia
optado por un predio ubicado en las instalaciones del ahora desaparecido Comite de
Reconstrucci6n Nacional, que seguin se aseguraba reunia las condiciones requeridas.
Finalmente, las autoridades del ministerio acordaron la restauraci6n de un edificio
localizado en la zona 10, que se encontraba subutilizado como centro de ensefianza de nivel
secundario. Esta decisi6n acarre6, sin embargo, algunas complicaciones que demoraron el
inicio de la obra. En primer ternino fue necesario trasladar los planteles educativos -
maestros y estudiantes- que operaban en el edificio a otras instalaciones alternativas lo que
requiri6 un proceso de concertaci6n con los docentes y alumnos. En segundo lugar, debido
al valor hist6rico y artistico del edificio seleccionado, fue necesario respetar ciertas normas
de restauraci6n, pues se encontraba inscrito como monumento nacional en el registro del
Instituto de Antropologia e Historia del Ministerio de Cultura y Deportes -IDAHE-.
El proyecto financi6 tanto el disefto como la construcci6n, restauraci6n y equipamiento del
edificio. Las obras de restauraci6n y construcci6n fueron contratadas a fines de 1997, pero
debido a diversas circunstancias los trabajos no se iniciaron sino hasta en abril de 1998. A
pesar de esos atrasos la obra fue completada satisfactoriamente. El area techada total del
edificio comprende 5,426 metros cuadrados, de los cuales 3,397 metros corresponden al
area restaurada y 2,029 metros a las nuevas areas construidas. Tanto en el disen¶o como en
la construcci6n participaron especialistas privados contratados expresamente. Asimismo,
se cont6 con los permisos y vigilancia durante la etapa de construcci6n por parte del
IDAHE. Las nuevas areas construidas fueron cuidadosamente disefiadas para replicar la
arquitectura original con detalles como conectores de marcos espaciales de acero tubular
que diferencian lo original de lo agregado, pero que guardan la debida armonia.
El equipamiento del edificio incluye 310 puestos de trabajo con m6dulos diferenciados. El
area del despacho ministerial esta amueblada con ambientes de trabajo, salas de sesiones, y
recibidores con muebles apropiados que contribuyen a destacar la restauraci6n y las lineas
arquitect6nicas del edificio. Ademas, se le ha le ha dotado con un cableado de fibra 6ptica
que permitira a corto plazo la comunicaci6n por internet e intranet, asi como un flujo de
doble via de informaci6n, con las 22 direcciones departamentales de educaci6n.
El MINEDUC ha reconocido que una de las principales contribuciones del SPEB fue su
aporte a la restauraci6n del edificio, en particular por sus implicaciones dentro del
programa de modernizacion y simplificaci6n del ministerio, en terminos de una mayor
coordinaci6n y articulaci6n de los procesos administrativos.
Apoyo a las gerencias ministeriales. El SPEB contribuy6 al programa de modernizaci6n
del ministerio asignando recursos para la creaci6n y funcionamiento durante el primer afno
de cuatro gerencias: i) gerencia de calidad educativa; ii) gerencia de modernizaci6n



institucional; iii) gerencia de la paz; y iv) gerencia de comunicaci6n social. El prop6sito de
estas unidades es apoyar la transformacion organizacional del ministerio. La gerencia de la
modernizaci6n tiene como objetivo simplificar la estructura organizativa del nivel central
del MINEDUC y fortalecer el nivel departamental como instancia ejecutora de las acciones
educativas, mejorar los procedimientos de trabajo y promover la participaci6n comunitaria.
La gerencia de calidad apoya acciones para el mejoramiento de la calidad de la educaci6n,
para que esta responda a las particulares condiciones pluriculturales y multietnicas del pais;
asimismo coordina acciones entre dependencias oficiales y no gubemamentales. La
gerencia de la paz y reforma educativa persigue apoyar al gobierno en la implementaci6n
de los compromisos en materia educativa incluidos en los acuerdos de paz.
Apoyo a la creaci6n de la unidad de administraci6n financiera. Durante 1997 el SPEB
financi6 la operaci6n de la unidad de administraci6n fmanciera -UDAF- del MINEDUC.
Esta unidad tiene por objeto apoyar al ministerio para que pueda hacerse cargo de realizar
las operaciones presupuestarias y financieras de manera desconcentrada del Ministerio de
Finanzas Puiblicas. La creaci6n de la UDAF forma parte del proceso general de
modernizaci6n del sistema de administraci6n financiera del sector puiblico.
Seminarios-foros sobre la reforma educativa. Dentro de las estrategias impulsadas por
el MINEDUC para promover la participaci6n de las comunidades en el proceso de refo rma
educativa, el SPEB  financi6 en 1997 la organizacion de once (11) seminarios
departamentales -uno por cada departamento- en el que participaron los diferentes actores
del proceso educativo: padres de familia, docentes, administradores, tecnicos y otros
sectores de la sociedad civil. Estos eventos permitieron al MINEDUC promover consensos
y obtener importante informacion para apoyar la reforma educativa. Adicionalmente, los
foros fueron utilizados para divulgar los compromisos educativos incluidos en los acuerdos
de paz. Esta actividad fue cofinanciada por el gobiemo de Holanda, que aport6 los recursos
para desarrollar los foros en los restantes once (11) departamentos de la Repuiblica.
Contrataci6n de estudios:
*  Con el apoyo de ASIES se llev6 a cabo en 1994 y 1995 un estudio piloto en siete
municipios para establecer los consejos locales de educaci6n. Posteriormente, en 1996
con esa misma entidad se realiz6 un estudio sobre la descentralizaci6n de la educaci6n.
*  Mapeo escolar, estudio inicial de necesidades.
*  Seguimiento y evaluaci6n de los jurados de oposici6n a traves de la DGE y la Direcci6n
de Personal.
*  Mediante la contrataci6n de una empresa consultora en 1997 se realiz6 una primera
evaluaci6n de los avances y resultados del SPEB.
IV.   Implementaci6n y Sostenibilidad del Proyecto
4.1   Modalidad de ejecuci6n.  El SPEB  fue ejecutado  utilizando  modalidades
descentralizadas. Las actividades fueron desarrolladas casi en su totalidad mediante la
contrataci6n de bienes y servicios con empresas privadas y entidades no gubernamentales.
La construcci6n de las aulas, impresi6n de material educativo y la fabricaci6n de mobiliario



y equipo, por ejemplo, estuvo a cargo de contratistas privados. Incluso se contrataron los
servicios de distribuci6n y entrega de los bienes adquiridos. La elaboraci6n de los estudios
y la prestaci6n de los servicios de asistencia tecnica se ejecutaron por medio de convenios
con universidades, asociaciones sin fines de lucro y con ONGs. Sin embargo, debe
sefialarse que la UCEP no hizo participar en estos procesos a las unidades tecnicas del
MINEDUC. Fue hasta 1996, despues del cambio en la coordinaci6n de la UCEP, que las
direcciones del ministerio participaron activamente.
4.2   Participaci6n del PNUD en la ejecuci6n del proyecto. Con el fin de agilizar la
ejecuci6n del SPEB, el MINEDUC solicit6 la asistencia tecnica como agente de compras de
la oficina del PNUD en Guatemala. Esta asistencia se concret6 a partir de 1994 y se
extendi6 hasta la finalizaci6n del proyecto mediante la suscripci6n de dos convenios
(GUA193/029 Y GUA/94/014). El PNUD actu6 como administrador de la mayoria de los
recursos del proyecto -con excepci6n de la actividad de construcci6n de aulas- tanto del
financiamiento proveniente del prestamo como del aporte nacional. En tal calidad, el
PNUD asumi6 la mayoria de los procesos de licitaci6n y contrataci6n, asistencia tecnica y
capacitaci6n, asi como la administraci6n de los fondos. La intervenci6n del PNUD puede
considerarse exitosa, pues no obstante los diversos obstaculos que se presentaron,
contribuy6 de manera decisiva a la ejecuci6n del proyecto. La clave para ello radic6 en la
coordinaci6n estrecha que se estableci6 entre el PNUD, la UCEP, las autoridades del
MINEDUC y los responsables de la gesti6n del prestamo en el BIRF, Debe sefialarse que
el costo de los servicios prestados por el PNUD represent6 un porcentaje minimo del costo
total del proyecto. Ademas, es importante resaltar que la participaci6n del PNUD favoreci6
una total transparencia en la administraci6n del proyecto. La experiencia del convenio entre
el MINEDUC y el PNUD fue la primera de su tipo en Guatemala y abri6 la puerta para
celebrar una serie de convenios similares entre otros ministerios de gobierno y la oficina de
Naciones Unidas.
4.3   Principales factores que afectaron la ejecuci6n.  El proyecto fue afectado
negativamente por diversos factores, algunos de ellos fuera del control del MINEDUC, en
tanto que otros obedecieron a una gesti6n poco efectiva de la UCEP. El factor que demor6
el inicio de las actividades y que provoc6 la considerable reducci6n de la magnitud y
alcance del proyecto fue sin duda la debilidad de la situaci6n financiera del gobierno. Esta
restricci6n acompafi6 al proyecto durante casi todo el periodo de ejecuci6n y se manifest6
en dificultades para disponer de manera oportuna de los fondos nacionales de contrapartida.
Al final del proyecto esa situaci6n se revirti6 significativamente, pues se contaba con
excedentes de recursos nacionales por un total de Q 4.0 millones. Por aparte, y como factor
intemo al MINEDUC, puede senfalarse la baja capacidad de ejecuci6n mostrada por la
UCEP derivada de cambios constantes de personal y una configuraci6n institucional
inadecuada que centraliz6 las decisiones y no perrniti6 la apropiaci6n del proyecto por las
dependencias ejecutoras.
4.4   Sostenibilidad del proyecto. Los resultados alcanzados por el SPEB han mostrado
un alto grado de sostenibilidad y de replicabilidad. Las aulas construidas estan siendo
utilizadas normalmente dentro del sistema educativo, al igual que el mobiliario y equipo
adquirido por el proyecto para el uso de los docentes y alumnos, aun cuando se reconoce
que debera mejorarse su mantenimiento. El disenio estandarizado de una escuela de tipo



modular desarrollado por la UCEE ha sido aplicado por las demas unidades ejecutoras. La
jornada vespertina ha operado satisfactoriamente en la mayoria de los casos y el
MINEDUC ha tomado en cuenta la experiencia del SPEB para adoptar mas intensivamente
esa estrategia.4  La producci6n y distribuci6n de libros de texto ha cobrado un gran
impulso. El MINEDUC, con el apoyo del proyecto, logr6 en 1997 revisar los textos
escolares e imprimi6 con sus propios recursos una cantidad suficiente de textos para cubrir
las necesidades de todos los alumnos del nivel primario en 1998, con lo que super6
ampliamnente la contribuci6n inicial del SPEB.
El proceso de modernizaci6n del MINEDUC, que era uno de los objetivos del SPEB, se ha
fortalecido. El SPEB contribuy6 a los esfuerzos de las autoridades para generar una nueva
dina6mica, que incluye la redefinici6n de las finciones del ministerio a nivel central y
departamental. El apoyo a la desconcentraci6n y descentralizaci6n esta cambiando el papel
que corresponde al ministerio y a los demas actores de la comunidad educativa. La
coordinaci6n y articulaci6n del MINEDUC se ha visto favorecida con la concentraci6n de
las principales dependencias en un solo edificio. Todos estos esfuerzos no solamente se han
mantenido sino que se han profundizado y ampliado, ya sea con recursos propios del
ministerio y/o con financiamiento de nuevos proyectos respaldados por la cooperaci6n
tecnica y financiera intemacional, incluyendo al BIRF.
4.5   Apoyo recibido del BIRF. No obstante el inicio tardio de los desembolsos del
cr6dito otorgado por el BIRF, debido a la inactividad del prestamo durante los tres
primeros afios del proyecto, y de las divergencias ocasionales con los responsables del
seguimiento de la operaci6n por parte del BIRF, en general el apoyo recibido de esa
instituci6n financiera se puede calificar de satisfactorio. El banco apoy6 eficazrnente al
MINEDUC y en particular al personal de la UCEP para implementar las actividades del
proyecto, sobre todo cuando se requiri6 su colaboraci6n durante las fases de transici6n
entre una coordinaci6n y otra de la UCEP. Las misiones de supervisi6n que se llevaron a
cabo, asi como el contacto permanente entre el MINEDUC y el banco lograron superar la
mayoria de los obstaculos que se presentaron. El banco mostr6 flexibilidad para introducir
aquellos cambios que impusieron las circunstancias del pais y las politicas de gobiemo.
Asimismo, el proyecto se benefici6 de la asistencia tecnica prestada por el BIRF en
diversas areas. El cuello de botella que supuso la inexistencia de una cuenta especial para
administrar los recursos del prestamo y los estrechos limites aut6nomos en la contrataci6n
de bienes y servicios fijados al proyecto, fue resuelto gracias a la autorizaci6n del banco
para que se utilizara la via alternativa del PNUD. Esta estrecha colaboraci6n entre el
MINEDUC y el BIRF permitieron el desembolso total del prestamo y que en general se
alcanzaran los objetivos del proyecto.
4 En 1998 de un total de 2,415 puestos docentes nuevos de educaci6n preprimaria y primaria en el
sector oficial, 400 fueron adjudicados a la jornada vespertina, como una estrategia para aprovechar
la infraestructura escolar.



V.   Administraci6n y Gerencia del Proyecto
5.1   Organizaci6n del proyecto.  El  proyecto estuvo a cargo de una unidad
administrativa creada especificamente dentro del MINEDUC para coordinar la
implementaci6n del proyecto. En el disefio original se habia previsto que la UCEP se
integrara presupuestariamente dentro de la Direcci6n General de Educaci6n -DGE-; sin
embargo, en las enmiendas introducidas al SPEB en abril de 1993, se modific6 esa
configuraci6n y se hizo depender al coordinador de la UCEP directamente del ministro o
del viceministro. La ejecuci6n directa de los subcomponentes se asign6 a cada una de las
dependencias, de acuerdo a las competencias que tenian bajo su responsabilidad al inicio
del proyecto: CENALTEX en lo que correspondia a la impresi6n y distribuci6n de textos y
material educativo, SIMAC en lo referente a la capacitaci6n de maestros (esta funci6n
originalmente se habia delegado en el departamento de capacitaci6n de maestros de
USIPE), a la DGE se le encargaron diversos aspectos vinculados a los procesos de
planificaci6n educativa en las direcciones tecnicas regionales, a la UCEE la construcci6n de
las obras fisicas, y a la USIPE (actualmente UPE) el monitoreo y evaluaci6n del proyecto y
el apoyo para determinar las necesidades educativas y la localizaci6n de las nuevas aulas a
construir.
5.2   Centralizaci6n de las decisiones en la UCEP. En la practica la direcci6n del
proyecto oper6 de manera muy distinta de la planificada. La inexistencia de un comit6
directivo del proyecto, que estuviera dirigido por las autoridades superiores del MINEDUC
y en el que participaran las dependencias responsables del proyecto, sumado a la
vinculaci6n directa del coordinador de la UCEP con el despacho ministerial, dio lugar a un
estilo de gerencia excesivamente centralizado durante la mayor parte de la ejecuci6n del
proyecto. En algunos de los casos la coordinaci6n de la UCEP definia por si misma todos
los procesos y actividades que deberian seguirse. Bajo tales circunstancias no se produjo
un adecuado apropiamiento del proyecto por parte de las unidades ejecutoras ni se lograron
establecer relaciones de colaboraci6n eficaces. La UCEP desvirtu6 su papel de facilitadora
y coordinadora del proyecto y se transform6 en una unidad ejecutora. La UCEP deberia de
haberse hecho cargo de la gerencia de los procesos, pero no concentrar las decisiones.
Adicionalmente, a pesar de que se habian previsto recursos suficientes para apoyar la
coordinaci6n del proyecto, la UCEP no logr6 integrar un equipo minimo de profesionales y
tecnicos que gestionaran y supervisaran adecuadamente cada una de las actividades.
5.3  Inestabilidad en la direcci6n del proyecto. El cambio constante de coordinadores
de la UCEP -en total cinco coordinadores- y del personal tecnico tampoco favoreci6 la
administraci6n del proyecto. Dada la complejidad que exigi6 la gesti6n de un proyecto
con las caracteristicas del SPEB, en el que se combinaban las diferentes normas y
regulaciones del BIRF en materia de programaci6n, adquisiciones y de controles y registros
financieros, con las que son propias de la administraci6n puiblica guatemalteca, se requiere
de personal profesional debidamente entrenado que no es facil ni conveniente sustituir. De
igual manera, cada componente del proyecto planteaba sus propios requerimientos tecnicos
para los cuales la UCEP no prest6 el suficiente apoyo, ya fuera este la contrataci6n, el
seguimiento y supervisi6n de las obras civiles, el equipamiento de las aulas, la producci6n
de textos educativos y la capacitaci6n de docentes, o la realizaci6n de los estudios



previstos. Debe indicarse, sin embargo, que estas insuficiencias fueron en gran parte
corregidas en los ultimos anios del proyecto.
5.4   Fortalecimiento de la UCEP. Con el prop6sito de fortalecer la administraci6n de
la UCEP, con recursos del proyecto se adquirieron nuevos equipos y programas de
computaci6n, que permitieron mejorar los sistemas de registro financiero y contable del
proyecto. Ademas, se capacit6 al personal del SPEB en el manejo de diversos programas
de automatizaci6n de oficinas.
VI.   Aspectos Financieros5
6.1   Ejecuci6n financiera total, por categorias de inversi6n.  El costo total del
proyecto, incluyendo las remuneraciones pagadas a los maestros contratados en las jomadas
matutinas y vespertina, ascendi6 a US$ 39.0 millones.6  El gobiemo aport6 US$ 20.8
millones (53.4%) y el BIRF US$ 18.2 millones (46.6%). El componente "A" cuyo objetivo
era aumentar la matricula escolar neta fue el que requiri6 la mayor asignaci6n de recursos
(US$ 30.0 millones). Dentro de este componente el rubro mas alto correspondi6 al sueldo
de los maestros que signific6 una erogaci6n de US$ 17.3 millones en el periodo 1994-1998;
la construcci6n de aulas absorbi6 US$ 6.8 millones, mientras que a la adquisici6n de
bienes, principalmente la dotaci6n de mobiliario y equipo a las escuelas, se asignaron US$
5.9 millones. El componente "B" orientado a mejorar la calidad y eficiencia de la
educaci6n primaria incluy6 gastos de US$ 2.7 millones para la provisi6n de textos y
materiales educativos y US$ 0.4 millones para la capacitaci6n de maestros. En el
componente "C" que perseguia mejorar la administraci6n de la educaci6n se asignaron US$
2.9 millones para la restauraci6n, construcci6n parcial y equipamiento del edifiecio central
del MINEDUC y US$ 0.3 millones para gastos de operaci6n de la UCEP. En concepto de
asistencia tecnica para los distintos componentes se gast6 US$ 1.7 millones. Finalmente, se
imput6 como costo del proyecto alrededor de US$ 1.0 mill6n de intereses y otros cargos
devengados por la utilizaci6n del prestamo.
6.2   Aporte del BIRF y del gobierno de Guatemala. Debido a los problemas para
iniciar la ejecuci6n del proyecto, el desembolso del prestamo del BIRF se inici6 hasta que
se declar6 su efectividad en 1993 con un retiro de US$ 0.8 millones, cuatro anios despues de
lo previsto en el SAR7. El ritmo de implementaci6n se normaliz6 respecto a los porcentajes
esperados a partir de 1994 y se aceler6 entre 1995 y 1998. El monto reestructurado del
prestamo de US$ 18.8 millones fue utilizado casi en su totalidad, habiendose realizado el
iiltimo desembolso en diciembre de 1998. El gobierno de Guatemala contribuy6 al
financiamiento del proyecto con US$ 3.5 millones -sin incluir los salarios de los maestros-,
aunque se debe indicar que con frecuencia se presentaron problemas para disponer de las
5 Las cifras que se consignan en este capitulo son preliminares y probablemente sean revisadas
cuando se disponga de las liquidaciones finales de los contratos suscritos por el proyecto.
6 Estos costos no incluyen los intereses y comisiones de compromiso que han sido pagados por el
gobiemo de Guatemala y que no han sido imputados al prestamo.
7 La programaci6n del SAR contempl6 el inicio de los desembolsos en 1989; sin embargo, el
prestamo se suscribi6 en 1990 y no se declar6 efectivo sino hasta 1993.



contrapartidas presupuestarias necesarias, en particular cuando el porcentaje que
correspondia cubrir con recursos nacionales era mayor.
6.3   Costos incurridos por la demora en la ejecuci6n. Uno de los costos monetarios
en que incurri6 el proyecto por la larga demora que registr6 su ejecuci6n, fue el pago por el
gobierno de Guatemala de un elevado monto de comisiones de compromiso.
VII. Conclusiones y Recomendaciones
7.1   Logros del proyecto. Considerados en su conjunto, los objetivos y metas del SPEB,
tal y como fueron reformulados en 1994, fueron sin duda alcanzados. Como se sefial6
antes, algunos de los componentes incluso sobrepasaron las metas fijadas. Aun con los
desfases iniciales debido a factores ajenos al MINEDUC, el proyecto signific6 una
contribuci6n importante, juntamente con otros proyectos y programas, a la soluci6n de la
problematica educativa de Guatemala, en especial al aumento de la cobertura escolar que
pas6 de una tasa neta de 54% en 1988 a 73% en 1997, . El proyecto tambien hizo algunos
aportes sustanciales al proceso de modernizaci6n del MINEDUC que impulsan las actuales
autoridades.
7.2   Deficiencias en el componente de capacitaci6n. Aunque el SPEB contribuy6 con
algunas actividades a mejorar la calidad de la educaci6n, tales como la impresi6n y
distribuci6n de libros de texto y la capacitaci6n de maestros, su impacto en este campo fue
reducido. En el disefio del proyecto no se incluyeron esfuerzos mas amplios o estrategias
generales -como hubiera podido ser por ejemplo un plan maestro de capacitaci6n- que
hubiera permitido un mayor efecto positivo. En el subcomponente de capacitaci6n los
esfuerzos fueron dispersos y excesivamente costosos. El MINEDUC debiera formular y
ejecutar un programa nacional de formacion y capacitaci6n de docentes, que incluya la
carrera de magisterio a nivel universitario en sus modalidades en castellano y bilingiue
(mayahablantes) y establecer programas con mayor costo-efectividad para capacitar a los
maestros actualmente en servicio.
7.3  Inserci6n del proyecto en el MINEDUC. No obstante que el SPEB y otros
proyectos como el BEST fueron disefiados partiendo de un diagn6stico comun, debido a las
demoras que el proyecto confront6 en la fase inicial de ejecuci6n, principalmente durante
los cuatro primeros afios, no se acompan6 de una manera adecuada por las dependencias
del ministerio. La UCEP funcion6 durante un largo periodo como si tuviera "vida propia"
virtualmente al margen de la organizaci6n del MINEDUC. Fue s6lo a partir de 1996 que se
logr6 corregir esa situaci6n. Durante la uiltima etapa de ejecuci6n se logr6 una mejor
inserci6n de la UCEP gracias a la voluntad politica de las autoridades de reunir bajo una
misma coordinaci6n a todos los proyectos.
7.4   Capacidad tecnica de la UCEP. Una de las grandes debilidades que pueden ser
atribuidas al SPEB radic6 en que su unidad coordinadora no disponia de la capacidad
tecnica necesaria, en gran parte por la misma desvinculaci6n con el resto del MINEDUC.
El comite de direcci6n del proyecto comenz6 a funcionar pero tuvo dificultades debido al
divorcio que existia entre la UCEP y las estrategias y politicas de las direcciones del
MINEDUC.



7.5   Jornada vespertina. La introducci6n de la jomada vespertina en el area rural y
urbano-marginal ha logrado incidir favorablemente en muchas comunidades del pais; sin
embargo, el MINEDUC no fue suficientemente cuidadoso en la selecci6n de las escuelas,
lo que dio lugar a que surgieran problemas posteriores. Para evitar esos problemas, debe
mejorarse el sistema para identificar y seleccionar a las escuelas tomando en cuenta la
ubicaci6n de la escuela, la poblaci6n escolar desatendida, el acceso del edificio escolar y
otros factores, asi como realizar campafias previas de promoci6n y sensibilizaci6n dirigidas
a los padres de familia.
7.6   Asistencia tecnica. La asistencia tecnica prestada con recursos del SPEB fue
valiosa, ya que permiti6 elaborar diversos estudios de base, entre ellos los de
descentralizaci6n del ministerio, el de participaci6n comunitaria y otros.  Aunque en
terminos presupuestarios el aporte del SPEB no fue muy grande, es importante resaltar la
asistencia tecnica que prest6 a la elaboraci6n de libros de texto, por medio de la cual se
redactaron, revisaron e ilustraron los prototipos de 25 textos de primaria y preprimaria que
se denominaron "Camino a la Excelencia". Este esfuerzo cont6 con la participaci6n de
ONGs y las editoriales del pais. Gracias a este pequento aporte, el MINEDUC, con sus
propios recursos, logr6 por primera ocasi6n en la historia del pais, imprimir y distribuir en
1998 libros de texto para todos los grados de educaci6n primaria a todas las escuelas
puiblicas.
7.7   Evaluaci6n de impacto del proyecto. Una de las limitaciones  que se puede
sefialar al SPEB, consiste en que el proyecto nunca se plante6 una evaluaci6n peri6dica
que partiera de una linea base, que permitiera establecer el impacto real de los diversos
componentes e intervenciones. Tampoco logr6 establecer un sistema efectivo y sistematico
de programaci6n, seguimiento y monitoreo de las actividades realizadas. Estas carencias
han sido corregidas en el nuevo Proyecto de Reforma Educativa fmanciado tambien por el
BIRF, lo que permitira que se puedan establecer criterios e indicadores para determinar los
correctivos que seran necesarios introducir durante la ejecuci6n
7.8   Direcci6n del proyecto.  El SPEB debi6 enfrentar una serie de problemas,
incluyendo el hecho de haberse ejecutado durante la gesti6n de cuatro gobiernos y el
cambio constante de autoridades del MINEDUC, de coordinadores de la UCEP e incluso de
los oficiales del BIRF. A pesar de ello durante la etapa final del proyecto se cont6 con una
colaboraci6n efectiva del banco para facilitar los procesos y agilizar la ejecuci6n del
proyecto.
7.9   Contribuci6n del SPEB a nuevos proyectos. La ejecuci6n del proyecto permiti6
una mejor definici6n de los componentes y las actividades que posteriormente se
incorporaron al nuevo proyecto de reforma a la educaci6n basica, mejorar la comunicaci6n
entre el MINEDUC y el BIRF y establecer procedimientos y procesos que facilitaran
operaciones futuras.



Lecciones de la implementaci6n del proyecto
7.10  Diilogo Gobierno-BIRF. Una lecci6n de caracter general que se puede extraer del
SPEB, es la necesidad y conveniencia que los proyectos respaldados por la cooperaci6n
financiera internacional se basen en diagn6sticos y polfticas compartidas. Los proyectos se
deben formular y ejecutar de una forma cooperativa y ser el resultado de un dialogo abierto
entre el gobiemo y las entidades cooperantes. En tal sentido, la formulaci6n del SPEB se
bas6 en el "Proyecto de Educaci6n Minima" elaborado por el MINEDUC por intermedio de
USIPE. Puesto que los proyectos constituyen la concreci6n de los objetivos y politicas
nacionales, los criterios de las autoridades nacionales responsables deben ser tomados en
cuenta. Los proyectos deben ser el resultado de un dialogo abierto entre el gobiemo y el
BIRF.
7.11 Transferencia de experiencias y continuidad de las politicas. El BIRF debiera
poner a disposici6n y compartir con el pais las amplias experiencias que posee dado su
ambito mundial y evitar que se impulsen componentes o actividades que despues se
cancelan por resultar inadecuados. En tal sentido debe haber una relaci6n mas estrecha
entre los programas que ahora se respaldan y los esfuerzos que se hagan en el futuro
7.12 Flexibilidad y agilidad durante la ejecuci6n. Es conveniente, tanto para la
instituci6n que financia el proyecto, como para el gobiemo, mantener una actitud flexible
para realizar los ajustes y adecuar el proyecto a las circunst%ncias necesariamente
cambiantes de este tipo de proyectos.
7.13 Evaluaci6n previa. Previo a la formulaci6n de nuevos proyectos, es necesario
evaluar los proyectos anteriores y hacer estudios sobre lineas base que pernitan una
posterior evaluaci6n y monitoreo de resultados
7.14  Continuidad del personal a cargo de la UCEP. La ejecuci6n del SPEB fue una
muestra de los graves inconvenientes que puede ocasionar la rotaci6n constante del
personal de la UCEP. Para asegurar una ejecuci6n efectiva de los proyectos, el MINEDUC
debe realizar los menores cambios posibles, mantener un programa permanente de
capacitaci6n de los profesionales y tecnicos y proveer los estimulos necesarios para retener
al personal calificado con el que cuenta.
7.15  Priorizar aspectos sustantivos del proyecto. El personal del BIRF a cargo del
seguimiento y monitoreo de los proyectos deberia privilegiar y apoyar con mayor atenci6n
los aspectos sustantivos, en lugar de centrar su preocupaci6n en el mayor o menor monto de
desembolsos de recursos del pr6stamo.



ANEXO ESTADISTICO
Cuadro 1:         Resumen de Evaluaciones
Cuadro 2:         Prestamos del Banco Relacionados
Cuadro 3:         Cronograma del Proyecto
Cuadro 4:         Desembolso del Prestamo por afno: Estimado y Real Acumulado
Cuadro 5:         Indicadores Claves para la Ejecuci6n del Proyecto
Cuadro 6:         Indicadores Claves para la Operaci6n del Proyecto
Cuadro 7:         Estudios Incluidos en el Proyecto
Cuadro 8:         Costos del Proyecto
Cuadro 9:         Costos y Beneficios Econ6micos



Cuadro 1: Resumen de Evaluaciones
A. Logro de Objetivos                     Sustancial     Parcial   Minimo       No Aplicable
Politicas macro                            O           O          O             0
Politicas sectoriales                                  0 EZ       °       
Objetivos financieros                      O           O          O             0
Desarrollo institucional                   E                      El             El
Objetivos fisicos                          00 O                                  El
Reducci6n de pobreza                       °                      El             0
Cuestiones de genero                                              RI O           Cl
Otros objetivos sociales                   O                      El             El
Objetivos ambientales                      E           E          E
Administraci6n sector publico              E           0          E              E
Desarrollo sector privado                  E           E          E             0
Probable        Improbable          Incierto
B. Sustentabilidad del Proyecto                  El                O                 E
C. Desempefio del Banco                     Altamente                            Deficiente
Satisfactorio
Identificaci6n                               E                0                  El
Ayuda en la preparaci6n                      E                21                 E
Evaluaci6n (appraisal)                       E                b                  E
Supervisi6n                                  E                                    l 0
D. Desempefio del Prestatario                Altamente        Satisfactorio      Deficiente
Satisfactorio
Preparaci6n                                      E                0                  °
Ejecuci6n                                        El               0                  E
Cumplimiento del Convenio                        E                 0                 E
Operaci6n                                        E                21                 E
Altamente       .             Altamente
Satisfactorio    Insatisfactorio
E. Evaluacion de Resultados             E             E0                              E



Cuadro 2: Prestamos del Banco Relacionados
Afio de      Estado
Prestamo No./Nombre                           Prop6sito                      Aprobaci6n    Actual
Operaciones Precedentes
1.  Prestamno 576-GU           Expansi6n y mejoramiento de la educaci6n secundaria    1968    Cerrado
Octubre 1975
2.  Prestamo 1212-GU           Apoyo a la educaci6n prevocacional y mejora de la   1976    Cerrado
informaci6n educativa                                       marzo 1984
3.  Prestamo 1314-GU           Reconstrucci6n de escuelas dafiadas por el terremoto y  1976    Cerrado
mejoramiento de la calidad de la educaci6n                  Junio 1980
4.  Prestamo 2328-GU           Mejoramiento cuantitativo y cualitativo de la       1983    Cerrado
Primer Proyecto de         educaci6n Basica                                            Diciembre
Educaci6n Basica                                                                       1988
Operaciones Subsiguientes
1.  Prestamo 4167-GU           Apoyo a la educaci6n basica y al programa de reforma  1998    En ejecuci6n
Reforma a la Educaci6n     educativa
Basica
Cuadro 3: Cronograma del Proyecto.
Etapas en el Ciclo del Proyecto              Fecha Planeada             Fecha Real/Estimada
Preparaci6n
Appraisal                                          4 de noviembre, 1988          4 de noviembre, 1988
Negociaciones                                        noviembre, 1988                noviembre, 1988
Presentaci6n al Directorio                          6 de diciembre, 1988          6 de diciembre, 1988
Firma                                                10 de enero, 1990             10 de enero, 1990
Efectividad                                           10 de abril, 1990            22 dejunio, 1993
Primer desembolso                                                                   8 de julio, 1993
Terminaci6n del proyecto                           31 de diciembre, 1994         31 de diciembre, 1998
Cierre del prestamo                                  30 de junio, 1995           31 de diciembre, 1998
Cuadro 4: Desembolso del Prestamo por Aflo: Estimado y Real Acumulado (US$ millones)
1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998
Estimado en appraisal     0.6      3.0    10.2    17.8    24.6    28.8    30.0
Real                      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0,8     2.7     4.5      9.7    15.4    18.8
Real como % del estimado    0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0      3.3     9.4    15.0    32.3    51.3    62.7
Fecha del desembolso final                                                                           12/98



Cuadro 5: Indicadores Claves para la Ejecucion del Proyecto
Indicadores Claves de Ejecuci6n en el SAR                         Estimado             Real
Indicadores Modificados (enmienda de 1994)
A. Aumento de la matricula escolar neta
a) Construcci6n de aulas escolares                                  500 aulas       504 aulas
b) Adquisici6n de mobiliario y equipo (para maestros y alumnos)       1,760           2,540
c) Introducci6n de la doble jomada (aulas)                            1,260           1,456
d) Maestros contratados                                               1,760           1,839
e) Campafnas publicitarias                                              2               0
f)  Apoyo a la nutrici6n escolar (bodegas, cocinas)                    250
B. Mejoramiento de la calidad y eficiencia
1. Capacitaci6n de maestros
a) Maestros en servicio                                               2,900           1,082
b) Maestros de nuevo ingreso                                          1,760           1,760
c)  Supervisores educativos                                            342             404
2. Libros de texto y cuademos de trabajo bilingiues 8
a) Libros de texto bilinguies                                        156,000           3,1
b) Cuademos de trabajo para preprimaria bilinguie                    130,000         46,160
3 Libros de texto y cuademos de trabajo (Grados IA, I, II, y III)
a) Libros de texto                                                   972,490
b) Cuademos de trabajo                                              1,850,000       1,696,680
c) Guias de los maestros                                              16,000         56,110
d) Libros de apoyo                                                                   304,619
4  Rincones de lectura (microbibliotecas)                             1,760           2,188
5. Utiles escolares                                                  788,000        1,355,878
6. Estudios                                                             4               4
C. Mejoramiento de la administraci6n de la educaci6n
1. Estudios preliminares de la construcci6n del edificio central        1               1
2. Construcci6n, dotaci6n de mobiliario y equipamiento del edificio     1               1
central del MINEDUC
8 Los textos y cuademos de trabajo bilingues estimados en el SAR estaban incluidos dentro del
total de los materiales educativos (inciso 3).



Cuadro 6: Indicadores Claves para la Operaci6n del Proyecto
Indicadores modificados (enmienda de 1994)                      Estimado               Real
Obras Civiles
1. Construcci6n de aulas.                                                 500 aulas           504 aulas
2. Restauracion, construcci6n parcial y equipamiento del edificio central del  Edificio  Edificio restaurado y
MINEDUC                                                                construido      construcci6n parcial
Mobiliario, Equipo y Materiales
1. Adquisici6n y uso de mobiliario para los maestros y alumnos            1,760 aulas        2,540 aulas
2. Provisi6n de libros de texto y cuademos de trabajo                     2,822,490           2,464,459
3. Provisi6n de guias de los maestros                                       16,000              56,110
4. Compra de pizarrones para PRONADE                                                            2,028
5. Adquisici6n de microbibliotecas                                          1,760               2,188
Contratacifn de Maestros                                                    1,760               1,839
Cuadro 7: Estudios Incluidos en el Proyecto
Estudio                             Situaci6n                     Impacto del Estudio
1 . Evaluaci6n de la jomada vespertina Term~inado                        Sustentar la continuaci6n del programa
2. Criterios para evaluar experiencias  Te.nd                            Definir criterios a ser adoptados para
educativas innovadoras           ermmado                             impulsar programas innovadores
3. Estudio inicial de necesidades de    Terminado                        Resultados preliminares
mapeo escolar
4. Estudio sobre la descentralizaci6n   Terminado                         Sustancial
de la educaci6n



Cuadro 8: Costos del Proyecto
Estimado               Real/ultimo estimado
Categorias de Inversi6n                   (US$ Miles)                   (US$ Miles)
Recursos  Aporte    Total   Recursos  Aporte    Total
Pr6stamo   Local              Prestamo   Local
1. Construccion de aulas                     5,646.0   1,411.7   7,057.7   5,456.3   1,364.1   6,820.4
2. Adquisici6n de Bienes                   | 1,932.0    215.2    2,147.2   5,267.8    585.3    5,853.1
3. Libros de Texto                         | 3,300.0    366.7    3,666.7   2,455.2    272.8    2,728.0
4. Capacitaci6n                            |  136.0    204.0      340.0     170.5    255.8    426.3
5. Asistencia Tcnica                          993.0      0.0      993.0    1,712.8     0.0      1,712.8
6. Gastos de operaci6n                     |  135.0      34.5     169.5    230.4       57.6     288.0
7. Edificio del MINEDUC                      4,146.0   2,231.8   6,377.8   1,876.7    982.0    2,858.7
8. Intereses                                  800.0    1,104.8   1,904.8    995.5               995.5
9.  Sueldos de los maestros                    0.0    13,700.0  13,700.0    0.0    17,313.8  17,313.8
10. Contingencias                            1,700.0   1,940.3   3,640.3     0.0       0.0       0.0
Total de Costos del Proyecto               |Syntax   21,209.0   !Syntax  18,165.2  20,831.4  38,996.6
Error, (.0          Error, (.0I
Nota:  Los costos estimados del proyecto se refieren al presupuesto revisado conforme a la enmienda
introducida en febrero de 1994. Los costos de cierre son preliminares y podrian incrementarse cuando se
disponga de las cifras definitivas.
Cuadro 9: Costos y Beneficios Econ6micos
En el SAR no se estim6 la tasa interna de retorno. Los beneficios del proyecto fueron expresados en terminos de reducir las
tasas de analfabetismo; incrementar la eficiencia de la educacion; mejorar la equidad de las oportunidades de la poblaci6n
pobre en el area rural; y mejorar la administraci6n y operaci6n del sistema educativo.






IBRD 20316
920                                      91°                                      900                                     890
GUATEMALA                                                                                                                             /
PAVED ROADS                                                                                                                    /
UNPAVED ROADS                                                                                                                                        l
TRACKS                                                                M           E X I C O
-I-   RAILROADS
*      AIRPORTS                             !
4,    PORTS                                 I
DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
<                                      '               ~~~~~     ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tik.1j  
170             \      N                4<Pdoso Cobollos    A               C,WdodM.khor j7\
S.-                                                                           K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d
-1 7° ''\                                                                                  L<                  ,Lke7H
KILOMETERS \
0      20     40      60      80                 11                                                                       B  E  L I Z  E
I     ,     I     I     ,     ,I                                        
0    10    20    30   40    50o Torib,o
MILES
M E X I C O                                                                              E  N                  
-1 6°                                                                         j/ Chinoj -                                                      Gulf of Hondurasw16-
S.. M- I.I.I& ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~bl                                      o.~  Ono
/HUEMUE7ENA              h         G K/bi B. Ti   A  T  )A P    g$ 
} _Rto Demoerocio  ;  S   Q U i C H4 E  5  (   J           /Cos-illo SoO BARRIOS
/   V   ) tf   C.jOfu]   \  >   COobobim                    El Eslor                                .oO 0     A
< \ \ s s p CO8ANg  Pon,6sSe    izqbv   C
,& - - = <1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z   A   B  *
\B> \ _° t  EiAJA VERAPA)A
ZACAPA   ~       14           ~ICRAU
, fiatism6n  SANs RCOt [E YSANTACIC (CEACARA
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SPEBR 1986_  v
ma toin                                                                                                                                    ovoo  CU3A'-'-
El Wt.lf                        eoo;                                                 t   l      +Lk  ul                 _Hii                Coribbez>  Sea
-14° 1Eeooe/                                              t       2 Ciumll{  JUTiAP                           s- Sem  1-vdo   14e   LSLAOR iAAU
- - <' 0 t S | ~~EL SALVADORi- PnmC;o
C,)   ,,i   C     O  C  E A  N                                         ,      >       OSmSlom<\   
92t         91°                        :    \                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PACIFIC OCEAN   5ARC   < 
9   T cu"i PANAMAA  
SEPTEMBER 1 986



