Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
1,A  3o C)C 3 - Gr0
Reprt No. 7004-GU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
GUATEKALA
SECOND BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
November 4, 1988
Country Department II and Technical Department
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This document bas a resicted distribution ad may be used by ecipients only ih the perfonnace of
their oficil duties. its cotnts may not otherwise be disosed witot Wodd B21k authoriaIon.



CUMCY IQUIVALZNTS
Currency Unit - Quetzal Q)
US$1.0 - Q2.50
Q 1.0 - US$0.20
HEASUZS
1 Square meter HM2) - 10.78 sq. ft.
1 kilometer (km) - 0.62 miles
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CENALTEX           National Center of Textbooks
DGE                Directorate General of Education
DOP                Department of Projects
ICB                International Competitive Bidding
IDB                Inter-Amer!can Development Bank
LCB                Local Competitive Bidding
MCPW               Ministry of Communications, Transport and Public Works
MIS                Management Information System
MOE                Ministry of Education
PEAC               National Program for Adult Education by
Correspondence
PICU               Project Implementation Coordination Unit
PRONEBI            National Program for Bilingual Education
UCEE               School Construction Unit of MCPW
USAID              United States Agency for International Development
USIPE              Sectoral Unit for Educational Planning MOE
VFP                World Food Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
February 1 to October 31



FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
GUATD4ALA
SECOND BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Pate No.
I.    LOAN AND PROJECT SUMARY ................................          i
II, THE SECTOR ...........                                               1
A. Background.                                                    1
B.   Overviev of the Education System.                            1
C.   Performance, Issues and Constraints in
Primary Education ................. .........             3
D.   Sector Objectives and Strategies.                            9
E. Rationale for Bank Involvement..                              12
III.    THE PROJECT
A. Background........                              .......   13
B.   Project Objectives ...............                          13
C.   Project Description ...............                         13
D.   Implementation Arrangements ...............                19
E.   Project Costs and Financing ..      .............           21
F.   Procurement ...............                                22
G.   Disbursements ...............                              23
H.   Accounting and Auditing ....         ...........            23
I.   Project Benefits ...............                           23
J.   Risks and Safeguards ...............                        24
IV.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .25
TABLES
2.1  Summary Data on the Education System in 1985 .......         2
2.2  Primary Education in Guatemala in 1985 .............        3
ANNEXES
I. Enrollment Projections .27
II.  Summary Description of the Project .30
III. Teacher Training Program .32
IV.  Textbook Production Schedule .36
V. Technical Assistance Program .37
VI. Studies .39
VII.  Support to Nutrition Program of Rural Children            41
VIII. Distance Education .42
IX.  MOE Building - Cost/benefit Analysis .44
This report is based on the findings of the Appraisal Mission which visited
Guatemala from August 19 to September 9, 1987. The mission consisted of
Messrs. Jacques Hallak (Senior Economist, Mission Leader); John St. Germain
(Architect); Robert Ruiz-Esparza (Educator, Consultant); Alfonso de Guzman
(Textbook Specialist, Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their of ficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)                                              Page No.
X. Project Cost Sumary (including Procurem_nt
and Disbursements) ....... 0. .. ... . ...... .....      46
XI.  Preliminary List of 200 Schools to be Ixpanded
During the First Year of the Project  .       .53
XII.  Implementation Schedul                 ..      .54
XIII. Kew Perforace Targets             ..55
XIV.  List of Documents on File      ..............       .       57
CHARTS
I.  Organization Chart of the Ministry of Education            58
II. Implementation Organigra .61
MAP
IBRD No. 20316



SECOND BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
I. LOUN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers             Republic of Guatemala
Executing Agency:     Ministry of Education (MOE)
Amount:               US$30.0 million equivalent
Termst                20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
Proiect Obiectives:   The proposed project would assist the Government in
achieving its goal of providing a minimum of four
years education to at least 80 percent of all six to
nine year olds by 1991. Specifically, the objectives
of the proposed project would be to: (a) increase
net enrollment; (b) improve the quality and
efficiency of lower primary education; and (c)
improve educational management. Emphasis would be on
the lower level of primary education in rural areas.
Proiect Description:  The proposed project would support the above
objectives by: (a) expanding the existing school
capacity at the lower primary level and extending an
existing distance education program to the upper
primary level and increasing the demand for education
through programs such as public campaigns and support
for school nutrition programs: (b) providing learning
materials including textbooks, teacher training
programs (especially in multi-grade teaching,
bilingual education and teaching for a new
preparatory first grade), and a program of studies to
identify and define areas for further quality and
efficiency improvements; and (c) strenthening
management of the MOE at the central level (including
construction of central offices) and decentralizing
to and strengthening of administration at the
regional and school level.



- ii -
Proiect Benefits$    The main benefits of the proposed project would be:
(a) reduced illiteracy rates by Jr.reasing toth the
participation in lower primary e:ducation from about
60 percent at present to about 80 percent in 1993 and
the number of children successfully completing grade
III from about 126,000 at present to about 163,000 in
1993; (b) increased efficiency of lower primary
education (upon completion of the project about 27
percent of students would have completed grade III
without having repeated against a figure of about 17
percent at present); (c) increased equity of
educational opportunities for the rural poor,
including indigenous families; and (d) improved
management and operation of the education system.
The project would produce important benefits for the
long-term developrant and integration of rural
Guatemala. Resourrz savings resulting from
efficiency irnprovements together with stronger
managerial and operational capacity of the MOE would
contribute to further system expansion and
improvemerts.
Proiect Risks:        Two principal implementation risks would be
associated with the proposed project. The first is
the possible shor' fall of counterpart funds which
would be reduced by the Bank's close mionitoring of
annual budgetary allocations through review of annual
work plans. The second risk concerns the overall
implementation capacity of the MOE. This risk has
been considerably reduced by the experience acluired
under the First Basic Education Project, by the
establishment of the PICU which would act as an
expeditor/facilitator with strong administrative
authority and through technical assistance.
Intensified monitoring both by the DOP and the Bank
through annual work plans would be important for the
early detection and resolution of implementation
problems. In addition, there is a risk that the
project may not have the desired impact on improving
efficiency because of resistance to change on the
part of administ-ators, teachers, and parents. The
project has been specifically designed to address
this risk through efforts to mobilize support for
project objectives, such as training programs and
public information campaigns which are expected to
significantly mitigate this risk.



- iii -
Estimated Cost a/
Project Component                                    Cost (USS million)
L2ca]           Foreian           Total
A.  INCREASING NET ENROLLMENT             33.76             5.93            39.69
Expansion of School Capacity          33.54            5.56             39.10
Distance Education                     0.02            0.10              0.12
Public Campaigns                       0.20            0.27              0.47
B.  IMPROVING QUALITY AND EFFICIENCY    5.21                4.63             9.84
Training materials                     3.78            4.06              7.854
Teacher Training                       1.41            0.48              1.89
Studies                                0.02            0.09              0.11
C.  IMPROVING MANAGEMENT                   3.67             2.19             5.8b
Central Level                          3.18            2.04              5.22
Local Levet                            0.08            0.05              0.13
Project Aaministration                 0.41            0.10              0.51
E'roject Base Cost                        42.64           12.75             55.39
Physical Contingencies                 1.71            0.91              2.62
Price Contingencies                    2.30            0.46              2.76
TOTAL PROJECT COST                      46.65           14.12             60.77
Interest during construction               5.80             1.70             7.50
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIREI)               52.45           :5.82             68.27
Financing Plan:
Government                            38.27             -               38.27
IBRD                                  14.18           15.82            30.00
TOTAL                            52.45            15.82            68.27
Z of Total                        77Z              23Z              1007
Estimate' Disbursements:
Fiscal Year                      89    90    91    92    93    94    95
----------------US$ million-------------
Annual                            0.6   2.4   7.2   7.6   6.8   4.2   1.20
Cumulative                       0.6   3.0  10.2  17.8  24.6  28.8  30.00
Rate of Return: not applicable
Map: IBRD No. 20316
a/ Net of taxes and duties equivalent to approximately US$1.5 million.



II. TU SECTOK
A. lackaround
2.1      Guatemala ts the most culturally and socially diverse country in
Central America. About half of its eight million people are deceendants of
the Maya-Quiche civiliaationu, with liaited assisllatit;n into the socio-
economic mainstream. Only one-fifth of the Indian population are able to
use Spanish, the rest speak 23 different Indian languages. Economic and
social integration has also been made more difficult by the country's
rugged topography--about one-balf of the territory is mountainous--as well
at by tLe scattered settlement of the Indian population in the Western
Highlands. Given these conditions, a*s well as the traditionally slow pace
of Government investment in basih social infrastructure, a large segment of
the population does not have access to adequate schoo'l, with literacy
rates in rural areas not exceeding 40 percent.
2.2      In an effort to reverse long years of neglect and address more
edequately the basic needs of Guatemala's uriderprivileged majority,
Guatemala's current Government has embarked upon a bold program of national
reorganization. This program, which was announced in July 1987, is
designed to strengthen Guatemala's fledgling democrscy, mainly through
increased community participation and an accelerated effort to meet basic
social and economic needs. The program established special task forces to
coordinate the execution of priority projects in key sectors, including
education, while also calling for a major reorganization and
decentralization of the public administration to improve efficiency and
responsiveness. In education, the program aims at increasing the number of
classrooms and availability of materials, decentralizing services and
administration, and developing a more balanced and adequate curriculum
taking into account the existing cultural context. The proposed project
would directly support the Goverrm ant's national reorganization objectives
in the field of education.
B. Overview of the Education System
2.3      Table 2.1 presents an overview of the education system in
Guatemala. In 1985, the system comprised about 1.5 million students of
which 81 percent were enrolled in pre-primary and primary schools, 14
percent in secondary schools and 5 percent in higher education
institutions. The structure of the system consists of: two years cf pre-
primary (ages 5 and 6), six years of primary (ages 7-12), six years of
secondary (three years basic and three years diversified), six years of
higher and three years of post-graduate studies. According to the
Constitution, education is compulsory for the age group 5 to 15 years old,
however, actual attendance is much less and the Government is currently
unable to provide the coverage mandated. Overall, the Government finances
about 80 percent of education in Guatemala, the remainder being provided by
the private sector.



- 2 -
Table 2.1 Suvmarv Data on the Education System in 1985
Duration       Enrollment        Teachers    Schools
Lenel           (aze in years)   Total   I Urban
Pro-primary       2 ( 5-6)    134,271  111-95Za/  4,381          2,781
Primary           6 ( 7-12)  1,020,000    442       28,467       8,121
Secondary:
-Basic            3 (13-15)    135,613    932        9,184         861
-Divers.          3 (16-18)      68,436    982       5,445          449
Higher          3-9 (19-25+)    67,428    992          bI            bl
a/ 112 for the program of  Castellanizacion;* 952 for the rthers.
b/ Not available.
2.4      Sector Oraaniwtion.  With the exception of school construction,
and furniture and equipment procurement which is the responsibility of a
School Construction Unit (UCEE) in the Miristry of Communications, Public
Works and Transport (MCPW), all matters pertaining to the organization,
staffing and administration of the education system are entrusted to the
Ministry of Education (MOE). The organizational structure of the MOE is
presented in Chart I. Two Vice-Ministers (Technical and Administrative),
as well as aix specialized departmental units, including a Sectoral Unit of
Educational Planning (USIPE), report directly to the Minister of Education.
USIPE is responsible for general sectoral planning, coordination and
evaluation, and for providiri technical assistance to all MOE programs when
necessary. The National Board of Out of School Education and the
Directorate General of Education (DGE) (comprising seven directorates, each
responsible for a different type and level of education, and a General
Inspectorate) report to the Technical Vice-Hinister. Responsibility for
primary education is shared by the Directorate of Preprimary and Urban
Primary and the Directorate of Education in Rural Areas. The Directorate
of Literacy and Adult Education is responsible for the National Program of
Distance Education for Adults (PEAC) (Annex VITI). Seventeen offices
and/or administrative units responsible for the operation and management of
schools (personnel, textbooks, supplies, technology, transport,
maintenance, etc.) report to the Administrative Vice-Minister, Including
the National Center of Books and Textbooks (CENALTEX) which is in charge of
the procurement and/or production and distribution of textbooks and
did&ctic materials. A newly established Directorate of Nutrition, also
reporting to the AdministLitive Vice-Minister, is entrusted with the
planning, coordination, implementation and evaluation of all school
nutrition programs.
2.5      The education system has grown rapidly over the last 20 years,
with public primary enrollment nearly txebling and public secondary
enrollment more than quadrupling from 1965 to 1985. Howiver, Guatemala
still has a long way to go in order to meet the educational, social and
economic needs of its people. The overall literacy rate is only about 53
percent, the lowest in Latin America except for Haiti (50 percent). The
economically active population still has predominantly low levels of
education: about 88 percent has either no formal education or only a few
years of primary education, about 9 percent has some secondary education
and only about 3 percent of the population has some higher education. As a



-3-
result, the occupational distribution of the workforce is skewed towards
jobs requiring limited skills (well below those in the other countries of
the region), thereby adversely affecting the level of production and
productivity in agriculture and industry. The relatively low level of
education in the labor force is reflected in the high rate of return for
families and individuals investing in education, particularly at the
primary level. This rate is estimated to be above 30 percent for those who
complete primary school, about 22 percent for basic education and about 19
percent for higher education. These figures suggest that returns to
investment in education are as high ni 3r higher than returns for other
potential investments. They also strongly suggest that there is clearly
underinvestment in education in Gaatemala at all levels.
C. Performance, Issues and Constraints in Primary Education
2.6      Although primary education has expanded significantly in recent
years, with enrollment growing, on average, five percent per annum from
1973 through 1985 (Table 2.2), primary education still faces aerious
problems: (a) Guatemala has the second lowest primary school enrollment
rate in Latin America (only 63 percent of the school-age children attend
school, an estimated half million are not enrolled and rural children and
females are overrepresented in the excluded group); (b) the flow of
students through the system is inefficient (it requires, theoretically, 18
years of education--instead of six--to produce a graduate); and
(c) financial constraints and deficiencies in management hamper the
effective operation and development of the system. These issues are
described in more detail below.
Table 2.2 Primary Education in Guatemala in 1985
Total        Urban         Rural
ENROLLMENT DATA
School age population(7-12 years in 000)  1,330           520          810
Estimated enrollment (000)                  1,020         450          570
Gross enrollment rate (Z)                      77          87           70
Estimated Z of students
not in age group (7-12)                      18          12           24
Net enrollment rate (Z)                        63          76           53
Estimated population not enrolled (000)       500         120          380
SCHOOL DATA
Number of schools                           7,975       1,455        6,520
-of which incomplete (with less than
6 grades)                              3,265          173       3,092
-of which public                           6,633          860       5,773
-Z in good condition                          60
Classrooms (1983)                         17,579        5,838       11,741
Students/classrooms (1983)                     49          63           42
Teachers                                  27,854       13,768       14,086
Students/teachers                             37           33           40
AVERAGE ANNUAL GROWTH RATE(1973-85)
School age population(Z)                     2.7          2.9          2.7
School enrollment(Z)                         5.0          3.6          7.8
---------------------------------------------------------------------__-



4-
Low Enrollment
2.7      The net enrollrent rate in primary education in Guatemala (63
percent) continues to be the second lowest in Latin America. Despite a
concerted effort to increase enrollment in rural areas with enrollment in
rural areas growing, on average, 7.6 percent per annum from 1973 through
1985 compared to five percent per annum overall, educational opportunities
in rural areas lag far behind those in urban areas, both in terms of access
and in terms of quality of education. As a consequence, while
approximately 76 percent of primary school age children were enrolled in
urban areas in 1985, only 53 percent were enrolled in rural areas.
2.8      From 1973 through 1985 the growth rate of primary school
enrollment (5 percent per annum) was almost double that of the school age
population (2.7 percent per annum). This would imply, pro"-ided past growth
rates remain relatively constant, that the entire school age population
would be enrolled in the very near future. In fact, however, actual
increases in new enrollment are much smaller given a larger proportion of
students repeating grades because of late access and lack of continuitv in
attendance, especially in rural areas.
2.9      Low primary school enrollment is also affected by: (a) lack and
mlsallocation of school space; 'b) lack and misallocation of personnel;
(c) poor economic conditions of families; and (d) poor parental attitudes
towards schooling.
2.10     Lack and Misallocation of School Space.  A recent study by the MOE
estimates a deficit of about 4,300 primary school classrooms. An
additional 7,300 existing classrooms need repair or reconstruction. Almost
half of the existing 6,520 primary schools in rural areas are incomplete,
often providing less than six grades of primary. In urban areas, the
Governmcnt is presently renting 67 buildings to serve as primary schools
(of which 60 are in Guatemala City). The study reveals that in both urban
and rural areas some classrooms are under-occupied. There is, therefore, a
need to improve the planning of school and classroom location so as to
better utilize existing space and to expand the number of classrooms and
repair schools where necessary.
2.11     Lack and Misallocation of Personnel. Although there is a large
oversupply of primary school teachers from teacher training schools--an
estimated 15,000 graduate teachers are unemployed or underemployed--the
Government has not been able to recruit an adequate number of teachers due
to budgetary constraints. In addition, teachers resist assignments in
remote schools in spite of incentives provided in the form of points for
faster promotion and the cost of living differential between urban and
rural areas (teachers' salaries are uniform throughout the country).



2.12     Poor Economic Conditions of Families.  The poor economic condition
of the families with school age children causes not only low enrollment but
aAso late entrance into the system, increased absenteeism and high drop-out
rates. In 1980/81, it is estimated that about 32 percent of families (or
39 percent of the population since extremely poor families have, on
average, four children as opposed to non-poor families which have, on
average, two children) lived in extrme poverty.1 As a result, most
families are unable to finance the direct and indirect costs of schooling.
Direct costs which include clothing, transportation, and learning materials
and supplies can total up to US$59 per student per year in Guatema2a City,
approximately US$14 in other urban areas and approximately US$3.20 in rural
areas. Indirect costs include the opportunity costs of child labor.
Children often assist parents in farm labor and in household chores,
instead of attending school. When poor children do attend, they are
generally undernourished--a 1986 school census revealed that about 35
percent of grade I students suffered from malnutrition.
2.13     Parental Attitudes Towards Schoolin.  Parental attitudes towards
schooling, especially in rural areas, lead to a low initial enrollment of
primary school aged children. In addition to the economic factors
described in para 2.12, parents, most of whom lack education themselves,
are generally unaware of the benefits of primary education, and especially
of the importance of early enrollment, towards the future achievement of
their children. In addition, parents in rural areas do not always see the
relevance of the primary school curriculum to their expectations of their
childrens' future activities. Once children are enrolled, a number of
socio-cultural factors, in addition to economic reasons, lead to low
learning and achievement levels. These factors, which also affect
decisions to enroll children in school, are described in detail in para.
2.18.
Inefficient Flow of Students and Poor Studen' Achievement
2.14     Because of high repetition rates, the flow of students through
the primary school cycle is slow, resulting in a waste of scarce resources
available for primary education. Almost 50 percent of children repeat the
first grade and about 30 percent repeat subsequent primary grades. The
first grade repetition rate in rural areas (about 60 percent) is
significantly higher than in urban areas (about 39 percent). As a result,
there is a great concentration of students in the first two grades (about
52 percent) while few children attend the fifth and sixth grades (about 18
percent on average, less than 13 percent in rural areas). High repetition
rates contribute to the poor utilization of classrooms and teachers,
resulting in excessive concentration and lack of space in the lower grades,
and underutilization of capacity (evidenced by low student to class and
teacher ratios) in the upper grades. They also result in heterogeneous age
groups in the same classrooms, making the teaching process less efficient.
I/  r filn i1 nn th  lh ,24  nf -ffnr- hi4l4iv tn ir-irrh   ini I fr-4 h- l   F



- 6 -
2.15     Ir. general, student achievement levels are low.  Although there
are no nationwide tests to substantiate learning problems, high repetition
rates imply that, in many cases, students are not learning the basics of
reading, writing or arithmetic in the primary grades.
2.16     As many students spend less than six years in school before
joining the labor force, high repetition rates result in a relatively low
proportion of students completing the full six years of primary education.
In fact, 1983 data indicates that only about six percent of primary school
ertrants complete school in six years, with another 37 percent of entrants
completing primary school after six or more years of study. At the same
time, high secondary school repetition rates--only eight percent of
entrants completed secondary school in six years and 33 percent required
additional years--underscore the poor quality of primary school education
and the fact that primary school graduates ate ill-prepared to follow the
secondary school curriculum.
2.17     Low learning achievement levels and high repetition rates (which
lead to an inefficient flow of students) are the result of: (a) socio-
economic and cultural factors; (b) the low quality of teaching-learning;
and (c) the poor conditions of schooling.
2.18     Socio-economic and cultural factors.  Various socio-economic and
cultural factors contribute to low learning levels, and consequently high
repetition and drop-out rates. Poor nutrition levels, which according to a
recent school census deteriorate as children get older, adversely affect
learning capacity of a considerable proportion of primary school students.
Although school nutrition programs have been initiated with external
assistance (para 2.30), they are generally insufficient and furthermore,
have until today mostly concentrated on children under the age of six. A
further serious complicating factor is the fact that approximately 50
percent of primary school students speak only one of the twenty three
indigenous languages. They do not succeed in school because they do not
understand Spanish, the language of instruction. The National Program for
Bilingual Education (PRONEBI) introduced in 1984 has offered non-Spanish
speaking children in about 400 schools initial education in one of four
indigenous languages, followed by transition to Spanish. However th's
program covers only about five to ten percent of students at present and
additional bilingual textbooks and teachers are required to expand the
program both in absolute terms and in terms of the number of indigenous
languages covered. Seasonal migrations which affect rural families and the
demand for child labor by poor parents result in school participation
characterized by a lack of continuity in comporition of the group through
the school year. These temporary drop-outs generally repeat grades.
Finally, lack of education prevents parents from assisting children with
le&rning problems.



-7-
2.19     Low qualitv of teachint-learnina. The teaching-learning process
in primary education is of low quality. The primary aducation curriculum
is biased in favor of urban students. Most teachers lack training and
experience in classroom management, student evaluation, multigrade teaching
and bilingual education all of which are particularly needed in rural areas
where they must deal with classes of heterogeneous entry age and
background. Although most teachers speak only Spanish, those who do speak
one or more of the indigenous languages have not (except under the
bilingual education program) been assigned to appropriate language areas.
A policy of assigning teachers to schools vhere they can speak the language
of the children was adopted in 1985 and has had a positive impact on
students' learning. Furthermore, the existing grade promotion system is
inadequate as teachers lack evaluation guidelines and grading is done
subjectively with no relation to criteria used by other teachers. There
are no feedback mechanisms fcr teachers to evaluate their jobs and teachers
are not aware of their teaching deficiencies since there are no feedback
mechanisms with which to evaluate their performance.
2.20     Poor conditions of schooling.  Conditions of schooling in
Guatemala are very poor due to the: (a) lack of textbooks; (b) lack of
materials and supplies; (c) large class sizes; and (d) short time devoted
to learning.
(a) Lack of Textbooks. The lack of textbooks and workbooks has
been a serious constraint, especially in rural schools. In
many regions, a schcol textbook is the only reading material
available to students. Furthermore, since more than 40
percent of the population enters the system without knowledge
of Spanish, textbooks in indigenous languages are essential.
(b) Lack of Materials and Supplies. Materials and supplies, for
both classrooms and students, are generally not available.
Furniture is also often unavailable. A recent study
estimates a deficit of about 295,000 student desks, i.e.,
about one desk for every three students.
(c) Large Class Sizes. The lack of double shifts and high
repetition rates in the lower grades result in excessively
large class sizes in the lower grades and inefficiently small
classes in the upper primary grades. In rural areas where
most schools operate only one shift per day, more than one-
fifth of teachers handle classes with more than 50 students.
First grades may have 70 or 80 students while upper grades
may have as few as 15 students.
(d) Time Devoted to Learning. Finally, in addition to a reduced
number of years in school, children in Guatemala also
experience shorter school years (120 days vs. standard 180
days; and shorter school days (about 4 hours vs. standard 6
hours) because of social events, inefficient classroom
management and absenteeism.



- 8 -
Financial Conrtraints and Manaaenent Deficiencies
2.21     Financial constraints and management deficiencies contribute to
the inefficiency of the entire education system. Their effect on primary
education is particularly serious.
2.22     Financial Constraints.  The share of primary education in the
MOE's budget remained reasonably high during recent years: 56.8 percent in
1980 and 57.9 percent in 1985. However, because of the traditionally low
level of public expenditures in general and comparatively small allocation
of expenditures to education, the amount of resources available for primary
education were limited, and were used primarily to finance teachers'
salaries (91 percent of total current expenditures in 1985). Very few
resources were spent on the operation of the schools, on textbooks and
didactic materials, school supplies, maintenance of buildings and
equipment, or pedagogical support.
2.23     Management Deficiencies.  Deficiencies in management are the
result of: (a) the overconcentration of authority and lack of
coordination; (b) the lack of an adequate information reporting system; and
(c) the lack of adequately trained personnel.
(a) Overconcentration of authority and lack of coordination.
Although the Government is committed to decentralize the
public sector including education, the authority for
decision-making in education remains concentrated in the
Office of the Minister to whom a total of 17 administrative
units report directly (para 2.4). At the same time, however,
because the MOE's operations are scattered in 13 buildings
dispersed in the capital, and because of the difficulty of
communications in the city, there is poor coordination of
activities leading to a duplication of efforts among the
various administrative units of the MOE. As is often the
case in overly centralized systems, the operation and line
divisions have weak managerial capacity.
(b)  Lack of an adeauate information reporting system.  Lack of an
adequate information system affects decision-makers at all
levels throughout the education system. The First Basic
Education Project (para 2.31) assisted the Government in
establishing the computing center in the MOE.   As a result,
information about space use, enrollment, teacher training,
pass-fail rates and statistics of students by age is now
being compiled in the new Management Information System
(MIS). However, efficient reporting mechanisms need to be
developed to transmit information according to users' needs.
For example, the central offices of the MOE require global
and summary data about the state of the education system, its
performance and weaknesses, the eight districts require
relevant regional data, and the individual schools need
comparative data so that problems can be identified.



-9-
(c) Lack of adequately trained personnel. As in many countries,
administrative and managerial personnel of the HOE are
recruited from the teaching profession. Consequently, though
trained and skilled as teachers, they are rarely competent
supervisors or managers. They often lack a perception of
their role in the education system or how to perform it.
Both a revised definition of the tasks of various
managerial/administrative personnel and training programs are
needed for them to perform their tasks efficiently.
2.24     Deficiencies in the lower levels of management have particularly
affected the development ard efficiency of primary education. Because of
the larger number of primas-,- schools in relation to other levels, tle
geographical distribution of those schools throughout the country and the
difficulty of communications, the HOE, in its present structure, has not
been able to ensure that policies are p;operly implemented. Without
decentralization, the central administration of the HOE is not capable of
decision-making involving thousands of teachers and schools. In addition,
district level supervisors and school principals are severely handicapped
in performing their key roles because of their ignorance of priorities,
their insufficient training and the shortage of complementary resources.
D. Sector Obiectives and Strategies
2.25     The civilian Government, which came to power in January 1986, has
stated that its main development objectives are to reduce poverty and
stabilize the domestic environment. To meet these objectives, the
Government has forcefully expressed the priority it attaches to:
(a) *paying the social debtw, that is, expanding and supporting services in
education, health and other social services; (b) achieving a better
integration of the poor into the development process by increasing their
productivity through improving their participation in basic services,
including education; and (c) decentralizing the public sector and
responsibilities for managing public affairs to the eight regions of the
country.
2.26     In January 1987, a draft National Education Plan was prepared by
USIPE. The plan proposes addressing the following three priorities: (a)
eradicating illiteracy through expansicn of primary education and adult
training; (b) strengthening the links between education and work; and (c)
regionalizing the management of education. The document confirms the
Government's intention to put relatively less emphasis on secondary and
higher education in order to promote primary education.
2.27     Subsequently in June 1987, two documents were prepared by the HOE.
The Anteproyecto Ley de Educacion Nacional (draft National Education Law)
was prepared as a proposal for discussion and highlights the following:
respect of freedom of education and recognition of the role of the private
sector; pursuit of a policy of equality of educational opportunity;



- 10 -
support to education for all minority groups; and confirmation that pre-
primary, primary and low secondary education are compulsory. The draft law
also addresses the organization of the HO, the structure of the education
system, and the monitoring of the private sector. Filosofia. Politicas v
Estratemias Zducstivas 1986-1990 (Educational Philosophy, Policies and
Strategies 1986-1990) is a more specific document specifying the priority
attached to: (a) improving administration/management at all levels of the
system, and the need for related training programs; (b) developing
comunities' participation in schooling; (c) adopting a continuous process
of curriculum reform and teacher training; (d) defining modalities of
regionalization and decentralization; (e) supporting marginal groups
through provision of nutrition programs , school supplies, textbooks and
didactic materials; (f) increasing support to the National Program of
Bilingual Zducation; (g) promoting a systematic program for eradication of
illiteracy; and (h) addressing the needs of the population aged six to nine
by expanding the coverage to serve one year of pre-primary and the three
first grades of primary.
2.28     Consistent with the strategy implicit in the above-mentioned
publications, the Government has assigned highest priority to lower primary
education, and, more specifically, has stated its goal of providing a
minimum of four years of education to at least 80 percent of all six to
nine year olds by 1991. In order to achieve this goal, the Government
proposes to adopt the following policies and programs which address the
identified sector issues described in paras 2.6 to 2.24:
Ca)  creating additional demand for early schooling through
programs, including incentives, designed to change the
attitudes of teachers and parents of schcol-age children;
(b)  promoting more efficient use of existing school capacity
through systematic adoption of double shifts and multigrade
teaching and more efficient provision of new capacity to meet
increased demand for schooling;
(c)  splitting the first grade into two grades (children enrolling
for the first time would enter in grade IA, a readiness grade
in which children at the age of six would receive initial
training in reading and basic numeracy skills, and the
repeaters would enroll in grade IB) in order to gradually
address the problems of high repetition and low achievement;
(d)  emphasizing the implementation of a package of measures
designed to improve presently low achievement rates, with
special emphasis on the needs of bilingual education in rural
areas; and
(e)  improving the capacity of the MOE, at all levels (including
teachers), to adequately provide, manage and coordinate
educational opportunities in an efficient and equitable
basis, through, inter alia, decentralizing responsibility
and decision-making to the regional level.



- 11 -
2.29     Recognizing the urgent need to increase the traditionally low
level of public expenditures in general, including the :omparatively small
allocation of Government expenditures in education (one of the lowest in
Latin America), the Government has recently moved on two fronts: First, it
obtained legislative approval in September 1987 of a new tax reform
package, which the Government expects will yield about 1 percent of GDP in
increased tax revenues. Second, the Congress approved a substantial
increase in the budget for 1988, including an increase in the share
allocated to education from an average of 12 percent in 1982-86 to 16.2
percent in 1988.
External Financint for Education
2.30     There are several international and bilateral agencies supporting
the development of the education sector in Guatemala. USAID, which
previously supported out-of-school education programs has, during the past
four years concentrated assistance towards the establishment of bilingual
education programs (para 2.18) which now cover 400 schools. IDB is
financing a project supporting the expansion and improvement of rural
education. UNDP/UNESCO supports two small-scale projects on adult literacy
and curriculum reform. Finally, a WFP project is assisting the Government
in financing school nutrition to about 1.2 million children over three
years (1988 to 1990).
Previous Bank Experience
2.31     The proposed project would be the fifth Bank project in the
education sector in Guatemala. The first (Loan No. 576-GU for US$6.3
million, signed December 1968, closed October 1975) assisted in the
expansion and improvement of secondary teacher training, the improvement of
secondary schools, and the expansion of agricultural education at both
secondary and post-secondary levels. The quantitative objectives of the
project were largely achieved and its physical implementation was
satisfactory (PPAR No. 2821). The second project (Loan No. 1212-GU for
US$14.5 million, March 1976-March 1984) sought to continue the Bank's
support for pre-vocational groups and to improve education data. In spite
of serious delays in implementation during its first phase of operation,
partly due to the priority given to reconstruction prograi which followed
the 1976 earthquake, implementation improved dramatically after 1982 and
both construction and software elements of the project were generally wall
executed (PCR No. 5989). The third project (Loan No. 1314-GU for US$4.2
million, August 1976-June 1980) replaced primary schools damaged by the
earthquake of 1976 and enhanced the quality of education in those schools
by improving the skills of teachers and principals through inservice
training. The project was less successful in its objective of fostering
adult training as the lower secondary schools were not used for the
secondary training originally intended (PPAR No. 6284). The ongoing fourth
project, the First Basic Education Project, (Loan No. 2328-GU for US$18.5
million, signed November 1983) responded to the Government's emphasis on



- 12 -
quantitative and qualitaSive improvements in besic education.  It has
assisted in establishing the institutional basis for the provision of
textbooks (including textbooks in the four major Indian languages) through
the creation and operation of CENALTEX. ore than 1.1 millioa textbooks
were produced by the end of 1987 and an evaluation of the e :t of the
textbooks vill be carried out in 1989. It has also assisted in increasing
the number of school places in marginal urban areas of Guatemala City
(about 150 classrooms and related facilities are already completed) and
contributed to the creation and development of UCEE. Both CENALTEX and
UCEE have proved to be reasonably efficient and continue to improve with
experience. The project has improved management in other respects by
supporting the micro-planning unit of t.e MOE whose studies were used in
locating new schools and identifying fL.ilities to be repaired under the
proposed project, by initiating the first phase development of the MIS
under the responsibility of the computing center and through the training
of officials of USIPE in project coordination and monitoring. The project
is expected to be completed in December 1988.
E. Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.32     Bank involvement in the sector would support the Bank's country
assistance strategy to assist the Government in increasing resources
devoted to basic services and strengthening public institutions to enable
them to provide low-cost services, plan and execute investment programs
efficiently and design effective sector policies. This strategy has been
designed to support the Government's program for improving the economic and
social integration of its diverse population. The education sector in
Guatemala has received less resources than that of other countries at the
same level of development, and resource use in the sector has been
inefficient. Bank involvement is justified to complement other external
assistance to the sector (para 2.30) and to build upon the achievements of
the ongoing First Basic Education project (para 2.31). Furthermore, Bank
involvement is justified to assist the Government in establishing a policy
framework to meet the needs of higher levels of education, including
prservice teacher training and upper primary education in rural areas, as
well as sector-wide operations.



- 13 -
III. THZ PROJECT
A. Background
3.1      The proposed project was developed on the basis of the preparation
and discussion of a Basic Education Sector Memorandum (Report No. 6248-GU
dated June 6, 1986) and supervision of the First Basic Education Project.
The Government requested assistance for the proposed project through a
project proposal document Educaci6n Minima delivered to the Bank in July
1987. Appraisal took place from August 19 to September 9, 1987 and the
proposed loan was negotiated in Washington on September 26-29, 1988. The
Guatemalan delegation was led by the Minister of Education.
B. Proiect Objectives
3.2      The proposed project would assist the Government in achieving its
goal of providing a minimum of four years education to at least 80 percent
of all six to nine year olds by 1991 through an integrated set of policies
and programs which would support initiatives to extend the use of existing
facilities by introducing double shifts and expanding the use of multigrade
teaching, split the first grade into two grades (grade IA as a preparatory
and grade IB) thereby encouraging earlier enrollment and reducing class
size, promote bilingual education and increase the Government's capacity to
effectively manage the education system. Major emphasis would be on the
lower levels of primary education in rural areas. Specifically, the
objectives of the proposed project would be to: (a) increase net
enrollment; (b) improve the quality and efficiency of lower primary
education; and (c) improve educational management. A summary description
of the project which would support these objectives is presented in
Annex II.
C. Project Description 2
Increasing Net Enrollment (US$43.5 million; 71.5 percent of project cost)
3.3      The proposed project would support measures to increase the net
enrollment rate by expanding the existing school capacity at the lower
primary level and extending an existing distance education program for
upper primary (on a pilot basis) and by increasing the demand for education
by groups which are presently not attending schools, through program such
as public campaigns and support for the school nutrition programs.
Enrollment projections based on actions which would be supported under the
proposed project are presented in Annex I.
3.4      Expansion of School Capacity (US$42.9 million; 70.5 percent of
project cost). The project would increase the supply of school places for
lower primary education by providing for: (a) constructing, furnishing and
2/ Project cost data by component presented in this section includes
physical and price continvencies.



- 14 _
equipping about 1,100 new classrooms in existing schools to allow splitting
of the first grade; (b) repairing, furnishing and equipping about 2,100
existing classrooms in which double shifts will be introduced; and
(c) recruiting and employing about 3,200 teachers--about 1,100 of whom
would be allocated to the new classrooms and about 2,100 Who would be
required for the double shifts. A minimum of 320 teachers recruited would
be allocated to bilingual education programs. A total of 200 new
classrooms which would be built during the first year of the project have
been identified (Annex XI). Evidence of acquisition of land required for
expansion of schools during the first year of the project would be
submitted as a condition of effectiveness. All schools to be expanded
and/or furnished and equipped would be identified through micro-planning
concurrently being conducted by USIPE under the First Basic Education
Project (para 2.31). A minimum of 80 percent of the new classrooms would
be located in rural areas and a minimum of 10 percent would provide
bilingual education. In order to minimize costs, unnecessary physical
expansion would be avoided through the use of double shifts, or through
multigrade teaching when class sizes are small. In addition, local
community participation in the construction of classrooms would be
encouraged (para 3.29). Recruitment of new teachers would be carefully
managed to coincide with the availability of new classrooms and with
adoption of double shifts and/or multigrade teaching. Annual recruitment
and construction/expansion plans would be reviewed and approved annually by
the Bank. As a condition of disbursement the MOE would submit to the Bank
not later than September 30 of each year, a detailed list of new classrooms
to be constructed and furnished in the following fiscal year and evidence
of appropriate legal action creating the corresponding new teachers'
positions.
3.5      Distance Education (US$135,100; 0.2 percent of project cost).  In
order to begin expanding the coverage of educational services for upper
primary, the project would support a pilot program of distance education to
serve about 4,500 students in grades IV to VI (1,500 students per year).
The experimental program would involve expanding the responsibilities of
the National Program for Adult Education by Correspondence (PEAC) (para
2.4) by recruitment of staff (from existing 6 to 10) and local coordinators
(from 250 to 500) to include distance education for children. Formal
authorization to expand PEAC's activities through relevant legal and
normative instruments as well as a review by the Bank of the proposed
strategy and logistic for distance education for children (as described
below) would be a condition of disbursement against expenditures for
implementing this program. PEAC would carry out an initial review of
alternative options and strategies for implementing the distance education
program and exchange views with the Bank on the basis of this review by
December 31, 1988. After taking into account the Bank's views, PEAC would
analyze the content and curriculum of grades IV to VI, adapt them to the
special requirements of distance education and 'roduce the required
didactic materials. Local coordinators (teachers, promotors, and voluntary
agents) would select eligible students in consulteion with school
principals and teachers.  The proposed loan would ft.nance the cost of
production of didactic materials and supplies and the incremental cost of
equipment maintenance and operation. A more detailed description of the
distance education program is provided in Annex VIII.



- 15 -
3.6      Public Campaigns (US$487,900; 0.8 percent of project cost).
Annual Public campaigns would be carried out during the life of the project
to inform the public and mobilize their support towards the accomplishment
of project objectives. A series of campaigns would be developed to:
(a) stress the benefits of early education in the mother tongue, targetted
especially in rural areas to encourage early enrollment of children (six
years of age) with emphasis on female and Mayan children; (b) reduce
resistance to multigrade teaching; (c) mobilize community participation in
the construction of classrooms so as to reduce costs; and (d) promote the
experimental distance education program for the upper primary grades. The
proposed Loan would finance the cost and production of supporting
materials, the provision of specialized services (i.e., media transmission
costs) and consultants' services to assist in developing the specific
publicity campaigns as well as developing both monitoring techniques to
ensure that publicity objectives are carried out and instruments to
evaluate the effectiveness of the campaigns.
3.7      School Nutrition (US$615,000, included in the costs of school
construction). The project would aim to increase the demand for education
in rural areas by supporting the existing school nutrition program. The
project would complement the activities of other international agencies
(para 2.30) which provide food for school children through the Directorate
of Nutrition of the MOE. The proposed loan would finance the construction
of food storerooms and kitchens for about 500 rural schools. A more
detailed description of the school nutrition programs is provided in Annex
VII.
Improving Quality and Efficiency (US$10.8 million; 18 percent of project
cost)
3.8      The proposed project would support measures to improve the quality
and efficiency of lower primary education by increasing students'
achievement and, consequently, reducing repetition rates. The project is
expected to produce automatic promotion for students in grade IA, a
reduction in repetition rates from 50 percent to 25 percent in grade IB and
from 30 percent to 20 percent in other primary grades. Splitting the
existing first grade and increasing school capacity through the
introduction of double shifts and construction of classrooms, would lead to
reduced class sizes and more homogeneous student age groups, which in turn
would lead to increased student achievement. In addition, issues of
quality and efficiency would be addressed through adequate provision of
learning materials and teacher training programs, with due consideration to
the needs of bilingual children. A program of studies would assist in
identifying and analyzing areas in which further quality and efficiency
improvements would be needed.
3.9      Provision of Learning Materials (US$8.6 million; 14.3 percent of
project cost). The proposed project would enhance the quality of education
by encouraging a systematic use of learning materials, and providing
adequate supplies and equipment. Specifically, the project would provide
for the: (a) development, publication and distribution of about 380,000



- 16 -
textbooks for grade IA (preparatory); (b) production and distribution of
about 666,000 replacement textbooks for grade IB, about 281,000 for grade
II and about 235,000 for grade III; (c) production and distribution of a
minimum of 15,000 teachers' guides and about 3.0 million math and Spanish
workbooks; and (d) provision of incrmental supplies for about 2,500
classrooms and approximately 780,000 pupils in grades IA through III. A
minimum of 200,000 textbooks and 225,000 workbooks w'uld be produced for
bilingual education. An evaluation of the effectiveness of grade IA
textbooks developed under the project would be carried out and submitted to
the Bank no later than December 31, 1991. Annex IV presents the proposed
textbook production schedule. All textbooks, except those which would be
developed for the new grade IA, would follow models developed under the
First Basic Education Project, adjusted to account for any modifications
which may be introduced after evaluation carried out in end-1988.
Provision of these textbooks and supplies, together with those being
provided by other agencies and the Bank under the First Basic Education
Project, would ensure that by completion of the project, 80 percent of all
six to nine years old which are to be enrolled, have access to adequate
learning materials.
3.10     CENALTEX would print textbooks when less .han 10,000 copies per
title are required. For more than 10,000 copies, specifications for paper,
page designs, typesetting, binding and packing would be established by
CENALTEX, and textbook production would be contracted with private firms.
The proposed loan would finance the paper and supplies needed by CENALTEX
for limited book editions and the contracts with private firms for massive
printing. Following the distribution system established under the First
Basic Education Project, textbook distribution would be made from CENALTEX
to 23 regional warehouses and from the warehouses to individual schools.
CENALTEX would prepare a list of recipient schools and would contract local
transportation companies for the delivery of books to regional warehouses.
Distribution to schools would be contracted by regional supervisors using
funds allocated annually by CENALTEX. The textbooks would remain school
property while workbooks would be distributed and replaced annually. Since
the beneficiaries would be mainly the poverty group, no direct cost
recovery measures are considered.  The proposed loan would finance the
costs of transportatior from CENALTEX to the regional warehouses and the
allocation of funds to t-vional supervisors for local textbook deliveries.
3.11     Teacher Training (US$2.1 million; 3.5 percent of project cost).
The proposed project would provide training to about 3,200 new teachers to
be recruited for grades IA through III in the effective utilization of
textbooks and teaching for grade IA. In addition, about 13,000 existing
grade IB to III teachers would receive training in: (a) changes in the
curriculum; (b) student evaluation; (c) community support; (d) classroom
management; and (e) multigrade teaching. Teacher training would be carried
out through regional workshops (of 70 hours duration each) by a teacher
training unit attached to USIPE, which would be responsible for overall
coordination of the program. The workshops would be followed-up by
distance training activities in the following five years. Teacher training



- 17 -
activities would conform to the agreed program and be subject to review and
approval by the Bank through submission of annual work plans (para 3.25).
Details of the teacher training program are provided in Annex III. The
proposed loan would finance: (a) transportation and per diem expenditures
of the trainers vho would conduct courses in different regions of the
country; (b) transportation and per diem for the trainees; and
(c) materials needed for training.
3.12     The proposed project would also support initial efforts to ensure
that, in the future, teacher training be made consistent with the
educational system improvements being implemented by the Government. At
present, teachers are trained in about 85 secondary schools with a 'normal
stream. The curriculum is not adequate, and there is no relation between
access to training and demand for teachers. The Government is committed to
address this issue and plans to either upgrade teacher training from
secondary to tertiary level or extend the duration of training, revise the
curriculum and limit access to the projected demand for teachers. Given
the complexity of this issue, the proposed project would include a study to
review preservice teacher training in general. The proposed loan would
finance the cost of consultants' services to implement this study which
would propose specific recommendations on how to improve teacher training
in the future. Terms of reference for the study would be forwarded to the
Bank for review and approval by June 30, 1989 and the study would be
finalized no later than December 31, 1990.
3.13     Studies (US$120,000; 0.2 percent of project cost).  In order to
prepare for further quality and efficiency improvements in primary
education the project would support the carrying out of studies in each of
the following areas: (a) curriculum reform of grades IA through III, with
emphasis on adapting the curriculum to the needs of rural areas;
(b) possibilities for extension of the bilingual education program from the
existing four linguistic groups to one or two additional language groups;
(c) development of student evaluation techniques for use by teachers,
including definition of promotion standards; (d) improving methods to
manufacture school furniture; (e) local technologies for construction
evaluating the experience with community participation under the project;
and (f) improving maintenance of school buildings. Terms of reference for
each of the studies in (a), (c), (d) and (f) would be developed by USIPE,
in (b) by PRONEBI and in (e) by UCEE and forwarded to the Bank for review
and approval. The proposed loan would finance the cost of approximately
five staff months of consultants' services required to carry out each of
the studies. The completed studies would be forwarded to the Bank for
review and discussion according to the following schedule: curriculum
reform no later than December 31, 1989; student evaluation, no later than
December 31, 1989; bilingual education and improvement of school furniture,
no later than December 31, 1990; and local technologies for construction
and improvement of school building maintenance no later than December 31,
1993. Ani.ex VI describes each of the above studies in greater detail.



- 18 _
ImDrovinft Education Management (US$6.5 million; 10.5 percent of project
cost)
3.14     The proposed project would aim to improve overall educational
management through a series of actions vhich would suppert the
strengthening of management at the central level of the MOE, and the
decentralizing to and strengthening of administration at the regional and
school level. The proposed project would also provide technical assistance
to assist in project administration.
3.15     Strengthening Management at the Central Level (US$5.8 million; 9.4
percent of project cost). Strengthening managerial capacity of the MOE
would be addressed through: (a) improving the coordination and operation of
central offices by providing them with a single central location; (b)
training of regional administrators and planners in the techniques of
micro-planning; and (c) supporting improvements in the MIS. The MOE is
presently located in thirteen rented and mostly unsuitable buildings in
Guatemala City. The proposed project would provide for the construction of
a new centralized building which, in addition to improving communications,
internal coordination and administrative efficiency of the MOE, would
contribute to cost savings in the long run. The rate of return of this
investment would be about 13 percent (Annex IX). A suitable site for the
building has been identified and is in the process of being acquired.
Submission of evidence of title to the land required for construction of
the MOE building would be a condition of disbursement for all expenditures
to be financed in connection with the building. The project would include
consultants' services specialized in space planning, to assist UCEE in
carrying out an organization and management study including an analysis of
the staffing conditions and perspectives, location of common services and
ergonomic studies prior to development of the final building
specifications.
3.16     In order to better define the functions and responsibilities of
managerial/administrative personnel in charge of primary education, the
project would provide technical assistance to assist USIPE in studying,
developing and adopting the use of eight administrative handbooks, one on
organization and function and one on norms and procedures for each of the
following four units of the MOE: the directorate of pre-primary and urban
primary, the directorate of rural education, the unit of school supervision
and the unit of preparatory and primary schools. The project would provide
training abroad for ten officials from USIPE and other units of the MOE in
the analysis of statistical information, in education planning and in
computer software. In addition, the project would include financing for
specialized consultants, to assist the computing center of the MOE, for
about three months per year over four years, in the development and
dissemination of twenty four reports covering educational indicators for
the country's eight regions. and to develop a feed-back system for the MIS
based on the dissemination of the reports.



- 19 -
3.17     Decentralizing to and Strengthening Administration at the Local
Level (US$134,000; 0.2 percent of project cost). The proposed project
would support efforts to delegate authority to resolve local issues to
regional supervisors and principals. A study to define new roles and
responsibilities of regional supervisors and principals would be earried
out by consultants under the coordination of USIPE. The study, which would
be completed by June 30, 1990 and subsequently discussed with the Bank,
would set the basis for a training program of about 150 regional
supervisors. The content of training program would include, in particular,
compilation of data for the preparation of annual budgets and the new
reporting procedures developed for MIS (para 3.16). Regional supervisors,
in turn, would assist principals to improve their performance in carrying
out their responsibilities using new standardized procedures. In addition,
eight regional workshops to train regional staff in the use of micro-
planning methodologies would contribute to the decentralization of
planning to the regional level. The proposed loan would finance
transportation and per diem of trainees from USIPE and of regional
supervisors and staff and the cost of materials needed to implement the
training program and the regional micro-planning workshops.
3.18     Proiect Administration (US$540,000; 0.9 percent of project cost).
The proposed project would provide assistance for project management to:
(a) assist in establishing and organizing the Project Implementation
Coordination Unit (PICU) for effective operation in the Directorate General
of Education (DGE); (b) establish effective relationships between the PICU
and other implementing agencies, as well as with the MOE and the Bank; (c)
prenare and monitor the yearly work program; (d) establish and maintain
effective contacts with the Department of Projects of USIPE; (e) prepare
project reports; (f) revise the project operational manual, as necessary;
and (g) plan and implement activities pertaining to project components
under the responsibility of the PICU. The proposed loan would finance the
operating costs of the PICU, including equipment and vehicles, as well as
the cost of consultants' services described above.
D. Implementation Arrangements
3.19     Proiect Organization and Management.  Project implementation would
be carried out within the existing organizational stru:cture of both the MOE
through its directorates, and other administrative units whose operational
responsibilities are directly linked to project components and of Ministry
of Communications, Transport and Public Works through its School
Construction Agencv (UCEE) (,hart II). This arrangement would assist in
strengthening the existing institutional capacity while building upon the
implementation experience acquired under the First Basic Education Project.
With the assistance of outside experts as would be provided under the
project (Annex V), all units would be capable of carrying out their
respective components.



- 20 -
3.20     UCEE would be responsible for classroom construction, furniture
and equipment procurement and for coordinating construction of the MOE
building. In rural areas, UCEE would procure materials which would be
delivered to school sites for construction by local communities and
supervise construction. CENALTEX would be responsible for all textbook
development, production and distribution. The project's training program
would be implemented by a teacher training unit currently operating under
the Planning Office of the MOE (USIPE). This unit is expected to become a
permanent entity of the MOE in about another year. Other project
components such as studies, the recruitment of teachers, support to the
nutrition program and to distance education, would be implemented through
the relevant administrative units of the MOE (para 2.4) with administrative
assistance provided through the Pro5ect Implementation Coordrnation Unit
(para 3.21).
3.21     A small Project Implementation Coordination Unit (PICU) headed by
the Director General of Education would coordinate project activities. The
PICU would be responsible for centralized implementation functions such as
consolidating the yearly work plans of executing agencies, coordinating
activities among participating agencies, providing administrative back-up
services, and carrying out project financial management as well as direct
implementation of public campaigns. The PICU would be established and
staffed with an administrator, an accountant and secretaries, all with
experience and qualifications acceptable to the Bank, as a condition of
effectiveness.
3.22     The Department of Projects (DOP) of USIPE, which is in charge of
monitoring and evaluating ongoing education projects would be responsible
for monitoring project implementation progress and for stimulating
achievement of project goals. Key staff of DOP would meet at least once a
month to review project implementation indicators and to assess progress.
3.23     An operational manual reflecting the above organization and
project-related responsibilities and procedures was agreed upon during
negotiations. The Government would agree to maintain and/or follow thie
structures, responsibilities, and procedures established in the operational
manual. The manual would include administrative procedures such as:
characteristics of the system of accounts and the related code of accounts;
the system of authorizations and mechanisms for the flow of funds;
procurement procedures to be followed; the intercommunications channels
among all of the executing agencies; and a set of key performance
indicators to be monitored by the DOP.
3.24     Schedule.  The project would be implemented over a six year period
in accordance with an implementation schedule (Annex XII) developed with
individual executing agencies. Disbursements have been estimated over a
six year period to conform with the project implementation schedule.
Although this is shorter than the standard eight year sector profile, this
schedule would be justified on the basis of : (a) experience under the
First Basic Education Project (para 2.31); and (b) the intensive monitoring
of project execution through annual work plans (para 3.25). The project
would be completed by December 31, 1994 and the closing date would be June
30, 1995.



- 21 -
3.25     Honitoring and Evaluation.  The DOP would be responsible for
overall project monitoring and evaluation on the basis of key performance
indicators (Annex XIII) incorporated ir the operational manual. The DOP
would prepare and forward to the Bank no later then June 30 and December 31
of each year semi-annual project implementation reports assessing progress
towards meeting the targets in the implementation schedule. Each of the
project executing agencies (paras 3.19 to 3.21) would prepare a work plan
for the execution of their respective components during the following
fiscal year. These work plans would be submitted to the Bank for review no
later than October 31 of each year and copies of said plan would also be
sent to DOP to ensure that USIPE is kept informed.  The annual consolidated
work plan, including proposed budgetary allocations to each project
executing agency would be sent to the Bank for approval. Submission of the
annual work plan to the Bank for any given fiscal year would be a condition
of disbursement against proposed expenditures. The executing agencies
would carry out all studies under the project (Annex VI) in accordaace with
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and would, as appropriate,
prepare plans of action for carrying out the studies' recommendations,
after taking into account the Bank's comments. The DOP would also be
responsible for preparation of a project completion report which would be
forwarded to the Bank within six months of the date of project completion.
E. Project Costs and Financing
3.26     Project Costs.  The total project cost, excluding taxes and duties
estimated at approximately US$1.5 million, but including physical and price
contingencies, is estimated at US$60.8 million equivalent, with an
estimated foreign exchange cost of US$14.1 million (Annex X, Tables 1 to
3). Base costs of US$55.4 million were calculated using October 1987
prices. Physical contingencies of 102 have been allowed for civil works,
and of 52 for other components. Price contingencies have been estimated
accorditz; co a six year disbursement profile on US dollar based valuep, on
the assumption that periodic exchange rate adjustments would compensate for
differences between projected US dollar inflation and local inflation
rates, as follows!  12 annually for 1988 through 1990 and 3.52 annually for
1991 through 1994.  Base costs have been calculated using unit costs, on
average, equivalent to the following: US$108/sq.m. for urban schools,
US$144/sq.m. for rural schools, US$1.72 for textbooks (average, including
costs of textbook development, where applicable), US$2.91 for teachers'
guides, US$0.90 for workbooks, US$2.00/student for school supplies and
US$26.4/student fo. furniture and school equipment.
3.27     `he proposad loan of US$30 million would finance about 502 of
total project cost net of taxes and duties, or the estimated foreign
exchange cost plus 272 of local costs and up to US$3.1 million of interest
during construction. The balance would be financed by the Government.



- 22 -
3.28     Recurrent Costs.  During the six year implementation period, the
project vill add to the MOE's budget recurrent expenditures for teachers'
salaries and textbooks amounting to a total of US$8.0 million (expressed in
constant 1987 prices)--US$6.0 million to cover additional teachers'
salaries and US$2 million for textbook replacements. This total of Pix-
year incremental recurrent expenditures represents about 4.8Z of the MOE's
budget for 1988 and 20Z of the 1987 primary education budget (3Z increase
per year). Given the existing low level of the expenditures on education,
this modest increase is warranted. Moreover, with a larger share of GDP
allocated to public revenue and a growing education budget, the Government
is expected to accommodate the incremental recurrent costs on an increasing
basis without undue difficulty. The Government provided assurances that it
will allocate adequate resources to cover projected increases in recurrent
expenditures.
F. Procurement
3.29     Annex X (Tables 4 and 5) provides a summary of procurement
arrangements under the proposed project. International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) procedures would be used for civil works exceeding the equivalent of
US$400,000, textbooks exceeding the equivalent of US$200,000 and equipment,
furniture and construction materials exceeding the equivalent of
US$100,000. Local shopping, with at least three quotations would be used
when purchasing equipment, materials and supplies costing less than
US$20,000 but not exceeding an aggregate of US$1.0 million equivalent. The
mobilization of community labor for the construction of classrooms would be
encouraged under the project. For civil works executed through community
participation, UCEE would purchase construction materials and deliver them
to construction sites. To the extent feasible, UCEE would bulk procurement
of construction materials (roofing sheets, doors, windows, etc.) into
packages which would ensure more efficient procurement. All other
contracts for textbooks, furniture equipment, construction materials and
supplies would be awarded on the basis of Local Competitive Bidding
procedures acceptable to the Bank. Civil works, equipment and furniture
and textbooks procured under LCB would not exceed in the aggregate US$11.8
million, US$3.5 million, and US$4.0 million, respectively. Prior Bank
review and approval would be required for all procurement documents and
contracts for civil works exceeding US$400,000 and goods exceeding
US$100,000. All other procurement would be reviewed on an ex-post basis.
All procurement for consultants' services and technical assistance would
require prior Bank approval and would be carried out in accordance with
Bank guidelines for the selection of consultants. For all contracts
awarded under ICB, goods procured in the Central American Common Market
would have a preferential margin in bid evaluation equal to the smaller of
half the amourt of customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt
importer would have to pay for the importation of goods or 15 percent of
the CIF price.  Textbook printing contracts would include the cost of
paper, textbook graphics, printing, binding and delivery to CENALTEX
warehouses.



- 23 -
G. Disbursements
3.30     Proceeds of the loan would be disbursed as follows   (a) civil
works, 80 percent of total expenditures for new school construction and 65?
of expenditures for the MOE's central office building; (b) furniture,
equipment and materials, 100 percent of foreign and 90 percent of local
expenditures; (c) textbooks, 90 percent of total expenditures; (d)
training, 40 percent of total expenditures; (e) technical assistance, 100
percent of total expenditures; (f) operating costs of the PICU, 90 percent
of total expenditures and (g) interest during construction, 10O up to an
aggregate of US$3.1 million.   Disbursements for contracts or expenses
valued at less than US$50,000 would be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, for which supporting documentation would be retained by the
four executing agencies (PICU, USIPE, CENALTEX, and UCEE) and made
available for inspection by Bank during supervision missions. Disbursement
for all other expenditures would be fully documented. An estimated
schedule of disbursements, as well as a breakdown of disbursements by
category of expenditure are presented in Annex X, Tables 6 and 7.
3.31     The Government has established a Revolving Fund funded by a
special budgetary allocation to assist all project financed with external
contributions. This fund pre-finances activities of projects paid in local
currency and receives reimbursement directly from foreign agencies
accordingly. The Government would agree to allow all executing agencies to
utilize this Revolving Fund for project expenditures, as follows:
executing agencies, through the PICU, would withdraw local funds from the
Government Revolving Fund, the Bank would then reimburse the Revolving Fund
accordingly.
H. Accounting and AuditinR
3.32     The four executing agencies, PICU, USIPE, CENALTEX, and UCEE would
establish separate accounts and records for project expenditures. The PICU
would maintain a consolidated account of all expenditures under the
project. These accounts would be audited annually by independent auditors
satisfactory to the Bank. The audit reports, which would include a
separate opinion on the adequacy of statements of expenditures as a basis
of loan disbursements, would be forwarded to the Bank no later than four
months after the end of each fiscal year. Receipt by the Bank of a signed
contract with independent auditors acceptable to the Bank to carry out the
audit for project expenditures incurred during the first fiscal year (1989)
of the project would be a condition of disbursement against all project
expenditures.
I. Project Benefits
3.33     The main benefits of the proposed project would be:
(a) Reduced illiteracy rates. The participation in school of
children aged six to nine years would increase from about 60
percent at present to about 80 percent in 1993. The number
of students successfully completing grade III would increase



- 24 -
from about 126,000 today to atout 163,000 in 1993. Through
the well documented role of education and literacy in
increasing productivity, especially of farmers, important
benefits would be expected for the long term development of
rural Guatemala;
(b)  Improved efficiency of primary education through reduced
repetition rates in the lower grades of primary education:
whereas in 1983 only 17 percent of students successfully
completed grade III without having repeated, at completion of
the project this figure would be increased to about 27
percent. The resource savings generated by efficiency
improvements would contribute to financing the expansion of
the system, without requiring additional physical or human
capacity;
(c) Increased equity of education opportunities for the rural
poor (including indigenous families) who would benefit from
at least 80 percent of school investments under the project;
and
(d) Improved management and operation of the education system
through better trained personnel, more adequate circulation
of required information throughout the system, and more
rational allocation of space, equipment and teaching staff,
thereby allowing further coverage, quality, and efficiency
improvements in the future.
J. Risks and Safeguards
3.34     Two principal implementation risks would be associated with the
proposed project. The first is the possible shortfall of counterpart funds
which would be reduced by the Bank's close monitoring of annual budgetary
allocations through annual work plans (para 3.25) to ensure adequate levels
of funding. The second risk concerns the overall implementation capacity
of the MOE, which may jeopardize timely execution of the project. This
risk has been considerably reduced by the experience acquired under the
First Basic Education Project, by the establishment of the PICU which would
act as an expeditor/facilitator with strong administrative authority and
through technical assistance. Intensified monitoring, both by the DOP and
the Bank through annual work plans, would be important for the early
detection and resolution of implementation problems.
3.35     In addition, there is a risk that the project may not have the
desired impact on improving efficiency because of resistance to change on
the part of administrators, teachers and parents. The project has been
specifically designed to address this risk through efforts to mobilize
support for project objectives, such as training p-ograms and public
information campaigns, which are expected to significantly mitigate this
risk.



- 25 -
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.1      During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
(a) the PICU would be established and the staff and administrator
of the PICU, with qualifications and experience acceptable to
the Bank, would be appointed as a condition of effectiveness
(para 3.21);
(b) evidence of acquisition of land required for expansion of
schools during the first year of the project would be
submitted as a condition of effectiveness (para 3.4);
(c) the MOE or each of the executing agencies would enter into a
contract with independent auditors acceptable to the Bank for
purposes of carrying out the audit of project expenditures
during the first year of the project as a condition of
disbursement for the loan (para 3.32);
(d)  as a condition of disbursement, the MOE would submit to the
Bank not later than September 30 of each year, a detailed
list of schools to be constructed and upgraded during the
following fiscal year and evidence of appropriate legal
action creating the new teachers' positions (para 3.4);
(e) not later than October 31 of each year, each of the executing
agencies would submit to the Bank a work plan detailing the
actions to be carried out during the following fiscal year
and proposed budgetary allocations required to carry out the
work plan. The approval, by the Bank, of all work plans
would be a condition of disbursement against any expenditure
incurred during the year covered by the work plan (para
3.25);
(f) as a condition of disbursement against expenditures for
implementing the distance education program, the PEAC would
be legally authorized to e:pand its activities to cover
distance education for children and PEAC would review
alternative options and strategies for implementation of the
component, exchange views with the Bank and incorporate the
Bank's views in the proposed strategy (para 3.5);
(g) the MOE would submit to the Bank evidence of title to the
land required for construction of MOE building, as a
condition of disbursement against all expenditures for the
building (para 3.15);
(h) the executing agencies would maintain and/or follow the
structures, responsibilities and procedures established in
the operational manual (para 3.23);



- 26 -
Mi) the DOP would submit semi-annual project implementation
reports to the Bank not later than June 30 and December 31 of
each year (para 3.25);
(j) the executing agencies would carry out all studies under the
project in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank, and would as appropriate, prepare plans of action
for carrying out the respective studies' recommendations
after taking into account the Bank's comments (paras 3.13 and
3.25); and
(k) executing agencies would be allowed to utilize the
Governments's Revolving Fund to pre-finance local currency
expenditures (para 3.31).
4.2      With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project
would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$30 million equivalent, to be repaid
over a period of 20 years including five years of grace at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate and fees.



ANNEX I
- 27 -                        Page 1 of 3
GUATDMLA
SECOND BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Enrollment Proiections
The tables below sumarize the findings of enrollment projections
based on the following assumptions of the project.
1.       Admission at the age of six years will be increasing progressively
to reach 802 of the children in 1991. To allow for early admission, it is
further assumed that the percentage of school children in the existing
grade 1 of six years of age will remain the same in grade 1B (112).
2.       At present 242 of grade 1 urban students and 47Z of Grade 1 rural
students are overaged. By extending the coverage of the system, the
phenomenon of late admission should be expected to persist and this will
contribute to increasing the number of overaged students. On the other
hand, as repetition is assumed to decline, the proportion of overaged
students due to repetition should also decline. On the whole, it was
assumed that the percentage of overaged students in grade IB will decline
to 152.
3.       Using conservative assumptions of trends of repetition rates and
promotion rates reflected in tables (a) and (b), enrollment projections by
grade were calculated for the period 1987-1993 (tables (c), (d) and (e)).
4.       Enrollment increases through the project (table (f)) were
estimated on the basis of changes in admission rates at the age of 6 and in
repetition and promotion rates. Negative variations were not included in
the table.
5.       The need for new teachers in grade IA were estimated using an
assumed pupils/teacher ratio of 50:1 (a high figure decided by the MOE).
Either the needs are underestimated or the enrollment growth is
overestimated. For grades IB-III, it w&s assummed that free reassignment
of teachers is possible and that the ratio of pupils to teacher is 50:1
(see table (g)).
6.       The share of bilingual education is assumed to be 1OI oE
enrollment growth. Enrollment would be as follows:
Grades                  IA              IB              II             III
1986 (actual)         38085          13521             1307            987
1987 (estimate)       40000          22300             8285           1110
1993 (projection)    50000           27300            13285           6000



ANNEX I
- 28 -                      Page 2 of 3
EDUCACION MINIMA
Table (a) Rleetition Rates
1986              0       0.40    0.31    0.28   0.24    0.28    0.35
1987              0       0.40    0.31   0.28    0.24    0.28        0.35
1988              0       0.33    0.30   0.28    0.24    0.28        0.35
1989              0       0.28    0.26   0.28    0.24    0.28        0.35
1990              0       0.25    0.25   0.28    0.24    0.28        0.35
1991              0       0.25    0.24   0.27    0.23    0.27        0.35
1992/93           0       0.25    0.22   0.25    0.22    0.25        0.35
Table (b) Promotion Rates
1986              100     0.45      0.62     0.62      0.63        0.58
1987              100     0.50      0.64     0.62      0.63        0.58
1988              100     0.60      0.64     0.63      0.63        0.58
1989              100     0.65      0.64     0.65      0.64        0.58
1990-93           100     0.65      0.66     0.65      0.65        0.58
Table tc) Proiected Enrollment
Pop. 6yrs. Gr. IA  GR. IB       2        3         4       5         6
86    251514   72430   383186   239315   186493   137173  106575   85472
87    247552   95803   331395   246626   200593   148547  116260   91729
88    253741  123572   295589   242151   214006   160019  126138   99536
89    260084  152669   288082   249999   212477   173229  136130  107997
90    266586  183145   302974   257253   216993   179685  147251  116755
91    273251  187723   333231   261247   229180   184170  154432  125702
92    280082  192360   347990   281760   234765   193140  159040  133570
93    287085  197170   358560   296640   250290   198950  166200  138970
Table td) Enrollment Total
GR. IA-VI        GR. IA-11        GR. IV-VI       GR.IB-III
1986           1210654           881433            329221          809003
1987          1230953            874416            356536          778613
1988          1261011            875318            385693          751846
1989           1320583           903226            417356          750557
1990           1404055           960364            443690          777210
1991           1475683          1011380            464303          823648
1992          1522625          1056875             485750          864495
1993          1606780           1102660            504120          905490



ANNEX I
- 29 -                    Page 3 of 3
Table (e) Proiected Enrollment Variation
87186         20298             -7017             27315           30390
88/87         30058               902             29157         -26767
89,88         59572             27848             31663          -1286
90189         83472             57138             26334         +26662
91/90         71628             51016             20613         +46429
92/91         66942             45495             21447         +40857
93/92         64155             45785             18370         +40995
Table (f) Enrollment Increase Through Proiect
i1       IB          II         III       IV        V        VI
1988       27749
1989       56866
1990       87342                 10627      16400
1991       91920        1836     14621      28587       4485
1992       96557       16595     35134      34172      13455     4608
1993      101367       27165     50014      49697      19265     7160    5400
Table (a) New Teachers Needed
GR.IA-VI           GR. IB-III           GR. IA
88/87          800                                      555
89188         1191                                      582
90189         1668                  533                 600
90191         1432                  928                  91
92191         1339                  817                  93
93/92         1283                  820                  96
7513                3098                1997



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
GUATEMALA
SECOND BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Summar Description of the Proiect
The project would assist the Government in its objective of
providing a mainimum of four years of education to 80 percent of all
children aged six to nine in Guatemala. In order to achieve this the
project would have the following objectivest (a) to increase net
enrollment; (b) to improve quality and efficiency and (c) to improve
education management. A snmary description of the project, presented by
objective, is provided below.
A. INCREASING NET ENROLLMENT
1. Expansion of School Capacity
a. Constructing, Furnishing and Equipping about 1,lC0 new
classrooms in existing schools to allow splitting the first
grade;
b. Furnishing and Equipping about 2,100 existing classrooms in
which double shifts will be introduced; and
c. Recruiting about 3,200 new teachers, about 1,100 of which would
be allocated to the new classrooms and 2,100 of which would be
required for the double shifts.
2. Distance Education
a. Expanding the responsibilities of the PEAC through recruiting
of additional staff and local coordinators; and
b. Carrying out a program of distance education to serve
approximately 14,000 students in grades IV through VI.
3. Public Campaigns - carrying out annual public campaigns for each
of the following:
a. stress the benefits of early education in the mother tongue;
b. reduce resistance to multigrade teaching;
c. mobilize community participation in classroom construction; and
d. promote the distance education component for the upper primary
grades.
B. IMPROVING QUALITY AND EFFICIENCY
1. Provision of Training Materials
a. Developing, publishing and distributing about 380,000 textbooks
for grade IA (preparatory);
b. Producing and distributing about 666,000 replacement textbooks
for grade IB, about 281,000 for grade II and about 235,000 for
grade III;
c. Producing and distributing about 15,000 teachers, guides and
about 3.0 million math and Spanish workbooks; and
d. Providing incremental supplies for about 2,500 classrooms and
approximately 780,000 supplies in grades IA through III.



- 31 -
ANNEX 1I
Page 2 of 2
2. Teacher Training
a.  Training about 3,200 new teachers recruited for grades IA
through III in the effective utilization of textbooks and
teaching for grade IA; and
b.  Training about 13,000 existing grade IB to III teachers int
1. changes in the curriculum;
2. student evaluation;
3. comunity support;
4. classroom managemeiit; and
S. multigrade teaching.
3.  Studies - carrying of a program of studies, in the following areas,
to prepare for further quality a*nd efficiency improvements:
a. curriculum reform of grades L  to III, with emphasis on rural
areas;
b.  extension of the bilingual education program from the existing
four linguistic groups to serve additional language groups;
c.  development of student evaluation techniques for use by
readers, including definition of promotion standards;
d.  alternative strategies for improving preservice teacher
training;
e.  improving methods to manufacture school furniture;
f.  local technologies for cons.:lction evaluating the experience
with community participation under the project; and
g.  improving maintence of school buildings.
C. IMPROVING EDUCATION MANAGEMENT
1. Strengthening Management at the Central Level.
a.  Training senior officials in the analysis of statistical
information, education planning and computer software;
b.  Improving the Management Information System through the
development and dissemination of twenty four reports covering
educational indicators for the eight regions; and
c. Developing and adopting eight administrative handbooks, one on
organization and functions and the other on norms and
procedures, for each of the following MOE units:
i. Directorate of Preprimary and Urban Primary;
ii. Directorate of Rural Education;
'ii. Unit of School Supervision; and
iv. Unit of Preparatory and Primary Schools
2. Decentralizing to and Strengthening of Administration at the
Regional and Local Levels.
a. Carrying out a study to define new roles and responsibilities
of regional supervisors and school principals.
b. Carrying out a training program of about 150 regional
supervisors in their new responsibilities; and
c. Promoting eight regional workshops to train regional staff irk
the use of microplanning methodologies;
3. Project administration - Technical Assistance to assist in:
a. Establishing and organizing the PICU;
b. Preparing and monitoring the yearly work program;
c. Preparing project reports; and
d. Revising the operational Manual, as necessary.



- 32 -                  ANNEX III
Page 1 of 4
GUATEMALA
SECOND BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Teacher Training Proaran
1.       The proposed project provides in-service training for
approximately 16,000 teachers in grades IA-III. This target group would be
divided into two groups, with the first consisting of 3,200 new teachers
recruited for grades IA-III, while the second group of 12,800 would include
all existing teachers in grades IB-III. Responsibility for implementing
this training program would rest with a special unit currently attached to
USIPE but destined to become in 1988 a permanent teacher training entity in
the HOE as soon as pending educational legislation is enacted.
2.       Training for the first group of teachers (new teachers) would
consist of: objectives and methods for the new preparatory program (grade
IA), multigrade teaching techniques, use of textbooks, planning classroom
instruction, evaluation of student classroom performance, and promoting
community support for local schools. Training would be conducted through
about 60 regional workshops of about 70 hours duration each with the
assistance of field staff known as Imultipliers' who would be contracted by
the teacher training unit. The Imultipliors* most of whom would be regular
teachers of outstanding ability, would be given a short training course
prior to the workshops for the teachers. In addition to the workshops the
program would include a series of follow up distance training activities
for each teacher which would cover a period of five years. This would give
continuity and greater scope to the training program. Special distance
training materials would be developed as part of the program, and these
would be distributed to the participating teachers. School district
supervisors, working with the assistance of some "multipliers, would
conduct periodic review sessions with groups of teachers to ensure
compliance with the distance training objectives.
3.       A similar training pattern would be used for the second group
comprising 12,800 existing teachers. Training for this group would focus
on: multigrade teaching techniques, application of curriculum changes,
planning and evaluating classroom instruction, community support of local
schools, and other needs that may be identified through a current study
being conducted by the MOE to ascertain the training needs of teachers. A
series of 250 regional training workshops would be held to reach the target
group during the life of the project. The workshops would be conducted
with the assistance of 'multipliers." As in the case of the first group of
teachers, the workshops would also be complemented by follow up distance
training exercises which teachers would be directed to carry out
individually, and which would be supervised by school district supervisors
and 'multipliers.'
4.       The teacher training unit, which currently consists of 16 staff
members and which benefits from the assistance of a UNDP/UNESCO project,
has responsibilities in the on-going Bank-financed project for training
teachers in the use of textbooks. It is, therefore, already acquiring
valuable training experience for its role in the proposed project. Within



33                       ANNM=  III
Page 2 of 4
the next eight months, as its responsibilities grow, the unit's staff will
increase to about 40 persons, which, coupled with 250 umultipliers* would
be of adequate size to tackle the training progrrs. of the proposed project.
The following two pages of this Annex contain information on the number of
teachers to be trained each year and the cost of the program.



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 3 OF 4
GUATEMALA
SECOND BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Number of Teachers Expected to be Trained Under the Project
New Teachers       Existing Teachers
Year              (Grade IA-III))    (Grades IB-III)           Total Trained
1988                400                      -                        400
1989                500                    2,560                    3,060
1990                700                    2,560                    3,260
1991                800                    2,560                    3,360
1992                800                    2,560                    3,360
1993                 -                     2,560                    2,560
Total               3,200                  12, RQQ                  16,000
1/ Program content includes prepatory program, multi-grade teaching, textbook
use, planning, student evaluation and community support.
2/ Program content includes multi-grade teaching, curriculum changes, planning
and evaluating instruction, communicating support and other.



SECOND BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Cost of Teacher Trainint Prograp'
(US$)
New Teachers                                           Unit Cost       Total Cost
Workshops                                 3,200                             80           256,000
Development of module for distance        4 modules                      3,200            12,800
training
Reproduction of distance training         3,200 Teachers                    16            51,200
materials                                 (4 modules each)
Distance training follow up               3,200                             22            70,400
Existing Teachers
Workshops                                 12,800 Teachers                   80         1,024,000                     w
Developing of modules for distance        3 modules                      3,200             C,600
training
Reproduction of distance training         12,800 Teachers                   12           153,000
materials                                 (3 modules)
Distance training follow up               12,800 Teachers                   22           281,600
Training Multipliers                      250                               40            10,000
Training Supervisors                      150                               40             6,000                     14
0172
1,875.200



- 36 -
AN=XIV
OTE A U
ECOND BSIC EDUCATION PR oJCT
T xtbook Production Schodulo
Grads. and Titles            1          1ion       199S       1991       1m         1"8        TOTAL
IA
Preparatory Text       199,                                                               193,313
Preperatory Ralder     199,                                                               191,3
Teachere' Guide          4,                                                                 4,13
IB
Basic Text                         SSS,m                                                  333,eo
Reader                             88333,                                                 8883,W
Workbookt - Moth                  288,                  888,33m               868,33      979,031
Workbook - Science                288,                   33,313              3858,31      979,000
Toacher.' Guide                     4,mW                                                    4,31
Bxaic Text                                   281,313                                      281,000
Workbook - Math                              297,11                262,3                  639,00
Workbook - Sionce                            257,1                 282,008                639,300
T"cher.' Quid.                                 4,m                                          4,13
Basic lext                                              235,M                             23s,ee
Teacherc'  ulde                                           I,m                               3,00
TOTAL            334,3    1,246,313    799,333    914,n    564,S    716,31    4,613,f00



- 37 -
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 2
GUATEMALA
SECOND BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Technical Assistance Program
1.       Technical assistance consists of consultant services of both
national and expatriate professionals. A total of 124 staff-months have
been progranmed, of which about 26 are expected to be provided by
expatriates. All consultants must be fluent in Spanish and willing to
travel throughout the country. Consultants will assist the Ministry to:
(a) manage the project, (b) study the MOE building plans prior to the
adoption of final specifications, (c) develop appropriate activities in the
MIS for the Computing Center, (d) organize the education publicity
campaigns, and (e) develop selected studies.
General Terms of Reference
A. Project Management
2.       Qualifications:  A national with a graduate degree in business
administration or management and at least five years experience in public
sector management. This person should have experience in managing social
programs and in interact'ng with international agencies.
3.       Mength of Assignment:  48 months
4.       Specific Functions:  Assist in establishing and organizing  the
PICU for effective operation; establishing effective relationships between
the PICU and other implementing agencies, as well as with the MOE and the
Bank; preparing and monitoring the yearly work program; establishing and
maintaining good contacts with the TEMC; preparing project reports;
reviewing and revising the project's management manual; planning and
implementing activities pertaining to the project components under the
responsibility of the PICU.
B. 0 & M Study for the MOE Building
5.       Qualifications:  A national or expatriate specialized in 0 & M
techniques applied to the use and design of space. This person should have
a graduate degree in architecture with training in designing office
buildings, and experience in studies of 0 & M applied to public service or
to large firms in the service sector.
6.       Length of Assignments:  Two months
7.       Specific Functions:  To assist the team in charge of the study of
the MOE building with all analytical work relating to the organizational
structure of the MOE, its staffing ccnditions and perspectives, location of
common services, and ergonomic studies.



- 38 -
ANE  V
Page 2 of 2
C.       The Comuuting Center
8.       Qualifications:  The person should be specialized in operations of
a management information system, and in techniques for disseminating HIS
information such as routine reports and statistical data. This
professional should have a degree in statistics, demography, or economics,
with five years of experience in HIS work applied at the national or
international level.
9.       Length of Assignment:  Three months per year over a period of four
years.
10.      Specific Functions:  To assist in preparing a plan for the
production and dissemination of educational statistical information;
developing a network of users for the HIS; preparing MIS reports;
developing a feed-back system for the HIS; improving the capacity of the
MIS.
D.       Public CamDaigns
11.      Qualifications:  A professional with a degree in mass
communications or journalism with five years of experience in journalism,
or radio, or television. Preference will be given to specialists having
experience in publicity activities directed at rural citizens in Guatemala,
especially indigenous citizer,s of the country.
12.      Length of Assignment:  For each campaign one and half months
spread over the first two years of the project.
13.      Specific Functions:  To assist the PICU in developing publicity
campaigns to promote regular school attendance, commmuity support of local
schools, and the value of bilingual education; contracting the services of
mass media agencies to carry out specific campaigns; developing monitoring
techniques to ensure that publicity objectives are carried out; and
developing instruments to evaluate the effectiveness of the campaigns.
E.       Studies
14.      Characteristics:  Qualified professionals are to be contracted to
develop eight separate studies. The contracts would be awarded to either
individuals or institutions engaged in research activities, such as
universities.
15.      Length of Assignment:  The training study requires about five
staff-months; the labor market study about ten staff months. Each of the
other study requires about five staff-months for a total of thirty staff-
months for the six studies.



- 39 -
ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 2
GUATEKALA
SECOND BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Studies
Terms of Reference: Given the experimental nature of the studies,
each TOR would be prepared by the project executing agency respensible for
a particular study. In other words, UCEE vould handle local technologies,
USIPE would deal with curricular revision, evaluation, teachers training,
labor markets, and teachers' incentives, directorate general of rural
primary education with therole of supervisors, and PRONEBI would deal with
the expansion of bilingual education to new linguistic target groups.
Terms of Reference would be submitted to the Bank for approval before
initiating each study.
Following are brief descriptions of the purpose of each study:
Local Technologies
The purpose of this study is to evaluate experience gained by the
proposed project in using local technologies in school construction in
rural areas, in particular, through community participation, and using
local construction materials. To be completed by June 30, 1993.
Curriculum Revisions
The purpose of this study is to assess and evaluate curriculum
changes introduced by the sistema de readecuaci6n curricular in the
preparation and implementation of in-service teacher training programs.
To be completed by December 31, 1989.
Evaluation
This study aims at designing and experimenting with methods for
the standardization of students' evaluations by teachers in grades one to
three in primary education. To be completed by December 31, 1989.
Bilinaual Education
At present, bilingual education covers only four major Indian
languages. The purpose of this study is:
(i)     to identify linguistic areas where special effort is
required to reach higher education coverage, and
(ii)    to propose a work program for existing bilingual education
to one or two new linguistic target groups.
To be completed by December 31, 1990.



- 40 -
ANNEX VI
rage 2 of 2
Pre-Service Teacher Trainina
The purpose of this study is to review alternative approaches to
improve the fitness of pre-service teacher training in the light of recent
changes implemented by the Government. Two major alternatives would be:
Mi)     through upgrading teacher training from secondary to
tertiary level, and
(ii)    through restructuring the network of the existing teacher
training institutions, revising the curriculum and
expanding the duration of training.
To be completed by December 31, 1990.
Production and Maintenance of School Furniture
To be completed by December 31, 1990.
Maintenance of School Buildings
To be completed by December 31, 1993.
Role of Supervisors
The purpose of this study is to develop new roles and
responsibilities for supervisors and school participants; in particular, to
produce guidelines for supervisors to perform their tasks in data
collection and assist schools on ways and means to improve their
performance. To be completed by October 30, 1990.



- 41 -
ANNIX VII
Page 1 of 1
SECOND BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
SuiDort to Nutrition Program of Rural Children in Primary Education
1.       Lack of nutrition or under-nutrition of school-age children affect
both their school attendance and educational achievement. This was well
documented in the specialized literature.
2.       In Guatemala, a large number of children in marginalized urban and
rural areas suffer from malnutrition or under-nutrition. According to a
school census carried out in 1986, almost 382 of Grade 1 students suffer
from lack of adequate nutrition and this proportion increases ih the
following grades with the age of students.
3.       In Guatemala in 1986, foreign assistance in food represent 9Z of
local production. Many agencies are participating and supporting several
sectors. For example, CARE served in 1986, 270,000 beneficiaries (mothers
and early childhood) and WFP some 36.000. An agreement (November 1987) was
reached between the Government and WFP on a US$30.0 million project whose
purpose is to provide, during three years, school meals to about 1.2Z
million children 180 days a year.
4.       The purpose of this component is to complement the efforts made by
other international agencies (such as WP and other NGOs) which provide
food for school children either through direct channels or through the
directorate of school nutrition of the HOE. The project would finance the
building of 500 storerooms and kitchens for a minimum of 500 rural schools
(data would be provided by the analysis of the school's inventory).



- 42 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 2
GUATDEALA
SECOND BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Distance Education
I.     The Existina System
1.       The National Program of distance education for adults is under the
Directorate of Literacy and Adult Education. The program has national
coverage and serves all adults who can read and write but cannot atternd
courses in the formal system (i.e. evening courses). Didactic materials
are sent by mail. The program is supported by a network of about 250 local
coordinators (teachers, religious institutions, and different *promoters,
in health, development, literacy, bilingual education, etc.) Adults
enrolled meet occasionally with teachers and receive assistance from
auxiliary teachers. (The program follows the speed of learning of each
adults. The instruction is self-paced, and an evaluation is carried out on
request when the adults feel they are ready to advance to the next phase of
the program). Adults may enroll anytime during the year, and it takes
about two years to complete the three phases of the program. No accurate
figures are availabe:  however, estimates by the MOE suggest that about
7,000 adults were following the program in 1986.
II.    The Proposed Component
A. Purpose
2.       To give opportunities to students who have completed successfully
Grade III and could not enter Grade IV in a primary school to pursue their
studies in a nonconventional manner through correspondence courses.
B. Targets
3.       Between 1989 and 1993, to serve a minimum of 14,000 students in
Grades IV to VI.
C. Sequence of Implementation
(a) Authorization of the National Program for Adult Education by
Correspondence (PEAC), through legal and normative
instruments, to establish a new department of distance
education for children';
(b)  Review of content and curriculum of Grades IV to VI, and
adapt them to the specific needs and conditions of operation
of distance education;



- 43 -
ANNKX VIII
Page 2 of 2
(c) Production of didactic materials according to needs of
distance education;
(d) Support public campaigns to promote distance education;
(e) Using the existing network of 250 local coordinators
(teachers, promoters, voluntary agents), initiate the
selection of students in consultation with school
principalsiteachers.
D.   Resources, Requirements
5*       PEAC prepared a development plan which includes: (a) recruitment
of staff (from existing 6 to 10) and of local coordinators from 252 to 500
(unpaid); (b) production of didactic materials and supplies (about
US$30,000); and (c) budget increments for maintenance of equipment and
operation (about US$6,000).



- 44 -
ANNEX IX
GUATDEALA
SECOND BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Ministry of Zducation Buildini
Cost/Benefit Analysis
1.       The Ministry of Education (MOE) has 13 buildings and approximately
1,000 employees which are presently scattered throughout Guatemala City.
this situation results in costly inefficiencies and waste of limited and
valuable resources.
2.       The proposed project would finance construction of a building that
would house all present employees of the Ministry and would include some
additional space to meet future needs.
3.       Cost/benefit calculations were made to determine the viability of
the proposed building. The cost of the new building is expected to be
about US$4.8 million including physical and price contingencies for a four-
year period (1988-1991).
4.       The new building is expected to generate rent savings and other
benefits. Rent savings were based on current market rates and were used
during a 50-year period. Other benefits were estimated using very
conservative assumptions. On the one hand, calculations do not take into
account benefits resulting from efficiency improvements in the management
and administration of the Central offices because they are difficult to
measure. These benefits would result from (i) more functional and suitable
facilities than the rented space used at present; (ii) easier and faster
communications between the various units of the Ministry, particularly
between the technical and the administrative directorates; and (iii)
improved use of common backstaffing services by some units at present
located too far to be served; and of too small size to have their own
services. On the other hand, measurable lengths (salaries, transport,
telephone) were estimated by assuming the smallest impact of the
concentration of the offices; as follow: (i) salary savings would result
only from personnel reductions from the lowest level of the scale; it is
assumed lOZ of the current salary budget would be saved due to the effect
of proximity; (ii) expected reductions in transportation needs and in
telephone calls from building to building would produce an aggregate saving
of 121 of total operating costs (five vehicles and their maintenance costs
would be saved; vehicles are amortized in five years; saving in phone calls
is assumed to be 2S of current expenditures).
5.       The results of the analysis (Table 1) indicate that the rate of
return, based on constant October 1988 values, using the above assumptions
is 13Z. Hence, in spite of conservative assumptions, the rate of return is
above the estimated opportunity costs of borrowed capital (10-12Z). This
would justify the proposed investment.



- 45 -                            JiANNEX IX
GMTOA                                    Table 1
Costimfit Iulwis - Ninistrv So  Edeit   hildirM
(in I 000)
1      2       3        4    5-50
ICIEITS
SWINES IN  ET PAYNTS                      -       -       -       -    2.0
SARY SAYINGS                              -       -       -       -   620.0
WNICLE MI CUMICATIOIS SAVINGS             -       -       -       -    31.0
TOTAL SAVINSS                             -       -       -       -  1471.0
COSTS
WILDING COSTS                          77.2  2577.6  3969.6  3428.3
NET KNFWITS
NET SAVINGS                           -77.2 -2577.6 -3969.6 -3429.3  A471.0
--- -- -- -- --- -- -- -- -- --- -- -        - -- --- - -- -- -- - -- -- -
October 129 1988 11:36
INTERNAL RATES OF RETURN OF NET STREAMS
B.TOT     UP  Pl O         Z       UP        DMNIOZ U       02 DOIWOt 20Z 502 LAO1 YEAR LAG 2 YEARS LAG 3 YEARS
C.tOT             12.956      14.124      15.265      10.556      11.758      10.525       6.512      11.700       10.722      9.929
iP 1O0            11.868      12.956      14.019      17.084      10.752       9.602       5.840      10.783       9.924       9.220
UP 20Z            10.941      11.960      12.956      15.827       9.893       8.813       5.258       9.991       9.229        8.600
ip 502             8.913       9.680      10,525      12.956       7,919       6.991       3.993       8.142       7.588       7.119
DOW  1O0          14.252      15.516      16,751      20.309      12.956      11,623       7.304      12.780      11.652       10.750
DOuI 202          15.827      17.208      18.556      22.433      14,411      12.956       9.257      14.07-5     12.756      11.716
NO 502            23,674      25.613      27.496      32.853      21.676      19.614      12.956      20.270      17.900       16.129
AD 1  YEAR            -           -           -           -           -           -           -      12.956      11.700       10.722
LAe 2 YEARS                                                      - -  -  -  -      -           -           -      12.956       11.700
LAG 3 YEARS            -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -       12.956
5WITCHIN6 VALUES AT M1
APPRAISAL    SUITCHING    PERCENTAGE
STREAK                 VALUE       VJALUE        CRANWE
B.TOT               3,736.57     7.322.45       -16.192
C.TOT               79322.45    89736.57         19.312
Net Present Value gt OCC 112 = 1t414.1
Internal Rate ot Return = 13%



GUATEMALA
SECOND BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Project CoaPonents bY Year
Totals Includint Contingencies       Totals Including Contingencies
(0 million)                         (US$ million)
1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 Total  1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 Total
A. INCREASING I4ET ENROLLMENT
1. EXPANSION OF SCHOOL CAPACITY                2.5 16.1 19.8 24.9 25.5 18.0 106.8   1.0  6.4  7.9 10.0 10.2  7.2  42.7
2. DISTANCE EDUCATION                           0.1  0.1  0.1  O.1  0.1  0.1   0.3   0.0  0,0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.1
3. PUBLIC CAMPAIGNS              -              0.2  0.3  0.4  0.4  0.3  0.2   1.6   0.1  0.1  0.1  0.2  0.1  0.1   0.7
Sub-Total INCREASING NET ENROLLMENT                2.7 16.4 20.2 25.3 25.9 18.3 108.8   1.1  6.6  8.1 10.1 10.3  7.3  43.5
B. IMPROVING QUALITY AND EFFICIENCY
--------------   .-- . ---------------
1. TRAWINIlG MATERIALS                         0.2  6.4  3.6  4.1  3.2  4.0  21.5   0.1  2.6  1.4  1.6  1.3  1.6   8.6
2. TEACHER TRAINING                             0.7  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.3    -  5.1   0.3  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.5    -   2.0
3. STUDIES                                     01  0.1  0.1    -    -  0.1   0.3   0.0  0.0  0.0    -.   -  0.0   0.1
Sub-Total IMPROVING OUALITY AND EFFICIENCY         1.0  7.6  4.7  5.1  4.5  4.1  27.0   0.4  3.0  1.9  2.1  1.8  1.6  10.9
C, IMPROVING MANAGEMENT
1. CENTRAL LEVEL                                1.2  2.8  6.1  4.3  0.1  0.1  14.6   0.5  1.1  2.4  1.7  0.0  0.0   5.8
2. LOCAL LEVEL                                    -  00  0.0  0.0  0.0    -   0.1      -  0.0  0.0 00  0.0    -   0.0
3. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION                       0.5  0.2  0.2  0.3  0.1  0.1   1.4  0.2  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.0  0.0   0.6
Sub-Total IMPROVING MANAGEMENT                     1.7  3.1  6.4  4.6  0.2  0.2  16.1   0.7  1.2  2.6  1.8  0.1  0.1   6.4
Total PROJECT COSTS                                  5.4 27.1 31.3 35.0 30.6 22.5 151.9   2.2 10.8 12.5 14.0 12.2  9.0  60.8
N=== ===: ==== ==-= ==== ==== ==_ _  ==== ===  =    =_  = =   ==== ====9   1 
November 8. 1908   tt;?'2 



-47 -                                       ANNEX X
Table 2
GUATEtALA
SECOND BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Cowsowets by Year
(0 Oillion)
Total
Base Costs            --------
----------                             (LUSS
1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994    0   Million)
A, INCREASING NET ENROLLMENT
1. EXPANSION OF SCHOOL CAPACITY                2.4 14.9 18.4 22.8 23.0 16.1  97.7    39.1
2. DISTANCE EDUCATION                          0.1  0.1  0.0  0.1  0.1  0.1    0.3      0.1
3. PUBLIC CAMPAIGNS                            0.2  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.2  0.2    1.5      0,6
Sub-Total INCREASING NET ENROLLMENT               2.7 15.2 18.8 23.2 23.3 16.3  99.6    39.8
B. IMPROVING QUALITY AND EFFICIENCY
1. TRAINING MATERIALS                         0.2  6.1  3.4  3.7  2.8  3.4  19.6        7.8
2. TEACHER TRAINING                            0.7  1.0  0.9  0.9  1.2    -    4.7      1.9
3. STUDIES                                     0.1  0.1  0.1    -   - 0.1    0.3        0.1
Sub-Total IMPROVING QUALITY AND EFFICIENCY        0.9  7.1  4.4  4.7  4.0  3.5  24.6       9.8
C. IMPROVING MANAGEIENT
1, CENTRAL LEVEL                               1.1  2.6  5.5  3.8  0.1  0.1  13.1       5.2
2. LOCAL LEVEL                                   -  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0    -    0.1      0.0
3. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION                      0.5  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.1  0.1    1,4      0.5
Sub-Total IMPROVING MANAGEMENT                    1.6  2.8  5.8  4.0  0.2  0.2  14.5       5.8
Total BASELINE COSTS                                5.2 25,2 29.0 32,0 27.4 20.0  138.7    55.5
Physical Contingencies                           0.2  1.6  1.7  1.6  0.9  0.2    6.3      2.5
Price Contingencies                              0.0  0.3  0.6  1.4 2.3  2.4    7.0       2.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                                 5.4 27.1 31.3 35.0 30.6 22.5  151,9    60.8
Foreign Exchange                                 1.4  9.4  9.3  8.5  4.8  2.0  35.4    14.2
November St 1988  10:23



GUATEIALA
SECOND BASIC EDUCAT10' PROJECT
Suarv Account bN Project Cowonent
D0
INCREASING NET EOLLIENT                 INPROVING OWLITY AND EFFICIENCY               IMPROVING MANAGEMENT                                Pbxal
-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --  Continincins
EXPANSION OF   DISTANCE    PULtIC      SCHOOL      TRAINING      TEACHER                                            MROJECT                    ------   --
SCHDOL CAPACITY  EDUCATION   CAMPAIGNS  NUTRITION   MATERIALS    TRAINING    STUDIES  CENTRAL LEVEL LOCAL LEVEL ABNINISTBStION       Total       I    Mocwt
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS
SCHOOL BUILDINGS                         349969.600.0          -           -          -             -           -          -              -                           -  349969600.0  10.0 3,4969960.0
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION                               -          -           -          -             -           -          -   10,660.000.0           -               -  10660,000.0  10.0 1.066,000.0
Sub-Total CIVIL WS                          349969P600.0          -           -          -             -           -          -  10t660.000.0            -               -  459629,600.0  10.0 495629960.0
B. FtRNITURE AND EQUIPMENT                   4.280,000.0         -            -          -            -            -          -   1,750,000.0            -       295,900.0   6.325.300.0  5.0  316.292.O
C. SUPPLIES                                            -          -           -          -  4-4499294.0            -          -             -            -               -   4,44.294.0  5.0  2229464.7
D. TEXTBOOKS, WORKBOOS I TEACNER GUIDES                -         -            -          -  15.1474657.0           -          -             -            -               -   15.147,657.0  5.0  757,382.9
E. STUDIES                                             -          -           -          -             -    25,000.0  300.000.0              -           -               -      125,000.0  5.0   16,250.0
F. IMAAEMIENT INFORNATION SYSTEM                       -          -           -          -             -           -          -      625,000.0           -               -      6259000.0  5.0   31.250.0
G. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                - 3089000.0   625,000.0           -             -           -          -       25,000.0    65.000.0               -   1.023.000.0  5.0   51,15O.O
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                         39.249.600.0  308.000.0   625.O00.0          - 19,576.951.0    25.000.0  300.000.0  13.060-000.0    65.000.0         295,900.0  73,525.351.0  3.1 5,957,747.5
It. RECURRENT COSTS
A.  SALARIES                               589500-000.0          -           -          -            -            -          -             -            -       660.000.0  59,160.000.0  0.0          0.0
B. TRAINING                                           -          -   870,517.5          -            - 4-688-000.0           -             -            -               -   5559B517.5  5.0  2770925.9
C. OPERATING COSTS                                    -          -           -          -             -           -          -             -            -       419000.0       419.000.0  5.0   20.950.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                          58-500,000.0         -   970,517.5           -            - 4,688.000.0           -             -            -    ION79,OO0.0  659137,517.5   0.5  291,875.9
Total BASELINE COSTS                            979749,600.0  308.000.0  1-495,517.5         - 199596.951.0  4.713.000.0  300,000.0  13.060.000.0    65,000,0    1,374.900.0  1389662968.5  4.5 6t256,623.4
PhNsical Continwincies                        3.710.960.0  15-400.0    74.775.9           -    979,947.5   235S650.0  15-000.O   1.186.000.0        3.250.0        35.740.0   6,256.623.4  0.0          0.0
Price Contingencies                           5-365t042.7  14.336.7    64,235.9           -    962,077.9   172,282.4  12-017.1        343.154.0     2.395.1        36,994.9   6.972.536.6  3.1  2169646.1
Total PROJECT COSTS                            106-825,602.7  337.'36.7  1,634,529.3         - 21,538,976.4  5.120.932.4  327-017.1  1'6589.154.0    704645.1    1,447.534.8  151992t02t.5  4.3 6P473t269.5
Foreign Exchange                             15,648,676.6  270,1B9.4   792,154.8          -  11.092.663.2  1.294.915.3  261,613.7   5,671.546.9    56.516.1       341,25,.7  35,420,001.7  6.7 29359.543.9   w K
Novube- 8. 1988 10:23



- 49 -
ANNEX X
Table 4
GUATEMALA
SECOND BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Procurement Method
(in US$ million)
ICB         LCB           Other          Total a/
Civil Works                        7.9         11.8            0.5          20.2
(7.0)       (8.0)          (0.5)         (15.5)
Furniture, Equipment &             1.0          3.5            0.5            5.0
Materials                       (1.0)        (2.1)          (0.5)          (3.6)
Textbooks                          2.0          4.0                          6.0
(1.8)       (3.6)                         (5.4)
Salaries                                                     25.7           25.7
(0]           (0]
Training                                                       2.3            2.3
(0.9)         (0.9)
Operating Costs                                                0.6            0.6
(0.5)         (0.5)
Technical Assistance including                                 1.0            1.0
Consultants                                                 (1.0)         (1.0)
Interest During Construction                                   7.5           7.5
(3.1)         (3.1)
Total                             10.9         19.3           38.1          68.3
(9.8)      (13.7)          (6.5)         (30.0)
a/ Figures in parenthesis are amounts expected to be financed by the Bank.



- so -
ANNEX X
Table 5
GUATEMALA
SECOND BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Prior Review Threshold and
Procurement Methods
(USs'000)
Prior Review   Contract    Aggregate        Type of
Threshold       Value         Limit        Procurement
Civil Works
Classroom         >400            >400                      ICB
<400        3,800         LCB with foreign
bidders permitted
Bdtu I  in> 1* nn                !bI nn                     TCB
Materials                       <100         8,000        LCB
< 20          500         Prudent shopping
MOE Building                                                ICB
Furniture, Equipment
and Materials       >100            >100                      ICB
<100        3,500         LCB with foreign
bidders permitted
< 20          500         Prudent shopping
Textbook Printing      >100           >200                      ICB
<200        4,000         LCB with foreign
bidders permitted



- 51 -                             AMP" A
Table 6
GUATEMALA
SECOND BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
------------------------------------
---------------------------------------------------------------------------____-----
Bank         Quarter       Disbursed                     Disb. as     Balance
Fiscal Year       Ending        During           Cumulative    X of         of
Quarter           Amount      Total        Loan
89      March 31, 1989        0.25               0.25                  29.75
June  30, 1989       0.35               0.60        2         29.40
90      Sept. 30, 1989        0.60               1.20                  28.80
Dec.  31, 1989       0.60               1.80                  28.20
March 31, 1990       0.60               2.40                   27.60
June  30, 1990       0.60               3.00       10         27.00
91      Sept. 30, 1990        1.80               4.80                  25.20
Dec.  31, 1990       1.80               6.60                  23.40
- arU ,1, 199'i      A.8                8=4n                  21.60
June  30, 1991       1.80              10.20       34         19.80
92      Sept. 30, 1991        1.90              12.10                  17.90
Dec.  31, 1991       1.90              14.00                  16.00
March 31, 1992       1.90              15.90                   14.10
June  30, 1992       1.90              17.80       59         12.20
93      Sept. 30, 1992        1.70              19.50                  10.50
Dec.  31, 1992       1.70              21.20                   8.80
March 31, 1993       1.70              22.90                   7.10
June  30, 1993       1.70              24.60       82          5.40
94      Sept. 30, 1993        1.20              25.80                   4.20
Dec.  31, 1993       1.20              27.00                   3.00
March 31, 1994       1.00              28.00                   2.00
June  30, 1994       0.80              28.80      96           1.20
95      Sept. 30, 1994        0.60              29.40                   0.60
Dec. 31, 1994        0.60              30.00      100          0.00
--- -- --- -- -- --- -- -- --- -- -- --- -- --- -- -- --- -- -- ---__-- ---_-  --



- 52 -
ANNEX X
Table 7
GUATEMALA
SECOND BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in           X of Expenditures
Catesory                     USS Equivalent)            to be Financed
(1) Works
a) New school construction    11,000,000                  65?
b) Central Office Building
for MOE                    2,900,000                 65Z
(2)  Goods (excluding                2,500,000           100Z of Foreign
textbooks)                                         expenditures and
90? of local
expenditures
(3)  Textbooks                       5,300,000                   90?
(4)  !raining                          800,000                   401
(5) Technical Assistance
including consultants'
services                       1,050,000                  100?
(6)  Operating Costs                   550,000                   90?
(7)  Interest and other charges      3,100,000
(8)  Unallocated                     2,800,000
TOTAL                    30,000,000



- 53 -
ANNEX XI
GUATEMALA
SECOND BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Preliminary List of 200 Schools to be Extended
During the First Year of the Project
Number of          Range of Deficit         No. of
Municipios           (Enrollment              New
Department          To Be Served           in Primary)          Classrooms
ALTA VARAPAS             11             1,530 to 7,890               32
QUICHE                   12             1,800 to 7,110               28
HUEHUETENANGO            10             1,500 to 4,370               28
SAN MARCOS                7             1,670 to 4,020               24
QUEZALTENANGO             6             1,840 to 4,610               20
ESCUINTLA                 6             1,610 to 5,975               20
SUCHITEPEQUEZ             6             1,660 to 3,820               14
TOTONICAPAN               5             1,720 to 4,920               14
IZABAL                    5             2,010 to 5,410               12
SOLOLA                    3             1,630 to 3,380                8
Total            71                  188,080               200
Source: DIF - USIPE
Ministry of Education



- 54 -                         MEXXII
SECON  BSIC EDUCATION POECT
I lDIm_tstlen Scbedule
1W 9     m       1991    1902      19fl    1994
Ov*ralI I Mseamsnt
- Estab i ohIU & DW
- Operation Manual                  IW
- Identify Audit Fir_               I"
- Budgetary Provisions             1i
- Audit Flrm  Contracted            10
- Opening Accounts                  1N
Classroom      lIteo identified      27       54       32    1i
constructed                   27       54       n2      in
quipped                       27       54       32     1I
Doublt Shifts Introduced             19       2        87       72     1Id
Supplies       claseroeo           12.6       2S       60       76      lt
students               a      11       24       43       6       166
Teachero     - Recrulted           12.6       26       U        75      10
- Tralid (new)        12.6      26       SO       75      100
- Trained (existing)   20       46       63       6       100
Sunervislon - Study 10
- Training                               20       47       78    10
Grades IA      Production                    1W
Dlitrib-tion                  es        79      9S     1S
Grades IA-III  Textbooks                      56       32    16
Workbooks                     19       $6       56       76      1a
Teachers Guides               83       66    1"
Public Coemalans
Local Participation  16       as        U0      67       es    1S
Distance Education   1S       aS       so       67       es      1"
Early Enrollment      16      88       60       67       eS    1in
Multigrade Teaching  16       38       60       67       $a    1in
School Nutrition                              40                of     1In
Distance Education                            11       29       s0       75     10
Studi-
S hooi Furniture             10
Local Technolegies                                               10
Teacher Training                      10
CurrIcula            1W
School Me4ntenance                    10
Bilingual Education                   100
Student Evaluation          1W
Responsibilities of
regional super
vlsore A principals                  10
Administrative Handbooks             60      1W
Trainina Reolonal Administratore              20       40      66        3      1SO
Central Office
Preliminary Studies
(Set)              1"
Construction                  25       65      lee



- 55 -
ANEX XIII
Page 1 of 2
UCSS EsuIC EUCTICN PROJCT
Key Portorems.. Tereste
Obi.ctives/Activitise                       19        10J       imI2       LM                   1994         Totel
I     I-rore Aes_  C ieareem
-  site  idetiti-d                  2          2         2 w        2U                                  1,1W
-  contructed                                am *9     *                    2J                       1,'1W
- quipped                                       8W        we         8W        200                      1,16I
Introduction of Double Shifts        4W         2W        4W                   en OW                    2,100
Ccl mst....)
Teachere Recrulted                   4W         so        70         US        S8                       8,208
Public CaomeIone
-  early enrollment                    I          1         1          1         1          1 
-   ultigrae  teaching                                                           1          1               6
=  local participation                 1          1         1          1         1          1               6
= distonce education                   1          1         1          1         1          1               6
SupDort to School Nutrition
-  store room and kitchen                       26       1in         1W0 10 60
Distance Education
- WIf of student s lected for
Grades IV-VI                       1.6       2.5       8.         8 .6      8.6        3.5              14
II.   Imorove Quslity and Efficiency
Teacher Training
-  now teachers                      400        g         7?W        an        an                       3,200
-   xleting teachers (00s)           2.6        2.5       2.6        2.5       2.6                     12,80
Textbooks and Workbooks (OM6)
(Production) Grdes IA Prep.          19                                                               19w,eW
Reader        1W                                                               190,4W
Teacher
Guides         4                                                                4,666
(Distrib.) Grde  IA   Prop.          12J         a         s         18                               19,6,00
Reader        128         sO        as         18                              190,66
Teacher
Guides                    4                                                     4,666



- 56 -
AM=EX XIII
Page 2 of 2
Objectivoe/Activitee                       19_9      1990       19.1      1962      1995       194           Total
Production and Distribution for
Rooiec o n      rt to Grades _                            2-1151,132,000
-T xtbooke                                   ee         291       2                                 1    0
- Workbooks                                     76       514        666       564       716         a,0o ,000
- Toechers' Gides                                4         4          8                                11,000
of which Bilingual Education                   125        76         90        6o         72          417,000
SeApp I*- for cl roor                400       500       700        600       900                       3, 00
- for studete (000)        2n         so       100        150       200       250           706,000
Studios   - Bilingul Education                              1                                               1
- Curricula                 1                                                                     1
- School Maintonance                             1                                                1
- Student Evaluation                   1                                                          1
- Teacher Training                               1                                                1
- School Furniture                     1
-Local Technologies                                                             1                 1
- Responsibilities of
Regional Super-
visors and                                    1                                                1
Principals
III.  Improve manogment/
Centrol Offices Building
- Preli-inory Studies (set)            1                                                                    1
-  Construction                                                       1                                     1
central Offices Operation
- Adinietrative Handbooks              4         4                                                          8
-  Training Regienei                            2          2          2         2         2                10
Administrator*
Supervision
-  Study on Roles and Functions                  1
-  Training (000)                                         30         40        40        40              10



- 57 -
ANNEX XIV
Page 1 of 1
GUATEMALA
SECOND BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
LIST OF DOCIHETS ON FILE
1.   Ministerio de Educacion:         'Cuadrom Estadisticos,* 1982
2.   Ministerio de Educacion:         'Diagnostico de la Educacion
Nacional' 1986
3.   Ministerio de Educacion:         'Educacion Primaria, Poblacion y
Desarrollo
'Bases para de Educacion Primaria en el
Mediano Plazo," 1986
4.   Ministerio de Educacion:         "Filosofia, Politicas y Entrategia
Educativas,* 1986-1990
5.   Ministerio de Educacion:          PEAC:  'Proyecto de Educacion Minimal
6.   Ministerio de Educacion:          Junta Calificadora de Personal,
Documento No. 444-87, 1982
7.   Ministerio de Educacion:a/       USIPE:  'Proyecto - Educacion Minima,'
1987
8.   Ministerio de Educacion:         'Anteproyecto Ley de Educacion
Nacional, Documento para Discusion,"
1987
9.   World Bank:                      'Basic Education Sector Memorandum,"
June 6, 1986; Report No. 6248-GU
10.  Ministry of Education:            List of Classrooms to be Built by
Municipality during First Year or
Project
a/ This is the project proposal document submitted to the Bank by the MOE.



_  r
. iTL.3J  LS     I



- 59 -
CHART I
Page 2 of 3
ANNEX -- ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
A. Ministry
B. Technical Viceminister
B.1. National Board of Out of School Education
B.2 General Directorate of Education
B.2.1   Directorate of Preprimary and Urban Primary
B.2.2   Directorate of Secondary
B.2.3   Directorate of Literacy and Adult Education
B.2.4   Directorate of Education in Rural Area
B.2.5   Director of Physical Education
B.2.6   Directorate of Student Wealth and Special Education
B.2.7   Directorate of Aesthetic Education
B.2.8   General Inspectorate
C. Administrative Viceminister
C.1 Directorate of Personnel
C.2 National Center of Books and Textbooks
C.3 Board of Personnel Evaluation
C.4 School Nutrition
C.5 Education Technology
C.6 Materials and School Supplies
C.7 INAJU INAJAV
C.8 Office of Registry and Processing of Expenditures
C.9 Office of International Organization
C.10 Office of Transports
C.11 Office of Public Relations
C.12 School Furniture
r 1% <rhoni RiiAi4na ? int-   n'.p



- 60 -
CHART I
Page 3 of 3
C.14 Committee "Operacion Escolar'
C.15 Office of Technical Assistance of UNESCO
C.16 Small Lotery
C.17
D. Special Supervision in the Minister Office
E. 'Oficialia Mayor"
F. Office of Planning: USIPE
G. Technical Council
H. Technical Advisory Office
I. Legal Advisory Office



-61 -                                                                    CHART II
Di r     A St ? r n    TIeI l
ofEEdatio__u i
I                                                                       ltt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Poject lm1*- |
l                                                                        _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ntation CoOrJ-
instor Unie 
tellebon*-   Ccn-truetion   ~         ~        ritio
A Workbook.           A Furniture
Dmrtmnt
Training
rAdministrative
lHndbook
_Handbook of Project
rOperation ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Eu  to



E   ___  ,^,F AL.                                          M t A I L Q                       ;
+ RAILROADS ,_ 
* AIRPORTS!                                                                    i
l     4,  ~~PORTS                                  
i         ~~~DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES  *                   
-- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                         4j
._._._1,~~~~~~b.1 z "                    
171~,                            XAIW<   
KILOMETERS             >                  WfYLfF                  
l       ~~0 10  2'0  7;) 40  S:5  1                                             ob1  
sxts~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W o   {V
__            t  sY                      (f l~~co'
1t 1 .'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C OD. t,W  ALo - .. y                                              
,  ?/;    ^C;      ,           R        .,  .    s F 8 , P9,-   s/'         \             4~~~~~I A.
t  eis.ces.*<  j  ,  { .c s  x_>   (   X         /        (oo*.~~~H 0 ND U    Ar>  TtrMoeSmoiSO
I  i  9   gt<   oq'    Xco-^Lf~~~~~~~~~R   /        I5"'  el '          '         'wa-,#
a    ,,   -e^;JW  <H*s~~~~  C        e .>r   <    X .,- .;. .; !   wa7-            t
f >  JH  r 2-_v-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s- 0. a    P                            . ftJ   
1  j  p  c  r  '-v { ,1 A, A: s s {: ^ e A 2 X /~~~~NW
% s e 4 / !11 t j n O, sJ {~~~~~~V  ^;;f                                      ,    -    .^_.fHONDURAS
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t                                                 f~t  -fAtX
g +  u  <       <      eZ                 -      =z-s*wA  } t- v_e ,~> _ht'!, v *        ---_
>,/f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CS
tlsn   />Zv tr.; S      itA\.wf,t FCOSA   iEf           ){   V^fXlrilt         JAMAICA
l .    9F.. SfI.YA .1                                                                 N.C. ,.   rA
'I>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ W                                              -]PANAM'A
SEPTEMBER 1986



