Page  1
                                                     June 10, 1993
Licda. Pilar Serrano de Lopez
Minister of Education
Ministry of Education
Palacio Nacional
Guatemala, Guatemala
Dear Minister Serrano de Lopez:
      Re:   Loan No. 3003-GU (Second Basic Education Project)
            Amendment to the Loan Agreement
      Please refer to the Loan Agreement between the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and the Republic
of Guatemala (the Borrower) dated January 10, 1990, as amended by
letter dated April 13, 1993 (the Loan Agreement).  We are pleased to
inform you that, pursuant to our recent discussion, the Bank agrees
to amend Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement by adding thereto a new
Part E as shown in the attachment.
      Please note that the reference in the new Part E to Guatemalan
Law concerning public sector procurement currently in effect is to
the Ley de Contrataciones del Estado in effect as of May 21, 1993
and the then existing regulations thereto.
      Please confirm your agreement on behalf of Republic of
Guatemala to the foregoing amendment by signing and dating this
letter in the spaces provided below.  Upon your confirmation, please
return one fully executed original to us.  The provisions of this
amendment will become effective upon declaration of effectiveness of
the Loan Agreement, and upon receipt by the Bank of one fully
executed original of this amendment.
                            Very truly yours,
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                             AND DEVELOPMENT
                           Edilberto L. Segura
                                Director
                          Country Department II
                 Latin America and the Caribbean Region
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
BY:   /s/
      Authorized Representative
Date: 16.VI.93
cleared with and cc: Messrs.  Cucullu, LEGLA; Fowler, LOAEL;
cc: Messrs.  Knotter (LA2DR); Lacey, Myers (LA2C2); Collell, Pastor
(LEGLA)
Part E:          Additional Procurement Provisions
1.    Without limitation upon the provisions of the Guidelines or of
the Guidelines referred to in Section II of this Schedule in respect
of procurement of goods, works, and services and pursuant to the
provisions in respect of international agreements of the Guatemalan
Law concerning public sector procurement currently in effect:
      (a)   In respect of bidding procedures under Part A of this
Schedule, no registration procedure shall be required, or understood
to be required, as preconditions to bidding, except where a
Page  2
prequalification procedure for intended bidders has been agreed with
the Bank and only to the extent that the criteria to enable
registration are not stricter than those for prequalification.  In
respect of competitive bidding governed by the provisions of Part C.
1 of this Schedule, pre-registration may be used to the extent that
it shall not prevent foreign bidders to participate in any bidding
process and that it shall be achieved through ad-hoc procedures
agreed from time to time between the Borrower and the Bank.
      (b)   No prior registration shall be required for consultant
services, and foreign consultants shall be allowed to participate
freely in the selection process even when local consultants shall be
available for the concerned services; and any public notice required
by legal provisions in effect in Guatemala and related to the
acquisition of services to be provided by consultants or experts,
shall be deemed applicable only to the extent that the public notice
in question is made as a way of soliciting expressions of interest
but not as an invitation to participate in the process.
      (c)   The bidding documents shall make clear that bids shall
be submitted during a period the length of which shall require prior
acceptance by the Bank, and it shall not be required that bids be
submitted personally to any individual or group of individuals; the
end of the period in question shall coincide, unless otherwise
agreed with the Bank, - with the moment stipulated for bid opening
in the bidding documents.  No bidder shall be disqualified if the
price of the corresponding bid falls above or below a predetermined
given value, or out of a post-bid-presentation-determined price
band.
      (d)    Bid and performance securities shall, at the bidders'
option, be denominated in the currency of the bid or any other
currency commonly used in international transactions, and shall be
issued by any bank or insurance company located in Guatemala or
abroad, acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank.
2.    Unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, the
Borrower shall invite bids in regard of the procurement of goods,
civil works and services for the Project exclusively on the basis of
standard documents agreed with the Bank from time to time and shall
inform the Bank on any proposed departure from said documents before
any such tender is made public.
