Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2568-BE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED EEC SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT
AND AN
INCREASE IN THE AMOUNT OF THE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR THE
ASHUGANJ FERTILIZER PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 527-BD, DATED FEBRUARY 12, 1975)
May 18, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Bangladesh Taka is officially valued at Tk 32 to the Pound
Sterling. The Pound now floats relative to the US Dollar and consequently
the Taka-US Dollar rate is subject to change. The rate below has been used
throughout this report except where otherwise stated.
US$1         =  Tk 15.0
Tk 1         =  US$0.067
Tk 1 million = US$66,667
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB    -    Asian Development Bank
USAID  -    United States Agency for International Development
ODM    -    Overseas Development Ministry of the United Kingdom
KfW    -    Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
GOB    -    Government of Bangladesh
BADC   -    Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
AFCC   -    Ashuganj Fertilizer and Chemical Company
MAF    -    Management Assistance Firm
TA     -    Technical Advisors
OAF    -    Operations Assistance Firm
PIU    -    Project Implementation Unit
PIAF   -    Project Implementation Assistance Firm
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
EEC SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT AND INCREASE IN THE AMOUNT OF
THE IDA DEVELOPMENT CREDIT FOR THE ASHUGANJ FERTILIZFR PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                People's Republic of Bangladesh
Beneficiary:             Ashuganj Fertilizer and Chemical Company (AFCC)
Amount:                   (i)  IDA - US$29.0 million additional (increasing
Credit 527-BD from US$33.0 million to US$62.0
million)
(ii) EEC Special Action Credit - about US$3.0 million
equivalent designated in currencies of the
EEC member states.
Terms:                   Standard
Relending Terms:         Proceeds (net of about US$1.0 million for training)
to be passed on to AFCC at an interest rate of 10%
per annum. Repayments will be made over 17 years,
including seven years of grace from the date of the
original Financing Agreement between Bangladesh and
AFCC (February 12, 1975). AFCC is bearing the
foreign exchange risk until the relent funds are
repaid.
Purpose.:                To help finance an increase in the foreign
exchange cost of Project.
Estimated Cost           Total of US$203.3 million including US$117.4
Increase:              million equivalent in foreign exchange and
US$85.9 million equivalent in local currency.
(Local cost increase is US$69.9 million net
of taxes and duties and capitalized interest.)
1/   Net of average appreciation in terms of dollars of the currencies
in the original financing package.
This document has a restrict d-istribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Project Cost and Comparison With Appraisal Report Estimate
Revised                    Appraisal Report
Estimate (April 79)         Estimate   (October 74)
Local /a Foreign             Local /b   Foreign
Currency    Currency  Total   Currency    Currency  Total
…--------------- - --- --US$ Million ----------- - --------
1.  Land Acquisition       0.2          -       0.2      0.4         -      0.4
2.  Site Preparation       3.7        13.3     17.0       2.1       9.4     11.5
3. Process Equipment
and Materials         0.6       68.7      69.3       -        36.4    36.4
4.  Auxiliary Equipment    0.7        32.5     33.2        -       14.4    14.4
5. Construction Equip-
ment and Tools        1.7        14.7     16.4       -         5.3     5.3
6.  Housing Colony        15.0         0.4     15.4       2.0       0.9     2.9
7. Buildings and
Structures           24.2       21.3      45.5      2.0        5.5     7.5
8. Freight, Insurance
and Duties           24.4        11.2     35.6     30.5        6.1    36.6
9. Construction and
Erection             25.8        46.5     72.3      6.9        1.9     8.8
10. Engineering Services    -         21.0 /e  21.0      0.6       24.0 /e 24.6
11. Management
Assistance            0.9        12.6     13.5      1.0        4.6     5.6
12. Preoperational
Expenses              6.0         4.4     10.4      3.4        1.6     5.0
13. Working Capital       21.0         1.1     22.1      7.2        1.3     8.5
Base Cost Estimate       124.2       247.7    371.9      56.1     111.4    167.5
14. Physical Contin-
gencies               6.0         2.5      8.5      5.4       10.7    16.1
15. Price Contin-
gencies               2.7        4.7       7.4     18.4       20.2    38.6
15. Delay Contin-
gencies /c            5.6         4.8     10.4       -          -       -
Installed Cost            138.5      259.7    398.2      79.9     142.3   222.2
17. Interest During
Construction          54.5        -       54.5     27.2         -     27.2
Total Project
Financing Required      193.0 /d   259.7 /  452.7     107.1 /   142.3/e 249.4
/a   US$1 = Tk 15.0
/b   US$1 = Tk   7.5
/c   Allowance provided to cover estimated expenses which would be entailed
by a six months delay beyond the completion date of September 1980
contractually agreed between AFCC and the Engineering Firm in early
1978. Other contingencies above are based on estimates by the
Engineering Firm using appropriate in-house indices, applied to the
balance of the project.
/d   Appraisal estimate included US$33.4 million of taxes and duties; revised
estimate includes only US$22.1 million of taxes and duties (due to a
reduction in the duty rates).
/e   Including US$0.3 million of TA services up to credit effectiveness
financed through the IDA Technical Assistance Credit No. 409-BD.



Expected Financing                                  Original    Cost
Plan:                   Foreign Exchange            Cost    Increase  Total
(US$ million equivalent) IDA                          33.0      29.0     62.0
ADB                          30.0     25.0 3/  55.0
USAID                        30.0     23.0 4/  53.0
United Kingdom - ODM         18.0     15.0 5/  33.0
Iran                         12.5       -      12.5
Germany - KfW                12.0     10.0 5/  22.0
Switzerland                   6.5      5.0 4/  11.5
EEC Special Action Account     -       3.0      3.0
Currency Appreciation 1/       -       7.4      7.4
Subtotal     142.0 6/   117.4     259.4 6/
Local Currency
Bangladesh Government 2/   46.5      69.9     116.4
Total        188.5      187.3     375.8
Economic Rate
of Return:             10% on total cost (16% on incremental cost).
Estimated
Disbursements:           IDA         FY76   FY77   FY78    FY79   FY80   FY81
Annual       3.4     4.0    8.7   13.7   22.2   10.0
Cumulative   3.4     7.4   16.1   29.8   52.0   62.0
EEC
Annual       -        -     -      3.0     -      -
Cumulative   -        -     -      3.0    3.0    3.0
Appraisal Report:         N/A
1/   Average appreciation in terms of current dollars of the currencies in
the original financing package.
2/   Net of taxes and duties and capitalized interest.
3/   Approved by ADB Executive Directors on April 26, 1979.
4/   Agreements for supplemental financing have been signed.
5/   Staff members preparing proposals for approval by concerned authorities.
6/   Excludes US$0.3 million for preliminary technical assistance
services financed under IDA Technical Assistance Credit 409-BD.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS PROPOSING AN EEC SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT
AND AN INCREASE IN THE AMOUNT OF THE DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR THE ASHUGANJ FERTILIZER PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 527-BD, DATED FEBRUARY 12, 1975)
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation for an increase
from US$33 million to US$62 million equivalent in IDA Credit No. 527-BD to the
People's Republic of Bangladesh and a EEC Special Action Credit in amounts
in various currencies equivalent to about US$3.0 million for the Ashuganj
Fertilizer Project, to help finance a portion of project cost increases
resulting from factors referred to in paragraphs 44 to 47 of this report.
In addition to the proposed increase in the amount of the IDA credit and the
proposed EEC Special Action Credit, financing of the foreign exchange cost
increase is expected to be provided by a credit of US$25.0 million from
the Asian Development Bank (ADB); a credit of US$23.0 from the United States
Agency for International Development (USAID); a grant of L 7.5 million from
Overseas Development Ministry of the United Kingdom (ODM) (currently equiva-
lent to US$15.0 million); a credit of DM 18.3 million from Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau of the Federal Republic of Germany (KfW) (currently equivalent
to US$10.0 million), and a grant from Switzerland of about 8.7 million Swiss
Francs (currently equivalent to US$5.0 million). The agreements providing
additional funds from USAID and Switzerland have been signed. The ADB
supplemental financing was approved by the ADB Executive Directors on April
26, 1979. ODM and KfW are preparing proposals recommending supplementary
financing for consideration by their appropriate authorities. Increases in
local costs will be financed by the Bangladesh Government. There would be
no change in the repayment period of the IDA credit.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Basic Economic Report on Bangladesh, entitled "Bangladesh:
Development in a Rural Economy" (Report No. 455-BD, of September 15, 1974)
was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 1, 1974. An economic
mission visited the country in June 1978 and its report entitled "Bangladesh:
Current Trends and Development Issues" (Report No. 2245-BD) was circulated
on December 15, 1978.
Background
3.        When Bangladesh became independent seven years ago, the newly formed
Government inherited a shattered economy: the country had lost a large number
of its academic and business elite, and much of the physical infrastructure
had been demolished. Agricultural and industrial production and trade had
come to a standstill. Attempts to revive the economy were complicated by the



- 2 -
necessities to fashion a national government out of a provincial administra-
tion, to establish development institutions serving agriculture, industry,
trade, and banking, and to reorient agriculture and industry after the loss
of the West Pakistan market.
4.         The first years of independence were difficult.    Bad harvests in
1972-73 were followed by damaging floods in 1974. International terms of
trade worsened considerably as prices of foodgrains, petroleum, fertilizer
and cement rose sharply. Jute, the predominant export, stagnated. Infla-
tion, declining real wages, labor unrest and political instability added to
the troubles.
5.        Economic improvements in recent years, together with conditions of
greater political stability, have removed the crisis atmosphere affecting
economic policy making in the early years of independence when relief and
rehabilitation and then the achievement of economic stabilization were un-
avoidably the paramount concern of Bangladesh's policy makers. The present
time might therefore be characterized as a period of consolidation of the
country's economic recovery from the shocks of the early 1970s. It is also
a period which offers planners and policy makers an opportunity to focus anew
on the longer-term needs of development. In recognition of its need for a
fundamental reorientation of policies, the Government wisely chose to delay
a new Five Year Plan by two years. The current Two-Year Plan (FY79 and 80)
calls for Bangladesh to clear the deck for future action (partly through
a screening of the 1400 projects on the present project list to weed out
uneconomic projects) and to study and consider the development strategy and
policies to be incorporated in the next Five Year Plan beginning in July 1980.
Recent Developments and Near-Term Prospects
6.        On the political front, the most notable recent development has
been the parliamentary elections held in February 1979. For the past several
years Bangladesh has been governed under martial law and without a parliament.
In the recent elections, some 29 political parties and groups contested the
300 seats in the National Assembly. Roughly two-thirds of the seats were won
by the Nationalist Party headed by President Ziaur Rahman, who had been
previously confirmed as President in elections held in June 1978. The new
assembly will have substantial powers, including control over the country's
finances. Martial law has been lifted following the convening of the new
Parliament in March 1979. It remains to be seen, of course, what specific
impact these political developments will have upon Bangladesh's economic
policies and prospects. One area, for example, in which the government is
anticipating a salutary effect is in the investment climate; it is hoped that
both domestic and foreign investors will now be more inclined to assume a more
active role than in the past. It is also anticipated that the Government will
soon be able to take major decisions on important policy issues and to imple-
ment programs that were held up pending the outcome of the recent elections.
7.        FY78 was a relatively good one for the economy.    Mostly as the
result of a large grain crop, which recovered from the substantial decline



- 3 -
in the previous year, and a 10% increase in industrial output, GDP grew by
7.8% in real terms after only a 1.7% rise in FY77. For the third year in a
row, Bangladesh was spared major droughts, floods or cyclones. Foodgrain
output reached a record level of 13.1 million tons. The favorable results
in agriculture are explained not only by good weather but also by construc-
tive Government actions resulting in sharply increased supplies of fertilizer,
other agricultural inputs and credit, and a larger and more efficient food-
grain procurement effort at prices attractive to farmers. Results for wheat
have been particularly encouraging. Jute output also increased substantially
in FY78, partly due to the Intensive Jute Cultivation Scheme (IJCS) which in
only a few years' time has risen to cover 500,000 acres and is expected to
cover one million acres in the current year. However, raw jute prices remained
high due to increased demand and the depletion of inventories in prior years.
These high raw jute prices and an increase in jute workers' salaries resulted
in the jute mills once more suffering large financial losses.
8.        The strong upturn in industrial output occurred because of a revival
in consumer demand, an increase in investment, and improved availability of
imported raw materials. Capacity utilization in industry was stimulated by
increased demand for jute goods and cotton textiles, and by an intensification
of construction activity.
9.        It is still too early for an accurate assessment of the economy's
overall performance in FY79. Present indications are that agricultural pro-
duction has been below last year's level, mainly due to adverse weather. A
low level of foodgrain procurement combined with food import arrivals below
projected levels and high offtake rates have led to the possibility that food
stocks could fall to critically low levels in the coming months. Remedial
actions are now underway to accelerate foodgrain import deliveries. Invest-
ments in the public and private sector -- particularly in manufacturing --
have shown some growth momentum, and the construction sector appears to be
booming. Whether the overall GDP growth rate for the year will still be
ahead of population growth is uncertain.
10.       Recent fiscal and monetary developments present a mixed picture.
Last year's acceleration in economic growth and imports engendered rapid
growth in government revenues, which rose by about 25% in FY78. Current
expenditure rose at about the same rate, reflecting partly a substantial
upward adjustment in the very low salaries of government personnel. The net
result was only a small increase in the current surplus. At the same time,
development expenditures also rose rapidly. In spite of increased aid dis-
bursements, def.icit financing amounted to Tk 1.1 billion, about 9% of cur-
rent revenue. Inflation again became a problem, and this is a worrisome
aspect of current developments in Bangladesh. Overall liquidity continued
to rise during FY78 and began to have its effect on the price level. The
cost of living increased by some 15% in FY78.
11.       Seeking to keep inflation under control, the Government drew up a
balanced budget for FY79. But in spite of continued growth in current revenue
and large aid disbursements, there may still be a substantial overall deficit.
Reasons for this include the still heavy weight of food and other subsidies,
and the negative effect of wage increases on the revenue transfers by the



- 4 -
public corporations. Expansionary factors include the rapid expansion of
agricultural credit, and the increased financial needs of the private
industrial sector.
12.       The most significant development in the FY78 balance of payments
was a 56% increase in import payments over the low import level of FY77.
Almost one fifth of this increase consisted of an increase in grain imports
needed to bring food stocks closer to a safe level; the remainder provided
much of the wherewithal for accelerated GDP growth: fertilizer, cement, spare
parts, industrial raw materials and capital goods. There was also a sizeable
increase in consumer goods imports.
13.       Although export earnings rose by 8% in FY78, the trade deficit more
than doubled--from $405 million in FY77 to $852 million FY78. (It should be
noted, however, that this was less than the FY75 and FY76 deficits which
averaged $950 million.) The increased export earnings in FY78 represented
a continuation of a trend that began with the 1975 devaluation. The main
determinant of last year's improvement was a 16% increase in export prices,
especially of traditional exports such as jute and tea. Although raw jute
exports declined due to supply shortages, jute goods exports were buoyant,
mainly due to fiber shortages in international markets, some substitution of
jute for synthetics, and government incentive policies, including special
export bonus subsidies. Jute and jute product exports still account for about
70% of total Bangladeshi exports. The growth of minor and non-traditional
exports in FY78 was modest as compared with the previous year.
14.       An increasingly significant development in recent years has been
the upward trend in workers' remittances, mostly from migrants to the Middle
East. These remittances amounted to an estimated $83 million in FY78 and
are projected to reach $107 million this year. An offsetting effect, however,
has been the loss of trained Bangladeshis. This had led to higher costs for
skills already in short supply and to delays in implementing certain devel-
opment projects. (An analysis of this labor migration and its costs and
benefits is currently underway; this study is being financed under the Bank's
external research program.)
15.       The balance of payments for the current year, FY79, is likely to
be marked by a slower growth in imports. The trade deficit is nevertheless
likely to be larger than last year's, partly because of an expected 5%
deterioration in the terms of trade after an improvement of 22% in FY78.
With development expenditures projected to continue to rise, both the Bank
and the Government anticipate an FY79 current account deficit slightly over
$1 billion. In view of the settlement of certain short-term liabilities and
amortization payments on medium- and long-term debt, the total gap to be
covered by foreign aid disbursements is estimated at almost $1,100 million.
Structural Conditions and Development Issues
16.       The salient conditions of Bangladesh are still mass poverty; a
unique environment prone to natural disasters; and dependence on aid, not only
for investment financing but also for food and other recurrent inputs. Life
expectancy is short, child mortality is high, and human fertility remains



largely unchecked. The majority of the adult population is illiterate, ill-
fed, ill-housed and underemployed. Although the economy has largely recovered
from the shocks suffered in the early 1970s, it has yet to reach the FY70
levels in a number of areas. In FY78 per capita income ($91), domestic
savings (1% of GDP), per capita rice production (notwithstanding last year's
record crop) and average nutrition levels still remained below their pre-
independence levels. The investment ratio (12.2% of GDP in FY78) was restored
to about the FY69 rate, after some years of depression to considerably lower
levels. The country remains critically dependent upon foreign aid, which
covers some 75-80% of public investment.
17.       Bangladesh has not been self-sufficient in food for over two decades.
In spite of foodgrain imports averaging 1.8 million tons annually in recent
years (1.6 million tons in FY78), nutritional levels are believed to be inade-
quate for half the population. Farm holdings are small and fragmented. The
density of population on the land is already extremely high and landlessness
is on the increase; almost half the rural population (comprising nearly 90%
of Bangladesh's 87 million people) is landless or virtually landless. Popu-
lation growth is continuing at a rapid pace--about 2.7% annually. The country's
resources are essentially its land, water, and people. Other natural resources,
excepting some natural gas deposits, are meager. The infrastructure remains
inadequate, and the lack of managerial and administrative skills has hindered
the country's ability both to plan and to implement its policies and projects
effectively.
18.       Another constraint on development is the segmented social order
characterizing rural Bangladesh. Agricultural change, which is critical to
overall development, is impeded by a rural power structure and social system
that often works to obstruct collective agricultural interests at the village
level. This system tends to allow development initiatives to be captured
by the better-off, as the national government has only limited control over
local behavior. Consequently, government and donor attempts to impose out-
side organization and direction in the interest of the poorest rural classes
have often been frustrated.
19.       Confronted by these formidable structural conditions and constraints,
the Government is currently using the period of its Two Year Plan (TYP), as
noted above, to rationalize certain policies and to clarify its medium- and
longer-term development strategies. The TYP itself recognizes population
control and rural development as top priorities. A nationwide framework for
family planning services has been established, and experiments have been made
with various types of rural development models. Steps have been taken to pro-
vide incentive prices for foodgrains through appropriate procurement policies,
to reduce the levels of producer and consumer subsidies and to improve the
working of public sector corporations, most notably in the jute manufacturing
sector. Greater scope is being given to the private industrial sector. The
Government has established a Project Implementation Bureau as a means to help
speed up the slow pace of project implementation. The beneficial results of
these reforms are not always readily apparent, and in a number of cases will
take considerable time to show. The TYP itself is, of course, unlikely to
change the course of development, since its period is too short and most of
the development budget during these two years (83%) is preempted by ongoing



- 6 -
projects. Moreover, the TYP's targets in the fundamental areas of employment
creation and population control are unrealistic. A further weakness is that
the TYP does not clearly indicate which economic projects are to be weeded
out, nor what criteria are to be used to make decisions about abandoning such
projects during the remainder of the TYP period.
20.       The TYP document lists five important areas where the policy makers
must make critical choices: (i) the respective roles of the public and
private sectors; (ii) the organization of agricultural producers; (iii) the
goals of the national education policy; (iv) the role of subsidies and agri-
cultural prices; and (v) the respective roles of foreign aid and domestic
savings in development financing. While outlining alternative solutions for
these major problem areas, the document does not present a full analysis
of the options. Moreover, it only raises the question of the creation of
non-farm employment for those who can no longer be absorbed by agriculture.
This problem is assuming increasing importance and requires concentrated
Government attention. Other key issues requiring urgent and detailed atten-
tion include pricing policy, improvement in levels of domestic savings,
expansion of export earnings, greater efficiency in project preparation and
implementation, and means to improve public sector management.
21.       Work on both the Perspective Plan (1980-2000) and the Second Five
Year Plan is still in a preliminary stage. Present indications are that the
Government will give emphasis to the following: (i) legal and institutional
changes to bring about a rural orientation and decentralization of planning;
(ii) achievement of food self-sufficiency by 1985; (iii) employment creation
and population control; (iv) drastic reductions in subsidies, and other means
to mobilize domestic resources; and (iv) a major new effort to reduce illiter-
acy. It remains to be seen, of course, what specific new modalities will
be devised for achieving these broad objectives. But these are all central
objectives, and much of IDA's own economic and sectoral work program is
currently addressed to the analysis of rural development (including the
dynamics of demographic growth), food production, trade policy and industrial
development prospects, and domestic resources mobilization. Considerable
attention is also being given, particularly by IDA's resident mission, to
finding ways and means to improve aid coordination and project implementation.
22.       External Capital Requirements.    Even with significant improvement
in its domestic resource mobilization , Bangladesh will continue to need sub-
stantial external assistance to support its development efforts. In the short
run, such support is even becoming more important in view of the fact that
the pace of development expenditures has begun to accelerate. At the January
1979 Aid Group meeting, the Government projected that aid disbursements, which
amounted to $797 million in FY78, should rise to $1.1 billion in FY79, com-
prised of $250 million of food, $520 million of commodities and $325 million
of project aid. It now appears, however, that disbursements of both food and
commodity aid will be well below the projected levels. Current estimates are
that disbursements of commodity aid in FY79 will reach only $480 million and
food aid perhaps $190 million; these together with project aid disbursements
forecast at $325 million would bring total disbursements for the year to about



- 7 -
$1 billion. To yield disbursements at the recommended level of $1.2 billion
in FY80 and to build up the pipeline, required commitments for FY80 are
estimated at approximately $1.6 billion. On the basis of donor pledges and
indications given at the January 1979 Aid Group meetings, and taking into
account actual and prospective commitments by other donors, it appears that
this target may be realized. For some time to come Bangladesh's capital
requirements must be met to a large extent by external assistance, if economic
growth and execution of current development plans are not to be slowed.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
23.       Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in August 1972.    Ini-
tially, Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactivation
of uncompleted projects, financed under credits made originally to Pakistan,
before 1971. Eleven such credits, amounting to US$148.2 million (including
US$44.1 million for the repayment of amounts that had been disbursed under
the corresponding previous credits to Pakistan, and net of cancellations)
were made to Bangladesh. In addition, as of April 30, 1979, 30 new credits,
excluding the consolidation credit of US$31 million referred to in paragraph
24, have been made, totalling US$843.7 million. Of these, US$500 million
have been for seven program credits. The project credits have emphasized
agricultural development, but also included amounts for population, telecom-
munications, transport and industry. On June 18, 1976 Bangladesh became the
105th member of the IFC, and IFC's first loan (Highspeed Shipbuilding and
Engineering Co. Ltd.) was made on May 10, 1979.
24.       Following its independence Bangladesh reached agreement with most
of the bilateral and multilateral donors concerning the assumption by
Bangladesh of portions of the debt contracted by Pakistan. Following its
independence, with respect to the Bank Group, Bangladesh agreed to accept
liability for portions of IDA credits and IBRD loans extended for projects
visibly located in Bangladesh and completed before independence. This will
lead to some increase in debt service and, while the debt service ratio is
not expected to exceed 20% before the late 1980's, it could do so thereafter,
unless careful debt management policies are pursued and aid is provided on
appropriately concessional terms. Based on this agreement, a consolidation
loan of about US$54.9 million, and a consolidated credit of about US$31.0
million were signed on February 14, 1975. The Bank Group's share of
Bangladesh's outstanding external debt is not expected to rise above the
present level of about 27% over the next five years.
25.       Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and the Bank
loan made to Bangladesh as of March 31, 1979, and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects. While disbursement of the program credits has proceeded
satisfactorily, project credit disbursements have lagged somewhat, owing
inter alia to delays in the release of local funds, approval of contracts,
employment of consultants, and appointment of staff. The Government has
taken some steps to eliminate bottlenecks and the results are now being
reflected in improvements in project implementation and disbursement per-
formance. However, serious implementation constraints remain because of



- 8 -
shortage of qualified staff, over-centralized bureaucratic procedures and
organizational deficiencies. Progress is being made on these issues. For
example, at the Government's request, IDA is providing assistance to improve
organization and procedures, especially in the ministries and agencies dealing
with agriculture and water resources.    Furthermore, the Government has taken
actions including improved procedures for recruitment of civil servants and
increased emphasis on training - which are important not only as steps towards
gradually improving the quality of public administration, but also as evidence
of its awareness of the problem and concern to do something about it. On the
organizational side, it is the Government's intention to establish-planning
cells in the main ministries and agencies and in strengthening the Planning
Ministry. In this connection, IDA is providing assistance both under specific
projects and under three Technical Assistance Credits (Credit 490-BD, 622-BD
and 872-BD).
26.       Of the 23 new project credits totalling US$343.7 million, 14 credits
totalling US$241.5 million have been directed towards agriculture and rural
development (excluding subprojects of the Technical Assistance credits allo-
cated to this sector). Their basic objective is to support the delivery of
inputs, including assured water, through quick yielding projects with low
capital intensity. While the pace of implementation has been disappointing
so far, the fundamental need to improve agricultural productivity means that
projects geared to the rural sector should remain the cornerstone of future
IDA lending. However, in the short term, the rate of planned lending fe- agri-
culture will be a function of progress in improving the currently limited
absorptive capacity of the project executing agencies. At the same time,
greater efforts in institution building are being made through closer super-
vision and technical assistance where necessary. Some progress has already
been made in correcting problems in ongoing projects. Over the next year,
proposed credits for rural works, low-lift pumps, fertilizer imports and a
fertilizer sector credit are expected to be ready for consideration.
27.        Industry has been the main beneficiary of the seven program credits
approved to date. For the reasons given in paragraph 34-39 of my Report and
Recommendation on the Seventh Imports Program Credit (P-2373-BD, dated
November 29, 1978), program lending to Bangladesh will continue to be required
while efforts are made to correct basic structural weaknesses in the economy.
Nevertheless, the share of program lending in total lending on a year-to-year
basis is planned to decline gradually during the next few years. The indus-
trial sector has also benefitted from DFC and small industry projects and the
fertilizer production project described in this report.
28.       The enormity of Bangladesh's population problem makes this an ex-
tremely high priority sector, limited only by its absorptive capacity. The
first population project (Credit 533-BD) is now making encouraging progress,
and we expect to be ready to present a proposal for a second population
project for consideration within the next few months. Improved education
and availability of trained manpower is also crucial. Past lending in this
field has emphasized agricultural and technical training and future operations,
while maintaining a similar basic emphasis, are expected to include assistance
for vocational and management education as well.



- 9 -
29.       Given Bangladesh's immense needs, specific efforts to identify and
prepare projects in agriculture, transport, industry, energy and power, and
telecommunicatiions are now underway. In this connection, particular emphasis
will be placed upon those possible projects which provide infrastructure for
the rural sector, which process or provide outlets for its rroducts, or which
reduce the strain on Bangladesh's foreign exchange resources. Projects to
develop Bangladesh gas resources to save foreign exchange expenditure on im-
ported fuel and fertilizer are part of this strategy. In view of Bangladesh's
difficult foreign exchange position, IDA credits should cover all foreign
exchange costs. However, all external lenders are inhibited from achieving
the levels of resource transfers appropriate to Bangladesh's economic cir-
cumstances by difficulties in the preparation and implementation of develop-
ment projects. The Government's capacity to carry out projects is constrained,
inter-alia, by a low domestic savings rate. In these circumstances, and in
order to direct IDA lending to those sectors - such as agricultural and rural
development - where the percentage of foreign exchange costs is relatively
low, the financing of local currency expenditures is also justified.
30.        In addition to lending, economic and sector work provides the basis
for continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government on develop-
ment strategy, and for the coordination of external assistance within the
framework of the Bangladesh Aid Group. Recent activities in this area has
concentrated on food policy, industrial investment strategy, and increased
domestic resource mobilization.
31.       The scope and complexity of Bangladesh's development problems will
continue to strain the physical, human, and financial resources of an already
overburdened development administration. Since substantial improvements will
take many years, external assistance agencies, including the Bank Group, will
have to tailor their requirements in terms of project design, preparation and
implementation to the administrative realities. They will also have to con-
template higher amounts of technical assistance and supervision than is the
case in many other countries. Nevertheless, there are opportunities for
making significant progress in improving economic conditions for the people
of Bangladesh. Although progress is bound to be slow and will require pains-
taking efforts, these efforts are nonetheless worth making.
PART III - THE FERTILIZER SUB-SECTOR
The Economic Setting
32.       Agriculture dominates the Bangladesh economy accounting for 55% of
GDP, over 75% of labor force and 80% of the country's exports (mainly jute
and jute manufactures). Bangladesh has a gross area of 35 million acres of
which about 22.5 million acres are under cultivation, at a cropping intensity
averaging 135% in recent years. Foodgrains, mainly rice, comprise the major
agricultural crops contributing about 35% of GDP and constitute the principal
source of income of subsistence farmers. Rice and, to a lesser extent, wheat
provide almost 85% of the calorie and 70% of the protein intake of the popula-
tion. The size of the rice crop determines the need for foodgrain imports.



- 10 -
During the 1960s foodgrain production grew at an annual rate of 2.4% lagging
behind the population growth rate of about 3%. As a result, foodgrain imports
increased from less than 0.6 million tons in FY61 to over 1.5 million tons
in FY70. Production during the early 1970s remained below FY70 levels nec-
essitating higher levels of imports. In FY78, due inter alia to favorable
weather conditions, higher food prices in FY77, and a 40% increase in fer-
tilizer sales over FY77, foodgrain production reached a record 13.1 million
tons which exceeded FY70 levels by some 13%. Nevertheless, even then con-
sumption exceeded production by 1.5 million tons, which had to be met from
imports. Present indications are that foodgrain output in FY79 will be about
700,000 tons below FY78 levels, mainly due to adverse weather. This combined
with decreases in foodgrain imports may cause a serious food shortage over
the next few months. Faced with scarcity of arable land and rapid population
growth, Bangladesh's agricultural strategy rests on more intensive cultivation.
The wider use of high yielding seed varieties, combined with higher cropping
intensities, expanded area under irrigation, strengthened extension, credit
and other support services, and increased fertilizer application are therefore
central for the country if it is to reduce its reliance on food imports and
expand the output of cash crops. Shortfalls in fertilizer supply, whether
imported or domestically produced, would have serious consequences on food
supplies and the economy as a whole.
Consumption and Production of Fertilizer 1/
33.       Fertilizers were first introduced in what is now Bangladesh in FY58
and its use began to spread particularly after the establishment in 1962 of
the East Pakistan Agricultural Development Corporation, which later became the
Bangladesh Agriculture Development Corporation (BADC). By FY66 consumption
had reached 43,000 tons of nutrient, and since then its use has increased at
an average annual rate of about 17%. The increase has been steady except for
FY72 following the war for independence, and in FY75 following an explosion
at the Ghorasal Urea factory which led to a shortage. Between FY77 and FY78,
there was a 40% increase in offtake to 325,000 tons of nutrient. In FY79 a
further 12% increase is estimated which would raise offtake to 363,000 tons.
The reasons for the particular success in FY78 were: (a) the announcement of
an adequate procurement price for paddy before planting; and (b) increased
Government efforts to promote fertilizer application, specifically by dis-
tributing minikits 2/, liberalizing credit and simplifying sales procedures.
These efforts complemented Bangladesh's longer term programs for strengthening
agricultural research, increasing irrigation, and improving drainage. Indeed,
more fertilizer would have been used if supplies had not been insufficient due
to low domestic production, difficulties in arranging imports, and marketing
deficiencies in Bangladesh.
1/   In this section tonnages are expressed in nutrient equivalents of urea,
triple superphosphate (TSP) and muriate of potash.
2/   Packages containing recommended amounts of various fertilizers for
small units of acreage.



- 11 -
34.       To meet part of the country's fertilizer requirements, several
plants have been built in Bangladesh. In 1961, the first nitrogenous fer-
tilizer plant was completed at Fenchuganj with design capacity of 106,000
tons per year (tpy) of urea and 12,000 tpy of ammonium sulfate, equivalent
to 51,000 tpy of nitrogen. A second plant at Ghorasal was built in the early
1970s witn a design capacity of about 335,000 tpy of urea equivalent to
154,000 tons of nitrogen. Both plants use non-associated low-sulfur natural
gas as feedstock. To meet growing phosphate fertilizer needs, two triple
superphosphate (TSP) plants were completed in 1968 and 1970 at Chittagong,
based on imported raw materials, with a combined design capacity of
152,000 tpy equivalent to 70,000 tpy of nutrient. After independence, the
Bangladesh Fertilizer, Chemical and Pharmaceutical Corporation (BFCPC) was
established to control, supervise and coordinate these, as well as other
enterprises. The Fenchuganj plant achieved close to 90% capacity utilization
during its first nine years but operated much below rated capacity after 1971.
It was rehabilitated in 1975 and has just completed a four month shut-down for
rehabilitation. Even after the rehabilitation is completed, this aged plant
is only expected to produce at 70% to 80% of its original rated capacity.
The Ghorasal plant initially encountered mechanical problems and by mid 1974
reached only 80% of its rated capacity. Late that year a serious explosion in
the plant's control room put the plant out of commission for most of FY75.
Since June 1975 it has been producing at well below its rated capacity but it
is currently operating at about 70% of its capacity. A Japanese engineering
company overhauled the plant during the summer of 1978. The two TSP plants
at Chittagong, although completed before Bangladesh's independence, began
trial runs only in 1974 and 1975 due to mechanical problems and initial raw
material shortages. For the past ten months they have operated at about 40%
of their rated capacity.
35.       Local production since independence has been erratic and has fallen
short of expected levels. While capacity utilization had been improving, set-
backs occurred during FY78 due in part to losses of skilled manpower to the
Middle East. Over the last three years, overall production averaged 161,000
tons of nutrients, compared to a combined capacity of about 296,000 tons.
For that period, imports amounted to 111,000 tpy, or some 40% of supply. In
FY78, local production reached 180,000 tons, thus leaving 120,000 tons to be
supplied from external sources. Projected local production for FY79 is
expected to fall to about 140,000 tons due to the overhauls of the two urea
plants, while import requirements are estimated to be about 400,000 tons of
nutrients. 1/ Bangladesh farmers' fertilizer requirements would be expected
to fully use the production of Ashuganj and the other domestic plants working
at full capacity. Assuming appropriate grain pricing policies, nitrogen
demand is expected to grow at 15% per annum over the next 10 years reaching
750,000 tons by 1987/88. Local production, including output from the Ashuganj
plant, is unlikely to exceed 350,000 tons of nitrogen per annum over this
period, leaving about 400,000 tons of nutrients to be imported. The required
level of imports will be substantially higher if capacity utilization is
not increased. To assist in meeting the need for improving productivity of
1/   including a provision for increased stocks, to sustain an offtake of
about 425,000 nutrient tons.



- 12 -
existing plants IDA financed under the first Technical Assistance Credit
(409-BD) a Fertilizer Works Improvement Study designed to recommend areas
for improving operations of the domestic fertilizer plants. Discussions of
the draft report took place in October 1978 and continued assistance in
implementing the recommendations of this Study will be financed under the
Second Technical Assistance Credit (622-BD). In addition, UNDP has agreed
to finance a program of technical assistance and training designed to improve
the productivity of Bangladesh's fertilizer factories. IDA has also provided
under its seven Imports Program Credits to Bangladesh'(345, 458, 515, 591,
676, 752 and 866-BD) funds for procurement of raw materials and spare parts to
assist in meeting the requirements of the domestic fertilizer industry as well
as some finished fertilizer under Credit 866-BD. A proposal for financing
additional finished fertilizer under a fertilizer imports credit is currently
under consideration. Proposals for financing debottlenecking investments for
increasing production at existing fertilizer plants are also under considera-
tion as part of a proposed fertilizer sector credit.
Marketing and Distribution
36.       The Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC), an
autonomous body under the Ministry of Agriculture, is responsible for the pro-
curement and distribution of all agricultural inputs, including fertilizers.
BADC purchases fertilizer at an unsubsidized cost and receives a subsidy from
the Government to cover the difference between its costs and the official
price charged to farmers. The average subsidy to a farmer paying the official
price is about 60%. The Bangladesh farmer pays only about 60% of the price
charged in neighboring West Bengal and enjoys a paddy/fertilizer price ratio
(at official prices) of 1.29 = 1, one of the most favorable in the world.
While this level of subsidy may have been helpful initially in encouraging
farmers to begin using fertilizer, it is no longer considered necessary and
is causing a growing burden on the budget as fertilizer usage increases. In
FY79 the fertilizer subsidy is estimated to reach Tk 1.5 billion, representing
between 75% and 80% of development expenditures on agriculture. The Government
indicated at the January 1979 Aid Group Meeting its intention to decrease over
time the level of such subsidies.
37.         From about 400 thana level warehouses, fertilizer is purchased
either by one of the 32,000 private licensed dealers or by one of the 80
Thana Central Cooperative Associations which act as wholesale agents for
their member village cooperatives or private resale agents. The Government's
system for fertilizer distribution, in spite of the transport difficulties in
Bangladesh, has in most years proved sufficiently flexible to handle the
substantial increase in fertilizer use. However, due in part to the delays
in completion of the Ashuganj fertilizer project, severe fertilizer shortages
have occurred periodically which have led to distortions in the fertilizer
marketing system. A substantial black market has developed and lack of ade-
quate assured supplies of fertilizer has become a major constraint slowing
increases in agricultural output. While the major problem at present is
inadequate supply, the distribution system has also been handicapped by
inadequate planning and coordination and by unavailability of sufficient
transport and storage facilities, which have resulted in the farmers not



- 13 -
receiving fertilizers when required. In order to develop a system capable
of effectively distributing greater quantities in the future, the Government
undertook a detailed study of fertilizer marketing and distribution financed
under the first Technical Assistance Credit (409-BD). While some of the con-
clusions of this report have become outdated due to more rapid than expected
increases in fertilizer demand, the study did provide useful information
assisting USAID in designing its ongoing fertilizer marketing and storage
project, which includes inter alia construction of additional storage capacity
for 350,000 tons. Under this project BADC is undertaking a phased program to
develop greater private sector involvement in fertilizer distribution.
38.       A proposed IDA fertilizer imports credit and a proposed fertilizer
sector credit which are now under consideration would support these efforts
to institute a freer marketing system including wholesale distribution by the
private sector and greater competition among retail dealers by making addi-
tional supplies available and by financing improvements in distribution
facilities. In connection with these proposed credits, discussions are
underway concerning reforms in fertilizer and foodgrain pricing policies and
measures to improve long-term planning for the fertilizer sector and coordi-
nation of the short-term supply policy and the work of the various agencies
and ministries involved in supply and distribution. The proposed Fertilizer
Sector Credit may also finance investments required to improve fertilizer
transportation and storage. In addition IDA has agreed in principle to finance
under one of its Technical Assistance credits consultants to assist BADC in
improving its financial management, including stores accounting, with special
attention to the physical and financial accounting for fertilizer. Proposals
of various consulting firms for providing this assistance are currently being
reviewed by BADC.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Description
39.        In February 1975, IDA made a credit (No. 527-BD) of US$33 million
to Bangladesh to help finance the foreign exchange costs of the Ashuganj
Fertilizer Project. This credit constituted part of a co-financing opera-
tion in which the ADB, USAID, ODM, Iran, KfW and Switzerland participated
in financing the estimated foreign exchange costs of US$142.0 million as
follows:



- 14 -
Government/Institution               Foreign Exchange Financing
US$ million equivalent
(as of December 1974)
IDA                                     33.0
ADB                                     30.0
USAID                                   30.0
ODM                                     18.0 /a
Iran                                    12.5
KfW                                     12.0 /b
Switzerland                              6.5 /c
Total                             142.0 /d
/a   E 8 million
lb   DM 30 million
Ic   Sf 20 million
Id   Net of US$0.3 million of preliminary work financed
under IDA Technical Assistance Credit 409-BD.
The local currency cost of US$46.5 million (net of taxes and duties) and
interest during construction of US$27.2 million were to be borne by the
Government. It is now estimated that the foreign exchange cost has increased
to about US$260 million equivalent and that the local cost has increased to
about US$116 million (net of taxes and duties) plus about US$55 million of
interest during construction.
40.        The overall scope of the project remains substantially the same as
that defined by the appraisal mission in March/April 1974, although additional
and unforeseen site preparation and construction activities, as well as certain
additional equipment units (including primarily a second turbo-generator) have
been required. An additional component of US$1.0 million equivalent has been
included for the provision of training aids and training specialists initially
to be used principally for the training of Ashuganj personnel, and thereafter
at a national training center for the fertilizer industry. The Ashuganj plant
will be a self-contained facility consisting of a urea plant of 528,000 tpy
urea capacity, an intermediate ammonia plant of 305,000 tpy capacity and
ancillary facilities. The principal raw material is natural gas, contracted
for supply from the Titas gas field through an existing high pressure gas
transmission line which passes within 2 km of the project site. Section 3.03
of the Development Credit Agreement provide assurances of gas availability to
meet the needs of the project. In addition, to meet the growing demand of
other users, the Government is currently appraising the drilling of a fifth
gas well at the Titas field. ODM has agreed to finance the drilling of this
well. The expected schedule is considered to be satisfactory. Power supplies
for the critical loads, including backup supplies, would be provided by two
captive steam-driven turbo-generators. Power for non-critical loads would
be supplied from the nearby Ashuganj Power plant. A full description of
the project is contained in my report and recommendation for the Ashuganj
Fertilizer Project (P-1554-BD; IDA/R75-4, dated January 16, 1975).



- 15 -
41.        The organizational arrangements for project execution which were
agreed with the Government during credit negotiations in September/October,
1974 included the following:
(a) The Ashuganj Fertilizer and Chemical Company (AFCC), a new
company established as owner and executing authority for
the project;
(b) Technical Advisers (TA), who had been selected in February
1973 as consultants to assist the Government and AFCC in the
preparation of the feasibility studies, including site selection,
in preparing specifications and invitation documents for the
engineering contract, in evaluating proposals from engineering
firms, and in making recommendations for contract award. The
TA also drew up terms of reference for management assistance,
assisted the Government in selecting a management assistance
firm (MAF) and were to assist both AFCC and the MAF in monitor-
ing the activities of the Engineering Firm through final
acceptance of the completed plant;
(c) an Engineering Firm, who would be responsible for design,
engineering and procurement services, and for constructing,
erecting and commissioning the plant; and
(d) the MAF, whose members were to assume line management positions
within AFCC to establish company financial and administrative
procedures and methods, and assist in monitoring plant con-
struction, in training and overseeing testing and commission-
ing and initial plant operations.
These arrangements, to the extent they proved inadequate, have been modified
as described in paragraphs 49 and 52 below.
Current Status - Cost Increase and Delays
42.        Process engineering is complete.   Contracts have been Let for all
the major process equipment, for the schedule-critical civil construction
works, and for supplies of construction equipment. Site compaction and pre-
paration is complete. Work has begun on foundations for most structures.
At this time, a workforce of 4,000 men is working for the Engineering Firm
and its subcontractors on the site. Bid invitations have been issued or are
being prepared for the remaining civil works and erection contracts. The
residential colony is virtually complete, as is housing for construction con-
tractors and supervisors. Camps have been established for construction labor.
After initial problems, training programs are underway for: (a) construction
labor required during the erection of plant facilities; and (b) technicians
to operate the plant after commissioning. The construction portion of the
project, using greater input of foreign contracting than initially envisaged,
is now scheduled to be completed by September 1980. Allowing six month
contingencies for possible future delays, this part of the project would be
completed by March 1981, 32 months later than the completion date projected
at the time of appraisal.



- 16 -
43.       The total financing required for the project cost is now esti-
mated at about US$453 million equivalent, up about US$203 million from the
original estimate, as shown in the Credit and Project Summary. The increase
in the estimated foreign exchange cost is US$117.4 million. However, taking
account of appreciation in terms of dollars of some of the currencies in
the original financing package, the additional foreign exchange required is
reduced to US$110 million equivalent.
Causes of Delays in Project Execution and Cost Increase
44.        Of the total estimated delay of 32 months, 7 are the result of
protracted negotiations with the Engineering Firm and the MAF which delayed
the actual start of project execution. The remaining 25 months are delays
in project execution beyond the 36 months construction period estimated at
appraisal, mostly triggered by a number of technical and non-recurring prob-
lems, primarily with respect to site preparation and civil construction
activities. Furthermore, the project schedule has suffered from continuous
difficulties within the overall management and decision-making arrangements
the project (see paragraphs 47 and 48) which have magnified the effect of
the technical problems by postponing their solution until after protracted
discussions.
45.        Among the technical problems that confronted AFCC, those relating
to the site have been the major cause of delays and increased project costs.
This is also a case where slow decision-making exacerbated the situation.
Following a period of slow personnel mobilization within the Engineering Firm
and the MAF, earth-filling activities were performed on the site. In August
1976, soil consultants engaged by the Engineering Firm to advise on the nature
of the proposed foundation designs reported that, based on their evaluation of
historical data on earthquake activity in the region and of the earth-filling
works which had been performed, the site was subject to significant soil risks.
They reported that in the event of intense earthquake activity the site soils
would tend to liquefy and that, unless remedial measures in the form of soils
compaction and construction of compensatory foundations were taken, in
addition to the measures envisaged at the time of appraisal, the plant could
be subject to severe damage. The lenders were satisfied about the need to
undertake remedial measures. However, the Government, guided by its own com-
mittee of earthquake experts, did not agree with these conclusions. In view
of the potential risk involved, and the adverse impact on the project schedule
and costs of any remedial work, the lenders decided to retain an additional
firm experienced in earthquake engineering to comment on the findings of the
soil consultants and advise the lenders on the precise measures required to
mitigate the risks. In February 1977, these consultants recommended that
certain minimum remedial measures were essential to reduce the risks to accept-
able levels. The Government, however, fearing that later building practices
within Bangladesh and industrial investment costs would be affected by any
decision taken on the soils problems at the Ashuganj site and noting also that
the project schedule and cost would be adversely affected, were reluctant to
agree to undertake the remedial measures to protect the plant against damage
resulting from earthquake activity. It took, in total, nine months to reach



- 17 -
agreement with the Government on suitable measures 1/ to protect the plant
against differential settlement and soil liquefaction. The remedial compac-
tion to the site itself took another nine months to complete. In addition,
compensatory foundations recommended and now being built for certain critical
structures will take longer to construct than the foundations originally
designed by the Engineering Firm. The result has not only been cost increases
due to additional site preparation in the form of soil compaction and the need
to design and construct foundations to standards not envisaged at appraisal,
but also large cost increases due to the loss of two construction seasons
and a prolonged construction schedule involving substantial price escalation.
Currency fluctuations against the US dollar at a time when only a relatively
small part of the budget had been expended, have been another significant
factor contributing to the overall cost increase. Finally, a number of other
cost increases have occurred, primarily in the area of construction and erec-
tion (see paragraph 46 below). The increase in local costs was reduced by
devaluations of the Taka but was still substantial due to increases in local
construction costs. Although the various contributing factors are closely
interrelated, a tentative breakdown of the overall cost increase indicates
that about half is due to non-monetary causes such as soil compaction costs,
unforeseen construction costs, and storage charges for equipment; about 30%
is due to general inflation; and about 20% is due to the upward valuation of
a number of currencies against the US dollar.
46.        Besides the site problems, AFCC has been faced with other technical
problems which, although not a significant cause of additional delays, have
caused major cost increases. The main such problems occured and continue
to occur in the area of construction and erection where increased use of
expatriate assistance has become necessary due to the drain of skilled
Bangladeshi labor to the Middle East and the technical complexity of certain
activities, primarily with respect to compensatory foundations. 2/
47.       While the technical problems confronting AFCC have thus been formid-
able, their impact on the time and cost budget of the project have been mag-
nified by continuous difficulties within the management and decision-making
arrangements of the project. Differences of advice between TA and MAF, as
well as the Engineering Firm and staffing problems within MAF reduced AFCC's
willingness to rely on the advice of any of the firms. In addition, AFCC
management also had difficulty in reaching decisions on the technical issues
themselves and decisions that would have been routine in normal circumstances
were subject to many levels of review within AFCC and the Government. In
these circumstances the time taken to reach decisions on technical issues was
longer than appropriate given the high cost of delays. While in most cases
1/   Dynamic compaction of 10 acres of the plant site to 20 meters and of
27 acres to 10 meters and the construction of compensatory foundations
under plant facilities carrying heavy loads.
2/   This, along with other causes of potential future delays such as dif-
ficulties in expeditious handling of letters of credit and deliveries
of orders, requires the addition of a six months delay contingency
included in the capital cost estimate.



- 18 -
these delays (other than the delay in reaching agreement on the site problems
as described in paragraph 45) did not cause further delays beyond those which
occurred in any case due to the site problem, they did demonstrate a clear
need to improve the management and decision-making arrangements under the
project in order to avoid future delays.
48.        The lack of confidence by AFCC in its consultants and the problems
caused by slow decision making on project issues led to proposals for changes
in the organizational and decision-making arrangements of the project. In
November 1976, as the soils issue (paragraph 45 above) was emerging, AFCC
first consulted with the lenders on the possibility of altering the contractual
relations with its service firms. The lenders said that AFCC should prepare
specific proposals for changes which would be discussed on their merits. The
preoccupation of AFCC, the Government and the lenders with finding solutions
to the soils problem delayed submission of revised proposals from AFCC. In
January 1978 AFCC submitted to the lenders detailed proposals for changing
the structure of expatriate assistance. These proposals involved significant
staff changes which would have occurred just as the project was entering the
critical construction phase after completion of soil compaction. Therefore,
the lenders proposed the interim measures described in paragraph 49 below.
Recent Steps to Improve Project Management and Staffing
49.        In February 1978, at the suggestion of the lenders, the Government
strengthened the Board of Directors of AFCC to assist in ensuring that
decisions and requisite approvals are given promptly. The Secretary to the
Ministry of Industries became Chairman of the Board. Moreover, the Secre-
taries of key Ministries concerned with project matters 1/ were made Board
members, together with the Member of the Planning Commission in charge of
Industry. More expeditious decision-making procedures were adopted, both at
the company and Government level. To assist AFCC in developing systems
for monitoring the activities of the Engineering Firm during the critical
construction phase and to assist the Government and the lenders in firming
up and reviewing revised cost estimates and supplemental financing require-
ments of the project, a firm experienced in the management of large con-
struction projects was retained by USAID on behalf of the lenders.
50.       The Government and AFCC expressed satisfaction with the performance
of this team of experts, and AFCC decided to hire the firm to assist in staff-
ing a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) for the entire construction phase.
The firm is providing a team of specialists in construction management and
supervision, logistics, management, cost control and scheduling, finance and
accounts. The PIU team is headed by a Program Manager, who has been given
specified executive authority within AFCC, reporting directly to the Managing
Director. This agreement between AFCC and the Project Implementation Assist-
ance Firm (PIAF) has been operational from September 1978. The PIAF team
appears to have the confidence of the AFCC management and has been effective
in monitoring the progress and scheduling of the project. The relationship
1/   viz, the Ministry of Planning and the Ministry of Finance.



- 19 -
between the PIAF and the Engineering Firm's construction team has been good
and there has been considerable progress with construction activity at the
site (paragraph 42). Decision-making within limits delegated to the PIU
has been fast and has reflected the project requirements. A minimum of 250
man-months of assistance is provided under the agreement. Average cost per
man-month, excluding the fixed fee, is about $8,200. Based on discussions
between AFCC, PIAF and the Engineering Firm, the field project management
staff has been strengthened. An experienced construction manager has been
placed in charge of all site activities. Construction planning and scheduling
capabilities have been strengthened and adequate systems and procedures have
been established to plan the work, monitor its progress and review it period-
ically with the PIU. Current arrangements for project implementation are thus
considered satisfactory. While there is some possibility of a recurrence of
difficulties between AFCC and the assistance firms and of further technical
problems during construction and erection (paragraphs 47, 53 and 60), project
execution is proceeding smoothly.
51.       By late 1978 working arrangements between AFCC and the MAF had
broken down and AFCC decided to terminate the contract with the MAF. The
TA contract expired at the end of 1978. The PIAF contract provides for a
portion of the technical assistance which had been the responsibility of TA
and MAF. Most of the remaining responsibilities covering the operations phase
have been assumed under a new contract which has been signed with an Operations
Assistance Firm (OAF). The latter will be responsible for overseeing the
operations of the plant for two to three years after commissioning and for
readying AFCC for plant operation, including training of staff and developing
works planning systems. The contract provides for about 800 man-months of
assistance from 23 OAF staff members during commissioning and initial opera-
tions, with provision for additional staff personnel if the need should arise.
Average cost per man-month excluding the fixed fee, is about $10,800. The
timing of their replacement with Bangladeshi personnel will depend on initial
plant performance and the speed with which Bangladeshi personnel gain capa-
bilities to take over responsibilities. AFCC also intends to hire consultants
to assist in designing and implementing management information and accounting
systems.
52.       In addition to the substantial management assistance to be provided
through the OAF to assist in operating the plant once it is completed, arrange-
ments are also required to ensure that adequate numbers of skilled and semi-
skilled foremen, workers and operators are available. This problem is sub-
stantially increased by the drain of trained workers to the Middle East, which
has already hampered operations in the country's existing fertilizer plants
(paragraph 35) and which is likely to have worsened by the time that the
project is expected to come on stream in 1981, when similar projects in the
Middle East are also expected to be requiring substantial manpower. AFCC
currently has 42 maintenance personnel undergoing training and has entered
into an agreement with Pusri (Indonesia) to train 100 AFCC operators and
technicians. Additional in-country and overseas training programs will be
organized by OAF. However, such training programs by themselves may not be
adequate unless AFCC can retain their trained workers by providing them with
an improved package of compensation and amenities to minimize the incentive



- 20 -
to migrate to the Middle East. The Government and AFCC have agreed to take
all requisite measures to ensure that the plant is adequately staffed with
trained and experienced managerial and technical staff and skilled and semi-
skilled foremen, operators, and maintenance personnel so as to enable it to
operate at reasonable levels of capacity. In order to maximize the percentage
of such positions filled by qualified Bangladeshis, the Government will adopt
programs for training, employment and retention of such personnel (see Section
4.03 of draft Amending Agreement). Wages for public sector employees have
been increased by 30 to 40% in 1978 and are exempt from income taxes. Advance
increments and higher salaries within the prescribed national pay scales are
allowed for AFCC staff in specific required instances. The AFCC compensation
package includes a month's pay as festival bonus and up to two months pay as
production incentive bonus. The Government has also confirmed that additional
incentives suggested by the Association are either already being provided or
will be made available to the AFCC personnel. These include (a) housing
allocation policy which will ensure AFCC housing to shift and other essential
technical personnel and a housing allowance for other personnel not provided
with housing; (b) work uniform; (c) canteen facilities; (d) schooling; (e)
organized cooperative stores; and (f) organized public transportation to the
works. The Government and AFCC will review periodically the adequacy of
AFCC's compensation package to recruit and retain the required operating and
maintenance personnel. Provision has been made in the proposed supplementary
financing for training aids and training specialists initially to be used
principally for the training of Ashuganj personnel and thereafter to be
located at a national training center for the fertilizer industry to be set
up on a basis acceptable to the Association.
53.       With the above improvements and assurances, the arrangements for
project management during construction and initial operations of the project
facilities are considered satisfactory. However, the possibility that the
past problems could recur or that the OAF will have difficulty in deputing
staff to Bangladesh cannot be ruled out. More intensive than normal lender
supervision will therefore still be maintained during and after construction
and commissioning. It will be necessary to follow particularly closely the
implementation of the measures intended to solve the operating labor problem
to ensure that they are taken in a timely and effective manner.
Revised Financing Arrangements
54.       About US$150 million equivalent was committed from the various
lenders' funds as of March 31, 1979 (including from supplementary funds
already committed by some of the lenders). Without additional commitment
authority the project is expected to run out of foreign exchange funds within
the next few weeks. The Bangladesh Government has agreed to enter into com-
mitments to finance up to US$20 million of goods in order to sustain the
momentum of project implementation pending finalization of arrangements
for supplemental financing. No disbursements have yet been required under
these commitments and the arrangements under which the Bangladesh Bank would
guarantee letters of credit have not yet been fully worked out. Nevertheless,
the ability of the project authorities to continue to enter into contracts



- 21 -
will be seriously jeopardized unless additional foreign exchange commitment
authority is quickly arranged. Given Bangladesh's foreign exchange shortage
(see paragraph 22 above), the Government can continue to meet the foreign
exchange shortfall from its own resources only at the cost of substantial dis-
ruption of other development activities. It therefore has asked the lenders
to provide supplementary finance to cover all the additional foreign exchange
requirement. It has undertaken to provide the additional local funds required.
(To date, provision of adequate local funds for this project has not been a
problem.) Approval of the necessary budgetary authorizations for the needed
local funds would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed supple-
mentary financing (see Section 5.02(a) of the draft Amending Agreement).
All of the original lenders (other than Iran) have agreed in principle to
participate in financing the project cost increases. The expected amounts
represent a proportionate financial contribution to the project similar to
the original lender contributions. A revised foreign exchange financing plan
is shown in the Credit and Project Summary. The supplemental financing to be
provided by other lenders has been agreed with the exception of US$10 mil-
lion equivalent expected to be provided by KfW and US$15 million equivalent
expected to be provided by ODM for which necessary approvals are being sought.
55.       While proposals of KfW and ODM for supplemental financing have
not yet been finalized, the project's urgent need for additional commitment
authority makes it imperative for IDA to proceed without awaiting finalization
of agreements between all of the other lenders and Bangladesh. (These other
lenders are in basic agreement on the measures taken or required to improve
project implementation.) If either of the co-lenders currently considering
supplementary financing for the project should decide not to participate, it
is believed that other sources of external financing could be arranged by
the Government to fill the gap. IDA would retain the right to suspend dis-
bursements if by December 1, 1979 commitments for sufficient funds to meet
the estimated foreign exchange requirements for the project had not been
obtained (Section 5.01 of draft Amending Agreement). If before the proposed
supplemental credit becomes effective, disbursements are required from
Bangladesh's foreign exchange funds which have been committed to certain
orders eligible for IDA financing (see paragraph 54 above), the provisions of
the Amending Agreement combined with the Development Credit Agreement would
permit IDA to reimburse the Government upon the effectiveness of the Amending
Agreement. The amount of such reimbursements would be expected to be small
(under US$5 million).
56.       The financing plan provides for the Government to cover the addi-
tional local currency expenditures of US$85.9 million equivalent. 1/ Its
contribution will be passed on to AFCC as equity. In line with the condi-
tions now obtaining, all foreign exchange funds (net of about US$1.0 million
for training) would be onlent to AFCC at 10% annual interest with repayments
over ten years following completion of construction. AFCC is bearing the
foreign exchange risk until the loan from the Government to AFCC has been
1/   Of this amount, interest during construction (amounting to US$27.3
million) represents transfer payments between AFCC and the Government.



- 22 -
repaid. Repayments were originally to have begun five years after the
effectiveness of the original credit; the first payment of principal by AFCC
to the Bangladesh Government will now be postponed to 1982 to reflect project
slippage and the final payment date will also be changed accordingly (see
Section 3.02 of draft Amending Agreement).
Return
57.       Economic.   The original economic rate of return was estimated
at appraisal at 21% reflecting the benefits of the project's access to
Bangladesh's abundant and highly suitable gas resources and of substituting
for costly fertilizer imports. These benefits continue to represent the
main justification for the project; in fact, the estimate of the benefits
available from import substitution has risen since the time of appraisal,
based on revised projections of long run international urea prices taking
account of the impact of the oil price increases on production costs.
However, the project's economic attractiveness has been impaired by its
protracted implementation schedule and significant increases in estimated
final cost. If the measures referred to in paragraphs 51 and 52 are reason-
ably effective, the plant should be able to reach production levels of 85%
of its rated capacity five years after its completion. 1/ In this case, the
estimated economic return would be about 10% on a full cost basis, which is
considered sufficient to justify proceeding with the project. On a sunk
cost basis, using conservative assumptions with respect to the proportion of
expenditures to date which could be recouped through sales of equipment and
materials (net of cancellation penalties) if implementation of the project
were stopped, the expected economic return is about 16%. If the measures
referred to under paras 51 and 52 to ensure efficient plant operations were to
fail and if, as a result, the project were to operate at the rate of 50-60%
which has been observed in existing fertilizer plants over the last two years,
the economic return would fall to about 4% on a full cost basis, showing the
importance of assuring that the measures to ensure efficient plant operations
are taken in an effective and timely manner. In comparison, a further 5%
increase in capital cost or a further 12-month slippage in project completion
would each reduce the estimated return by about 1%, while a 15% increase or
decrease in the long term estimated urea price would affect the rate of return
by about 2%.
1/   The average capacity utilization rate to be reached after the initial
production build-up period is generally assumed to be 90% for other Bank
Group projects in developing countries. This was also the appraisal
assumption for this project. Notwithstanding the measures referred to
under paragraphs 51 and 52, it is now believed, that given the difficult
labor situation in Bangladesh, coupled with the country's exposure to
flooding and cyclone disasters and difficult transportation conditions,
a maximum capacity utilization rate of 85%, to be reached in the fifth
year of operation, is a more realistic assumption. If a maximum rate
of 90% and a faster (three year) build-up had been assumed, as was the
case in the appraisal report, the estimated economic return given above
would be increased by about one and a half percentage points.



- 23 -
58.       Financial.   Based on the extensions in the grace and repayment
period of the funds supplied by the lenders and on-lent by the Government
to AFCC to match project slippage (paragraph 56), and taking into account
that Bangladesh's tax laws provide for relief from taxes until a company
breaks even on a cumulative basis, the project would remain financially
viable at an acceptable ex-factory price of US$200 per ton (at 1981
prices), 1/ which is about US$25 below the projected CIF cost of imported
urea at the time the project starts operating. The following table contains
a summary of the main financial indicators for the project.
Financial Summary
1981       1982   1983   1984   1985    1986   1987
------------------US$ Million--------------------
Capacity Utilization %    37.5 /a    65.0   75.0   80.0    85.0   85.0   85.0
Sales Revenues            39.6       77.1   99.4  119.6   142.5  161.2  181.0
Total Production Costs    48.5       55.0   58.4   61.0    63.9   65.9   67.9
Interest Expense          18.4       24.9   23.2   20.7    18.1   15.5   12.9
Before Tax Income        (27.3)      (2.8)  17.8   37.9    60.5   79.8  100.2
After Tax Income         (27.3)      (2.8)  17.8   23.6    27.2   35.9   45.1
Ratio Analysis
Quick Ratio                0.4        0.8    1.7    2.8     4.1    5.7    7.7
Current Ratio              0.8        1.0    2.0    3.2     4.5    6.1    8.1
Debt Service
Coverage Ratio           1.3        1.4    1.5    1.7     1.8    2.0    2.3
Debt/Equity Ratio         62/38      60/40  54/46  47/53   40/60  32/68  23/77
Profit Break-Even
as a % of Capacity
Utilization             68.7       67.8   59.1   50.4    43.2   36.7   31.4
After Tax Income/
Sales (%)              (68.8)      (3.6)  17.9   19.7    19.1   22.3   24.9
/a   Nine months at 50% utilization rate.
Based on this, the project's expected financial return, expressed in constant
terms would be 11% before tax (7% after tax) against a before tax return of
13.8% (9.2% after tax) estimated at appraisal 13.4%. Although the requirement
for obtaining a debt service coverage ratio of 1.5 would be postponed until
after the third year of operation (Sections 4.02 and 4.05 of draft Amending
Agreement), this ratio would not be expected to fall below 1.0. 2/ The
requirement for obtaining a current ratio of 1.5 or better would similarly
1/   The price required to assure a satisfactory return and debt service
coverage had been estimated at US$190 (at 1981 prices) at appraisal.
2/   Even a temporary drop under a 1.0 debt service coverage ratio would
merely entail a provisional postponement of AFCC's reimbursement
transactions with the Government.



- 24 -
be postponed until after the third year of operation (Section 4.05 of draft
Amending Agreement). While the Government may decide to grant AFCC a further
tax holiday applicable to industries in less developed areas of the country
IDA projections indicate that such a tax holiday would not be required for
AFCC's financial viability. Furthermore, under the provisions of Section 3.02
of the Development Credit Agreement, the Government has assured that it would
promptly take any additional appropriate steps to ensure that AFCC will at all
times remain in a position of liquidity. Based upon this provision the
Government would provide additional equity or reschedule debt if necessary to
ensure that no further delays or operating problems would occur on account of
shortages of project funds or inadequate operating cash, and that AFCC can
meet its financial obligations in due time, with particular emphasis on the
first three years of operation during which it has been agreed that the debt
service coverage ratio and the current ratio could be reduced below 1.5.
59.       Justification and Risks.    Given current and projected fertilizer
demand levels, the potential for increasing agricultural production through
use of fertilizer and Bangladesh's abundant and highly suitable natural gas
resources, use of natural gas for production of fertilizer remains an intrin-
sically attractive proposition provided that ways are found for avoiding the
difficulties and delays which have impeded the project's progress. It is not
possible to reduce the size of the project at this stage. The project facil-
ities have standard size capacities. All of the ancillary facilities are
necessary for the sustained operation of the production facilities. 1/ The
project remains a vital element of Bangladesh's development strategy, and
the lessons learned in completing and operating it can be expected to have a
beneficial impact in assisting Bangladesh to reach its longer run fertilizer
production potential in future projects.
60.        It is evident that the construction of a highly complex industrial
plant in Bangladesh at the present time will continue to present a significant
challenge to the Government, the project authorities and their consultants.
There is no absolute assurance that construction and erection of the plant
will proceed smoothly, especially in view of the departure of local skilled
and semi-skilled technicians to the Middle East. Some of the work may require
international subcontracting over and above what has already been planned, and
some additional delays may occur in plant start-up (paragraph 46). However,
with assistance from the PIAF consultants, AFCC has already taken action to
ensure that the revised implementation schedule will be closely monitored.
The restructuring of AFCC's Board to include appropriate senior Government
officials is indicative of the high priority that the Government gives to
ensuring that decisions and requisite approvals are given promptly. The cost
estimates provide for delay contingencies should the pace of construction be
slower than presently envisaged. Physical and price contingencies are deemed
appropriate, although further and unanticipated cost increases are difficult
1/   Excluding about US$1.0 million of training aids and training specialists
initially to be used principally for training of Ashuganj personnel,
and later to be located at a national training center for the fertilizer
industry.



- 25 -
to rule out based on past experience. The measures referred to in paragraphs
51 and 52 should reduce the risk of the plant operating substantially below
its design capacity. The project is being monitored closely by IDA and the
other co-lenders to help avoid or overcome problems which could become bottle-
necks to progress. With the measures already taken to revise the management
and organization of AFCC, and now that construction is under way and procure-
ment of time-critical items complete, any further problems are expected to be
less severe than those that have hampered project execution hitherto. Although
it is not possible to entirely rule out a recurrence of management problems
(paragraph 47), the new management assistance arrangements (paragraphs 49-51)
are considered to have a good chance of success.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The proposed increase in the amount of the IDA credit and the other
changes in the Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement would
be made through an Agreement amending the Development Credit Agreement and
Project Agreement. Copies of the Recommendation of the Committee provided in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association, and
the draft Amending Agreement are being distributed separately. An additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Amending Agreement would be the approval
of a revised Project Proforma allocating adequate budgetary resources to meet
the local currency requirements of the project (paragraph 52). Failure to
obtain by December 1, 1979 commitment of sufficient additional sources of
funds to cover the foreign exchange financing gap would be a condition per-
mitting suspension (paragraph 55).
62.       Copies of the Special Action Credit Agreement and Project Agree-
ment are also being distributed separately. In addition to the standard EEC
Special Action Credit conditions, the draft Special Action Credit Agreement
and Project Agreement incorporate the terms and conditions of the Development
Credit Agreement and Project Agreement for IDA credit 527-BD, as modified by
the draft Amending Agreement, except for the elimination of some conditions
which have already been satisfied and a Closing Date of December 31, 1979.
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed IDA credit and amendments would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and that the proposed
Special Action Credit would comply with the criteria established by the agree-
ment between the Member States of the European Economic Community and the
Association.



- 26 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
US$29.0 million increase in the IDA development credit and the proposed EEC
Special Action Credit to Bangladesh in amounts in various currencies equiva-
lent to about US$3.0 million to be administered by the Association.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by I.P.M. Cargill
May 18, 1979



- 27 -                                             ANNEX I
TARLE 3A
SCGLADSR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
NEZERENCE GROUPS (ADSlUSTO AVERUAES
LAND AREA (TIaUOAJ  SO. M.)                                                - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            144.0                                                 SAME        SAKE     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     101.1                               MOST RECIPrT    GEOCAPHIC     INCOME      INCOME
1960 fl     1970 Lt ESTIMTE Lb       RgCION ic   GROUP Id    GROUP te
GNP PER CAPITA (US$1                  40.0       60.0      90.0          - 167.4     182.9       432.3
ENERGY CONSU(4P'TION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OP COAL EQUIVALENT)       ..          ..      28.0            65.7       88.9       251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-TEAR
(MILLIONS)                       53.9        70.8      82.7
URBAN POPULATION (PEECRNT OF TOTAL) 4.8         6.4       9.2            12.8       15.0        24.2
POPULATION DENSITT
PER SQ. IQI.                     374.0      492.0     574.0            85.2       46.8        42.7
PER SQ. R:. AGRICULTURAL LAND   566.0       730.0     818.0           322.6      254.1        95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTORE (PERCENT)
0-14 YrS.                        44.3        46.4      46.2            44.0       43.6        44.9
15-64 Y}S,                        52.5        51.0      51.1            52.9       53.3        52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.2         2.6       2.6             2.9        2.9         3.0
POPULATION GROWTl RATl (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.7        2.8       2.1 if          2.2        2.4         2.7
URHAN                               .         6.2       7.4             4.2        4.0         8.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     49.8        50.3     49.5            45.1       44.3        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER TBOUSAND)     27.2        22.9     28.1            17.3       19.7        12.4
(MOSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.5         3.1        ,,            3.2        2.9         3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSAISDS)      ..      345.6     655.1
USERS (PERCENT OF MARSlED WMN)      ..          .       4.7            13.7       14.6        L4.2
FOOD AND mNTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-1001            106.2       100.0     93.7            95.6       96.4       104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (PERCENT oP
REQUIRFHENTS)                   89.0 f      9 69.0   93.0            91.1       92.3        99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          42.6         ..      58.5            49.6       50.0        56.8
OF WHICG ANIHAL AMI PULSE        9.2          ..      8.0            12.6       13.9        17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       ..         ..        ..              ..         ..         7.5
HEALTE
LIPE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (TEARS)    38.7       43.3      45.0            43.1       45.8        53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND                              ..         ..     140.0            99A5      102.7        82.5
AOCESS TO SAFE HAkTER (PERCUET oF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               *-       45.0      56.0            30.0       26.4        31.1
URBAN                               .        13.0      22.0            66.3       63.5        68.5
RURAL                              ..        47.0      61.0            17.2       14.1        18.2
AUCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERST
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                         6.0      '5.0            15.7       16.1        37.5
URBAN                               .          ''      40.0            66.9       65.9        69.5
RURAL                               ..         ,.        ,,             2.5        3.4        25.4
FOPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        10000.0 /h   7600.0/h 11000.0          8830.8    13432.7      9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON   110000.0 7T  720301.Oh 56070.0         8479.3     6983.3      2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          11000.0 l   8120.0  I 5200.0          1624.5     1157.6       786.5
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..     -        ..      183.3       278.4
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..              ..     1348.8      1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..         ..        ..              ..       19.5        19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               .-         ..        ..              ..        5.2
URBAN                              *.          *.        ..              ..        4.8
LrsAL                              ..          ..        ,.              ..        5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..              ..        1.8         2 3
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..
ACCESS Tl} ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF IRWELLINCS]
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..              ..       25.9        26.3
URBAN                              ..          ..       3.0
RRA.                               ..          ..        ..               .       B.7         10.3



- 28 -                                              ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
SAIIL6DESE - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
RANCLADESH                                             l
- HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME       INCOME
1960 Lb     1970 Lb ESTDIATE Lb      REGION h    GROUP jd    GROUP Je
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                47.0        61.0      73.0            59.1       62.9        75.8
FEMALE               26.0        42.0      51.0            38.4       45.9        67.9
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 8.0        19.0      25.0            19.9       14.4        17.7
FEMALE                1.0         8.0      11.0             9.9        8.8         12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SEOONDARY)  1.0         1.0        ..             1.5        6.6         7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PREIARY                             '         49.0      50.0            38.2       38.5        34.3
SECONDARY                           ,.        26.0      24.0            23.5       19.8        23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCElT)       21.6          ..      23.0            35.6       36.7        63.7
CONSUMtFION
PASSENGER CARS PER TWUSAND
POPULATION                          ,.         0.4       0.4 P           2.2        3.1         7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          *-         6.0        ..            14.9       31.1        71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSANID
POPULATION                          ,.          ..        ..              ,.        2.8        14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   ..          ..       5.0             6.4        6.0        16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..          ..        ..              ,,        1.4         1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    19400.0     24500.0   26200.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  15.2        16.5      17.0            21.3       24.2        28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             87.0        86.0      78.0            62.8       60.7        54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 3.3         3.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               36.0        34.6      34.4            35.8       39.8        37.8
HALE                                58.7        55.8      55.3            52.4       53.3        50.3
PFEMLE                              11.4        11.8      12.1            15.6       19.6        20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.3         1.4       1.4             1.3        1.3         1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OP PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGEEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.3 /k     16.7 It     *-            18.6       20.3        19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.5 ik     42.3  1     ..            42.8       45.1        48.9
lOWEST 20 PERCENT OF NOUSEROLDS    6.9 /f      7.9  1     ..             7.3        5.7         5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.9 1k     19.6 11                   19.3       16.8        15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               *'         '-      110.0            80.2       88.5       155.9
RURAL                               *'          ''      90.0            67.2       71.9        97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..              ..      100.8       143.7
RURAL                               ..          ..      29.0            39.8       42.0        87.3
ESTLMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      61.0            50.3       46.0        22.9
RURAL                               ..          ..      70.0            44.6       48.0        36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group aversaes for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreae
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1469
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
Ic    South Asia;  Id Low Income ($280 or less per capita 1976);   /e Lower Middle Income (5281-550 per capita,
1976)-   /f The 1970-75 growth rate is abnormally low due to the effects of the war of independence and
the mass population nuvement across the borders during that period. Presently, the average population
growth rate is estimated at 2.82 per annum; 1f Av. 1961-65; /h Registered, not all practicing in the
country;  /t Govt. establishments only;  .1   1972;  /k  1963-64;  /1  1966-67.
September. 107R



- 29 -
DRFINITIOg' 01 SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                   PR      
SaLa: Th. adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric sagas, secluding the extreme values of the indicator and the most
popul-te   country in each grou.P.  C-varag   of osuanri.. among th. indi.at.r. d.p.nd. as -vil.bility of data and is Pot uniform,         Due to lack 0f data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exportrer and indicgtors of access to water and secrete disposal, housing, income di.trihution and poverty ore
simple population-weighted geometric mean. vithout the exclusion of axtrems values.
LAND AMI   (thousand sq. km)                                                           Population oer hospital badd-ttl       urban, and rur.1 - Population (total.
Total - Total surface eraa comprising land area and inland water*.                      urban, and rural) dividedb     their respective number of hospital beds
AnriculturoL - Xest recast atrimte of agricultural area used temporarily                availebla in public and private general and spetialized hospital andre
or permanently for crops, pastures, market end hitches gArdens or to                 habilitation centers.    Hoaspitals are establishmen ts permanently staffed hy
lie fallow.                                                                          at least one physician.    Estebliebmants providing principally custodial
cars akre not included. Rural hospitals. however, include health and medi-
GNS' PER CAPITA (US$) - GOIP per capita estimates at current market Prices,              cal centers not Permanently staffed by a physician (bun hy a mediusi .e-
calculated by same conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 bseis);            isitant, nurse, midwife. etc.) wehich offer in-patient accomocdetion end
1960. 1970. and 1977 date..                                                          provide a limited range of medical faciliti.es
Admissions Par hospital bed - Total numbr of adfissione to or dio-h-g-s
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA -Annual conaumption of commertial energy                   from hospitals divided by the nmuser of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum. matural gas and hydra-, nuclear and geo-
th-erml  1eletricity) in kilogram. of coal equivalent per capita.               HOUSING
Average site of household (persons per household) - total, urban, and rural -
POPULATION AND VI-TAL STATISTICS                                                        A household consists of a group of individuals who ahare l1ivig quart.rc
Total population. mid-year (millions) - A. of July 1; if not available,                and their main meals.    A boarder or lodger may or may not he included ln
average of twond-year estimatesl 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                          the household for statiatical p-rp-ae.      Statistical definitions cf hous.e-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to totei popula-                  hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urbsn areas may effect comsparability               Average numbar of Persons Par room - total, urban, and rural - Avera go nu-
of data samon  countries,                                                            bar of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occ upied     onoventiono1
Population density                                                                     dwellings   respectively.   Dwellings exclude non-permanent struc turee and
Per  so. la. - Mid-year populatian per square kilometer (100 hectares)                unoccupgied Psrts.
of total  earm.                                                                    Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - totls. urban, and rural -
Per,n    o    giclueln         - Computsd as above for agricultural land              Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quartero s .percentage
only,                                                                                of total, urban, and rural dwellinga respectively.
Population ag. structure (percent) - Children (0-li years), rearking-ege
(15-64 years). and retired (65,yearo end "ovr) as percentages of mid-            EDUCATION
year population.                                                                  Adjusted eorollment ratios
Population growth rats (oar-ent    - total, end urban - Cmpund annua                 Primary school - tot.l, and female - Total and femaleannolln..nt c       all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                    at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary sho-g
1960-70. and 1970-75.                                                                populations, no rmally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thou.and of                   differen.t lengths of primary education; fan countries with universal e du-
nid-year population; tea-year arithmetic averages endings in 1960 and                cation enrollment may emceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 far most rece.nt estimate,                 above the official school age.
Crude death rats (per thn"u.ad) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                 Sec...dary school - total, and female - Computed em abov; secondary educo-
year population, ten-year arithmetic .verages ending in 1960 and 1970                tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction, pro-
and five-year avrage ending in 1975 for most recant estimate.                        vides gene.rAl vocational, or teacher training instructiona for pupls.
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of daughters . aweso will hear                usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
Inher normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-                    excluded.
spnecific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,              Vocational enolet (prce          of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                      clude techoical'7n.Aedstri*al, Oor other programs, which operate independently
PFmily planning - acceptrsr. annual (thousands) - Annual number of                     or as departments of seon..dary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family              Pupil-teacher ratio - primary. sand secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                    primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Family ola.. nnmt - uaers (percent o,fmarria&d women) - Percentage of                   sponding levels.
married woen of child-bearingag      (1-_    years) who use birth-control         Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able tc read and write) as
devices to all married woeme   in sman age group,                                    a percentage of total adult population gagd 15 years end over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                  CONSUM4PTION
Index of fond Production par capita (197 e0)-Inde" number of per                    Passengter cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars cmoprise motor cars
capita annual productiom of all food cmoi ties.                                    seating less than eight persons; sxcludes ambulances, hearse       an...d nilito.ry
Per capita supply of calories (percent of resuiraments) - Computed from              vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita            gadio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radic
per day.   Available supplies comprise domstic production, imports less            broadcasts to general public par thousand of population;      -nluden unlicensed
exporta, and changes in stock,    get supplies seclude animal feed, seeds,         receivers in countries and in years when veglirstrio- of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, And lossee in distribution.      Ra-           effect; date for recent years nay not be comparable since most countries
quirements were estimated by FAO based as physiological needs for mar-             abolished licensing.
mel activity and health considering environmantal tesperature, body               TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to gnrd.
weight., age and sea distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coun-
cent for waste at houehold level,                                                    tries and in yesca when registration of TV set. was in effect.
Par capita   uPply of pro tein (arena per day) - Protein conteat of per             Naeae       ic    Lato   (Par thousn   posaiso) - Shows the average cirrula-
-epit  netsupply of food per day.     Neet supply of food is defined as               tion a-f "dailytgeneral interest nevepaper". defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provida far               cation devoted primarily tc recording general new.       It La cons idered tc
a mini-u aloac         f 60 grama of total protein per day and 20 grame              be "daily" if it appears at least four tiesa a weak.
of aia     and pulse protein, of which 10 gream   should be animal protein.       Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - gamed on the nusber of tickers
Theseiatandards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                 sold during the year, including admissions no drive-in cinenna and nobile
23 grams of animal proteIn as an average for the world, proposed by                  units.
PAl in the Third world PfondSurvey.n
Per capita prtin supply foanmlndpulse - Protein supply of food                      EMPtOYMENT
derived fran animal sod pulses in gram.s per dsy.                                 Total labor force (thousands) - Economically active persons, including arme d
ihild (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-               forces and unemployed but *ocluding houseIves, students, nic.       DefilI-
and in age group 1-h years. tc children in this age group.                            tione in variaua countries are non comparble.
Pesale (Percent) - Fema.le labor force as percentage of total labrr force
HEALTH                                                                               Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fiching
Life espect.acy an birth (yerars   - Average number of years of life                    as percentage of total labor force.
renaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960. 1970.              Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction. nanufacturiog and
and 1975.                                                                            electricity. water and gas as prerentage of total labor force.
in-fant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under              Participation rate (percent) - total, mole, and female - Total, mole, cod
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                             'emale labor force as percentages of their respective populatio-v
Access to safe sater (percent of pop     tia    - total, urban. and rural -             The.e ire. TLO's adjusted p-rticipation rates reflectng ape-em
tNunber of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                 otrortore of the population. and lnc     line trend.
safe water supply (includes treted, surfrace waters or untreated bat               Economic dependency ratio - Ratic of population coder 15 and 65 and ovec to
uncontaminated water such asthat from Prot.ected boreholes, springs,                  the labor force in ago group Pf 15-64 years.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or standpost located not more                 INCOME DSTRIBUTIrON
than 200 maemor  from a house may be considered as being within rca-               Percentage of p-rivate income (both in cas h and kind) received by rlchevt 5
nonable occems of that house.    In rural areas reasonable accees would               peret     ihs      0pret        ors     0pret        nd pcor.nc 40 yarcent
.oply that the housewife or members of the household do not have to                  cfhouseholds
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to e.curets disposal (percent of population) - total, urban, and              Estimated absolute poverty income leve-I      )pr    aia       urban and rucl-I
rursl - Number of people (total. urban, and rural) served by excreta                    Absolute poverty.income levelu: itht     Income leve   belowwiha       ii
dispoa    as I.  porccenntgas of their repective popul.tiona.  Eocrta                 nutritionally adeq~uate'diet plu   esstentilnnfo        reire-nenic1 not
diypoaal may Include the collection and dlepossl, with or without                     affordable.
treatment, of humah excrete and wste-woter by water-borne systems                  Estimated relative poverty Income leve     (US$ Per capital - urban and rurl1
or the use o f pit privias and similar installations.                                 Relative poverty income level Is tbat inc..e level ipso than von-third
y-ulaition Per Physician - Population divided by number fi practicing                   per capita personal Income of the country.
physicians qualified frc. a medina1 school at university level.                   fEtlnated population below povsty income level         ernt    -ubaadrrl-
Populaticn Per nursing pae.sn - Population divided by number of                         Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                     "relative poor" whichever is greeter.
_vistant nurse..
E-rotoic and iocic1 Iota Dliciion
Economic Analysis and Proinctiona l(epartnent



-     30 -                                                             ANNEX I
ECONOMI    EEPErDT
(Amontsin  illonsot  .S.dollars)
Actual                            t'",             1960.    1965-     197 3 -        AV. -
Av. !1967-69   1972/7   1974/75     19 76'7 7                           195      17         961967-6               1974/75 l~,77/78
SlINAI I'. ACCOIZTS                                                                                                        __
In Constant 1972-1973 Plrices & Exchange Rate               acrg      nna     rwt     ae          A   ecnti        D
Croa'% Domestic Product            6,012     5,833     6,514        7,255              7,3               .       3.3        6.1           98.5    101.8    101.i
from T'erms of Trade     c        89                -117         -148                -88                                               1.5     -1.8     -1.1
err.meetic Income            6,101     5,833     6,397       7,107              7,745             5.6      2.5       5.8           1005.0  100.0     100.0
msp,,rf  (inc]. NYs)                 879       747       703         506                 791           20.6      6.8       0.7            14.4     11.0     10.2
Exports    "   (imp-ort capacity)     598       369       197         243                315            12.3    -14.6      -3.2            9.8      3.1      4.1
herource Gap                        2T81        378        06         263               -'6                                                 .       --       6
Consumption Fxpenditures            5,668     5,817     6,404       6,764              7,521             5.7      3.6       5.2           92.9    100.1     97.1
lnvnstment    '1 (incl. stocks)       714       394       499         660                700            13.3     8.8       12.2           12.9      7.8      9.0
Dkuse8tic Savings                     433        16        -6         343                224             4.3     10.0      72.0            6.8     -0.1      2.9
National Savings                      416        32        10         378                279             8.7     20.5      56.3            7.1      0.2      3,6
MERCHLANDISE TRADIE                            Annual Data at Carrent Prices                                                              As Percent of Total
T=norts
Capital goods                                 too10     135         227                318                       .       22.9..                  16.8     25.5
Intermediate goods f(S   3.fue3n...          176       386          270                459                       ..     21.9              ..     30.4     3 4. 1
en~els and related materials
oP which:   Petroleum              .         23       155         141                166              .        .      48.5              .      10.0     12. 3
Consurption goods428                           726        _Z                  406              ,,       .                         .     42.8      30.1
Total Meech.  orts (elf1   5477     7-27     1,402         865              1,349                               12.2                   100.0    100.0
.Eax    Meeports(il                                                                                                      z~
nrim'~ary products ~xl. fuelni       .        145       119         220                203.                      .       7.0*                    40.9     40.8
uesand related materials
of which:   Petrolewm
Manufac turd goodsB                           195      239          240                294              .        .       8.5              .      59.1     59.2
7utal Merch. Exports (fob)  ~AT  '~     *33A        7-6                 74-.9                                                     100.0    100.0
Tourism, and Border   Traoc
'4rchandise T'rade indices                      Average 1972-73     100
Export Price Index                  61       100       133         118                137              ..       .        6.5
import Price Index                  52       100       215         189                180               .       ..      12.5
Ttrms of Trade Index               118       100        62           62                 76             ..       .       -5.6
Exports Volume Index               148       100        80          115               107              ..       .         .5
,'AL.JE ADIDED BY SECTOR            Annual- Oats, at 1972-73  ?rtces And Exchange Rates              4verage Aknnual Irowrth Rates        A! Percent of Total
Agriculture                      3,542     3,403     3,712       4,020              4,318               .        .       4.8             59        59       57
industry and Mining                420       412       466         582                642..                      .       9.2              7         7        8
Service                          2,050     1,848     2.146       2.4                2.645.                               7.4            _34        34       35
Total                            6,012     5,663     6,324       7,044              7,605                                6.1            100       100      100
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                                                              As Percent of GDP
(~Centrai Government)
Current Receipts                   3 17      280       469         563                665              ..       .       34.2            5.3       7.2      8.5
Current Expenditures               365       364       419         464                553              ..       .       16.8            6.1       6,4      7.1
Budgetary Savings                  -48       -84        50          99                T12                                            -0.8       0.-8      14
Other Public Sector                 ..        .          .           ..                                .         .        .
Public Sector Investment           421       239       248         516                514              .                10.3           7.0        3.8      6.6
US $ muillion L!,
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                              Actual                   Estimated      DETAIL ON                             At Av.  1977/78   P anid ER
As % Total Current Expend.)               1969/70 1972/73 19)74/75 1976/77       1977/78       PUBLIC SECTOR                       Two-Year Plan     7. of Total
Education..                                          15.5     14.      12.4        13.0        INiVESTMENT PPOGRAM4                     (1978/79 - 1979/80)
Other Social Services                       .         4.5      3.6      4.2         4.9        Scelial Sectors                             287         13,2
Agrsculture   and                                                                              Agriculture                                 600         27.6
Other Economic Services                   .         5.0     12.5      6.6         7.0        industry and Mmn:ng                         380         17.5
Admninistration and Defense                 .        70.4     57.1     61.5        61.2        Power                                       314         14.4
Other                                       .         4.6     12.3     15.3        13.9        Transport and coramunicationi,              387         17.8
Total Current Expenditures                          100.0    100.0    100.0       100.0        Other                                       206         9.5
____________________________________________________________________________ TotToal xpxpendiuures                 27174       100.
SELECTED INDICATOJRS                                  1960-      1965-        1973-              FINAlICING
(Calculated from 3-year areraged data)                1965       1970        1976
Average TCOR                                            ..        7T         1.8B9-                  Pullic S.~ctor Savings                  557         25.6
Import Elasticity                                       .        1.29        1.11                   Program aid counterpart                  838        38.6
M1Lrginal Domestic Savings Ra: e                        .        0.22        0.05                   Foreign Project Asd                      605        27,8
Marginal National Savings Rate                          .        0.35        0.05                   qte    (incl. dom. borrowing)            174          8.0
Total Financing                       2,174        100.0
LABOR FORCE ANID                                  Total Labor Force                                    Value Added Per Worker (1972- 73      Prices &Exc. Rates)
OUTrPUT PER WORKER                  In Millions          % of Total           19 61 - 73         In U.S.Dollars       Percent of Averfge          1970 -7 3
19 60/61    19 72/73 19 60/61   1972/73   Crowth Rate          19 69/70    19 72/ 73   19 69/70   19 72/ 73  Growth Rate
Agriculture                         16.1        20.5      85        78           2.0                .          166         ..76
Industry                             1.0         1.8       5         7          5.0                 ..         229         ..105
Ser-vice                             1.8         3.9      10         15          6.7                .          484         .           222
Total           18.9        26.2     100       100          ~~~~~~~~                      ~~~~       ~~~     ~   ~~~2-.8  248  217  1070  10-0  -4.9
not Applscable            n il or negligible
*.not available          --less than half the smallest unit shown
Note- Figures are on fiscal year basis (JulY 1-Ju..a 60).Data prior to 1972/73 pertain to erstwhile East Pakistan.
/I      Plan targets.



AM= I
-31 -
aU3 0r Pmo W1UL ADUIAWE AND am
1t*mm    in oin bme  ! U.D. OL5rS at Crrmt priae)
SUx(URT EALANCE OF PA7.7TS
~~,orts (mel. 1173) ~~515                 369         358         329          so9           GAO                    13.7
ts       jorte (in 1. MIS)             -639        -747       -102         -957       -1            .79 _            e
Tntrelst (net)
Direct I-vastont Ino       I 1
WVoke,r' R_ittaoee         i              ..         45            7          66          83            93
Curat Tr af        t (n t)  1
Iance on Current Aco_wt5 
PriJts Direct   Tesent22                                                                 390           400                    13.6
orficial Capitl arts                                42           397         229 U
PubliC MhLf LT 2                                     16          527        273          411           695                     5.2
-Rep-=ur.m    nt-2.5                                                      -16           5 6          -54                    b
other M&LT Lo s:
01.burssnt                              .           .           ..          .
-Reno _nts                              * -                                - *-
Met Di.bur.-eOts.
CapitLi Trensaitio- n.e.i.                .        -205          334         -4           16           -3                              Act-.I L-d P.iod                  Motimtd
CbsaC in ~en Reerve. (-- ionrs.5)  ..  -20   -196        -80           24            25                       TZ
Che gros  Neserves t end g parvs  iod r )           107    ~     263        293°         26294         244                       1972Z/13  lS/4t75   1975112   1S7b777   1977/711
Cro-- R...-.-n   (-nd Pea.                          107 )EOI AND NM1                                                 XsVICE
Public DLbt Out. h Di.b-reed     22     1,366     1,812     2 .06      2,556
(Irr iNDol Ctac.t, & Clrant-.ike                      514          368        338          452         Lntrest on Publi. Debt           -        10       21        25         27
tr      -tI                                                                             Repaymnt. tn Publi. Debt         -        25        78        17        31
PublCc MhLT Loonn                                                                                    Total PUblic Debt Se-ine         -        35       99        42         '
rPbt                                   ..              _                                           0TI.th-e Debt Se.rice (net)      .        *-
rDA                                                            150         50          211         Totil Debt Swrlcn (net)        *-        *-
thrDA   .n6.srl.                                   11           67          9474
Got  r. .tlt-.                                    204          676         200         3706      b         Erport         (N)
supplinr-                              ..         5            17          2           11
P.esoclal leOtit-tiOnS                                           -          S           13         Public Debt Seroine            *-      9.0       22.4       7.9       13.7
Heods                                  .            _                       -            _         Total Debt S-riee              ..       ..         .
Publi. Lo- n.e.-. ..                                                   _            _ -            TDSD   ct      t.    .
Toni poblic 7(&LT Losen                  ..         338          932
-*uli                                              -         AverLge TcrnaA or Public Debt
Acttal Debt OtutstaditR  on Jut 30. 1978                      Int, a. S Pri.r Tos,  D        *-      2.0        1.5       1.4        1.3
rITERNAI DEBT                                Dburd only                  Percent                       Arort. no S Prior Te    D&D     *-      5.0       5.7       0.9        6.2
Wo-rld Bani,k 
rDA                                              554                     21.7                      D3D Debt Cut. & Diobur..d
7thor Pttltilotori                               A64                      2.5                           en S Public Debt OhD          -     4.0        3.0       2.7        2.2
G.v'rste                                        1,746                    68.4                                P N Public Debt Serrice  -        -       1.6       7.3        4.4
qetoo.^- it                                                              4.3
Fle.eocola Iteotitutione                           26                     1.0                     IDA Debt Out. & Di,bure-d
-70nd)1  _              _                       "  as S Public Debt O&D         7.1     18.7       21.0      22.7      21.7
PUD11: Debte o.e                                    -                                               ' as S Pub3ic Debt Semice         -      2.3       2.0       7.5        4.9
Total public MhLT Debt                          2156                    100.0
Oth-r MhLT Debto
Short-term Debt (disb. only,)
not appli-obie                                                e  tart f stlmts
.at snoilablo                                                    a nil or megligible
.ot availabl esporataly                                     *_  Is.. then hbIt the
but inoleded in totl                                             31st unit sboN-n
Mo.d-r 1978



- 32 -
ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of April 30, 1979)
US$ Million
Amount
(net of cancellations
Loan or                                                    and exchange adjustments)
Credit                                                                       Un-
Number  Year    Borrower           Purpose                 Bank     IDA   disbursed
One loan and eight credits fully disbursed                 54.9    329.1       -
339    1972   Bangladesh    Cyclone Area Reconstruc-
tion (replaces Credit
No. 228-PAK of 1971)                  25.0      2.5
340    1972    Bangladesh   Chandpur Irrigation II
(replaces Credit No.
184-PAK of 1970)                      13.0      1.0
341    1972    Bangladesh   Tubewells (replaces
Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970)                              14.0      1.9
343    1972    Bangladesh   Telecommunications (re-
places part of Credit
No. 145-PAK of 1969)                   7.3       .3
367    1973    Bangladesh   Chittagong Water Supply
(replaces Credit No.
42-PAK of 1963)                        7.0       .1
368    1973    Bangladesh   Dacca Water Supply and
Sewerage (replaces
Credit No. 41-PAK of
1963)                                 13.2        - /a
407     1973   Bangladesh   Education (replaces
Credit Nos. 49-PAK
and 87-PAK of 1964 and
1966)                                21.0       4.3
408     1973   Bangladesh   Highways (replaces Credit
No. 53-PAK of 1964)                   25.0      5.6
409     1973   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance                     4.0        .1
410     1973   Bangladesh   Cereal Seeds                             7.5       5.1
424     1973   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport
Rehabilitation                         8.7      1.1
487     1974   Bangladesh   Second Telecommunications               20.0      13.1
527    1975    Bangladesh   Ashuganj Fertilizer                     33.0      7.2
533    1975    Bangladesh   Population                              15.0     11.7
542    1975    Bangladesh   Barisal Irrigation                      27.0     23.7



- 33 -
ANNEX II
A.   Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (Cont'd)
US$ Million
Amount
(net of cancellations
Loan or                                                    and exchange adjustments)
Credit                                                                       Un-
Number  Year    Borrower           Purpose                 Bank     IDA   disbursed
605    1976    Bangladesh   Karnafuli Irrigation                    22.0     14.9
621    1976    Bangladesh   Agricultural and Rural Training         12.0     10.5
622    1976    Bangladesh   Technical Assistance II                  7.5      6.0
631    1976    Bangladesh   Rural Development                       16.0     14.5
632    1976    Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank                  25.0     14.4
676    1977    Bangladesh   Imports Program V                       75.0      2.8
724    1977   Bangladesh    Shallow Tubewells                       16.0     16.0
725    1977    Bangladesh   Muhuri Irrigation                       21.0     19.9
729    1977   Bangladesh    Extension and Research                  10.0      9.9
735    1977   Bangladesh    Inland Water Transport II                5.0      4.4
752    1977   Bangladesh    Imports Program VI                      75.0     20.4
765    1978   Bangladesh    Jute                                    21.0     19.4
787    1978    Bangladesh   Foodgrain Storage II                    25.0     25.0
825    1978    Bangladesh   Small Scale Industry II                  7.0      7.0
828    1978    Bangladesh   Agricultural Research                    6.0      6.0
864    1978    Bangladesh   Drainage and Flood Control              19.0     19.0 /b
866    1978    Bangladesh   Imports Program VII                     75.0     62.1
872    1978    Bangladesh   Technical Assistance III                10.0     10.0
890    1979    Bangladesh   Oxbow Lakes Fisheries                    6.0      6.0 /b
Total,                                                     54.9  1,023.3    365.9
of which has been repaid                                 0         0.4      -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                             54.9  1,022.9
Total undisbursed                                           0      365.9    365.9
/a   Balance $9,224.0
/b   Not effective.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Multi-Sector Project
Cr. No. 339     Cyclone Area Reconstruction Project:   US$25.0 Million Credit
of October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
After a very difficult start, the project is expected to be com-
pleted by December 1979, about four years behind schedule. Parts A, F, and G
(Inland Water Transport, Coastal Fisheries, and Cyclone Warning System) have
been completed for some time. Parts D and E (Primary and Feeder Roads) have
been substantially completed except before the remainder of the road can be
constructed. Work on the completion of Part B and C (Telecommunications and
Cyclone Shelters) appears to be proceeding satisfactorily. A request for an
extensiin of the Closing Date is currently under consideration.
Agricultural Projects
Cr. No. 340     Chandpur Irrigation II Project:   US$13.0 Million Credit of
October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project is expected to be completed by late 1979, three years
behind schedule. Delays have been due to major flooding, labor problems,
shortages of materials, equipment breakdowns and rebuilding the embankment
as a result of rapid river erosion during the construction phase. While
problems remain, substantial progress has been made both in physical construc-
tion and agricultural development. The main regulator is operational and major
agricultural development has started.
Cr. No. 341     Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 6, 1972; Effective Date: January 13, 1973;
Closing Date: September 28, 1979
Because of a slow start, project implementation is about 18 months
behind schedule. Nearly 3000 wells have now been drilled, and verticality
problems have already been corrected by the contractors. Pumphouse construc-
tion and engine/pump installation is proceeding satisfactorily. Agricultural
development for 2400 wells started in the winter 1978/1979. Project audit
for 1975/1976 has been received while audit for 1976/1977 is being awaited.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Arrangements for extending consultant's services have been agreed. A request
is currently under consideration for an extension of the closing date to permit
the financ±rg of, inter alia, distribution channels in order to increase the
effectiveness of the project. Pending the outcome of this review, the Closing
Date has been initially extended to 9/28/79.
Cr. No. 410     Cereal Seeds Project; US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: January 30, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1979
There has been an improving trend in project implementation during
the past two years. Seed sales and quality are good. Contract growers'
interest is high. Staff morale has also improved considerably. Civil works
are underway but are being delayed by shortages of local funds. Machinery
for seed processing has been ordered. Tender documents for the final list
of machinery and equipment are undergoing final revision after IDA comments.
Staff housing is about 80% complete. On the other hand, vacancies still exist
in the staff to supervise contract growers. With fifteen trainees presently
being trained, most of the planned overseas staff training programs are well
underway.
Cr. No. 542     Barisal Irrigation Project; US$27 Million of April 29, 1975;
Effective Date: February 24, 1976; Closing Date: Decem-
ber 31, 1980
Project civil works continue to make good progress and is expected
to be completed on schedule. The problems delaying procurement of 60 primary
and 2,500 secondary pumps have been resolved and it is expected that some 25
primary pumps will be installed during the current boro season. A target
area of 24,000 acres of irrigation for the present dry season using some
608 secondary pumps is to be attempted.
Cr. No. 605     Karnafuli Irrigation Project; US$22 Million of January 28, 1976;
Effective Date: February 24, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
The project had been behind schedule due to initial delays in
hiring project consultants. The consultants for the irrigation portion of the
project began work in September 1976, but their effectiveness was limited by
delays in procurement of vehicles and equipment and in the assignment of local
consultants to assist in the design work. After a period of good progress,
project civil works have again slowed down due to shortages of local Taka.
If adequate additional funds are alloted, the project could still be completed
on schedule.
Cr. No. 631     Rural Development Project; US$16.0 million of June 3, 1976;
Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
The project was designed as a pilot application of the rural devel-
opment approach pioneered at the Comilla Academy in the mid-sixties. It



- 36 -
ANNEX II
aims at introducing accelerated agriculture and rural development in seven
thanas in Bogra and Mymensingh Districts. It provides financing inter alia
for rural roads, minor irrigation, buildings, storage, rural credit and
strengthening of rural cooperatives. The project became effective on
August 3, 1976.   Initially, despite some teething problems, the project was
progressing satisfactorily. But by June 1977, the following weaknesses
became apparent: (i) lack of cooperation the various ministries and agencies
involved; (ii) lack of effective organization ineffective supervision of
the project by the implementing agency, the Integrated Rural Development
Program (IRDP); (iii) basic deficiencies in the cooperative system (complex
regulations and procedures); (iv) inadequate training of project personnel;
and (v) conflicting government policies in the field of rural credit. In
November/December 1977, IDA, in association with IRDP, undertook a compre-
hensive review of the project, and an Aide Memoire, setting out an action
program to overcome these problems, was presented to the Government in
December 1977.
The Government has made a concerted effort to implement the recom-
mendations of the Aide Memoire prepared in December 1977. A full-time Project
Manager has been appointed who is assisted by three assistants responsible for
credit, cooperatives and training, respectively. International recruitment
is being used to obtain for IRDP technical assistance in project management,
supervision, and monitoring. At the field, two district managers, for Bogra
and Mymensingh, have been appointed to work full time on project activities.
Budgetary and procedural changes have been introduced to enable participating
government agencies to be fully responsible for the implementation of the
projects subcomponents. This, together with a revitalized coordinating com-
mittee of Secretaries of the Ministries concerned has greatly improve coopera-
tion. Implementation of the physical aspects of the project such as rural
works is proceeding satisfactorily but project beneficiaries have, so far,
yet to receive tangible benefits in the form of farm inputs farm equipment.
A proposal has recently been approved to amend the Credit Agreement to finance
incremental fertilizer needs for the project instead of incremental credit for
fertilizer.
Cr. No. 724     Shallow Tubewells; US$16 Million of July 1, 1977; Effective
Date: December 9, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Bids for engines and pump sets for all 10,000 wells have been
received and are being reviewed by the Bangladesh Agricultural Development
Corporation's Tender Committee. A consultant for workshop management has
been hired and the preparation of tender documents for workshop tools and
machinery is at an advanced stage. Construction of 3 out of the 5 project
zonal workshops has been completed. Thana irrigation maps are yet to be
reviewed by consultants.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Cr. No. 725    Muhuri Irrigation; US$21.0 Million of July 1, 1977; Effective
Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Delays occurred initially in obtaining Government approval of the
project budget, establishing the project fund, completing arrangements for
hiring the engineering consultants, and signing a contract with the Contractor
who will construct the Feni Regulator. The contractor, with the Bangladesh
Water Development Board (BWDB) approval, has signed in August 1978, a contract
with the Implementation Assistance Team to participate and assist in construc-
tion work. A BWDB engineer has been appointed as Project Manager and has set
up office in Feni township. The Contractor has started construction site
development and assembly of staff.
Cr. No. 729    Extension and Research Project; US$10 Million of July 1, 1977;
Effective Date:   January 6, 1978; Closing Date:  April 30, 1981
The project is making good progress since it became effective
January 6, 1978. Pre-qualification of contractors for the construction of
training unit at Bogra and Santahar has been advertised while detailed draw-
ings and cost estimates have been submitted and forwarded to IDA for review.
Procurement of essential project vehicles and equipment is progressing
satisfactorily. Suitable salary scales are now approved and DEM has been
requested to proceed immediately with filling of posts for crop production
specialists and district training officers. In the case of Project Imple-
mentation Unit/Sub-Unit (PIU/PISI), gazetted officers have been appointed
in late September 1978; selection of senior staff (Class III and IV) has
been completed but appointment awaits Government's clearance. On agricul-
tural extension, a consultant has been appointed to review unification of
extension services. Village Extension Assistants (VEAs) have already been
relieved of extension duties. The Ministry of Agricultural has also re-
quested the Planning Commission to increase the taka allocation of the
project to Taka 65 million.
Cr. No. 765    Jute Project; US$21 Million of February 8, 1978; Effective
Date: April 14, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Project progress is generally satisfactory. The project organiza-
tion appears to be succeeding in generating enthusiasm among farmers and Jute
Farmers Associations are becoming effective. The value of credit in cash and
kind has increased substantially, and repayments are progressing satisfactorily.
The project technological package is reported to be signficantly increasing per
acre yields.
Cr. No. 787    Foodgrain Storage II Project; US$25 Million of April 12,
1978; Effective Date: September 29, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Effectiveness was delayed by almost three months due to delays in
Government approval of the project budget. However, work on site selection,



- 38 -
ANNEX II
land acquisition, and preparation of tender documents has been proceeding
satisfactorily and physical progress of the project is not expected to be
effected by this delay.
Cr. No. 828     Agricultural Research Project;   US$6 million of June 16, 1978;
Effective Date: November 15, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Effectiveness was delayed by two months, due to delays in approval
of the project budget. Meanwhile contracts with architects for design of
facilities have been signed, and technical working groups established respon-
sible for drawing up research programs in specific fields.
Cr. No. 864     Drainage and Flood Control Project:   US$19.0 million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This credit is not yet effective.
Cr. No. 890     Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project; US$6 million of April 3, 1979;
Closing,Date: June 30, 1984
This credit is not yet effective.
Industry and Imports Program Credits
Cr. No. 527     Ashuganj Fertilizer Project; US$33 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975; Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Description of project status is provided in Part IV of this report.
Cr. No. 632     Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project; US$25.0 Million of May 20,
1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
As of February 28, 1979, Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB) has sub-
mitted 96 subprojects for IDA approval. Of these, 93 have been approved and
three have been held pending clarification by BSB of queries raised during
IDA reviews. As of February 28, 1979 disbursements (including QAR's) were
US$5.2 million.
Cr. No. 676     Fifth Imports Program; US$75 Million of January 25, 1977
Effective Date: February 24, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1979
As of February 28, 1979, disbursements were US$70.0 million.     The
credits Closing Date has been extended by three months to enable COB process
reimbursement from IDA under Procedure Case I.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Cr. No. 752     Sixth Imports Program; US$75 Million of November 30, 1977;
Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
As of February 28, 1979 disbursements (including QAR's) were
US$38.5 million.
Cr. No. 825     Small Scale Industry II Project; US$7 million of June 16, 1978;
Effective Date: September 15, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1983
Progress has started in training commercial bank staff, distributing
circulars to commercial bank branches describing project procedures, and adver-
tising the availability of funds for small industry loans. Staff of the Small
and Cottage Industries Corporation have been assigned to begin preparation of
subsector and area studies for small industry promotion.
Cr. No. 866     Seventh Imports Program:   US$75.0 million Credit of
December 22,; 1978; Effective Date:    January 8, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Education Projects
Cr. No. 407     Education Project; US$21.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Progress on the Agricultural University component of the project
is about 75% complete but 30 months behind schedule. The academic complex
facilities and staff housing are now virtually completed. About half of
the hostels will be completed in December 1979 and the remainder by June
1980. The auditorium, gympnasium and stadium are scheduled to be completed
by October 1979, two months before the Closing Date. A number of new pro-
grams intended to improve the practical skills of students and increase
their involvement in research and extension have been introduced. Civil Works
for The Technical Education component, although 30 months behind schedule is
practically complete. Procurement of equipment is only 60% complete because
of the time-consuming procedures of the Supplies Directorate. Efforts to
revise curricula and improve quality of teaching staff are being made.
However, action has yet to be taken to complete the facilities at Joydeppur
intended to be used for the training of technical teachers. (Construction
of this facility is not part of the project).
Cr. No. 621     Agricultural and Rural Training Project; US$12.0 Million
of March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Implementation of civil works is about three months ahead of sched-
ule but has slowed recently due to shortage of local funds. Completion is



- 40 -
ANNEX II
about 60% on weighted average. Tenders for instructional equipment were
invited in mid-December. Training of teachers for the Agricultural Train-
ing Institutes (ATI's) has been set back by a recent transfer of instructors
to the extension staff to benefit from a recent upgrading of positions, which
was not extended to the ATI staff. Little progress has been made on the
recruitment of technical assistance experts, the development of revised
curriculum, or the in-service training of extension staff.
Population
Cr. No. 533     Population Project:   US$15 Million Credit of February 11,
1975; Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is being cofinanced by six co-lenders providing a total
of US$25 million equivalent in addition to IDA credit. Some progress has
been made in project implementation. Tenders have been received for all
construction packages except the Family Welfare Visitors' Training School
in Khulna and Faridpur. Scrutiny of bids received for four tenders are
underway. Recruitment of staff training teams is under progress while local
consultants have started working with Project Finance Cell to strengthen
central accounting system. Government is considering implementing manage-
ment study recommendation for strengthening district level organization. Over
60 out of 90 medical doctors deputed from the Health Division of the Ministry
of Health and Family Planning to Population Division and Family Planning
Division (PCFD) have joined. Deputation of another 100 doctors is expected
shortly. On the other hand, proposals to strengthen the Building, Planning
and Design Unit (BPDU) are still pending with the Health Division while pro-
gress on service statistic system has been discouraging.
Transport Projects
Cr. No. 408     Highways Project; US$25.0 Million of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date:   September 27, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
There are two major elements of the project which are not yet com-
pleted, these being construction of the new Roads and Highways Directorate
(RHD) headquarters building and paving of the Feni bypass. Progress on the
RHD building is satisfactory, and appropriate steps are being taken to
remedy constructional deficiencies previously noted. Progress on the Feni
bypass paving has improved, and the contractor should complete before the
closing date of the Credit on December 31, 1979.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Cr. No. 424     Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation Project; US$8.7 Million
Credit of August 10, 1973, as amended by Amending Agreement
of October 17, 1975; Original Credit Effective Date:
September 27, 1973; Supplementary Credit Effective Date:
March 19, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Procurement of spare parts and equipment under the Original Credit
has been substantially completed. The two lighterage tankers provided under
the Supplementary Credit have been operating since January 1978, transfering
crude oil from the mother tanker, "Banglar Noor", to the ERL refinery at
Chittagong. However, Bangladesh Shipping Corporation (BSC) has experienced
some problems in maintaining the tankers' cargo pumps and manufacturers'
service engineers are now in Chittagong. IDA has agreed to finance under
the credit additional Technical Assistance to improve tanker operation and
maintenance. There appears to have been a significant improvement in the
oil transfer operating over the past few months.
Cr. No 735      Inland Water Transport II Project; US$5.0 Million Credit of
September 30, 1977; Effective Date: March 13, 1978;
Closing Date June 30, 1980
The Credit became effective on March 13, 1978 three and a half
months behind the original schedule. Lists of spare parts for BIWTA vessels,
navigation aids and for hydrographic equipment, and for BIWTC cargo vessels
have already been prepared and most items agreed. The selection of con-
sultants required for the execution of the project has proceeded very slowly.
However, contracts with two consulting firms have now been signed, and work on
selection of additional required consultants is underway.
Telecommunications Projects
Cr. No. 343     Telecommunications Project;   US$7.3 Million Credit of
November 15, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
The Project was originally financed as part of Credit No. 145-PAK
of 1970, and goods valued at US$2.2 million had been received prior to sus-
pension of disbursements. Three of the four microwave systems have been
commissioned. The fourth microwave system, equipment for which was ordered
together with the microwave systems under Credit 487-BD, is expected to be
commissioned by June 1979, completing the project four years behind schedule.
The Closing Date has been extended from December 31, 1975 to June 30, 1979.
Cr. No. 487     Second Telecommunications Project; US$20.0 Million Credit of
June 26, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
After initial delays, action has been taken on the procurement of
all items except the national trunk automatic exchanges (TAXs) and the inter-
national telephone exchange. Technical specifications prepared by the T&T



- 42 -
ANNEX II
and assist in tender evaluation and subsequent supervision of their
installation. Delay in procurement of the exchanges is likely to delay
project completion until June 1981, two years behind the original estimate.
Physical progress of other works although behind schedule has begun to
improve. The T&T Board was established in July 1976 but little progress
has been achieved in meeting project institution building goals including
transfer to the Board of responsibility for its accounts (currently main-
tained by Comptroller and Auditor General) and introduction of a commercial
accounting system within the Board. The Rules and Regulations defining the
Boards power have not yet been issued leaving the Board with less autonomy
than the prior Director General of the Telephone and Telegraph Department.
However a new ordinance covering the T&T Board has recently been issued and
preparation of revised rules and regulations for the Board is underway.
Technical Assistance Credit
Cr. No. 622     Second Technical Assistance Project; US$7.5 Million of
April 8, 1976; Effective Date April 14, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Credit funds were almost fully committed. However, failure of the
Government and consultants to reach agreement on the staffing of a planning
assistance project has resulted in the release of about US$1.0 million of
additional funds for commitment.
Cr. No. 872     Third Technical Assistance Project:   US$10.0 million; Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982



