CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 527 BD
Development Credit
Agreement
(Ashuganj Fertilizer Project)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 11, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 527 BD
Development Credit
Agreement
(Ashuganj Fertilizer Project)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 11, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 11, 1975, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
OF BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Borrower intends to contract from  the Federal Republic of
Germany, acting through the Kreditanstalt ftir Wiederaufbau, a loan in an amount
of DM30,000,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions
set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the KfW Loan and Project Agreement)
to be entered into between KfW, the Borrower and the Company;
(C)   The Borrower intends to contract from Iran a loan in the amount
of not less than $12,400,000 and not more than $15,000,000 equivalent to assist
in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(hereinafter called the Iran Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and Iran;
(D)   The Borrower intends to contract with the Government of Switzerland
a loan (hereinafter called the Swiss Loan) in an amount of SwF20,000,000 to
assist in financing Part A of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth
in an agreement (hereinafter called the Swiss Loan Agreement) to be entered into
between the Swiss Government and the Borrower;
(E)   The Borrower intends to contract from the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, acting through its Ministry for Overseas Development,
a loan and grant in an amount of £8,000,000 to assist in financing the Project
on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the ODM
Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Government of the United
Kingdom and the Borrower;
(F)   The Borrower intends to contract from the United States of America,
acting through the Agency for International Development, a loan in the amount
of $30,000,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the AID Loan Agreement) to be entered
into between AID and the Borrower;


﻿4
(G)   The Borrower intends to contract with the Asian Development Bank
a loan in various currencies equivalent to $30,000,000 to assist in financing the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in an agreement
(hereinafter called the ADB Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and ADB;
(Hj   The Project will be carried out by the Ashuganj Fertilizer and Chemical
Company Limited (hereinafter called the Company) with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Company
the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(1)   The Association is willing to ma e the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and the Company;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "ADB" means the Asian Development Bank;
(b)   "AID" means the Agency for International Development of the United
States of America;
(c)   "BFCPC"    means   the   Bangladesh   Fertilizer, Chemical  and
Pharmaceutical Corporation, a public enterprise established by the Bangladesh
Industrial Enterprises (Nationalizations) Order 1972 (President's Order No. 27);


﻿5
(d)   "Commercial Operation Date" means tbe date of the first day as of
which the Plant has produced eighty per cent of its rated urea capacity (in the
aggregate for a sixty day period without allowance for shutdown for maintenance)
for a period of sixty consecutive days;
(e)   "Company" means the Ashuganj Fertilizer and Chemical Company
Limited, a company organized under the Companies Act, 1913 of the Borrower;
(f "Financing Agreement" means the agreement between the Borrower
and the Company regarding inter alia loans to, and the subscription of shares of,
the Company described in Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(g)   "Gas Supply Agreement" means the agreement between the Company
and TGTDC described in Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement;
(h)   "KfW" means the Kreditanstalt flir Wiederaufbau, a K6rperschaft des
Offentlichen Rechts existing under the laws of the Federal Republic of Germany;
(i)   "ODM" means the Ministry of Overseas Development, an agency of
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland;
(j)   "Other Lenders" means ADB, AID, Iran, KfW, ODM, the Government
of Switzerland, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, any other
international or governmental institution (other than the Borrower or an agency
of the Borrower) which makes funds available to the Borrower or the Company
for purposes of the Project;
(k)   "Plant" means the fertilizer plant and ancillary facilities to be
constructed at Ashuganj, described in Part A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(1)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and the Company of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes the schedule to the Project Agreement and any
agreements supplemental thereto;
(m)   "TGTDC" means the Titas Gas Transmission and Distribution
Company Limited, a company established under the Companies Act, 1913 of the
Borrower; and
(n)   "TVA" means the Tennessee Valley Authority, an agency within the
United States of America which is presently carrying out a study of the
rehabilitation of existing fertilizer plants in Bangladesh.


﻿6
ARTICLE Il
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-three million dollars
($33,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement,
as such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall authorize the person who shall hold the office,
from time to time, of Managing Director of the Company to sign applications
for withdrawal of proceeds of the Credit and shall authorize and empower such
person to (i) authorize officers of the Company to sign such applications and (ii)
furnish the Association authenticated specimen signatures of any such officers. The
authority of persons so authorized shall continue until notice to the contrary is
received by the Association from the Borrower or such Managing Director, as the
case may require.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works and skrvices (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
set forth or referred to in Section 2.07 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Boirower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section '.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on May 15 and
November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15 commencing


﻿7
May 15, 1985 and ending November 15, 2024, each installment to and including
the installment payable on November 15, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project and Other Covenants
Section 3.01. Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower:
(a)   shall cause the Company to perform in accordance with the provisions
of the Project Agreement (including the completion of the Plant as such completion
is defined in Schedule 2 to this Agreement) and the Financing Agreement all the
obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, facilities, services and oth -r resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable the Company to perform such obligations, as and when
needed, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent
or interfere with such performance; and
(b)   shall without limitation to the foregoing, take, and cause to be taken,
all necessary action to insure that the Company is provided, or enabled to obtain,
personnel as and when needed to carry out the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree:
(a)   Prior to the Commercial Operation Date: All funds made available to
the Borrower by the Association and Other Lenders for purposes of the Project
shall be lent to the Company, and all funds made available to the Company by
the Borrower out of other resources shall be provided to the Company in exchange
for its shares, in each case, pursuant to a Financing Agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Company under terms and conditions which have
been approved by the Association. Such terms and conditions shall include, in
respect of proceeds relent: (i) interest at the rate of ten per cent per year, (ii)
five years' grace as to principal, (iii) level semi-annual repayments of principal over
the following ten years, and (iv) the acceptance of appropriate foreign exchange
risk by the Company.


﻿8
(b)   In addition, the Financing Agreement shall contain terms which will
insure, and the Borrower shall insure, that, as of the Commercial Operation Date
and thereafter, the Company's unimpaired paid-up share capital is not less than
forty per cent of the Company's total capital, which for the purposes of this Section
shall mean the total of such unimpaired paid-up share capital plus the aggregate
outstanding principal amount of debt of the Company maturing by its terms one
year or more after the Commercial Operation Date.
(c)   On and after the Commercial Operation Date: (i) All funds made
available to the Borrower by the Association and Other Lenders for purposes of
the Project shall be lent to the Company pursuant to the Financing Agreement
on the terms set forth in paragraph (a)(i) through (iv) of this Section, provided
that, to the extent that such lending would have the result that the Company's
unimpaired paid-up share capital would be less than forty per cent of the Company's
total capital, the proceeds of the Credit shall be provided by the Borrower to
the Company in exchange for its shares; and (ii) all funds made available to the
Company by the Borrower out of other resources shall be provided to the Company
pursuant to the Financing Agreement in exchange for its shares or, to the extent
permitted by the preceding paragraph (b), by way of loan on the terms set forth
in paragraph (a)(i) through (iv) of this Section.
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Financing Agreement
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association
and to accomplish the purposes of the Project, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the
Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall take and cause to be taken such action
as is required to accomplish the following:
(a)   Not less than eight billion cubic meters of the natural gas reserves
of the Titas gas field shall be dedicated and made available to the Company for
the operation of the Plant and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
no other competing dedication or use of such reserves shall be permitted.
(b)   TGTDC shall supply the Company with its requirements for gas from
the Titas gas field.
(c)   TGTDC shall construct such gas pipelines as are required to connect
the Titas gas field to the premises of the Plant. Such pipeline shall be completed
not later than June 30, 1977, or such later date as the Association may agree.


﻿9
(d)   The Borrower's Power Development Board will supply the Company's
requirements for electricity on reasonable terms if requested to do so. (See Section
2.05 of the Project Agreement.)
(e)   BFCPC and the Company shall enter into an agreement, satisfactory
to the Association, pursuant to which the Company will reimburse BFCPC the
reasonable expenses of goods provided and work done by BFCPC to, or on behalf
of, the Company prior to June 30, 1975; no payments shall be made by the
Company to BFCPC in respect thereof (i) until such agreement has been approved
by the Association and (ii) except payments made in accordance with such
agreement.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall carry out or cause to be carried out
a fertilizer distribution and marketing study of scope and detail to be agreed
between the Borrower and the Association. Such study shall be completed not
later than June 30, 1975, or such later date as the Association may agree.
(b)   Within two months after the completion of such study, the Borrower
shall furnish the Association its proposals for a program to improve fertilizer
distribution and marketing.
(c)   After consultation with the Association on such proposals, the
Borrower shall implement a program satisfactory to the Association to improve
fertilizer distribution and marketing in sufficient time to insure the efficient
distribution and marketing of the output of the Plant.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall use its best efforts to take, and cause
to be taken, all action required to improve the production of the existing fertilizer
plants at Ghorasal, Chittagong and Fenchuganj, taking into account the
recommendations made by the TVA in connection with its current study on this
subject.
(b)   The Borrower shall employ, or cause to be employed, a consultant
to assist BFCPC and the Company in establishing a uniform system of inventory
control for spare parts and consumable stores required for the operation of such
fertilizer plants and the Plant; and such system shall be established by June 30,
1976, or such later date as the Association may approve.
Section 3.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall take and cause to be taken all action required to comply with the procedures
set out in Schedule 3 to this Agreement in connection with import licences, inland
transport, foreign exchange and procurement in connection with the Project.


﻿10
Section 3.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall exercise, or cause to be exercised, its power to establish or control the
ex-factory prices at which the Company may sell the Plant's production in such
manner as not to prevent the Company from meeting its obligations under Section
4.10 of the Project Agreement, under the conditions specified therein, in each
fiscal year following the fiscal year in which the Commercial Operation Date falls.
Section 3.08. Prior to making any appointment to the positions, however
formally described, of Chairman of the Board or Managing Director of the
Company, the Borrower shall inform the Association of its proposal to make such
appointment, furnishing such information as to the qualifications and experience
of the proposed appointee as the Association shall reasonably request, and shall
afford to the Association sufficient opportunity to exchange views with the
Borrower prior to making such appointment.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   The Company shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement
or obligation of the Company under the Project Agreement.
(b)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Company will be able to perform its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
(c)   The Company's Memorandum or Articles of Association shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of the Company to carry out the covenants,
agreements and obligations set forth in the Project Agreement.
(d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action, without the Association's prior consent, for the dissolution or
disestablishment of the Company or for the suspension of its operations.
(e)   A subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created or acquired
or taken over by the Company, if such creation, acquisition or taking over would
adversely affect the conduct of the Company's business or the Company's financial


﻿11
situation or the efficiency of the Company's management and personnel or the
carrying out of the Project.
(f)   The Company shall be unable to pay its debts as they mature or any
action or proceeding shall have been taken whereby any of the property of the
Company shall or may be distributed among its creditors.
(g)   The Borrower shall, without the prior consent of the Association,
transfer, or permit to be transferred, beneficial ownership of any shares of the
Company, or the rights appertaining thereto, to any person, association or entity
other than the Government.
(h)   The Borrower's or the Company's right to receive assistance for the
Project pursuant to the KfW Loan and Project Agreement, the Iran Loan Agreement,
the Swiss Loan Agreement, the ODM Loan Agreement, the AID Loan Agreement,
the ADB Loan Agreement, or the Financing Agreement shall have been suspended
or terminated, or the right of the Borrower or the Company to obtain funds
pursuant to such agreements, with the exception of the Swiss Loan Agrcement,
shall have failed to become effective within sixty days after the Effective Date.
(i)   A default shall occur in the performance of any obligation of the
Borrower or the Company pursuant to the KfW Loan and Project Agreement, the
Iran Loan Agreement, the Swiss Loan Agreement, the ODM Loan Agreement, the
AID Loan Agreement, or the ADB Loan or Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   Any event specified in paragraphs (a), (h) or (i) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
(b)   Any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d), (e), (f) or (g) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur,
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:


﻿12
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of the
Company have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action;
(b)   the execution and delivery of the Financing Agreement on behalf of
the Borrower and the Company, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(c)   except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all conditions, other
than the effectiveness of this Agreement, precedent to the disbursement of funds
pursuant to the KfW Loan and Project Agreement, the Iran Loan Agreement, the
ODM Loan Agreement, the AID Loan Agreement, and the ADB Loan Agreement
have been fulfilled and the Government of Switzerland has signified its decision
to submit the proposed Swiss Loan to the Swiss Parliament, such agreements or
proposal in all cases specifying the amounts set forth in the Preamble to this
Agreement;
(d)   the Company has made arrangements satisfactory to the Association
to obtain the services of consultants and personnel referred to in Section 2.02(a)
of the Project Agreement;
(e)   the execution and delivery of the Gas Supply Agreement on behalf
of the Company and TGTDC, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(f)   the Managing Director of the Company has been appointed and the
Borrower has authorized and empowered him as provided in Section 2.02(b) of
this Agreement;
(g)   the Borrower has provided the Association with evidence satisfactory
to the Association that not less than eight billion cubic meters of the natural gas
reserves of the Titas gas field have been dedicated and made available for the
operation of the Plant;
(h)   the Borrower has provided the Association with evidence satisfactory
to the Association that all governmental action required to implement the
procedures referred to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement has been taken;
(i)   the Company has acquired all land and rights in respect of land as
are required for the construction and operation of the Plant;
(j)   BFCPC shall have transferred to the Company, and the Company shall
have assumed, all rights and obligations of BFCPC pursuant to the contract for


﻿13
development of the Plant site referred to in the following paragraph (k) and the
contract with the consultants referred to in Section 2.02(a)(i) of the Project
Agreement;
(k)   as of a date acceptable to the Association, the Company is in
compliance, and both BFCPC and the Company have, at all times prior to such
date, been in compliance, with their obligations pursuant to the contract for
development of the Plant site entered into between BFCPC and Vinnell Corporation,
dated October 8, 1974, as amended to such date;
(1)   the Borrower and the Association have reached agreement on the scope
and detail of the study referred to in Section 3.04(a) of this Agreement; and
(m)   the Company has provided the Association a budget, approved by the
Borrower, showing planned expenditures for goods and services (disaggregating
personnel covered) beginning with the date of commencement of the Company's
business and ending with the anticipated Commercial Operation Date, broken down
by months for the first twelve months and by years thereafter and showing the
proportions of all such expenditures expected to be made in currency other than
the Borrower's.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Company, and constitutes a legally
binding obligation of the Company in accordance with its terms;
(b)   that the Financing Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and the Company,
respectively, and constitutes a legally binding obligation of the Borrower and the
Company in accordance with its terms;
(c)  that the Gas Supply Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Company and TGTDC,
respectively, and constitutes a legally binding obligation of the Company and
TGTDC in accordance with its terms;
(d)   that all the issued shares of the Company are beneficially owned by
the Borrower;
(e)   that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be performed or given
by the Borrower, or its agencies or otherwise to be performed or given in order


﻿14
to authorize the carrying out of the Project, including any action required for
the implementation of the procedures set out in Schedule 3 to this Agreement,
and to enable the Company to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement
have been so performed or given;
(f)   that the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company
transmitted to the Association by Dr. A.K.M. Shamsul Huq; Director, on
October 29, 1974 are duly registered and in force and, except to the extent the
Association shall have agreed, have not been amended;
(g)   the Company has acquired all rights in respect of the land for the
Plant required for carrying on its business and no persons who had rights to such
land before such time as the Company acquired such land have any rights against
the Company other than the right to obtain reasonable compensation for such
land from the Company; and
(h)   the Company has acquired the rights, and assumed the obligations,
of bFCPC under the contracts referred to in Section 5.01(j) of this Agreement,
and such contracts, as assigned, are legally binding in accordance with their terms.
Section 5.03. The date May 12, 1975 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. (a) The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.01, 3.02,
3.05, 3.06 3.07 and 3.08 of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 4.02
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the fifteenth anniversary of the date of
this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
(b)   The obligations of the Borrower under Section 3.03 of this Agreement
shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on the twenty-fifth anniversary of the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary of the Ministry of Planning (Planning
Commission) of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿15
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning
Planning Commission
Bangladesh Secretariat
Dacca, Bangladesh
Cable address:
PARIKALPANA
Dacca
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s / M. Hossain Ali
Authorized Representative
on behalf of the President
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Mervyn L. Weiner
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿16
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of imported items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit:
Category
(1)   Civil Works
(a)   Contractor's
Services
(b)   Supplies and
Construction
Equipment Not
Included Under
(1)(a)
(2)   Other equipment
and freight and
marine insurance
expenses
(3)   Engineering,
Management Assist-
ance, Consultants'
Services and
Overseas Training
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods or services
supplied from, the territory of the Borrower except to the extent the Association
shall agree;
(b)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of Category (1) on account of expenditures
incurred after November 1, 1974 in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $600,000; and


﻿17
(c)   payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower
on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof.
3.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purposes of the Project are to increase the Borrower's capacity to
produce fertilizer to meet local demand (and, to the extent local demand is met
at reasonable prices, for export). The Project consists of the following parts:
A.    Fertilizer Plant. Construction, commissioning, and operation of a urea
fertilizer plant and all appropriate ancillary facilities at Ashuganj including:
(1)   a urea plant having a rated capacity of 1,600 metric tons per day;
(2)   an intermediate ammonia production plant having a rated capacity of
approximately 925 metric tons per day; and
(3)   staff housing and common facilities.
B.    Management and Training. Provision of management and consultants' services
and training of staff to manage and operate the Plant, including overseas
training.
*           *          *           *
The Plant shall be deemed completed as of the date that both of the following
events have occurred: (i) the engineering firm referred to in Section 2.02(b) of
the Project Agreement shall have certified to the Association that the Plant has
met the performance tests specified in such firm's contract with the Company,
and (ii) the Plant has produced at the rate of eighty per cent of its rated urea
capacity (in the aggregate for a ninety day period) for a period of ninety consecutive
days. Part A of the Project is expected to be completed by August 31, 1978;
and Part B of the Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1982.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 3
Licenses, Duties, Foreign Exchange,
Inland Transport and Contract Approval
(Section 3.06)
A.    Import Licenses and Customs Duties
1.   The Borrower will provide without delay all import licences for the
importation of goods for the Project procured from foreign sources.
2.    Customs duties, at the rates in force from time to time, will be charged
on the goods imported for the purposes of the Project. To facilitate entry
of the goods into Bangladesh and delivery to the Plant site, the Borrower
will implement the following procedures: Customs duty will be assessed and
become payable immediately upon the goods' arrival or, in the case of
shipment by sea, upon presentation of shipping documents to the appropriate
Customs authorities prior to the ship's arrival. Payment of duty will be
facilitated by the establishment of a deposit or imprest account for this
purpose by the Company or by such other means as are acceptable to the
Association. After payment of duty and upon arrival of the goods by sea,
the goods will be unloaded to cargo barges for transshipment to the Plant
site. Upon arrival of goods by air and payment of duty against shipping
documents, the goods will be promptly transshipped to the Plant site. Upon
arrival at site, the goods will be inspected promptly by Customs appraisers
(located at site at the expense of the Company) to determine that the goods
delivered to site correspond to the description of the goods in the shipping
documents against which Customs duty had been paid. Any adjustments in
Customs duty will be effected in due course, but the goods, after Customs
appraisal, will be released from Customs control immediately and may be
utilized in the manner required for the Project.
B.    Inland Water Transportation of Project Goods
To facilitate delivery of goods of foreign origin arriving by sea for the Project
to the Plant site, they will be promptly transferred at the ports of entry from
ocean-going vessels to inland water cargo barges for direct shipment to the Plant
site. Upon adequate notice to the Borrower of the type and quantity of Project
goods required to be shipped through inland waterways to the Plant site, the
Borrower will ensure through its appropriate agency that the Company is enabled
to obtain the cargo vessels suitable for such purpose at the time required.


﻿20
C.   Procurement of Imported Spare Parts and Imported Consumable Stores
Required for the Operation of the Plant
In procuring the above-mentioned items, the Company may, at its discretion,
utilize the services of BFCPC. The Borrower will ensure, throughout the life of
the Plant, the availability of sufficient foreign exchange resources to permit the
Company to make timely purchases of such spare parts and stores as are required
for the efficient functioning of the Plant, and will ensure the issuance of such
import licenses and provision of such assistance as will enable the spare parts and
stores to be imported into Bangladesh and delivered expeditiously to the Plant.
D.   Approval of Proposed Contracts of the Company for Purposes of the Project
by Governmental Authorities
4.    The following procedures and rules shall apply to the proposed award of
contracts by the Company and to all contracts to which the Company is, or
proposes to become, party for the purchase of goods and services in connection
with the execution of the Project. Such proposed awards and contracts, the
expenditures in respect of which are not estimated to exceed taka ten lakhs
equivalent, shall not be subject to any domestic review or approval whatsoever,
except by the Company. To the extent the approval of any authority of the
Borrower (the "Approving Authority") may be required by law, the following
procedures shall apply:
(a)   If the Approving Authority approves the proposed award of a contract,
and such contract as agreed between the Company and the successful
bidder does not differ substantially from that anticipated by the terms
of the proposed award and does not significantly alter the obligations
of the Company beyond those customarily undertaken in connection
with similar contracts (except to the extent anticipated by such terms),
then the Company will not be required to submit for further review,
or obtain any further approval of, such contract and may execute and
deliver the same with legally binding effect.
(b)   The Borrower shall convey its decision in respect of any proposed
contract award to the Company within fourteen days of the date of
receipt of the bid evaluations, including the proposed award, from the
engineering firm referred to in Section 2.02(b) of the Project
Agreement by the Company's Dacca office. Such award shall be
assumed to have been appr 'ed, and the Company (or if the Conipany
so decides, by the General Contractor for the benefit of the Company)


﻿21
may proceed, upon compliance with any applicable requirement of
the schedule to the Project Agreement, to execute and deliver the
proposed contract with legally binding effect, if the Borrower's decision
in respect of the proposed contract award is not communicated to
the Company within 21 days of such date.


