CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 527 BD
Project Agreement
(Ashuganj Fertilizer Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
ASHUGANJ FERTILIZER AND CHEMICAL COMPANY LIMITED
DATED FEBRUARY 11, 1975


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 11, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
ASHUGANJ FERTILIZER AND CHEMICAL COMPANY LIMITED (hereinafter
called the Company).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between the PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-three million
dollars ($33,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development
Credit Agreement, but only on condition that the Company agrees to undertake
such obligations toward the Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS the Company, in consideration of the Association's entering into
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The Company shall carry out the Project described in Schedule
2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and marketing
practices.
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist it in carrying out the Project, the Company
shall:


﻿4
(i)         employ consultants to act as technical advisor to the Company
in preparing plans for the Plant and supervising the engineering
firm referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section; and
(ii)        employ, or obtain the services of, such experts as are required
to fill managerial, technical and advisory positions within the
Company for which Bengalees with the required qualifications
and experience are not available and to train suitably qualified
Bengalees to fill such positions.
(b)   In order to assist it in carrying out the Project, the Company shall
employ a suitably qualified and experienced engineering firm to provide requisite
process licenses, to carry out plant design and detailed engineering, to prepare tender
documents and evaluate bids, to construct, or to supervise the construction of,
the Plant, to conduct tne start up and guarantee tests therefor and to assist the
Company in training staff to operate the Plant.
(c)   Such consultants, experts and engineering firm shall be acceptable to
the Association and shall be employed on terms and conditions satisfactory to
it.
Section 2.03. The Company shall take all required action on its part to
implement the procedures set forth in Schedule 3 to the Development Credit
Agreement including, without limitation, the establishment of a deposit or imprest
account to meet customs duties payments and the maintenance of sufficient
balances therein to cover such payments, unless other means for meeting such
payments are approved by the Association.
Section 2.04. The Company shall enter into a long-term gas supply agreement
covering all its requirements for natural gas with TGTDC under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.05. In the event that an electrical power generating facility of
sufficient capacity to supply the entire needs of the Plant is not included within
the Plant, the Company shall, not later than December 31, 1975, enter into an
electricity supply agreement, satisfactory to the Association, with the Borrower's
Power Development Board to obtain the Plant's requirements for electricity.
Section 2.06. The Company shall, with the assistance of the consultants,
experts and engineering firm referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, develop
and implement a plan satisfactory to the Association to train managerial and skilled
staff in the management and operation of the Plant. For this purpose, the Company


﻿5
shall submit its proposed plan to the Association not later than December 3 1,
1975.
Section 2.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works and services (other than consultants' services, including the services of the
experts and engineering firm referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement) for
the Project, other than contracts in respect of goods or services the financing of
which has been allocated to Other Lenders in accordance with the terms of the
Memorandum of Agreement among the Other Lenders and the Association shall
be procured in accordance with the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. (a) The Company undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by the Company to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Company shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made
available to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.09. (a) The Company shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Company, until two years after the completion of the Project:
(i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of the Project (including
the cost thereof) and to record the goods and services procured for the Project,
identifying those financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to
it by the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without
limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the
Association's representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included
in the Project, and to examine any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so
made available to it and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c)   The Company shall enable the Association's representatives to examine
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of the
Company and any relevant records and documents.


﻿6
Section 2.10. The Company shall duly perform all its obligations under the
Financing Agreement, the Gas Supply Agreement and any agreements with, or in
respect of loans made by, Other Lenders in connection with the Project. Except
as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Company shall not take or concur
in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving any such agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.11. (a) The Company shall, at the request of the Association:
(i)        exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress
of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement, the Financing Agreement and the Gas Supply
Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit; and
(ii)       furnish to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request in respect of the Project.
(b)   The Company shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes, or threatens to interfere with, the progress of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by the Company
of its obligations under this Agreement, the Financing Agreement or the Gas Supply
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the Company
Section 3.01. The Company shall at all times manage its affairs, maintain
its financial position, plan its future expansion and carry on the operation of the
Plant and its other operations in accordance with appropriate financial, engineering,
industrial and marketing practices and under the supervision of experienced and
competent management assisted by adequate and competent staff.
Section 3.02. Prior to making any appointment to the positions, however
formally described, of plant manager and chief financial officer, the Company shall
inform the Association of its proposal to make such appointment, furnishing such
information as to the qualifications and experience of the proposed appointee as
the Association shall reasonably request, and shall afford to the Association
sufficient opportunity to exchange views with the Company prior to making such
appointment.


﻿7
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Company
shall:
(a)   at all times take all steps which are necessary to maintain its existence
under the lAws of Bangladesh and its right to carry on operations and to acquire
and retain ownership of all lands and to maintain and renew all interests in land
and other properties and all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are
necessary or useful in the carrying out of the Project or in the conduct of its
business;
(b)   at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, equipment and
other property, and promptly make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, in
accordance with appropriate engineering practices;
(c)   not sell, lease, transfer, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of any of
its property or assets which shall be required for the efficient operation of its
business and undertaking; and
(d)   not alter its corporate structure or amend its Memorandum or Articles
of Association.
Section 3.04. The Company undertakes to ensure that environmental and
pollution controls designed to meet environmental protection standards satisfactory
to the Association are installed in the manufacturing facilities included in the Project
and that such controls are thereafter maintained in good condition and properly
utilized.
Section 3.05. The Company shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound practice
in the fertilizer industry.
Section 3.06. The Company shall take all action as shall be necessary to
acquire as and when needed all such land, and rights in respect of land, as shall
be required for the construction and operation of the Plant and shall furnish to
the Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
Section 3.07. The Company shall take all action required on its part to
comply with the requirements set forth in Section 3.03(e) of the Development
Credit Agreement.


﻿8
Section 3.08. The Company will implement procedures satisfactory to the
Association to insure the prompt transmission of proposals for award of contracts
subject to the approval of any authority of the Borrower to such authority.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. As used in this Article:
(a)   "Generally accepted accounting principles" shall mean those principles
which have substantial authoritative support and are applicable in the circumstances
as of the date of the report.
(b)   "Consistent basis" shall mean, in reference to the application of
generally accepted accounting principles, that the accounting principles observed
in the current v.riod are comparable in all material respects to those applied in
the preceding period.
(c)   "Current assets" shall mean the sum of unrestricted cash available for
use in current operations, marketable securities (excluding securities, whether
marketable or not, acquired for purposes of control, affiliation, or other continuing
business advantage), receivables collectible in the normal course of business within
one year, and inventories (excluding spare parts) valued at the lower of cost or
market.
(d)   "Current liabilities" shall mean all obligations of the Company due
on demand or within one year or whose liquidation is reasonably expected to
require the use of existing sources classified as current assets. Obligations shall
include but not be limited to accrued taxes on, or measured by, income and current
maturities of long-term debt.
(e)   " Long-term  debt"   shall mean any    and  all loan  contracts and
agreements, bonds, debentures, notes or other debt, whether secured or unsecured,
which shall be payable after twelve months from the balance sheet date at which
the determination is made, as shown by the Company's financial statements, all
determined and prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. Debt shall be deemed to be incurred (A) under a loan contract or
agreement, on the date and to the extent that it is drawn down pursuant to such
loan contract or agreement, and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on the date
the agreement providing for such guarantee is entered into but only to the extent
that the guaranteed debt is outstanding. Whenever it shall be necessary to value


﻿9
in the currency of the Borrower debt payable in another currency, such valuation
shall be made on the basis of the rate of exchange at which such other currency
is obtainable by the Company, at the time such valuation is made, for the purposes
of servicing such debt or, if such other currency is not so obtainable, at such
rate of exchange as shall be reasonably determined by the Association.
(f)   "Capital additions" shall mean the aggregate of all the expenditures
or costs incurred by the Company for the acquisition and ownership of land,
buildings, machinery, equipment, furniture, fixtures and all other tangible fixed
assets and investments in, or loans to, other business entities.
(g)   "Net worth" shall mean the aggregate amount of the Company's
unimpaired capital, surplus (including any revaluation reserve attributable to
exchange rate fluctuation but excluding any reserve allocated to cover specific
liabilities) and reserves out of surplus determined in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles.
(h)   "Adjusted net earnings" shall mean the net income of the Company
computed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, after
deducting all debt amortization payable during the applicable period in excess of
depreciation for such period, and after excluding any net gain arising from the
sale or revaluation of capital assets or from the acquisition, retirement or sale of
any securities issued or owned by the Company.
(i)   "Net revenues" shall mean the gross revenues from    all sources less
operating and administrative expenses, including taxes, surcharges and other levies,
if any, but before provision for depreciation and interest and other charges on
debt.
(j) "Debt service requirements" shall mean the aggregate amount of
amortization, interest and other charges in respect of debt.
(k)   "Debt service coverage ratio" means the ratio described in Section
4.06(b) of this Agreement.
Section 4.02. The Company shall maintain books and records of account
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles adequate to reflect
its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.03. The Company shall authorize and grant to the Association,
upon its request, the opportunity to discuss the Company's financial statements
and its financial affairs from time to time with the Company's independent auditors,


﻿10
and shall further authorize and require any representative of such accountants to
participate in any such discussions requested by the Association, provided that
any such discussion shall be conducted only in the presence of an officer of the
Company, except as the Company shall otherwise consent.
Section 4.04. The Company shall deliver to the Association within 45 days
after the close of each of the first three quarters of each fiscal year of the Company:
(a)   An unaudited balance sheet of the Company as of the close of each
quarter and statements of profit and loss for that portion of the fiscal year-to-date
then ended, prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles,
applied on a basis consistent with that of the preceding period, or containing
disclosure of the effect on the financial position or results of operations of any
change in the application of generally accepted accounting principles during the
period, and reported on by an authorized financial officer of the Company;
(b)   A written statement by an authorized financial officer of the Company
at the end of each quarterly period that there existed no condition or event which
constitutes a default in the observance, performance, and fulfillment of any of
the covenants, agreements, or conditions contained in this Agreement, or which,
after notice by the Association, or lapse of time, or both, would constitute such
default.
Section 4.05. The Company shall deliver to the Association within 120 days
after the close of each fiscal year of the Company:
(a)   Two copies each of the balance sheet of the Company as at the end
of such fiscal year, the related statement of profit and loss for such fiscal year
and any reports prepared for distribution to the Company's shareholders. Such
balance sheet and statement of profit and loss shall also set forth the corresponding
data for thL hoiimediately preceding fiscal year. Such balance sheet and statement
of profit and loss shall be in reasonable detail, certified by an independent auditor
satisfactory to the Association, and prepared in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles.
(b)   A certificate by an independent auditor satisfactory to the Association
stating: (i) that he has reviewed this Agreement and the transactions, operations
and condition of the Company for the fiscal year then ended, (ii) whether or
not his review has disclosed, in his view, the existence of any event or condition
which constitutes, or has constituted, a breach of the Company's obligations under
this Agreement, and (iii) setting forth computations as to the Company's compliance
during the period reviewed with Sections 4.06, 4.07, 4.08, 4.09, 4.10(a)(i) and
4.10(a)(iii) of this Agreement.


﻿11
(c)   Two copies of an annual progress report prepared by the Company
and certified by the Managing Director which shall include (i) a review (including
data) of the Company's operations and activities during the year covered with
particular emphasis on those affecting its financial condition, (ii) a projection of
such operations and activities (including corresponding data) for the next succeeding
fiscal year and such additional period as may be appropriate in the light of the
current status of the Project, and (iii) comments on any other relevant and
significant developments with respect to the Project, including construction of the
Plant and the estimated date of completion.
Section 4.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Company
shall not, after the Commercial Operation Date, incur or have outstanding any
long-term debt if:
(a)   after such incurrence, the aggregate principal amount of the Company's
outstanding long-term debt exceeds 150 per cent the Company's net worth; or
(b)   if its net revenue for the fiscal year immediately preceding its
incurrence shall be less than 150 per cent of the maximum debt service requirements
for any succeeding fiscal year on all its long-term debt then outstanding (including
the debt to be incurred).
Section 4.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree in writing, the
Company shall not, prior to the Commercial Operation Date, make expenditures,
or commitments for expenditures, for capital additions except expenditures, or
commitments for expenditures, required for the carrying out of the Project; and,
for the three year period following the Commercial Operation Date, the Company
shall not make any such expenditures or commitments except:
(a)   expenditures, or commitments for expenditures, required for operation
of the Plant, or repair, maintenance or replacement of assets;
(b)   investments in short-term marketable securities solely for the purpose
of temporarily employing funds at the time not required to be held as cash; and
(c)   other expenditures, or commitments for expenditures, not exceeding
in the aggregate the equivalent of $3,000,000 in any fiscal year.
Section 4.08. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all depreciable
assets of the Company shall be fully depreciated in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles applied on a consistent basis and, without limitation
thereto, the depreciable fixed assets included in the Plant relating to manufacturing


﻿12
operations shall be fully depreciated within a period of twelve years starting at
the close of the fiscal year during which such assets are placed into service.
Section 4.09. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree:
(a)   the Company shall not take any of the actions referred to in paragraph
(c) of this Section until the expiry of a period of one year from the Commercial
Operation Date;
(b)   the Company shall not declare any dividend or make any other
distribution with respect to its share capital except out of its accumulated adjusted
net earnings; and
(c)   the Company shall not pay any dividend or make any other distribution
with respect to its share capital (other than dividends or distributions payable solely
by way of the transfer of additional share capital of the Company to its shareholders
in proportion to their holdings of the Company's existing share capital at the time)
or purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire, directly or indirectly for any
consideration, any of such share capital, or such additional share capital, or
otherwise reduce its outstanding share capital or prepay any long-term debt if,
after giving effect to such action, the ratio of current assets to current liabilities
would be less than 1.5:1.
Section 4.10. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Company shall take such action as shall be necessary, as from the Commercial
Operation Date: (i) to maintain a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of
at least 1.5:1; and (ii) to meet out of its sales revenue in each fiscal year its
full operating, administrative and distribution expenses including adequate provision
for maintenance, depreciation, taxes, surcharges and other levies and interest on
debt, and to earn in respect of each such year a reasonable rate of return, after
taxes, on its net worth; and (iii) to maintain a debt service coverage ratio of 1.5:1.
(b)   For the purposes of paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section and Section 4.08
of this Agreement, the assets of the Company shall be revalued in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.


﻿13
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of the Company thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two
dates:
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       the fifteenth anniversary of the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify the Company of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿14
For the Company:
Ashuganj Fertilizer and Chemical
Company Limited
43 Dilkusha Commercial Area
Dacca - 2
Bangladesh
Cable address:
Ashuganj Fertilizer and Chemical
Company Limited
43 Dilkusha Commercial Area
Dacca - 2
Bangladesh
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of the Company may be taken or executed by its Managing Director or such other
persr.. or persons -is its Managing Director shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. The Company shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person
or persons who will, on behalf of the Company, take any action or execute any
documents required or permitted to be taken or executed by the Company pursuant
to any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Mervyn L. Weiner
Regional Vice President
South Asia
ASHUGANJ FERTILIZER AND CHEMICAL COM
COMPANY LIMITED
By /s/ M. Hossain Ali
Authorized Representative


﻿15
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in Part A.3 hereof, contracts shall be let under procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.    Bidders for the works and equipment required for Part A of the Project
shall be prequalified as described in part 2.2 of the Guidelines.
3.    (a) Critical items which are shown to the satisfaction of the Association
to be difficult to obtain, either because of the Plant's technical requirements or
because of limited availability, shall be procured on the basis of procedures
acceptable to the Association.
(b)   Contracts for goods or services estimated to cost less than $25,000
equivalent each, and which cannot conveniently be grouped in accordance with
part 1.3 of the Guidelines, may be awarded pursuant to such competitive practices
as are appropriate under the circumstances.
(c)   In cases in which international freight and other services incidental
to the delivery of goods to Bangladesh are financed separately from the goods
involved, such services shall be procured pursuant to such competitive practices
as are appropriate under the circumstances.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods, customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on locally supplied goods, shall be excluded, except to the extent
hereinafter provided. Bidders shall be required to state in their bid the firm f.o.b.
price and estimated freight and insurance charges for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for locally manufactured goods. The cost to the Company of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place
of their use or installation shall be taken into account in the evaluation of bids
in accordance with paragraph 4.7 of the Guidelines.


﻿16
2.    Goods manufactured in Bangladesh may be granted a margin of preference
in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)  All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will,be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Bangladesh if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Company
and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Bangladesh equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in
Bandladesh.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)  All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the bid price (plus estimated
freight and insurance) of the imported goods offered in each group C bid, for
the purpose of this further comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount
of customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such group C bid, or
(ii) 15% of the bid price (plus estimated freight and insurance) of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid
in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if
not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.


﻿17
C.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preferences for Domestic
Contractors
1. With respect to any contract for construction included in the Project, the
Company may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors,
in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided in Part A of
this Schedule and applicants for qualification applying also for such preference
shall be asked to provide, as part of the information for qualification, such
information, including details of ownership, as shall be required to determine
whether, according to the classification established by the Company and accepted
by the Association, a particular firm or group of firms qualifies for a domestic
preference. The bidding documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the
method that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give
effect to such preference.
(b)   After bids have been received and reviewed by the Company, responsive
bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i)         bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for preference; and
(ii)        bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount equal to 7-1/2%
of the bid amount shall be added to bids received under group (ii) above.
D.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Association
1.   Review of prequalification. The Company shall, before qualification is invited,
inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce
such modifications in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request.
The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications
and, where applicable, of their eligibility for domestic preference under Part C.1
above and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification
and for such eligibility shall be furnished by the Company to the Association for
its comments before the applicants are notified, and the Company shall make such
additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Association
shall reasonably request.
2.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts
With respect to all contracts for Plant construction and equipment estimated
to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more:


﻿18
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Company shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents and shall make such modifications in the said documents
as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding
documents shall require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b)   In respect of such contracts as the Association shall notify the
Company, promptly after the public opening of bids, the Company shall inform
the Association of the names of the bidders and the respective amounts of the
bids.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Company shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report, by the consultants referred to in Section 2.02(a)(i) of this
Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with
the recommendation for award of such consultants and of the Company and such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,
if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and the Company and state the
reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
3.    With respect to all contracts for Plant construction and equipment estimated
to cost less than $200,000 equivalent to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Company shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution
and prior to the submission to the Association of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together, in the case of any such contract estimated to
cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, with the analysis of bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.


﻿19
The Association shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was not
consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and the Company and state the reasons for such determination.


