Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4434-SLJ
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
0F THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 7.1 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SUDAN
FOR A
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE AND ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT
April 14, 1987
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00             *               SL  2.50    (official rate)
US$ 1.00             a               SL  4.00    (commercial rate)
SL  1.00             '               US$  .40    (official rate)
SL  1.00             -               US$  .25    (commercial rate)
SDR 1.00             a               US$ 1.26419
(The US Dollar/SDR and US Dollar(Sudanese Pound exchange rates shown above
are the rates that prevailed on March 27, 1987)
ABBREVIATIONS
bid      -    barrel per day (petroleum)
CBPE     -    Central Bureau for Public Enterprises (Government
of Sudan)
Cr.      -    IDA Credit
ESP      -    "Economic Salvation Program" (Government of
Sudan)
PY       -    Fiscal Year
GDP      -    Gross Domestic Product
GNP      -    Gross National Product
GOS      -    Government of the Republic of Sudan
ICB      -    International Competitive Bidding
LCB      -    Local Competitive Bidding
MlFEP    -    Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
(Government of Sudan)
PE       -    Public Enterprise (also "Parastatal")
pM       -    person-month
PPF      -    "Project Preparation Facility" (IDA Financed)
PPPED    -    "Prospects, Programmes and Policies for
Economic Development" (Government of Sudan
annually revised planning
document)
TA       -    Technical Assistance
TOP           Terms of Reference
.i:IP    -    "Three Year Public Investment Program"
(Government of Sudan)
UN       -    The United Nations
UNGTAD   -    The United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development
USAID    -    United States Agency for International
Development (Bi-Lateral donor agency
of the United States Government)
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Sudan: July 1--June 30



FOR OFFoICIAL USE ONLY
SUDAN
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE & CONONWIC IUWIGREMNT PROJOCT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUHARY
Borrowers    Republic of Sudan
Amounts       SDR 7.1 million (USS 9.0 million equivalent)
Termst        Standard
Project       The project would provide assistance to: A. Public Enterprise Reform,
Descriptions  i.e., (i) refine and implement the policy framework established to
improve the PE sector, define criteria for Government's involvement in
the sector, and apply those policies and criteria to an initial ten
enterprises, and (iI) initiate a reorganization program for the PE
sector; B. Improve National Planning and Financial Manatement, i.e..
(i) carry-out macro-economic analyses; (ii) establish a program to
integrate the national planning and budgeting system; and (iii)
continue support for the improvement of the accounting and auditing
systemo; and C. Improvement of Human Resource Management through a
pilot effort for the reform of the civil service targetted on the
central personnel management function and key economic management
agencies.
Benefits:     The project  would  result  in  the  improvement  of the institutional
framework of the PE sector, including the furtherance of appropriate
policy intiatives, refinement of criteria for Government involvement,
and establishment of an effective oversight system to the launching of
a rehabilitation and divestiture  program.    In addition, the project
would create momentum for rapid expansion of the reform program based
on the experience  gained  with  the  ten  pilot  PEs.   It would also
consolidate earlier initiatives towards making the planning and
budgetary system more efficient and identify further measures to the
sAme intent. Finally, it would launch a process of improvement of
Government's personnel management function, starting with the Ministry
of Finance and Economic Planning and selected public enterprises.
Risks:        The major risk associated with  the  proposed  project is that  public
enterprise reform will not succeed in the absence of substantial
improvements in macro-economic policies, specifically in price and
interest rate policies. The project is an investment in the future by
providing  the  technical   capacity   to  improve  public  enterprise
performance, but full achievement of the Government's objectives will
depend on policy changes yet to be decided upon. Other risks are: (i)
non-sustainability of institutional benefits anticipated in view of
high turnover rates in the civil service and (ii) lack of conmitment
by some line managers and operational staff towards implementation of
the financial management system.   To minimize the risks, the project
is designed to sustain Improved Goverrment capacity to identify policy
options and base  its  decisions  on well-founded  analysis.   At the
operational level, responsibilities have been carefully assigned,
primarily to  those  involved  in  project  design.         Furthermore,
consultation techniques involving all major interested groups, as
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizationr



- ii. -
successfully initiated during the PPF preparation period, will be
continued so as to ensure a broad base of support, maintain the
momentum  towards  execution,   and   reach  agreement  on  acceptable
compromises on sensitive issues. Finally, the Government has publicly
supported the objectives of each of the components incorporated into
the project.
Estimated Project Coats:
(0$ '000)                                   Local      Foreign        Total
Long-tern Experts                               -          1,152        1,152
Short-ternm Consultants                        644         3,000        3,644
Formal Trng. (incl. study tours)               591         1,850        2,441
Equipment/Vehicles(incl. maintenance)          293           486          779
Operating Costs                              1.950             -        1.950
BASE COST                                    3,478         6,488        9,966
Contingencies, price                           979           207        1,186
PPF Advance                                      -           500          500
TOTAL1                                        4,457        7.195       11,652
(38%)       (62%)       (100%)
Financint                                                  (in US$ thousands):
IDk                                           1,805        7,195        9.000    (77%)
Government of Sudan                           2,652            -        2,652    (23%)
TOTAL                                         4,457        7,195       11,652   (100Z)
(38%)       (62%)       (100%)
Estimated Disbursements (USS '000):
IDA FY                 1988    1989    1990    1991    1992   1993    1994    1995
Annual:                1,550   2,200   2,750     500      500    500     500     500
Cumulative:            1,550   3,750   6,500   7,000   7,500  8,000   8,500   9,000
Rate of Return: NIA
Staff Appraisal  Report:        No   separate   Staff   Appraisal   Report  has  been
prepared for this project.
1/Taxes included in project costs are negligible, as all items would be exempt from
import duty and local taxes.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF T7E PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF SUDAN
FOR A
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE & ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the  following  report  and  recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Sudan of SDR 7.1 million (approximately US$9
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a Public
Enterprise and Economic Management Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       An economic mission  visited  Sudan  in  May  1984 and its report,
('Prospects for the Rehabilitation of the Sudanese Economy") No. 5496-SU of
October 7, 1985, has been distributed to the Executive Directors. A more
recent mission visited Sudan in February 19B6 and its draft report is now
under discussion with Government.
A. Back2round
3.       Sudan, with an  area  of  2.5  million  square  kilometers, is the
largest country in Africa. It has a population of about 21.9 million and a
per capita  GNP  estimated  at  about  US$325.    Much  of  the  country is
unoccupied or very sparsely  populated.    Although  about one-third of the
country is desert or semi-desert, Sudan has considerable untapped potential
for agricultural development. About two-thirds of the total land area is
suitable for crop or pastoral production. The economy is heavily dependent
on exports of cotton, with groundnuts, sesame and gum arabic as minor
exports. The manufacturing sector is relatively small and the country's
infrastructure is weak. A development of potential significance to Sudan's
prospects is the discovery of oil reserves in the southwestern part of the
country. However, in 1983, the division of the non-islamic and semi-
autonomous Southern Region into three separate regions and the imposition
of Islamic laws there led to the emergence of civil unrest. Subsequent
attacks on the Chevron oil exploration activities and construction work on
the Jonglei Canal caused these operations to shut down. Peace negotiations
and military efforts  by  the  successive    governments  have  so far been
unsuccessful and the fighting has frustrated economic development and food
distribution in the South.
4.       Sudan's poor economic  performance  is  largely the consequence of
inadequate economic management. The authorities have routinely tried to
substitute  administrative  regulations   and  controls  for  macroeconomic
policies based on direct market signals while ignoring the deteriorating
capacity of the Government to administer a central system of controls. It
is true that factors exogenous to the authorities' economic policy
decisions, such as the oil price hike in the 1970S, resumed fighting in the
South, and three consecutive years of drought in the 1980s, severely
constrained the authorities' ability to implement necessary policies. In



-2-
addition, reduced net external capital inflows caused further deterloration
of Sudan's mounting debt.
5.       Many of the current  economic  problems  have  theiar origin in the
Government's attempt during the 1970's to boost the economy by a wave of
nationalizations and substantial public investments financed by foreign
capital inflows.    The  investments  were  partly  misconceived and partly
mismanaged. As a result, the projected production of exportables and import
sutbstitutes and domestic resource mobilization did not materialize. Public
revenues dwindled, but public expenditures remained high. Public sector
demand on the domestic banking cystem rose sharply and pushed monetary
expansion up to  32  percent  per  annum  in  the  1980s.    This, in turn,
accelerated inflation  to  over  30  percent.    The  invostment drive also
contributed to growing deficits in the balance of payments current account,
which were enlarged by oil price increases and a serious decline in cottor.
production. Although the current account deficit was reduced somewhat
after 1982183 by efforts to increase exports and compress imports, domestic
production was severely curtailed by inadequate imports. Gross official
reserves fell to only a few days worth of imports and annual debt
reschedulings on favorable terms were required to close balance-of-payments
gaps.    After  the  last  rescheduling  in  1984  the  country  started to
accumulate substantial arrears.   In  addition, the replacement of existing
conventional taxes by Islamic tax laws in 1983 resulted in a further fall
of revenues to below 9 percent of GDP by 1985186.
6.      The  Nimeiri Government repeatedly attempted to establish financial
equilibrium, to restore export growth, to improve the performance of the
public corporations, and to install an adequate system for management of
the nation's external debt.   The  results  of these efforts, however, have
been   disappointing   because    Government   implemented   the   economic
stabilization and  adjustment  programs  in  an  ad  hoc,  unsustained, and
incomplete fashion.
B. Recent Political and Economic Development
7.       It was under  these  conditions  of  severe  internal and external
economic imbalances that Sudan's transition to democracy took place. After
the Nimeiri Government was overthrown in April 1985, a Transitional
Military Government was in power for one year; during which time it viewed
its task as mainly that of preparing for a general election. That election
was held in April 1986 as scheduled and a coalition government was formed.
The new Government set out to tackle the three priority problems facing the
country: (1) the disturbances in the South; (ii) a new Constitution; and
(iii) the very weak economic situation.
8.       The Government has prepared  a  budget  for 1986187 and a one-year
Economic Salvation Program (ESP).    The  latter  is  to be followed by the
four-year program  currently  under  preparation.    IDA  is assisting this
endeavor with a Special Project Preparation Facility (SPPF). In the ESP,
the authorities emphasize the need for production-oriented strategies with
effective demand control and an adequate amount of additional international
resource transfers to Sudan. Medium-ternm macro-economic targets include a
unified and flexible exchange rate, fiscal revenues at 20 percent of GDP, a
limit on Government borrowing from the banks to 10 percent of revenue, and



-3-
overall monetary growth to 20 percent. Reorganization of the management of
state-owned enterprises and higher productivity of the civil service are
other priority objectives. There are, however, few substantive measures in
the document that could help the autthorities achieve these targets in
either the short or  medium-term.    The  authorities continue to depend on
administrative controls to combat scarcities and inflation. The budgeted
fiscal deficit is as high as 10 percent of GDP and Inflation remains at 30-
40 percent per year.   The  Government manages its foreign exchange through
multiple rates; by and large, the currency remains overvalued because of
continuing domestic  inflation.    Lack  of  foreign  exchange continues to
severely constrain production. External debt servicing problems remain
overwhelming; the authorities plan to pay US$208 million for this fiscal
year's foreign debt service while the obligations falling due are US$1.1
billion, and the accumulated arreare, as of June 1986, were US$2.7 billion.
Given the economy's performance in the first quarter of the fiscal year and
the lack of concrete measures in the ESP, the authorities' macro-economic
targets for 1986/87 are unlikely to be met. Technical assistance offered
by the Bank and the Fund for the preparation of the FY88 budget and medium-
term programming of the economy has been accepted by the Government.
9.       While the new  Government  is  slow  in making  progress with the
required short and medium term adjustments, it advanced with more resolve
toward some of Sudan's  long-term  objectives.   The Government changed the
pro-natalist policies of the Nimeiri Government and is studying, with the
help of the Bank, the establishment of a comprehensive mother and child
health  program.    It   also   launched   an   attack  on  the  increasing
desertification of Sudan by both better planning of expanded mechanized
agriculture, increased extension services in the vulnerable semi-arid
areas, and protection and replanting of forestry resources. The Government
is also programming major research and extension work in the development of
high yielding hybrid sorghum, non-shattering sesame, yield-increasing
technology for mechanized farming, and comprehensive pest control systems
to restore the quality of Sudan's cotton.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
10.          World  Bank  Group  gross  commitments  to Sudan to date total
US$1,142 million. Of this, US$33.0 million are IFC commitments. There
have been eight loans, (two on Third Window terms) and 41 credits for a
total of 49 projects. Twenty-two projects are under implementation. Fifty
percent of total Bank/IDA lending has been for agricultural development;
the other fifty percent cover projects in a wide range of sectors. Annex
II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC
investments as of September 30, 1986.
A. Assistance Stratety
11.      The Bank  Group  assistance  strategy  has  been  to encourage and
support efforts by Government to undertake a broad economic reform program
to address structural imbalances in the economy and thus lay the foundation
for self-sustaining economic growth.   Bank staff have been working closely
with the IMF in providing policy advice to the authorities. The Bank
believes that higher levels of domestic resource mobilization and an



-4-
environment conducive to private investment are critical for achieving
sound economic recovery. One important element for achieving these goal.
is a reduction in the Government's fiscal deficits that have so far been
largely monetized. This would require both increased efforta in raising
fiscal revenues and continued discipilne on the expenditure side. The
reduction of aggregate demand should be combined with changes in the price
structure that favor tradeable production. Flexible prices are, therefore,
a prerequisite for successful economic adjustment. Another requirement for
success is a substantial increase in foreign aid to support the reforms.
The Bank takes the view that the quality and credibility of the reform
program will be an important determinant of the amount, modality, and terms
of future foreign aid.   Sudan will  be  able  to  grow out of the current
situation only through a credible and comprehensive program sustained over
a number of years.
12.      The Bank's lending  program  reflects  the position that improving
the country's agricultural productive potential is the key to sustained and
higher  growth  and  better  export  performance.    Production  should  be
stimulated by incentive prices, improved organization, and research. The
International  competitiveness  of   the   agricultural  sector  should  be
maintained and producer prices kept at incentive levels without resort to
inflationary financing.    Bank  lending  for  both  irrigated  and rainfed
agriculture,  including   livestock   development,   has,  therefore,  been
substantial. The Bank, in addition, envisages efficient and productive
utilization of SudanP' forestry resources with a strong emphasis on their
conservation. The Bank has also been closely involved in the development
of Infrastructure that supports  productive  activities.   In recent years,
the Bank has directed its attention toward the rehabilitation of existing
capital assets and the removal of bottlenecks to productive sectors.
B. Experience with Past Lending
13.      The Bank's assistance strategy  has  been effective in encouraging
the Government to undertake measures which have restored cotton production
to the levels achieved in the  early  1970s.    This was brought about by a
combination of _rrigation rehabilitation projects and import financing
credits. It also helped to introduce in Sudan a cycle of annual policy
papers (PPPED) containing updated three-year rolling public investment
programs.   This  was  instrumental  in  keeping  public  investment  at an
appropriate level, and support for maintaining this approach by the new
Government under their four-year planning cycle will also be assisted by
the project proposed in this report.
14.        Physical progress in implementing development projects in Sudan
has been mixed.   Many  projects  have  difficulty in getting key materials
(cement, fuel and timber) of which there are periodic shortages. Belated
delivery of equipment and supplies due to transportation difficulties also
affects most projects.   The  continuing  drain  of skilled manpower to the
Middle East oil rich countries takes Its toll on effective preparation and
implementation of projects. Tnere have also been lengthy delays in meeting
effectiveness conditions, hiring key staff, completing necessary legal
documentation,  concluding  required   co-financing  arrangements,  and  in
providing timely audited accounts.   The Government intends to remedy these
through civil service and parastatal sector reform.



-5-
15.       The disbursement rate (ie., actual disbursements during the year
as a percentage of the undisbursed balance at the beginning of the year)
declined from 23.4 percent in FY78 to 12.1 percent in FY81, but improved
markedly to 27.7 percent in FY82 and 25.8 percent in FY83. The decline to
10.0 percent In  FY84    was  a  result  of  suspension of disbursements by
cofinanciers, a problem that now has been resolved regarding several large
projects; as indicated in a rise  to  23.3 percent  in  FY85.   Due to the
absence of policy based lending in Sudan, however, the FY86 disbursement
rate for Sudan declined again to 19.05 percent; which is still relatively
low compared to 27.79 percent for the Eastern and Southern Africa Region
and 25.02 percent Bank-wide.
C. Relationship to Other Aid Flows
16.      Bank and IDA lending --  both new cosmitments and disbursements --
represent about 10 to 15 percent of total aid flows to the Sudan. We
expect that this relationship will continue at about the sae level during
the next several years. Bank and IDA obligations represent about 6 percent
of Sudan's total outstanding and disbursed debt. Bank/IDA debt service was
only about 1 percent of Sudan's total external debt service falling due in
1983. While this may rise slightly in the next several years, it will
remain a very small portion of Sudan's total debt service obligations.
PART III. PUBLIC ENTERPRISE & ECDONOMIC MANAGEIENT SECTORS
17.      The Association  and  the  Government are  engaged  in a dialogue
directed toward the formulation and implementation of a comprehensive
economic stabilization and restructuring program.   The Bank has emphasized
in that policy dialogue the need for: (i) reducing demand pressure and
domestic inflation through, inter alia, reduction in public and parastatal
deficits; (ii) a flexible foreign exchange system that reflects the
currency's market value; and (ill) more market-oriented policies, including
flexible pricing  to  create  incentives  for  private  investment.   These
policies, if implemented, would improve the economic environment in which
public enterprises operate and would reduce the social costs of the public
enterprise reform process supported by the Bank. At the seme time, public
enterprise reform would help to sustain these necessary macro-economic
adjustment policies and increase private sector growth; especially by
reducing the size of the public sector through reducing inflationary
deficits, divestiture, and improving the internal efficiencies of those PEs
remaining in the sector.   Furthermore,  higher visibility of the financial
status of these enterprises would provide the Central Government with
enhanced monitoring capacity; thereby enabling it to prevent the waste of
resources.
18.      Although specific policy measures  on the important macro-economic
issues have not yet been agreed, it is clear that the Government needs to
improve its capacity to manage the economy on a sustainable basis. In
particular, Government will need to address a comprehensive range of
institutional elements; including improvements in : (i) public enterprise
sector  management;   (ii)   national   economic   planning  and  financial
management; and (iii) buman resource organization and development. Those
three elements define the components of a public enterprise and economic



-6-
management reform program; the first phase of which would be assisted by
the proposed project.
A. Public Enterprise Sector Reform
Backtrotnd
19.      The  parastatal  sector,  which   is   now  estimated  to  include
approximately 200 enterprises, has long been important in the Sudanese
economy.   It  embraces  all  modern  irrigation  facilities, the railways,
virtually all power and water supplies, and a significant proportion of
industry, commerce and finance.    State-owned enterprises are eostimated to
be responsible for about 45-50 percent of GDP and 75 percent of exports.
Therefore, the performance of the parastatal sector has a major influence
on the performance of the economy as a whole. Unfortunately, almost all
enterprises in the PE sector have shown a very serious decline in
performance. Many elements have combined to cause this docline; ranging
from an overall deterioration in macro-economic conditions and the absence
of clear Government policy for the PE sector to braindrain of qualified
managers and technical personnel; massive overstaffing at other levels;
mismanagement; breakdown of maintenance and replacement of equipment
because of Insufficient finance and foreign exchange; and weak financial
accounting  and   monitoring   systems.       The   result   is   a  serious
underutilization of capacity, a steep drop in the quantity and quality of
goods and services produced by PEs, continuous financial losses which lead
to a serious drain on treasury and banking resources, and misallocation of
human resources.
20.      The Role of The Government  in  The Economy.  Government's role in
the economy, especially in the commercial and industrial sectors, has
evolved considerably since the 1960s, when there were only nine public non-
financial enterprises (PNFEs).    In  general  terms, changes in political
orientation towards the PE sector can be divided into four periods: (i)
primary reliance on private sector (1956-1969); (ii) primary reliance on
public sector, including nationalization of private enterprises and the
substantial expansion of the PE sector (1970-1979); (iii) attempted
rehabilitation of the PE sector combined with acceptance of some limited
denationalization (1980-1984); and (iv) recognition that major refcrm is
necessary within the sector in the context of a mixed economy with
expansion of the private sector (1985-current). T.hat history has resulted
in a lack of clarity concerning the public sector's organizational and
economic role.   This  lack  of  clear  policy  and  direction has not only
resulted in a waste of resources but has also prevented the creation of a
favorable business environment for the development of a vigorous private
sector.
21.      OversiRht.  The absence  of  a comprehensive system for Government
oversight  of  the  PE  sector   has   compounded  the  problem  caused  by
inconsistent policies concerning the role of Government in the productive
and  service  sectors   described   above.        The  current  situation  is
characterized by: (i) the absence of any single Government unit with
comprehensive knowledge of the number of PEs and the Government's financial
position in  each  and  every  one  of  them;  (ii)  a  Public Corporations
Department in the Finance  Wing  of  MFEP with responsibility for reviewing



-7-
the annual budgets of only public corporations (excluding oversight of
state-owned companies); (iii) an established practice that authority to act
for the state in regard to PE. is delegated, by the Minister of Finance, to
sectoral ministers (not ministries) without either specific regulations or
legislation to that effect nor any established organizational arrangements
to assist ministers acting in that capacity; and (iv) direct access by PE
managers to Ministers, and Minister. to PE managerm, for often arbitrary
and ad hoe financial and operational decisions (within a context of
recurLant crisis, the absence of policy criteria, and competing personal,
political, and production oriented interests).
22.      Finance.  Financing of PE  deficits  is provided through a vari@ty
of channels, Lncluding: (i) direct financing of investment and operations
through the national budget; (ii) credit through state-owned banks; (iii)
cross-subsidies among PEs through lower prices for inputs provided by one
PE to another (as compared to the price to private sector clients) and
forgiveness of payment arrears (through maintenance of accounts receivable
for indefinite periods); and (iv) ad hoc requirements imposed by Government
on some PEs to extend  loans  to  other  PE.    The absence of any central
location within Government for monitoring such financial transactions and
providing analyses of their impact on enterprise and Government financial
performance or on the economy as a whole severely limits the Government's
ability to determine the extent of PE deficit financing or to control
access to such financing within established targets.
Strategic Objectives
23.     Tfl  ultimate objective of Bank  assistance  to the PE sector is to
make it leaner and more effective by assisting Government to: (i)
substantially reduce the size of the sector; (ii) improve the institutional
setting in which the remaining public enterprises function; (iii) improve
the internal efficiencies and effectiveness of such enterprises; and (iv)
eliminate or significantly reduce the currently substantial levels of
direct and indirect Government subsidies to the sector.
Progress To Date
24.      A major performance study  of  public corporations was financed by
IDA and conducted jointly by Bank staff and the GOS during 1976-1977. That
study included similar conclusions and recommendations for action to those
made by the Government in their request for this Credit. Experience with
several projects financed by the Bank and other donors which have attempted
to  improve  the  internal   efficiencies   of  various  individual  public
enterprises (e.g., railways, agriculture, energy, telecommunications, and
industry) have reinforced the conclusion in that study that many of the
problems negatively affecting individual PE performance are caused by
factors in the broader policy and organizational environment which cannot
be addressed through assistance limited to the internal operations of
individual public enterprises alone.
25.      By 1985, the effect of negative public enterprise performance as a
primary cause of the country's financial crisis received the increased
attention of the IHF and various international donors. During the period
since September 1985, the successive Governments have both been exploring



-8-
wayN  to  improve  parastatal  performance   and  have  sought  World  Bank
nsnistance in that  regard,    Financed  by  a  PPF advance, the Government
prepared a proposal for a Technical Amsistance Credit which war submitted
to IDA In September  1986.    Tho  inaugural  policy speech to the recontly
elected Parliament by Prime Miniater Sadiq Al Mahdi In July 1986, the
FPlnance Minister's Budget Speech, and the Government's recent Short Term
Economic Recovery Plan, all have explicitly comitted Government to a
policy of PE reform. Indeed, in the last few months, the Government lin
publicly announced its Intention to divest five public enterprises (Blue
and White Nile Corporatlons, Food Industry Corporation, Kassala Onion
Dehlydration  Factory,  and   Sugar   Public  Corporation).    Nevertheless,
difficulties  in  implementing   these   decisions   have  highlighted  the
Importance of having clear policies, a sound institutional framework, and
careful phasing. This project Is designed precisely to meet the need for
nuch preparatory work.    In  that  context,  Government has reaffirmed its
commitment to public entsrprise sector reform by agreeing with IDA on a
nubatantive policy statement concerning the parastatal sector (Annex IVIA)
nnd a plan of implementation over a four year period (Annex IV/B). The
Minister of Finance has signed that statement, which providoe the basis for
private and public sector understanding of their respective roloe. That
commitment has been reinforced by Government's agreement to divest itself
of the two enterprises (Rea and Krikab Sweets factories) studied during the
preparation period within one year of project effectiveness and to make
specific decisions concerning the retention or divestiture of at leant ten
other enterprises within two years of project effectiveness. Finally, in
recognition   of   the   importance   of   locating   overall   operational
responsibility for Government's effort to reform  the PE sector in a single
organizational unit, the GOS has already acted on a recommendation included
in the proposal to IDA by establishing a Central Bureau for Public
Enterprises (CBPE) and appointing Its Director and initial two full-time
staff members.
B. National Economic Plannin      l and Financial Management
Backgtround
26.      The development of an  effective  planning and budgeting system in
Sudan has been  hindered  by  the  complete  separation of the development,
recurrent, and civil service budgets from each other; the first being the
responsibility of the Planning Wing of the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planning, the second of the Finance Wing of that same Ministry, and the
third  of  the  Civil  Service   Chamber.       This  has  led  to  excessive
compartmentalization of departments that need to exchange information
freely and cooperate closely in the collection and interpretation of
economic and financial data.    Although  the  Ministry  of Finance and the
Ministry of Planning were merged in 1983, they continue ti act as
autonomous wings with virtually  independent  budgets.   Further, the Civil
Service Chamber is responsible to the Minister of Finance, but is not
included under the responsibilities of the First Undersecretary of the
MFEP. As a result, fiscal decisions are most often unrelated to plan
projections. Necessary linkages within MFEP and with sectoral ministries,
public enterprises, and the Bank of Sudan are not adequately specified and
what coordination does  occur  often  depends  upon  a  network of personal
contacts.



-9-
Stratelc Oblectives
27.      The long term objective  of  the  program  to  be initiated by the
proposed project to improve national economic planning and financial
management is the comprehensive reorganization of economic and financial
management functions.   That  reorganization  would  focus primarily on the
improvement of the planning/programming/budgeting function; including the
appropriate domarcation and integration of function. currently assigned to
the Planning and Finance Wings of KFEP and the Civil Service Chamber in the
preparation and execution of the national budget and collection and
analysis of economic and financial data.  Achievement of that objective is
essential for building up the government's institutional capacity for
planning and economic management.
Progress To Date
28.      The first  series  of  improvements  in  planning  procedures were
introduced in 1982 and have provided a more flexible instrument for public
investment programming. Included in these procedures is the formulation of
an annually-revised document entitled 'Prospects, Programmes and Policies
for Economic Development' (PPPED) which consists of an assessment of the
currant performance of the economy, projections for the next three years,
and a  'Three Year  Public  Investment  Program"  (TYPIP).   Nevertheless,
although these developments have been instrumental in keeping public
investment at an appropriate level the last few years, they have not
resulted in an Improved and  sustainable    integration of the planning and
budgeting  process.    Indeed,  the  asymmetry  between  public  investment
planning on a multi-year basis and budgeting with a one-year horizon leads
to weaknesses in both economic planning and financial management. The
project will assi t the Government to institutionalize methods for linking
sectoral and regional planning to national planning, and, in turn, linking
such planning decisions to buzdget allocation and disbursement decisions.
C. Human Resource Ortanization and Development
Background
29.      Sudan  shares  with  most   countries   in  Sub-Saharan Africa  a
demoralized and ineffective civil service.   In the case of Sudan, however,
current  conditions  represent  a   significant  decline  in  attitude  and
performance from the situation that existed up until the early 1970's.
Between 1970 and 1981, a Ministry of Public Service and Administrative
Reform was responsible for all of the normal civil service organization and
management functions.   However,  from  1981, those various functions have
been dispersed among five government agencies and their responsibilities
are not clearly differentiated.
30.      A number of other factors  have  also combined over time to create
the current unsatisfactory situation, including: (i) a policy (only
recently suspended) of guaranteed government employment to any Sudanese
senior secondary school graduate; (ii) expansion of unskilled and semi-
skilled ranks within the civil service as a mechanism for reducing
unemployment; (iii) dramatic deterioration of real-incomes received from
official salaries and benefits; (iv) mid-career departure from the civil



-10-
service of many of the most skilled and experienced personnel for other
positions inside and outside the country; (v) substantial deterioration of
facilitieos within the workplace; (vi) rapid expansion of Government's role
in planning and managing development program, including PEs; and (vii)
concommitant changes in the role  of  the civil service from administrative
maintenance functions to more entrepreneurial development.
31.      With reference to the PE sector, personnel systems are diverse and
contradictory.   The  unskilled  and  semi-skilled  labor  force  is highly
unionized and personnel policy is broadly consistent with that of the
private sector. However, managers and skilled personnel are employed under
a variety of terms, including secondment from Ministries of regular civil
servants or contracts of non-civil servants with sectoral Ministers,
enterprise managers, or boards of directors.
32.      There is general agreement  that  the current civil service system
in Sudan is in serious disarray and that substantial reform is required.
Nevertheless, to be effective in operational terms, any such reform program
will require, as an initial step, the establishment of an integrated and
systematic approach to planning and management of the civil service; which,
in turn, is a necessary step toward improving the Government's capacity to
implement any program of economic recovery.
Stratetic Objectives
33.      The long term objectives  of  the  human resource organization and
development program are: (i) a lean, efficient, effective, and development
oriented regular civil service and (ii) within the PE sector, the linking
of terms and conditions of service to performance under the autonomous
control of shareholders and managers.
Progress To Date
34.      In  July  1985,  the  Transitional  Military  Government  formed a
committee  to  address   problems   in   the   civil  service  and  provide
recommendations concerning: (i) the organization and internal structure of
the civil service; (ii) training; (iii) recruitment; and (iv) relations
between ministries regarding the personnel management and development
function.   The  Committee's  Report  is  both  comprehensive  in scope and
ambitious with regard to the speed recommended for implementation. A
review of those recommendations indicates agreement between IDA staff and
the Technical Committee concerning the principles on which reform should be
based; as well as many of the specific recommendations for actions to be
taken (e.g., assigning "responsibility of job control and evaluation...
to... the corporate management" of PEs; amending the 1973 Civil Service Act
and 1976 Pension Act to facilitate the dismissal or retirement of civil
servants "for the pursuance of the public interest;" and "call on private
sector business to help promote training institutions capabiliLtes").
Nevertheless, before such a program can be implemented, further work is
necessary to translate those recommendations into a practical program.
Such work will be undertaken with assistance by the proposed project.



-11-
PART IV. TRE PROJECT
35.      In October 1985,  the  Minister  of  Finance and Economic Planning
requested assistance to rationalize the PE sector. That component of this
proposed  project  was  identified   in   November  1985.  Preparation  was
undertaken by the GOS with IDA PPF financing during the period February
through  August  1986.    Coincident  with  preparation  of  the  PE sector
component, follow-on assistance to the Second Technical Assistance Project
in the fields of planning and financial management improvement was also
requested by the GOS (Experience with that earlier project is summarized in
Annex  V).    The   proposed   credit   was  appraised  in  November  1986.
Negotiations were held in Washington during the week of March 23, 1987. The
Sudanese delegation was led by Dr. E.A.A. Zaki, Under Secretary, Planning,
Ministry of Finance and  Economic  Planning.   The proposed project closely
follows  and  supports  the  Bank's  continuing  Economic  and  Sector Work
Program. A Credit and Project Summary is provided at the beginning of this
report.  Supplementary project data are contained in Annex III.
A. Project Objectives
36.      The strategic  economic  development  objective  for  Sudan  is to
restore the economy to a growth path.   The project would contribute to the
achievement of that overall objective by providing technical assistance,
supporting services and related equipment to initiate a medium and long-
term program to improve efficiency in the public enterprise sector, macro-
economic planning and budgeting, and human resource organization and
management.
B.  Project Description: Summsar
37.      The project  will  consist  of  three  distinct, but interrelated,
components.
a).   PE Sector Reform.   The  project would finance approximately
300 person months of technical assistance and related
training, equipment, and operating costs for a total of
approximately US$4.5 million; including a PPF advance of
US$.5 million already disbursed.    That assistance would be
provided to: (i) refine and implement a comprehensive policy
framework  vis-a-vis   the   PE   sector;   (ii)  prepare  a
rationalization program for the retention, privatization, or
liquidation of ten pilot enterprises; (iii) strengthen the
internal  planning  and  management   of  the  ten  selected
enterprises;  (iv)  design   and  implement  procedures  and
systems for the efficient planning and management of the PE
sector as a whole (including the allocation of specific
authorities and responsibilities among the various parties
involved); and (v) review the relevant legislative framework
and implement any necessary revisions.
b).   National Economic Planning end  Financial Management.   The
project would finance approximately 165 person months of
technical assistance and related training, equipment, and
operating  costs,  for  a   total  of  approximately  US$3.5



-12-
million, to: (1) carry-out macro-economic analysis; (ii)
reform the system for financial planning and preparation of
the budget; (iii) reorganize central economic management
functions; (iv) support the sustainable improvement of the
accounting and auditing system; and (v) improve Custom's
capacity for revenue collection.
c).   Human Resource Orftaniaation  and  Development.   The project
would finance approximately 50 person months of short-term
technical assistance and related training, equipment, and
operating  costs,  for  a   total  of  approximately  US$1.0
million, to design a pilot effort and program for reform of
the civil service; initially targetted on the central
personnel function and key economic agencies.
C. Proiect Description: Detailed Features
Public Enterprise Sector Reform Component
38.      As described above (para. 17), an important element of the
on-going macro-economic policy dialogue between the Association and the
Government is the reduction of demand pressure and domestic inflation.
The PE sector reform component of this project would contribute to that
objective through a reduction in public and parastatal deficits and
increased awareness of the need to establish and sustain other necessary
macro-economic adjustment policies recommended by the Association. In that
regard, the elements of PE sector reform have been agreed (para. 25).
Nevertheless, the program of reform in the PE sector, as well as the other
macro-economic issues, will require serious and sustained attention over
the long term; which in turn requires a capacity in place to implement it.
The PE reform component of the proposed project anticipates that need for
implementation capacity and would be the first in a series of steps to
improve it.
39.      A. Formlation of Policies for Public Enterprises.  A fundamental
objective of the project is the official adoption by the Government of a
Policy Statement on The Public Enterprise Sector. This sub-component would
support the Government's strategy for implementing their Policy Statement
Toward Parastatals (Annex IVIA) by: (i) conducting diagnostic studies and
preparing action plans for the rehabilitation or divestiture of ten
enterprises already selected according to criteria acceptable to IDA (Annex
VI) as a pilot group for the rationalization of the sector; (ii)
establishing  a   comprehensive   organizational   system   for  Government
monitoring and oversight of PEs based on an appropriate balance between
autonomy and accountability between the Government and the enterprises;
(iii) improving capacity to undertake on-going analysis for adjustment of
the policy on an evolving basis as the need arises; (iv) revising the legal
framework to ensure compatibility with that policy; and (v) improving the
internal efficiencies of PEs in the context of that policy. A summary of
the key steps in the implementation of the policy statement is included in
the schedule provided in Annex IVIB.



-13-
40.      Rationalization  Progras:   Retention   and   Divestiture.        The
Rationalization Program is an important component of the project aimed at
streamlining the PC sector while reducing the political and social coats of
such an effort. However, it would not be possible to address all public
enterprises during the project period. Therefor, applying criteria defined
in the policy statement, a newly established Central Bureau for Public
Enterprises (CBPE) will manage studies of the above-mentioned ten pilot PEs
in order to provide the GOS with specific recommendations for retention,
privatization, or liquidation in each case (detailed TORs, acceptable to
IDA, have been agreed). In each case, the decision to retain or privatize
will be followed by the CBPE's preparation--in consultation with the
enterprise's management--of detailed action-plans for the implementation of
the decision.
41.      To accomplish these diagnostic  studies and complete the follow-up
action plans, the project would finance short-term technical assistance
(223pm), operating expenses for Sudanese working teams and study groups,
and fellowships for attendance at short courses offered by foreign
universities or training institutes.    The  program  for the first year of
project implementation have been worked out in detail.
42.      The MFEP has initiated necessary  actions for the establishment of
a 'Public  Enterprise  Rationalization  Fund."    The  Fund  is expected to
provide local currency for the payment of benefits to staff of divested
enterprises and those retrenched as the result of enterprise rehabilitation
programs; financing of skill retraining programs for dismissed employees on
a selective basis; and the provision of credit to employees to purchase
shares of on-going enterprises or the physical assets of enterprises to be
liquidated as  part  of  divestiture  programs.    During negotiations, the
Government agreed that it will consult with the Association on any programs
related to the PE sector which might be implemented with support from other
donors, including the Public Enterprise Rationalization Fund.
43.      B.  Institutional Reorganization  and  Development.    This  sub-
component consists of the  following:  (i)  establishment  of a new Central
Bureau for Public Enterprises (CBPE); (ii) design and establish-alnt of new
systems and procedures for monitoring of financial, economic, and technical
performance; (iii) promulgation and implementation of any new enabling
legislation that might be required; and (iv) strengthening of internal PE
planning and  manuagement.    To  that  intent,  the  proposed project would
provide approximttely 60 person months of technical assistance (36pm
residential long-term; 24pm short-term); equipment (six vehicles, including
operating costs; two micro-computers, including appropriate peripherals and
software; office equipment, including office furnishings, specialized
library materials, desk-top calculators, and typewriters); and training.
Details of the technical assistance and training programs have been
identified for the first year of project implementation.
44.      Establishment of a Central  Bureau  for Public Enterprises (CBPE).
The establishment of the CBPE includes two operations: (i) creation of a
new, fully operational, body to formulate parastatal policies and monitor,
evaluate, and identify appropriate incentives in support of improved FE
performance  and  (ii)  preparation   of   guidelines  for  the  design  of
accounting, financial reporting, and management systems to be used by PEs,



-14-
MFEP, and the sectoral ministries within the PE sector (to the degree that
uniform guidelines are  appropriate).    In  addition,  the  CBPE will have
overall responsibility for managing the FE sector reform process.
45.      Because of its central  role  in  project implementation, the CBPE
has already been established by the GOS. During the initial four year life
of the project, the CBPE will be staffed by five full-time professionals
plus a Director who will proceed on a step-by-step basis to establish the
technical departments of the  Bureau.    During  that period, it will focus
primarily on the establishment of orderly two-way reporting systems between
the enterprises and government oversight agencies (especially with regard
to monitoring financial conditions, trends, and requirements) and managing
the diagnostic studies and action programs of the ten pilot public
enterprises.    The  five  staff  will  serve  as  project  officers;  each
responsible for managing specific studies and assuming other duties
specified by the Director.   These  other duties will include managing: (i)
the design of in-service training programs for key Government institutions
and selected enterprises; (ii) the design of new financial and management
systems within the PE sector; (iii) conducting an inventory of all public
enterprises by type, sector, share of Government equity, and basic
financial information; (iv) managing the process of personnel organization
and management  reform;  and  (v)    specification  of responsibilities and
allocation of those responsibilities to the various institutional elements
within the PE sector.  Appropriate working groups will be established and
will be responsible to the CBPE project officers for the actual execution
of those various activities.    During  the project, special attention will
also be given to identifying more precisely the phasing of functions to be
added  as  responsibilities  of  the  CBPE  and  the  appropriate  internal
departmental structure through which those functions would be performed
over the medium and  long-term.    The  CBPE  will accomplish these various
activities through the preparation of annual work programs for the PE
Reform component. Government and IDA will review and agree on such work
programs, including addition of staff of the CBPE, at least two months
before  the  start  of  their  scheduled  commencement.    Submission  of a
satisfactory work program for the first year of project implementation has
been submitted and approved by IDA staff.
46.      Procedures and  Systems.    A  major problem inhibiting effective
planning and management within the public enterprise sector is confusion
concerning the location of specific authorities and responsibilities within
the entire  system.    The  objective  is  to  establish  an  efficient and
effective balance between accountability and autonomy. As an initial step
in clarifying appropriate roles in the system, preliminary draft terms of
reference for enterprise managers, Boards of Directors, and annual meetings
of shareholders in companies  have  been  prepared.   These will be further
refined by Sudanese working teams  under  the  direction  of the CBPE and a
version acceptable to IDA will be implemented no later than September 30,
1988. In addition, assistance will be provided to support the activities
of other working groups responsible for the design of specific procedures
and formats linking the various agencies of Government and the individual
enterprises. Training for the implementatton of the new procedures among
managers, members of Boards of Directors, and staff of appropriate
Government agencies would follow during the second and third years of
project implementation.



-15-
47.      Rationalization of Enterprise Monitorint Function Within Sectoral
Ministries. Sectoral Ministries must assist the CBPE in the coordination
and monitoring of PEs.   In  the  performance of that role, such ministries
must operate within guidelines provided by the CBPE and be responsive to
the needs of enterprises operating within the areas of their sectoral
responsibilities. As a pilot effort for the design and testing of an
effective approach to strengthening the technical role of such Hinistries
via-a-via public enterprises, technical assistance (24pm) will be provided
to the Ministry of Industry, Energy, and Mining and the Ministry of
Agriculture (where there is already a coordination unit assisted by IDA),
both of which will serve as a testing ground for new procedures within the
sectors.
48.      Promulgation  and Implementation  of  New  Legislation.  Review of
existing legislation will be undertaken simultaneously with the policy
review and analysis mentioned above.      The  review will be conducted by a
committee of experts appointed no later than December 31, 1987 by the
Minister of Finance.    The  CBPE will  serve  as  the  Secretariat of the
Committee. The specific legislation to be reviewed consists of: (i) the
Companies Act of 1925; (ii) the Public Corporation Act of 1976; (iii) the
Financial and Accounting Act of 1977; and (iv) the Financial Regulations of
1978. Amended laws and regulations will be drafted (where necessary) and
implemented. Changes might be recommended in two areas: (i) clarification
of new roles and duties of EFEP and sectoral ministries in the monitoring
and oversight of PEs and (ii) legal transformation of market oriented
public  corporations  to  state-owned   "private"  or  controlled  "public"
companies1 and of state-owned or controlled companies with primarily social
service objectives to public corporations.
49.      Expected Results.  The project would result in: (i) application of
established criteria for decisions concerning the Government's involvement
in the PE sector; (ii) the clear and comprehensive identification and
assignment of functions among the various governmental and enterprise
planning, management, and oversight units in a manner which ensures the
appropriate balance between autonomy and accountability; (iii) design and
establishment of efficient and effective procedures and formats for the
linking of such functions among the various units and levels; (iv) the
establishment of a Central Bureau for Public Enterprises to perform
l/The Companies Act of 1925 provides for two types of Companies; "Private"
or  "Public".    The  primary   difference   between  them  is  number  of
shareholders ("private" no less them 2  nor  more than 50;  public no less
than 7, but no maximum limit)  and ability to trade shares ("private" only
among partners; "public" to anyone in the open market). Therefore, in the
context of current Sudanese law, the state can own up to all shares in a
"private" company (creating state-owned "private" companies) or a majority
of shares in a "public" company (creating state-controlled "public"
companies). Thus, the designation "private" in this context does not
signify private sector ownership (nor does the designation "public"
signify state ownership). In order to signify these different meanings in
this report, we use quotation marks (") to indicate designations defined
by the 1925 Companies Act rather than the cnnmon usase used elsewhere in
this report.



-16-
appropriate Government financial and economic oversight functions and
conduct  analyses  and   provide   recommendations  for  Government  policy
decision-making regarding the sector; (v) the establishment of a PE
technical oversight and appraisal function within the Ministry of Industry,
Energy, and Mining; (vi) the rationalization of procedural links between
the PE technical oversight and appraisal function in the Ministry of
Agriculture  and  the  CBPE;   (vii)  improved  planning,  management,  and
accounting skills among appropriate staff within involved Government
departments  and  ten   public   enterprises;  (viii)  detailed  diagnostic
assessments of the current financial structure and economic and financial
viability of those ten enterprises and specific action programs designed
for effective implementation of Government decisions based on those
assessments; and (ix) an action program for rapid expansion of the reform
program to the PE sector as a whole over the following seven years.
National Economic Planning end Financial Manatement Component
50.      Macro-Economic  Analyses.      The   formulation  of  economic  an,
financial policies, the consideration of balance of payment issues, the
planning of investments in the medium-term and decisions on the size and
structure of annual budgets, need to be based on adequate macro-economic
analyses to  establish  their  feasibility  and  consistency.    While some
capacity for macro-economic analysis exists, the actual use of such
analysis has been restricted to projections for use in preparing medium-
term economic plans.
51.      Sudan's current requirements in this  area are:  (i) consolidation
of established capacity in  the  Planning  Wing  to make medium-term macro-
economic projections which can be revised annually to reflect changes in
the  economy,  and  improvements   in   data  availability  and  estimation
procedures; (ii) the use of macro-economic analysis for annual budget
preparation so as to ensure consistency between growth assumptions, savings
and investment estimates, public expenditure and resource availability, and
the examination of implications for external balance, domestic credit
policy and price stability; and (iii) the use of the macro-economic
framework for medium-term financial planning to guide resource mobilization
and control of public expenditure leading to consistency between planning
and budgeting decisions.
52.      A position of Macro-Economic Adviser  in the Planning Wing of MFEP
has been financed since mid-1986 from the Second Technical Assistance
Project.   The  project will  finance  an  additional  24  months of those
advisory services. The terms of reference for this position have been
expanded under the proposed project to include application of macro-
economic analysis to annual budget decisions and the examination of
economic policy optt,ns. Funds will also be provided to assist the Project
Preparation  Unit  within   the   MFEP   to  continue  pre-feasibility  and
feasibility studies for project preparation and analysis consistent with
the Government's public  investment  program.    Project  financing of such
studies will be contingent on IDA approval in each case; taking into
account criteria already agreed between Government and IDA (Annex VII).
53.      Reform of  the  Budpetary  Systm  and  Financial  Planning.   The
budgeting process in Sudan is intended to fulfill the traditional functions



-17-
of  control  and  accountability.    This  function  is  not,  at  present,
adequately performed as evidenced by large deviations between revenue and
expenditure estlmates and actual realizations.   The complete separation of
the development budget from the recurrent budget, and the formulation of
the salaries budget independent of both, means that no functional analysis
of public expenditure is  undertaken.    Further,  the budgeting process in
Sudan is not designed to serve macro-economic ends; i.e., it does not guide
decision-making on the allocation of economic resources nor the choice of
mobilization alternatives.
54.      Comprehensive  reform  of  the   budgeting  process  will  require
implementation over the long term.   Initial improvements will focus on the
most urgently needed reforms and those areas where results can be achieved
given the existing organizational weaknesses and limitations in qualified
manpower. The project will assist in implementing improvements in: (i)
revenue and expenditure estimation, including procedures for third quarter
revisions of budget estimates; (ii) timely reporting of expenditures and
compilation of accounts; (iii) post-budget control of expenditures; and
(iv) budget structure.
55.      The asymmetry between public  investment  planning on a multi-year
basis and budgeting with a one-year time horizon leads to imbalances
between available resources and expenditure  coumitments.   There is a need
to look ahead in projecting the main elements of current expenditure and
public investments, matching these with estimated resource availability --
including domestic and external borrowing -- in a consistent framework
based on realistic assumptions as to likely economic growth and exogenous
factors such as world trade conditions and Rid flows. The project would
introduce  a methodology  for   forward   planning  of  both  revenue  and
expenditure. With the three-year public investment programming which was
introduced in Sudan an i981, this would result in a three-year rolling plan
system within the planning framework of the Government of Sudan.
56.      rhe financial  planning  and  budgetary  reform  component  of the
proposed project would finance the services of a Financial Adviser (36 pm)
attached to the Senior Under-Secretary for Finance. The Adviser would work
with the staff of the Budget Office to improve revenue and expenditure
estimation; to improve the system of post-budget control; and introduce
reforms in the budget structure. The Adviser would also be responsible for
introducing a medium-term financial planning system involving all three
wings of the MFEP, the Bank of Sudan, the Tax Departments and the sectoral
ministries. In addition to the Financial Adviser, the project would also
finance short-term consultants who would assist working teams within the
MFEP in the establishment of systems for monitoring revenue and expenditure
flows and budget classification.    The  consultants  would also assist the
Adviser to organize in-country seminars for senior officials to familiarize
them with budgetary reforms and financial planning techniques. Funds would
also be allocated for short-term training of MFEP officials working in the
area of budgeting and financial planning and for computers and other
equipment. Further, the project would finance the services of an UNCTAD
advisor (13pm) who would assist the Customs Department to establish a
computerized  monitoring  system   and   the  installation  of  appropriate
software.



-18-
57.      Reortanization of Central Economic Manatement Functions.   The
distribution of economic management functions (i.e., policy analysis and
implementation,  planning  of  internal   cnd  external  resources,  public
Lnvestment  programming,  budgeting  and   expenditure  control  smong  the
Finance, National Economy, Planning and Civil Service Departments and the
attached Taxation and Customs offices of MFEP, the Bank of Sudan, and the
Economic  Section  of  the   Council   of  Ministers  Secretariat)  is  the
accumulated outcome of a series of ad hoc decisions over time. Some
processes, such as budgeting and  the  management of external finances, are
unduly fragmented; functions and responsibilities are not always clearly
defined; coordinated decision-making and effective implementation are
rendered difficult. To address these problems, a working group of senior
officials  will   be   established   to   redefine   functional  areas  and
responsibilities  and  suggest   possible   structural  reorganization  and
procedural changes within the complex of central economic agencies to
achieve more  effective  economic  management.    Project  support  for the
Working Group will include financing of operating costs and necessary
equipment; consultancies to provide comparable international experience;
and a tour of senior officials to selected countries to study organizations
and procedures.
58.   Improvinx Accounting  and  Audit  Systems.    The  Second  Technical
Assistance Project financed assistance to the Institute of Accounting
Studies which trains accounting personnel for the Government and Public
Enterprises. In addition, the project assisted in the establishment of a
Sudanese professional body for examining and certifying accountants through
a  twinning  arrangement  with   the  Chartered  Association  of  Certified
Accountants in the United Kingdom.   Much  of the preliminary work has been
completed.    The  level  and  quality  of  training  has  been  raised  to
internationally recognized standards, improved facilities for the Institute
are under construction, and the professional body established. The project
will finance approximately 12pm of additional assistance from the twinning
agency to assist with the first professional examinations and with further
improvements in the accounting curriculum.    The project will also finance
fellowships for Institute staff in  order  to bring their qualifications to
the professional level. Equipment and training will also be provided to
the Auditor-General's Chambers.
59.   Expected  Results.       The   project   would   result   in  specific
recommendations, including systems and procedural designs, for : (i)
reorganization of central economic and financial management functions; (ii)
clear identification of development planning and economic management roles,
including procedures for integrating budgeting and medium-term financial
planning; (iii) mandated links for the free flow of required information
and data; (iv) reorganization of the budget structure; and (v) improvement
of Customs revenue  collection.    In  addition,  the project would sustain
current efforts to provide adequate macro-economic analysis as a basis for
the appraisal of proposed medium-term Government investments and improve
the efficiency and effectiveness of the accounting and auditing systems.
Human Resource Organization and Development Component
60.   This component cuts across both  of the other two components included
within the scope of this project; as their success depends on sufficiently



-19-
motivated staff  responsible  for  implementation.    To  that  intent, the
project would initiate improvements in the framework within which the civil
service and PE staff operate while, at the same time, addressing immediate
needs. More specifically, the project would provide short-term technical
assistance   and   related   training,   equipment,   and   logistical  and
administrative   support   for   three   activities:   (i)   a   study  and
recommendations concerning the reconstitution of an effective central
personnel function; (ii) formulation of strategies for the establishment of
effective personnel management systems within MFEP, the CBPE, and those
among the ten PEs included within the project which may appropriately be
retained by the Government; and (iii) preparation of a program to extend
the reforms to other ministries and PEs based on the experience of the
first phase.
61.      Expected Results.  The project  would  result  In : (i) the design
and preparation of specific recommendations concerning the appropriate
organization of the central personnel functions and personnel structure
within the MFEP, CBPE, and the ten enterprises included in the scope of the
project; and (ii) with regard to MFEP, CBPE, and the ten enterprises,
inventories and  projected  medium  and  long-term requirements for current
manpower, skills, and pay and benefits.
Trainint
62.      Training activities have been designed as an integral part of each
project component, with tuphasis on assistance through local training
institutions.    Through   direct   participation   in  the  project,  such
institutions will receive on-the-job assistance from the various long-term
advisors and short-term consultants provided under the terms of the various
other elements  of  the  project.    A  description  of training activities
financed by the project, by component, has been prepared and is included in
the Project File.   In  summary,  primary  emphasis  will be placed on in-
country seminars. In order to assist in the creation of a sustainable
capacity for planning and management training and process consultation
within the Sudan, four local training institutions (i.e., Sudanese Academy
of Administrative Sciences, Management Development Center, Accounting
Institute, and the University of Khartoum) will be directly involved, with
other short term consultants employed by the project, in the provision of
workshops and seminars. A limited number of fellowships for attendance at
short courses at foreign institutions (3 to 12 weeks) and study tours for
key Government officials to other countries with relevant experience will
be also undertaken.
Technical Assistance
63.      The design of technical assistance efforts included in the project
is based on the principle that sustained improvements in the medium and
long-term are of ultimate importance and that the iterative process of
learning by doing should not be sacrificed to short term non-sustainable
achievements. Therefore, clear distinctions have been made in advisor and
consultant TORs (included in the Project File) between: (i) those, few in
number, who will be expected to assume direct responsibilities for
producing specific products and who therefore will be held directly
responsible for the quality and timeliness of such products and (ii) those



-20-
who will provide support and advice to Sudanese management teams who will,
in turn, be hold solely responsible for the incremental improvement in the
quality and timeliness of required products.
Project Implementation
64.      Public Enterprise Sector Reform.   Responsibility for managing the
implementation  of  this   component   will   be   assigned  to  the  CBPE.
Nevertheless, close consultation and coordination between the CBPE and the
ministries of industry, energy and mines, agriculture and transport and
communications, as well as the general managers of the ten enterprises
involved in the project,  will  be  necessary.   During the initial project
period, the CBPE will be responsible to the Minister of Finance. Further,
the Manager of the Public Corporations Department of the Finance Wing,
MFEP, will serve concurrently as Director of the CBPE during that initial
period. These arrangements will be reviewed during the third year of
project  implementation   with   a   view   to   ensuring  their  long-term
austainability.
65.      National EconOmic Planning and Financial Management.  The Planning
Wing of MFEP will be assigned lead responsibility for managing the
implementation   of   this   component   since,   under   any   foreseeable
reorganization of the system, it would be placed between the sectoral,
regional and public enterprise end of an integrated planning and budgeting
chain in one direction and the financial budgeting end of the chain in the
other  direction.    Nevertheless,   given   the  dispersed  and  temporary
analytical and design responsibilities for this function within the GOS, a
temporary Secretariat will be established within the Planning Wing, MFEP,
no later than October 31, 1987 for that purpose. That Secretariat will
report to the Undersecretary of Planning who will be assisted by a full
time officer with the rank of Assistant Undersecretary. In addition, the
two Sudanese working groups will each be chaired by an official with a rank
no lower than Assistant Undersecretary.
66.      Human Resource Organization and  Development.  Given the dispersed
responsibilities for this function within the current structure of the
Government, responsibility for managing the preparation of studies and
plans for the reorganization of the central personnel function and the
staffing pattern of the MFEP will also be assigned to a temporary
Secretariat to be established no later than October 31, 1987 for that
specific purpose. That Secretariat will report to the Undersecretary of
the Civil Service Chamber who will be assisted by a full time officer with
the rank of Assistant Undersecretary.    Three Sudanese working groups will
be responsible for implementation of the actual work under this component;
each of which will be chaired by an official with a rank no lower than
Assistant Undersecretary. With regard to the organization of staff within
the PE sector, however, managing the process of reform, including the
transfer of primary responsibilities to enterprise management, will be the
responsibility of the CBPE.
67.      Project Monitoring.   The   Director   of   the   CBPE   and  the
Undersecretaries for Planning and Civil Service will each be responsible
for monitoring the activities of their staff with regard to: (1) ensuring
that all actions relevant to the components of the project for which they



-21-
are each individually responsible are carried out on a timely basis and
(ii) clearing all documents (short lists, curriculum vitae of expert. and
consultants, letters of invitation, contracts, and bidding documents) with
the Association. They will ensure that timely arrangements are made with
educational institutions for all fellowships included in their respective
component of the project and that the names and CVs of proposed fellow are
submitted to the Association for approval at least four months prior to the
start of the  relevant  course.    They  will  also  ensure that withdrawal
applications  and supporting  documents    are  submitted  as required.  In
order to facilitate the monitoring of project implementation, the three
component managers will each prepare six-monthly progress reports covering
all component activities, status of componant commitments, evaluation of
consultants' performance,  and  recommendatimna  with  regard  to desirable
modifications in the work program.   In  addition, the CBPE will prepare an
annual report to the Government on the state of the PE sector; with
particular regard to policy Issues aftecting sector performance. Such
reports will be submitted to the Association and provide the basis for
discussions and field review between the Association and the Government.
Not later than six months after the credit closing date, the Component
Managers, with the assistance of other agencies involved, will provide the
Association with a report evaluating the execution, initial operations,
costs and benefits of the project and the performance of the Government and
Association; including lessons learned.
Prolect Costs
68.      Costs of the project have  been  based on the estimates which were
derived from a combination of recent experience in Sudan and with reform
programs in ether countries.    Equipment  consists of four micro-computers
(including  peripherals  and   appropriate   software);  vehicles  for  the
residential advisors (3), the CBPE (5), and the Secretariat responsible for
the management of the National Economic Planning and Financial Management
Component (3); and office equipment for the CBPE and the two secretariat.
(photocopiers,  desk  calculators,  typewriters,  and  furniture).    Price
contingency estimates assume increases in local currency costs of 25
percent in 1988, 20 percent in 1989, 15 percent in 1990, and 7 percent
thereafter; and, in foreign exchange costs, of 3 percent in 1988, 1 percent
per annum 1989190 and 3.5 percent thereafter. No physical contingencies
have been provided.
69.      The table  on  the  following  page  shows  the  project  cost and
financing plan (Annex VIII provides detailed cost and financing information
by component).



-Z2-
Prolect Cost and Finanieng (by Category)
(in0US$ thousanda)
Oovernment           IDA         Total
local       local  f@tritr
Long-term Experts                              -          -    1,152    1,152
Short-teom Consultants                         -        64'    3,000    3,644
Formal Trng. (incl. study tours)             414        177    1,850    2,441
EquipmentlVehicles(incl. maintenance)        293          -       486      779
Operating Costa                            1.365        585         -    1,950
BASE COST                                  2,072      1,406    6,488    9,966
Contingencies, price                         580        399       207    1,186
PPF Advance                                    -          -       500      500
TOTAL                                      2,652      1,805    7,195   11,652
(23%)      (152)    (62%)   (100%)
Procurement *jisburaements. and Accountint
70.      The Government vill recruit  directly, under individual contracts,
the long-term experts to be funded under the project. One of the experts
is  already  in  post.    The  qualifications,  experience  and  terms  and
conditions  of  employment  of   all   experts  and  consultants  would  be
satisfactory  to  the Association  and   in  accordance  with  Bank  Group
guidellnes for use  of  consultants.    For  assistance  in  the design and
implementation  of the  PE   diagnostic  studies  and  rehabilitation  and
divestiture plans, the Government will engage one or more consulting firms
with qualifications and  experience  acceptable  to  the  Association.  The
short-list of firms as well as the letter of invitation will be cleared
with IDA before inviting proposals.
71.      Contracts for equipment  (including  computers  and related item)
costing the equivelent of US$50,000 or more per contract would be awarded
in accordance with IDA procedures for international competitive bidding.
Items or groups of items costing less than the equivelent of US$50,000, but
more than the equivalent of US$10,000 per contract, will be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding in accordance
with procedures satisfactory  to  the  Association.   Proprietary items and
items costing less than the equivelent of US$10,000 will be purchased
directly from the supplier. Estimated costs of goods to be procured under
these various procedures is US$ 500,000, including contingencies. The
Director of the CBPE and Undersecretaries of Planning and Civil Service
will, for the PE Sector Reform, National Economic and Financial Management,
and Human Resource Organization and Development components respectively,
submit to the Association, for prior review, tender documents indicating
the method of procurement proposed.   Items would be grouped to the extent
practical to encourage competitive bidding (A procurement schedule is
provided in Annex IX).



-23-
72.      In order to expedite disbursement and give the Government improved
control of the timing of payments due under the credit, the Government will
establish a Special US$ Account in the Bank of Sudan for each of the three
components of the proposed project, under terms and conditions satisfantory
to the Association, into each one of which the Association would, upon
credit effectiveness and receipt of withdrawal applications, make an
advance  deposit  of  US$100,000.      The  Association  would  periodically
replenish this account upon receipt and approval of withdrawal applications
together with satisfactory evidence that the expenditures paid out of the
Special AccounL were eligible for project financing.
73.      Tunds from the credit would  be  disbursed on the following basis:
(i) 100 percent of total expenditures for services of long-term experts,
short-term consultants, and training specialists; (ii) 100 percent of
foreign and 30 percent of local costs of formal training and study tours;
(iII) 100 percent of foreign exchange costs of vehicles and equipment; and
(iv) 100 percent of foreign and 30 percent of local operating costs. All
disbursement would be fully documented except those for training and study
tours and payments against contracts of less than US$20,000 equivalent
which would be made against statements of expenditure, documentation for
which would not be submitted for review, but would be available for IDA
representatives during project supervision.    The disbursement profile for
Bank Group financed technical assistance projects in the ESA Region is
eight years.
74.      Auditing would be  required  on  a  yearly  basis for expenditures
related  to  the  project,   with   particular  attention  to  expenditures
reimbursed against statements of expenditure.   Auditing would be performed
by an independent auditor, acceptable to the Association, and submitted
within six months after the end of each fiscal year of the borrower.
Prolect Implementation Schedule
75.      The proposed credit is  expected  to become effective in September
1987. Long term advisers (TORs in Project File) would be Identified before
the end of 1987 with the intention of posting them within the first six
months. A consultant, financed with available PPF financing, will assist
the GOS to prepare requests for proposals from umong an acceptable short
list of consulting firms for the PE diagnostic studies end action-plans.
Those requests will be sent prior to project commencement to ensure early
implementation start-up. The fellowship program would start in September
1987. Wthin two months of project commencement, Implementation will be
launched by an action-planning workshop for all key persons to identify
their specific respunsibilities within the context of the first year work
program. Such workshops will be an annual event and an important element
in the capacity improvement effort.    It  is expected that most activities
will be completed by June 1991 as scheduled in the implementation plan.
Nevertheless, in view of the Bank's experience with implementation of TA
projects in the Region, which results in a disbursement profile of eight
years, the project completion date has been set as June 30, 1995 with a
closing date of December 31, 1995.



-24-
Benefits and Risks
76.      The project would result in major institutional benefits in the PE
sector, ranging from the establishment of appropriate policies, criteria
for Government Involvement, and esteblishment of an effectivo oversight
system to the launching of a rehabilitation and divestiture program. In
addition, the project would create momentum for rapid expansion of the
reform program based on the experience gained with the ten pilot PEs. It
would also consolidate earlier initiatives towards making the planning and
budgetary system more efficient and identify further measures to the same
intent. Finally, it would launch a process of improvement of Government's
personnel management function, starting with the Hinistry of Finance and
Economic Planning and selected public enterprises.
77.      The major  risk  associated with  the  proposed  project  Is that
public enterprise reform will not succeed in the absence of substantial
Improvements in macro-economic policies, specifically in price and interest
rate policies. The project is an investment in the future by providing the
technical capacity to improve public enterprise performance, but full
achievement of the Government's objectives will depend on policy changes
yet to  be  decided  upon.   Other  risks  are:  (i) non-sustainability of
institutional benefits anticipated in view of high turnover rates in the
civil service; (ii) non-sustainability of commitment and accountability on
the part of line managers and operational staff towards full implementation
of the financial management system; (iiI) possible resistance from vested
interests; and, (iv) the sensitive nature of the issuRS of private versus
public ownership.   To min'rnize  the  risks,  the  project  Is designed to
sustain improved Government capacity to identify policy options and base
its  decisions  on well-founded  analy1si.   At  the  operational  level,
responsibilities have been carefully assigned, primarily to those involved
in project design.    In  particular,  the  Government has demonstrated its
commitment to the PE rationalization program by the quaiity of the staff
already  assigned  to  the  CBPE.    Furthermore,  consultation  techniques
involving all major interested groups, as successfully initiated during the
PPF preparation period, will be continued so as to ensure a broad base of
support, maintain the momentum towards execution, and reach agreement on
acceptable compromises on sensitive  issues.    Finally, the Government has
publicly supported the objectives of each of the components incorporated
into the project.
PART V. RECOMMENDATION
78.      I am satisfied  that  the  proposed  credit  would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that it be approved
by the Executive Directcrs.
Barber Conable
President
Washington, D.C.
April 14, 1987



- 25-
SOAN - ECUIIIIC INOICAIOIS sIllI                                Country brief
--------------------                                     SUDAN
Anexo I
Mid-1985 Populatcm s lmls.1       22                                                                             Fage I @2 3
2935 Fur Capita GNP? in  lIi    133D                                                                             larch 2198
A. SharEs of hoss Dhowitic Product                            8. Irout lRats it Per atneu)
If ro  currant price data)                                    (tram comstant prtce data)
1915     1973     l990      1904      995      MI9N            1915-73  2973-90  29910-114         1995 29
Gross Domestic Product c.p.         200.0    100.D    200.0    200.0    200.0    100.0                  0.9      1.7       0.9     41.2      2.1
Nat IndireKt TaOu                 9.4      12.3      9.4       9.9      4.7       5.9J                          .        .     -30.6     -9.7
igricuitur.                      49.9      39.2     31.0      21.0     23.4      29.9                0.3,     1.4     -2.3'   -16.6      74.7
Industry                          1.1      11.6     12.4      15.1     26.7      25.9               2.0       4.0      5.4       2.0     -3.1
11.4 which  aRhsfacturang)        3.3       1.1      4.3      7.3       9.2      9.2                 ..       4.        1..4              1.9
Srw UCl                          33.5      37.1     43.0      49.2     52.3      491.3               ILl     20.1      2.2      -2.4     -5.3
Rsourc a liac,                     4.7        9.2    -22.4    -20.3      -7.9      48.4 
Expwort of HF!                   24.5      24.9     12.0      13.3     20.6       9.5                3.0,    -4.4      4.2    -20.6    -3.0
lInpwtm of BEES                  25.3      211.4    23.6     23.4      23.5     19.1               -5.9      20.4      3.7    -33.7      -4.1
Total Exp.nditures                210.7    9".31   113.6    210.9    207.9    ID.4                     40.6      9.2       1.4     -9.4      2.4
Total uesmaptlon                 90.9    90.2       96.6     97.5    201.0    203.4                -0.7       9.6      2.3      -3.0      3.4
Private Consoaptim            79.5      49.4    1006      91.4      84.6     6.9                -1.1I      9.6      3.4      -2.9      3.9
heneral  overnamet            22.4      183.     26.0     14.2      24.1      2 6.7               1.4     3Lo      -5.2      -3.9      2.9
Gross Dometic Investment          9.9      11.7     25.1      12.5      4.9       5.0                0.2      5.6     -3.2    -41.9    -26.5
Flied lovustamnt                ..        ..     2.5       9.1       4.5      4.0                 ..     -12.9     -2.4    -33.0    417.3
Changu  Io Stock                .         ..      3.5      2.9       0.4       1.9                ..        .         .     -OLD.   131.1
Gross Dosutic Saving                 9.2      21.9      3.4       2.5     -2.0      -3.1                0.5    -20.1
Met Factor inc.me                 0.0      -1.0    -4.0    -4.7        -1.3     -7.5                 .
Met Cwrrat Transfers               .         ..      2.3      5.7       5.7      4.7                 .          .       .          .       -
Gross National Savinig                .         ..      4.7       1.5     -2.4     46.4                  .
ln millions Di iii;                 2965      1973     IUD       29914    1I95     IMBP
tat constAnt 199 prices)            -        --    -            -         -- -
grass DOmetic Prodct             270       2431     3972    4091       MI3    3939                  0.J       6.7      0.9      -B.1I     L I
Capacity to Import                511      3134      471      563       493      423               -5.9       2.2      6.2       -37     20.4
Farm. of rrade Adijustmet         223      -55         0      -44       -15      -40                 .
tross Domestic Icmmui            292      2583      3972     4047      3744     3799               -0.6         7      1.7    -29.2       9.1
Grass National ProdKct           2702      2412     3932     4041      3732     3727                6.9       6.7      0.2      -9.5      1.3
Gross National lore..            2921     2557      393      4006      3715     3477               40.7         7      3.1       -10      9.2
*111  1ooI-------                     -- Inflation Rates 13 p.d.l
r- Price Indices                    198       1532     199       1934     19115     Iap            1965-73  2173-90  IM1101    IMFp   193
casmmn Prices                      100.0    156.6    2061.    714.4    306.3    509.9                  5.1      ILI      24.9      46.0     32.0
Nholesale Pricesm.                              .         .        ..       .         .
Implicit Bit DeflatoDr             200.0'   253.9    297.9    27.9'   401.'7   526.3'                  7.2      25.3     29.7     4113      31.6
Implicit Espadiltures Deliator        ..         .       ..        .        ..        ..
D. Other lujicutors                        1915-73           IM110g             1190-85 2I
--                -                  -----              Ntni
kostA Eats (I p.m.):
pupuietona                                 3.0                3.0                2.9           4/ Certain  oawlies in the pruaent tiles,
Labor Force                                 a..                                                    s wull as sum  minor imcmnitstnclss
Bross Ratiosal Income p.c.                 -3.5,               LO               -.                betwomm  data in tfie text nd tiles, aNe
Private Cossomption p.c..                 -3.9                4.4               -2.1              attributable to thi vary racat OugV
in format of these Ecooic Inicator
impot Elasticity:                                                                                    Ils
lapots (6*15FS  / 922 fop)                 -6.4                2.4               4.9
-All1 years ame in July-Jan  finca  yews
Narginal Savings Eates:                                                                               macapt in Table J that are in calwode
Gross National Saving                                                           89. ..2           year.
Grass ometac saving                        48.3              -21.4               85.0
21 Elasticities for 29-0-6 in Tabln I mIed
RICN (period avewagesl                          1. 4.98                                               be Intorprted carefiflIy.  ri. red  WP
declimad during this prerio, adi - did
Srim of Total                        2156    1973       1990     2915p                               imports and stimpS.
LahwrForce ini                           -    -    - -
Agricultwr                          .        .        78        .                                  * estimated data
IIIdntry                           ..        .         0                                         -  prelimiay ddat
Services                            .        ..       12
Total                               .        ..      100



- 26 -
931DIUI EC3eXINOIC 3l10C8131                                            Lnen I
.--------- I- -------------a P-q'  2  of  3
Voluem Indre  11990 a 3001:                   Value a Cerrent Frices Imliltons lU5I1)
.._. . . . . .. . . . . .....  _..  ........___..._.._._.  -- - - - -- - - - -    -  -- -    -  -- - -- -    -_. _-.__
E. Nlerchandie Emparts              Isse     2992    199       1994     19B5p    Illtn    1990      1992      1993     19B4    I195p    199B
..._  ...  ....- - -- - ---  - --------  ---  ---     ---      ---        .          -   ,._... _.-_-
Cotten                             100.0    2d.9       11.V    1223.1     7.6     60.4   353.4       69.4    174.1   3S3.2    243.1   133.0
Eromnduts                          300.0   277.1      94.4      94.2     34.0     20.5      S2.1     69.9    31. 1      4.1      15.0      b.7
BnJH                               10D.0    163.3    21b.4   139.4    126.7    109.4        10.4     4b.2     51.3      65.0     43.4     35.1
ka Arabic                          300.0    149.1    242.3    212.3    347.0      93.4    41.5       43.2     47.5      63.S     41.6     27.3
ivmsatock                          IOD.0    375.0    395.3    356.5    455.9    392.1       35.6     99.7    129.4    133.3    111.3    2317.
Other EIports                         ..       ..        ..       ..       ..        ..     99.3    303.7    141.1      14.3     52.9     54.9
lotal lerchandise Exports FOB      30D.0     9D.7    100.6    126.4    305.1      96.1    513.5    432.0    381.2    722.3    543.4    497.2
F. erchandisa Imports
Food                               100.0    92.2      97.4      58.4     50.0     45.4    273.4    394.7    271.4    211.2    192.2    195.1
POt *d Other Enwrgy                100.0     92.1     32.4      90.4     13.2     97.0    29.0    39.9    344.4    356.7    23.6   213.2
Other Imprts                       100.0    129.5    115.5    121.0      94.0        ..   906.    990.       912.      7s4.3     32.6    513.9
Other Consum r Bods             200.0   225.1    243.3    163.3    126.9         ..     53.0    321.1    210.3       Bl.5     74.5     7.
Othwr Intwrudiste luds          1 10.    306.1     92.1    120.1      06.2       ..    394.2    423.5    404.7   461.9    369.6    34.
Capital lbods                   100.0   306.9    104.1    110.9       44.0       ..    35.4    432.3    397.4    300.9    1E.!    147.3
Total lwrchmdime Imports CIF       100.0    102.2    100.5      95.9     32.7     90.9   1339.0   1754.1   1534.4   1310.2  3114.3   105.2
9. Twrm  of trade 1190 - IDDI       1990     1932      1993     1914     haSpP    Im5p
---------    ~~~~~----              ---        --      --       ---    ---              lletnr
lerch. Euports Price Indx          100.0     92.1     92.o      91.3     97.6     3.0
Iwrch. [Oorto Price Index          10.0    1219.2    114.0    3OM.7    10.4       97.5           t a   timaLed dut.
lNrchmdime Terne of Trade          100.0    71.9      90.7      92.1     94.9     91.3           p * prelimnary data
IIS) ilins fat cwrrnt pricnii
N. Balance of Paymnts               1910    1392      1993      1994     Im      I396
Expwrts of  tois and NFS             913      667      B21       942      900      702
HNrcdindiw  (MFIW                 591      432      Sol       722       9       497
an-Factor Services                232      235      240      220       205      205
Imports of Gods and NFS            3IU4      2014     IB04      164D     1394     1338
Ilerchandist (FOB                1340      1754    1534      1370     1114     1055
Nm-Factor Services                274      20        270      270      290      203
Resource Blance                     -902    -1347      -993     -499     -594     -634
Nt Facter Incas                      -40     -293      -317     -460     -470     -554
linterest per DRSI               -70      -2DB     -297     -449      -47B     -559
Net Current Transfers                2D9      35D       415      395      430       350
lmrkers reittancesl                  209      350      415       3        43O      350
Current kcoant Balance              -632    -1290      -35      -771     -642      -942
Lug-Trm Capital Inflow               539      165       135      -91      -34       -65
Direct Investment                   0        0         0        0        0        0
Otficial Capital 6rants            84      374       442      309      2E       412
Not IT Loans                      442       -9      -327     -390     -322     -47J
Othl rT inflmsf tet)               13        0         0        0        0
Total Other Itm   Itkt)               39     1155       741      937      602      920
Nit Shart-ter  Capital             ..       ..
Capital Fla    N.E.I.               0     1-16       737      097       765     1045
Errors and Omissions               le      -61         4      -60     -16      -145
Chanes in let eserves                 75      -30         9       15       74       -13
Net Credit fre  IW                205       47       117       42        13       42
Othcr Reerv Chaages
t - indicates increase           -30       -77     -200      -47        61      -55
As share  of 6DP:
Rnorce blance                   -11.8   -19.      -13.9   -30.0       -7.9    -B.6
Interst Paynts                    1.0      3.9      4.2       6.4      6.3      7.5
Carrat  ccnt Blanc               -9.3    -17.3    -12.5   -11.1       -0.5   -11.4
auraS. Itun:
Intenat'l Inmrss  I.l. 15l            49       21       17        17       12        3
Reservs  K. Sold 4il. 1US)           4S       21        17       17       12         3
Official I-Rate .LC11'I/11P          0.5     0.94       1.3      1.3     2.29      2.5
Ime  Real Eff. I-R  ase 190         00      131       129      105       97       IOB
BP liiliI    of crreat ES1        6760     7476      705b     697E     7543     7311



Kiul  - KDUHIC INIIEBIARS                                                 lioan  I
---------------------------PapSe 3
Iharmi of liP  III                                       Brett Ernie  it P.a.)341
3. hipt (astral Uuovmruiitl          19w0     1912      39330    jut       39m       q`11               z9   - is          2939     393      I3m
C"test UxaWVis                       14.?     33.5      14.7      L33.      9.3       3.9               30. 1              16.0     '1.8      20.5
Dhrtmu   ampsdttru 31                16. 2    31.2      26.0     17.9      22.0      20.3               29.5               23.3     1.1      22.2
Emrrat hWip  blaaem                 -3.5     -3.7      -1.3     -4.6    -12.2    -11.4                 60.3I             566.4    261.1      23I5
Capital beglK.                                   .         .        ..       ..        .
Capital Expuiitori                    ?.I      1.2       LI;      4. 9      3.4      2.2                36.9               22.0     -4.9    -15.1
Overll hticat                       -31.1    -9.0      -6.5     -9.5    -15.       -13.5               20.3               52.3    324.3      35L5
SffIcisI Capital haots                6.0      2.0       .1.2     3.7       3.2      3Lo.                                  4.1.      33.4     2L2
Etialrrl NrrEli Suet)                          6.5       3.4      3.7       5.0       6.4                 ..96.7   315.7                       6.1
hustle  hi-Omi PunChug                0.0      0.0       0.3      0.1       0.0      0.0                  ...                      -66.7
Seantic las  FPelmnia                 2.7      0.5       0.5      2.0       IA P     4.0                36.9              -50.3    211.9      20.3
lii liubuuumeestu IOUS  gal  eal                     ubSk bftstmauimg I hined (II  mi.11
J. stwul Capital Flm,hbt             -----
-w  Put hiSs Katie It             3930     190       in33      29314     IMP    3936.    59310       193     3IN3       I114    ItRi       393
hdil  I Pubicly twamLesi LI          63?      411       317      142        45        32     330      5131      564       566      55u       610
111ieldu  Creditors                50       311        -        142       II        ..      93      3933      4173      4711     4372
hItlIatermi                    200       341        73399              33        .       733      369       93       966       99
ee*1hcb113                    -3       -I       -2        -5   5         .    .        46       47        45       40        35
Al  iichlIRA                 37        36       55        Bi        29       ..       11"      346       394      471       507
MitralO                         340      223       310       53         2        ..     2272     3044      3170     3751      NO3
Private Ereditwrm                  VIZ      309        -I         0        5        ..      14       320      1031       916      934
limpliaru                         2       -7        -I        0         0a       .       213       322       99        40       29
Finanilal mikets               135       Ilk         0        0         5                oh60    146        912      90        33
Priate hm-Esralaei Li                  .         .        .         .        .         .        .         .        .          .       -
ToalaLTI                             637       67        33'7     362        45       32      36012    5137      5634     566       563      6IIN
IV  hit Creit                         141       45       153       14        -5        ..      32       501       624      19        665
hit Iwtn-ler  Capital                 333      661       140     -t 17      133        ..      16       660       440       404      NI       3000
Vital iKludiia   [IF lhitS II   39            3133       671       3        1731       .      4630     Oh1       6749      MO6      633
hit ad IN  mathsg                   aen       3932      193      1934      IU85P    3936. 
---                     -        --            Nu~~~~~~~~~ltas:
mae of Total Lus-TWrsI-
3. 333  a  I of Tutal                3.21     0.93     0.71       0.7      0.19       .            31 Catrial povrnmerts careat evpeitire
2. KU asKeof lotal                   4.99     6.64      6.93     3.31      9.9311                      are beau  -  actmal payeuts stitl 193211
3.. lUbll a  1 of Vtalt               6.2     7.55      7.72     9.03    10.66b        .              after stich they are zLMclatat efma
Unw  of Tital LI lull Sinvicis                                                                        accrual basis.  Snuk rnti  fur 1M113-
I. lED    iI DiTotal                1.611    6.02      3.53      1.09      5.6        ..               9311  arm calculated -  a cask basis to,
2. INEa  ISof1.1.3                   3.35     l.A       4.135    3.64      4.31        ..               sltaln cmeauitney.
3. I11111l2  as 2 of Iotal           9.42    20.99    12.19    30.74       9.319
41 keiwth raintm we inuainal local currieny
11111-tm-Eupirtslissth                                                                                term.
1. Luq-Tira libtiEzports          451.39   411.14   66626   677.52   603.              ..51 Data is Table 2 are based e  hifirathe
2. 11F CreditIIxWts                 41.11    46.34    73.13    73.561   73.95          ..availbsbl  frm the NS sysimi.  le have
L  Sbut-w  lens   tit phrts        64.41    60.77    513.7    413.33    63.99          . .            information fre ani accounthing firs that
4. LTF1IU4T  UIupsrts             562.911  513.04   79131  79A.4    751.3 as                          is a cussultaut Is the Last if 3.4d. that
rupmts s31ghk17 dif (arst sadtwi. This
Ntis-  IN lathe                                                                                       his buss je  to lee"  the cuoslmtey mith
thu other Dmt repurts. Elffots aertlier
I. Lug-Ire DteliI                   56.23    68.39l   10.47    31.36    68.44    110.63               may to rKac iem  thes  data ire diFleret
2. 35F CreiItjW                     L.O5       6.7     3.30      3.57      3.95        ..mince.
3. Malt-Ters 3*1t9                   7.93     3.32      6.23     5.79      7.2    L13.23
4. LIvIIF*PII 30/                  69.22    33.91    95.53    95.52        85.2        ..6  Net LT los in fatle J1 Arue   a cad,
basisa,  hrmss thi smm~entry An the
kht ievicelEsperts                                                                                    1*3mM  is a as accrual basis, i.e.,
baud ai the shlgallis  .e tither the
I. 1*Sc 1 trwstee   LT              22.51    30.56    10.17    12.43    35.48         ..uAd   Mm  actually Paid.
L. Wrvaem  bu-6ursatsid LT              .       -
3.  etal LI  utht Service           12.51    10.56    10.37'   32.43    35.43         O.e*stit "atdila
4. IV  Ipf asaMM  4 W lurefg.                                                                      P*pr.Iaisiary data
6. Vtal (1,031411 lit.)



- 28 -
ANNEX II
PaRe 1
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS - SUDAN
(as of September 30, 1986)
Amount (US$ Million)
(Net of Cancellations)
Loanl                                                                            Undis-
Credit No       Year    Borrower  Purpose                   Bank        IDA 1/  bursed 11
Eight Loans and twenty Credits fully disbursed              139.0      331.3
Credit   782    1978    Sudan       Livestock Marketing                  25.0      5.74
Credit   834    1978    Sudan      Agricultural Research                 15.0      3.86
Credit  1006    1980    Sudan       Third Power                          65.0     13.47
Credit  1022    1980    Sudgn       New Halfa Rehabilitation             40.0     14.43
Credit  1118    1981    Sudan       Blue Nile Pump Rehab.                32.0    24.50
Credit  1119    1981    Sudan      White Nile Pump Rehab.               35.0    28.00
Credit  1153    1981    Sudan       Second Tech. Assistance              6.0       2.11
Credit  1181    1981    Sudan      Western Savannah                      13.0      0.23
Credit  1201    1982    Sudan      Agricultural Services                 18.0     11.51
Credit  1233    1982    Sudan       Second Port                          25.0      2.05
Credit  1388    1983    Sudan       Gezira Rehabilitation                80.0     77.85
Credit  1389    1983    Sudan       Agric. Rehab. Program II             50.0      0.73
Credit  FOll   1984    Sudan*       Third Education Project              10.0      5.65
Credit  1451    1984    Sudan       Third Education Project               5.4      2.77
Credit  1450    1984    Sudan       Third Highway Project                16.0     15.47
Credit  1506    1984    Sudan       Sugar Rehab. Proj                   60.0    56.50
Credit  1513    1984    Sudan       Petroleum T.A. Project               12.0      5.14
Credit  1525    1984    Sudan       Stock Route Project                  5.5       4.84
Credit  1614    1985    Sudan       Drought Recovery                     20.0      6.37
Credit  1624    1985    Sudan       Power Rehabilitation Prog.           30.0     30.00
Credit  1639    1985    Sudan**    Agr. Res., Ext. & Training            22.0     22.00
Credit  1640    1985    Sudan**    Western Savannah II                   1D.6     10.60
Total                                          139.0      926.8    343.82
of which repaid                              102.5        8.4
Total now outstanding                           36.5      918.4
Less amount sold (and repaid)                    5.8        9.3
Total held by Bank & IDA                        30.7      909.1
Total undisbursed                                Nil               343.82
11 Credit No.1118-SU and higher are denominated in SDRs and are shown in US$ equivalents,
based on the exchange rate in effect at the time of negotiations.
Special Fund Credit
**  Not vet effective



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of September 30, 1986)
Fiscal                                              (Amount in US$ million)
Year                Obligor                       Loan    Equity    Total
1964 and    Khartoum Spinning & Weaving Co.
1972         Textiles                             1.9      0.3       2.2
1976        Cotton Textile Mills                    8.7      1.3      10.0
1978        Seleit Food Production Ltd.            11.1      1.1      12.2
1978        Gezira/HMnagil Textile Co. Ltd.         6.7      1.4       8.1
1980        Sudan Cement Company                     -       0.2       0.2
1982        White Nile Petroleum Co. Ltd.             -      0.3        0.3
Total gross commitments                28.4     4.6       33.0
Less cancellations, termina-
tions, repayments & sales        13.0    1.6         14.6
Total commitments now held by IPC    15.4    3.0          18.4
Total undisbursed by IFC                        -



-  30  -                    Annex III
Page 1 of 2
SUDAN
SUPPLEHENTARY DATA SHEET
I.    Timetable of Key Events
a). Preparation: February/August 1986
b). Request to IDA: September 1986
c). Appraisal: November 1986
d). Completion of Negotiations: March 1987
a). Board Presentation: May 1987.
f). Planned Date of Effectiveness: September 1987
g). Relevant PCRs and PPARs: None
II.    Special Bank Group Implementation Actions
None
III.    Special Conditions
a). With regard to the National Economic Planning and
Financial Management Component, the Minister of Finance
will establish, no later than October 31, 1987, a
Secretariat within the Planning Wing of ,YFEP,
reBponsible to the Undersecretary for Planning, to
manage implementation (para. 65).
b).  With regard to the Human Resources Organization and
Development Component, the Minister of Finance will
establish, no later than October 31, 1987, a
Secretariat within the Civil Service Chambers,
responsible to the Undersecretary for Civil Service, to
manage implementation (para. 66).
c). The Government will submit annual work programs of the
CBPE, including addition of staff, acceptable to IDA at
least two months before the start of scheduled
commencement (para. 45).
d). The Government will consult with the Association on any
programs related to the PE sector which might be
implemented with support from other donors, including
the Public Enterprise Rationalization Fund (para. 42).



-  31  -                      Annex III
Page 2 of 2
a). By no later than September 30, 1988, the CBPE will
produce terms of reference for enterprise managers,
boards of directors, shareholders, sectoral ministries,
and other institutions which specify their specific
authorities and responsibilities within the sector-wide
PE system; all to be acceptable to IDA (para. 46).
f).  The Government will, no later than September 30, 1988,
complete divestiture of the Krikab and Rea Sweets
Factories (para. 25).
g). No later than December 31, 1987, the Minister of Finance
will appoint a conmittee of experts to review the
legislative framework tor PEs (para. 48).
h). The Government will submit to the Association, not later
than four months before the start of each particular
training course abroad, the names and educational and
work background of the proposed participants for
approval of the Association (para. 67).



bensocuats Ruptlac iii Uh Sudan                    T/
-  32  -                             _____AN     _V/A
v*b L;I1' J--- ~^..Z.4} L.' i!3                            Page 1 of 4
MINISTRY OF FINANCE & ECONOMIC PLANNING
PO.oa 290 Kh.                            :,-... ,iAr
Cabl: Mamliae.                            IJ                           (
T1..: 77563-71619-74570                                           yuy..vn.vvnT  b,m.aZ
T.ha:400- 512 - 324                      'la                               - i,. -
THE MINISTER                                                                v-tH
/_' /I.:,- C,                                           April 6, 1987       .J
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C., 20433
U.S.A.
Attention: ReLional Vice President Eastern and Southern Africa
Subject: Policy Statement Towards Parastatal Sector
Dear Sir,
Since .1970, the parastatal sector in Sudan has contributed a
substantial part of the economy; its share in the GDP is estimated at 452.
Huge amounts have been invested In this sector, with the aim of:
(i) expanding the base of domestic production; (ii) to make the parastatal
sector units a basic source of generating real resources to support public
revenues; and (iil) to achieve social objectives especially in the process
of rural development.
Unfortunately,  over   the   years   the   parastatal  sector has
experienced major deteriorations  in  all aspects  and  become a constant
kurden on the national treasury rather than being air element of support-to
the national budget. The deterioration in this sector has even played an
important role in the general economic and financial crisis witnessed by
the country in recent years. Many reasons have been cited for its failure
to perform as expected; reduced productive capacities, distorted cost of
production structure, poor management, shortage of spare parts due to
scarcity of foreign exchange, government intervention in pricing system,
labour surplus, absence of effective financial and public control and
vagueness of policy objectives towards the parastatal sector.
Since the beginning of the 1980's the Sudanese economy has been
passing through a period of economic and financial crisis and the present
government  faces  the  consequences  of   many  years  of  gross  economic
mismanagement.



ANNEX IV/A
-  33  -                              Page 2 of 4
Sudan is determined to tackle in a realistic and sustained manner
the internal and external  imbalances.    In  order  to contain this crisis
situation and to get the economy back on track the government is embarking
on a medium term economic salvation programme. The main objectives of the
programme are to: (1) increase production; (ii) increase the utilization of
available capacities through rehabilitation programmes; (iii) curtail
private and public  consumption;  (iv)  promote  exports; (v) reduce budget
deficit through increasing the real revenues and reducing expenditures; and
(vi) food security.
The  parastatal   sector   plays   a   fundamental   role  in  the
implementation of this programme especially in the areas of production
increase and creation of real resources to support investment, public
revenues and to maintain  social  objectives.    The  restructuring of the
parastatal sector is within the general objectives of the Economic
Salvation  Programme.    We   believe   that  the  Improved  and  effective
performance of this sector represents the main and basic element in the
process of  economic  and  financial  recovery.    So,  the  reform  of the
parastatal sector is fundamental to improve the performance, efficiency and
effectiveness of this sector in order to increase its economic, financial
and social contribution through the maximization of the value added to the
national economy and to achieve the prospective growth rate.
Taking into consideration political commitments on the one hand
and political stability on the other, the following are the main economic,
financial and management policies of the government towards the parastatal
sector.
(1)      The restructuring of the  sector  aims  to rebuild the capacity of
all enterprises to perform efficiently and effectively their functions to
increase economic and financial contribution of these enterprises to the
national economy. In Sudan's mixed economy, the Government's engagement in
public enterprise activities which are of strategic importance to economic
development is considered essential. The engagement in such activities
should be carried out in an efficient manner and with economic viability so
as to increase the value added to the national economy and to avoid the
draln of resources.   The  Government  through the reform and restructuring
programmes aims to improve the overall efficiency and financial viability
of the parastatal sector.
(2)      Other public  enterprises  would  only  be  retained  if  they are
economically and financially viable and meet one or more of the following
criteria: (i) public services are involved which would not otherwise be
provided; (ii) where the indivisibility of the activity or economies of
scale  create   monopolistic   conditions   which   require  public  sector
participation; (iii) where the existence of public participation is needed
to encourage joint venture with foreign and domestic investors; or (iv)
where public participation is vital for food security, balanced growth
among regions, rural development and improving the productive and financial
base of the economy.
(3)      The  Government  has  established   a  Central  Bureau  of  Public
Enterprises to fornmulate parastatal policies, monitor and evaluate public
enterprises' performance, prepare guidelines for design of accounting and



ANNEX IV/A
34  -                        Page 3 of 4
financial reporting and management system. This Bureau will be responsible
to the Minister of Finance.
(4)      Establishment of a 'Public Enterprises Rationalization Fund" is an
essential element of the public enterprise sector reform program to provide
for the payment of retrenchment allowances, rehabilitation of human
resources, and post-service benefits for surplus labour.
(5)      Government  is  committed  to  undertake  diagnostic  studies  and
appropriate decisions for a representative pilot sample of enterprises
according to the general policy guidelines of the Government towards the
parastatal sector.
(6)      In the event of any exception  to  the cost recovery policy due to
political or social factors, the subsidy for specific non-commercial
activities will be identified and allocated in the central budget and the
funds will be transferred directly to the enterprise.
(7)      Borrowing  from  the  banking  system  will  be  according  to the
viability of the production plans and financial ability of these entities
for repayment during the same fiscal year.
(8)      Aggregate subsidy ceilings for  the  parastatal  sector as a whole'
and for individual enterprises will be determined by the government prior
to the start of the annual budget process and exceeding those ceilings will
only be limited to special cases.
(9)      Measures will be  taken  to  reduce  and  rationalize  the cost of
production including redeployment of manpower surplus in the parastatal
sector.  Our strategy in this area is as follows:
a)  Determination of the labour  force  in  each unit according to
the   functions   and   production   capacities   taking  into
consideration the rehabilitation and expansion prograzme in
the short run.
b)  Determination of labour surplus in individual unit.
c)  Retraining and  redistributing  the  surplus  labour  to other
productive areas.
d)  Services of  surplus  labour  may  be  terminated with maximum
rewards of post service benefits against the rationalization
fund.
(10)     Audited accounts will  be  produced  within  six  months after the
closing of the fiscal period by the Auditor General Chamber. If this is
not possible for any reason, the Auditor General will allow and permit any
certified private accounting firm to audit the accounts.
(11)     The budget of each unit in  the parastatal sector is considered as
an integral programme whereby the production plans have to be integrated
and coordinated with the financial  budget.    This will establish a strong



-  35  -                        ANNEX TV/A
Page 4 of 4
base of effective financial control, follow-up of actual performance, sound
management decisions and an accurate reporting systen.
(12)     Any increase of wages and  salaries  in the parastatal sector will
be determined within the framework of national wage and income policies in
relation to the increase of productivity and improved financial viability.
Also, a system of incentives and punishments will be established based on
the actual performance of production programmos and productivity.
(13)     The government will encourage  tradable production through fiscal,
monetary, exchange rate, pricing policies and incentive system. High-value
exportables will be introduced as a result of a study for a new crop mix.
(14)     The laws and regulations concerning  the parastatal sector will be
reviewed in order to remove present conflicts and also to end ambiguitios
and to make enterprises commercially oriented. Changes in laws also should
maintain the balance between accountability and autonomy, but in the
initial period the government wants to put more emphasis on accountability
to restore financial discipline and effective control on the parcstatal
sector.
(15)     Functions  of  enterprises  should  be  clearly  defined  and  the
objective of each unit in the parastatal sector should also be defined in
terms of output, financial returns, etc.. and specifying the nature of its
relationships with the concerned Ministry and the Ministry of Finance.
Also the functions and responsibilities of boards of directors and general
assemblies will be defined.
(16)     Diagnostic studies of  enterprises  and  all  other studies in all
aspects of the sector will be done by Sudanese staff (Sudanese working
teams and study groups) in collaboration with foreign consultants in order
to increase the involvement of our staff in the reform process and to
reduce the number of foreign consultants.
These are the main aspects of Sudan Government Policies to reform
and restructure the parastatal sector, so as to improve its performance,
efficiency and effectiveness and to increase the sector economic, financial
and social contribution to the National Economy.
Best regards.
Dr. Bashir Omer
Minister of Finance & Economic Planning



-  36  -                             Annex IVIS
Page 1 of 3
N
PUBMLIC UNEM PISIAND ECONOKC KAfODENT PROJEC
PULI-C VEMTtISI CCH?NKN
First Project Implmentation Year
i)        Establish pre-qualification short-list of consultants, (local
groups), consultant firm., and equipment suppliers (May-July
19B7).
ii)       Preparation of tender documents and requests for proposals (May-
July 1987).
iii)      Establish Special Account (September 1987).
iv)       Dssign Project Launch Workshop (September 19B7).
v)        Advertise for tender.; send requests for proposals (September
1987).
Vi)       Assign additional 3 full-time CBPE staff (September 1987).
vii)      Project Launch Workshop; Preparation of Action Plans (October
1987).
viii)     Begin preparation of instructions to PEs re: closing accounts and
audits (October 1987).
ix)       Nomination of candidates for fellowships (year 1) (October 1987).
x)        Selection of first year short-tern consultants (November 19B7).
xi)       Selection of consulting firm for Diagnostic Studies (.0 PEs)
(November 1987).
xii)      Selection of equipment suppliers (November 1987).
xiii)     Finalization of Action Plans (November 1987).
xiv)      Administration/Logistical arrangement for long-term atisor
(November 1987).
xv)       Appointment of Committee of experts to review existing
legislation/regulations regarding public enterprises;
comencement of work (December 1987).
xvi)      Issue appropriate instructions to PEs regarding the closing of
annual accounts and audits (December 1987).
xvii)     Preparefsubmit initial financial plans for ten enterprises
(December 1987).



-  37  -                          Annex IV/B
Page 2 of 3
xviii)    Appoint a task force for clearing intrajGoverrmental accounts
(work Lo be completed by no later than December 1989).
xix)      Appoint a task force for recommenidations rem credit policy (work
to be completed by no later than June 1988).
xx)       Begin Diagnostic Study 1 (Tokar Agricultural Corporation)
(January 1988).
xxi)      Begin design of training program for project years 2 and 3
(January 1988).
xxii)     Appointment of working group for preparation of TORs outlining
responsibilities of PE managers, boards, shareholders, sectoral
ministries, CBPE, etc. (work to be completed by May 31, 1988).
xxiii)    Installation of micro-computers, training of operators (February
1988).
xxiv)     Begin preparation of divestiture plan for Rea and Krikab Sweets
factories (work to be completed by September 1988).
xxv)      Complete diagnostic study 1 (Tokar) and begin diagnostic study 2
(Telecommunication Corporation) (March 1988).
-xvi)     Prepare transmittal memorandum for diagnostic study 1 (Tokar) and
submit to Minister of Finance (March 1988).
xxvii)    Begin preparing aggregate FY 1988189 budget study (April 1988).
xxviii)   Begin inventory of all PEs (to be completed no later than
September 1988).
xxix)     Produce TORs outlining responsibilities throughout PE sector (May
1988).
xxx)      Complete diagnostic study 2 (Telecom) and begin diagnostic study
3 (Animal products) (May 1988).
xxxi)     Establish "Public Enterprise Rationalization Fund" (May 1988).
xxxii)    Established aggregate PE sector subsidy ceilings for FY i988189
(July 1988).
xxxiii)   Complete diagnostic study 3 (animal products) and begin
diagnostic study 4 (Duty Free Shops) (July 1988).
xxxiv)    Decision regarding recommendations of diagnostic study 1 (Tokar)
(July 1988).
xxxv)     Prepare budget for proposals from consultant firms for PE action
plan (August 1988).



-   -                            Annex 3I8
Page 3 of 3
Second Project Implementation Year
{i)       Divest the Rea and Krikab Sweets Factories.
(ii)      Design in-service training programs for key government
institutions and selected enterprises.
(iii)     Complete a comprehensive inventory of all public enterpr4ses by
type (corporations or companies), sector, share of Government
equity, and basic financial information.
(iv)      Submit results of detailed diagnostic studies of pilot
enterprises for decision.
(v)       Decide on recommendations for new andlor revised legislation
recommended by the committee of experts specified above.
(vi)      Establish a monitoring system for the pilot PEs.
Third Project Implementation Year
(i)       Prepare implementation action plans on the basis of dtcisions
concerning retention, privatization and liquidation.
(1i)      Introduce new financial and management information systems within
the PE sector as developed for the pilot enterprises.
(iii)     Design expansion of reform program for period beyond 1991.
(iv)      Promulgate and implement new legislation.
(v)       Clear all intra-Government accounts.
(vi)      Introduce objectives, targets, and incentives for the pilot
enterprises.
(vii)     Commence the process of divesting appropriate enterprises
according to the results of the implementation action plans.
(viii)    Begin implementation of rehabilitation plans for the pilot
enterprises retained within the public sector.
Fourth Project Implementation Year
(i)       Expand application of new procedures and systems linking the
individual enterprises to the relevant Government entities as
developed for the pilot PEs to the sector as a whole.
(ii)      Establish an effective enterprise monitoring function within the
ministries of agriculture and industry.



-  39  -                         ANNKX V
Pag. 1 of 2
EXPERIENCE WITH PREVIOUS TA PROJECTS IN SUDAN
First Technical Assistance Project
1.       Under the first Technical Assistance project (US$ 4.0 million)
approved in February 1976, a Project Preparation Unit (PPU) was established
in the Ministry of National Planning to strengthen the Government's
capacity to execute preinvestment work and project preparation activities.
Funds made available under this project were used mainly to finance project
preparation in the agriculture, water supply and transportation sectors.
The performance of the PPU under the project was mixed. The Government's
technical capacity for supervision and coordination of project preparation
activities improved, but high turnover of staff and lack of clear authority
demonstrated that additional time and continued support would be required
before the Government's capacity to prepare and implement projects would
reach an acceptable level.
The Second Technical Assistance Project
2.       The Second Technical Assistance Project (SDR 4.9 ulllion/US$ 6.0
million equivalent) which was approved in July 1981, continued assistance
for project preparation in support of the Three-Year Investment Program,
but the scope of assistance was expanded to include improvements in project
implementation capacity and strengthening of the macro-economic management
capacity of both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Planning.
Under the Second T.A. project, the performance of the PPU continued to
improve, staff turnover stabilized to acceptable levels, and there was a
qualitative improvement in the Government's preparation work. The lack of
a clear mandate over other governmental agencies in the area of project
preparation, howei-er, remained a serious obstacle to effective
coordination. The role of the PPU vis-a-vis the planning units in the
sectoral ministries and in the regional governments needs to be addressed
in the context of an overall review of the government's central economic
management functions.
3.       In the area of project implementation, assistance was targetted at
improvements in accounting and auditing and in tendering and procurement
procedures. After a slow start, the accounting component was implemented
successfully through a twinning arrangement with a U.K. based professional
accountancy body. Legislation for the establishment of the accounting
profession was drafted and the professional body created. The Institute of
Accounting Studies has been expanded to provide training through the
technician level to international standards and, the Institute will shortly
begin conducting the standardized examinations for qualifying of accounting
technicians. The training program for the Department of Purchasing was
fully implemented and delays in procurement reduced.
4.       Assistance to the Debt Management Unit in the Ministry of Finance
was limited to short-term training and the provision of office equipment
and has had little Impact on the problems faced by that Unit; i.e. an ill-
defined work program, lack of motivated staff and an unreliable system of
data collection. The IMF is currently providing the services of a Debt
Management Adviser and a work program has been prepared.



-  40  -                        ANNEX V
Page 2 of 2
UNDP Planning Assistance Project.
5.       Improvements in macro-economic analysis and management were
addresosd from 1974 onwards through a series of UNDP-Einanced, Bank-
executed PlannLng Assistance projects. Procedures for preparing fixed-
period economic development plans and three-year rolling public investment
programs were established and institutionalized. A framework of medium-
term macro-economic and fiucal projections was established and the process
of development budgeting improved. Significant improvements were made in
agricultural production, price, foreign trade and transport statistics.
Beginning in late 1985, assistance was also provided to the Department of
Statistics to improve the preparation of National Accounts which had not
been prepared by the Departmont of Statistics since 1978179. National
accounts have now been updated through 1984185. Although the Department
now has the capacity to prepare and up-date the accounts, the
sustainability of this capacity depends on longer-term solutions to the
problem of poorly motivated staff and high turnover.
6.       In spite of improvements In the planning process and the
statistical base, coordination between Finance and Planning and with the
Bank of Sudan remains weak. Although the Hinistries of Finance and
Planning were merged in 1983, the complete separation of the development
budget from th. rest of the system of public finance remains a serious
obstacle to effective management of the economy. The rolling plan system
of public investment programming needs to be supported by improved
financial planning and the budget process needs to be redesigned to serve
macro-economic ends.



-  41  -                    AN=fVI
Pag. 1 of 2
TEN PILOT ENTERPRISES & CRXTERIA FOR SKLKCTION
1.       Ten public enterprises have been selected as a pilot sample for
attention under the terms of the proposed project. Selection has been
based on the desirability of including examples representing both high and
low salience among the following characteristicst
(1).    Impact on the national economy;
(ii).    Market orientation;
(iii).    Size of assets;
(iv).    Relative size of Government involvement in the sector;
and
(v).   Potential for privatization end liquidation.
In addition, the pilot group of enterprises includes four organized under
the 1925 Companies Act and six organized under the 1976 Public Corporations
Act.
2.       Based on those considerations, the ten enterprises selected as the
pilot group are:
(i).   Toksr Agricultural Corporation;
(ii).    Rahad Agricultural Corporation;
(iii).    Animal Products Corporation;
(iv).   National Electricity Corporation (NEC);
(v).    The Telecommunications Corporation;
(vi).   Duty-Free Shops;
(vii).    Masbio Cement Ccrnpany;
(viii).    Karima Fruit and Vegetable Canning Company;
(i=).    E1 Geneid Sugar Company; and
(x).    Friendship Textile Company.
3.       Attachment 1 provides comparative data on the ten PEs in terms of
the applied criteria.



ANU= VI
Pa*e 2 of 2
Attaeblult.
SUDANI NATRIX FOR TEN PUILIC ENTERPRISES
61b/?        Govt.
eatla.      Contri-       GoVt.
lndlcaiJ  tOrs            .    8*/85       Cost of      bution       MonOpoly                                      Potential for
Approx.   Salaries   to Recur-   (Cm) vs    Productive            Potential        Divestiture:          Etfected
pMrInLt                                              Assets    & Wage,       rent Cost    Nixed          (I) Vs        for Coo-         Retention (i),           by
NfHiistry i.nd                            Legal    in all.   in  ill.         In .11.       Sector    Service (S)   perative          Privaratioa tn ),        Price
Firm,                                     Form        Li           LS           La -           B)        Sector        Advantage         Cloasure  C).        Control
AritiuLltiare
Haliad Corlioration                    Corp.      120s4        6.8                       KS             P            Good                P /P                YeO
Tnkar Curpuration                      Corp.                   0.6                       K S            p            Good                R /P                lea
Asufial Pruduct Corporation            Corp.         1.6       0.8                       KS             P            Good                P                   Te
Traisupi.rt/Tourtss
5u,d.uiese Telecouuuuicatlon
Public Corporatton (STPC)            Corp.        t         34.8                       CH             5            N/A                 3                  Yen
Induet rv
El  iunialI  Sugar Coapaiuy            COO.         20.7      12.1                       KS             P            Good                 t/F                Tea
Frieun.ship Textile Company            Co.                     9.4                       MS             P          Reasonable            P                   Tea
Macplo Cement Company                  Coo.         30.        64.2                      cm             P          Reasonable            p                   Yet
Kalmla Fruit Canning Company           Cos.          5.3       1.2.                      NS             P          Leamonable            P/C                 Tee
Hicel l-meneous Sector
NSatluna.l els-ettieity
CnrimrJtIon (NEC)                    Corp     1,193.4       4306           o5          GM             S            NIA                 a                  Yes
Uuty Free Shop Corp.                   Corp.        20.6;      3.5                       am           S/Trade         "/A                I/i                 No
Am rutllctedl In the .laivu Matrix, tha sulected ten PEC  represent a reasonably good diversity in terem  of sectors, corporcte form.o  mis  of a*net  and
payroll, go ur.:uent *onapumllei  and ptivate sector particIpation.  Serwice functions art sentraLly Supplied thr44h state monopollec, while smamufactur-
Ing of Kgod,.  unoreally facois partial competition from private  antrepreneurs.  tt can be  amun*d that In the aove liged (Cub)hctors producers have
putuntlally a comparative advantage, at leant on the domstlc mrket,  Insofar m  the listed cempantees are candidates for diveatiture ea  only be
guoemIld and depends, to a large extent on factors like policy .nvionuem t (e.g., price controls) and thc potential to aitLgete eaxisting operati.
conctr.olnLu (spare parts, FE avallability, inputs) and inlrastructuWat bottlenecks. A factor crilecl In the econmic evaluation, and tberefore In
thu conmllduration for closure, will be the sit. location of Pte in relation to product "rkets, input availabitity and infrastructure.



- 43 -
ANNEX VII
CRITERIA FOR PREPARATION AND PRE-APPRAISAL STUDIES
The Association will consider preparation and pre-appraisal
studies for financing under  the  terms  of the proposed Public
Enterprise and Economic Management Project if (i) they are
reviewed, recommended, and submitted by the Project Preparation
Unit (PPU), Planning Wing, Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planning  and  (ii)  they   are   either  (a)  related  to  the
preparation of policies for improved economic and financial
management or (b) required for preparation of an investment
project. If the latter, all of the following criteria will
need to be met:
(i).   The proposed  project  for  which  the  study is
proposed is included in the Government's Public
Investment Program;
(ii).   Financing  for   the   proposed   study  is  not
available from Grant sources; and
(iii).   Agreement  has  been  obtained  from  the sector
ministry(ies) concerned.



- 44 -
ANNEX VIII
PROJECT COST/FINANCING PLAN (by Component)
(USI thousands)
Government           IFJA                   Total
Local         Local        Foreign
PE REFORM COMPONENT
Long Term Experto                         0             0           482           432
Short Term Consultonte                    0           528         1,200          1,729
Formal Training                         213            07         1,047          1,337
(lci. Study Tourn)
Equlpmnt/Vehiclee                       lJl             O           216           347
(incl. mointenance)
Operating Costa                         468           195             0           661
BASE COSTS                790           810         2,895         4,496
Contingencies                           220           172           101           493
SUB-TOTAL (Component)             1,010           982         2,9W          4,986
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT COMPONENT
Long Tern Expert                          0             0           720           720
Short Term Consultants                    0            76         1,180         1,258
Formal Training                         119            F0           678           846
(la.l Study Tours)
Equlp mnt/VYhicI-a                      114             a           245           359
(Incl. maintenance)
Operating Costa                         682           292             a           974
BASE COSTS                914           418         2,823         4,165
Contingencies                           256           1S7            83            496
SUB-TOTAL (Component)             1,170           676         2,906          4,661
HUMAN RESOURCES COMPONENT
Long Term Experts                         O             I             0              0
Short Term Consultants                    a            40           620            a"
Formal Training                          91            40           12S            2S8
(ncl. Study Tours)
Equipment/Vehicles                       48             0            26             73
(incl maintenance)
Operating Costs                         227            98             0            326
BASE COSTS            WI8           178           770         1,316
Contingencies                           104            70            23            197
SUB-TOTAL (Component)           472           248           710          1,613
PPF Advance                               O             O           SJO           SO
TOTAL         2,85          1,805         7,195        11,8w



- 45 -
ANNEX IX
PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE
Project Elment                  Procurment Method                     Total
ICB       LCI       Other      N.A.         Cost
------(US$ million)---------------
Vehicles, Furniture          0.3        0.2         0.5                     1.0
and Equipment         (0.3)     (0.2)       (0.1)                   (0.6)
Training                                            2.8                     2.8
(2.3)                   (2.3)
Technical Assistance                                5.1                     5.1
(5.1)                  (5.1)
Operating Costs                                               2.2           2.2
(0.5)         (0.5)
SUB-TOTAL       0.3        0.2         8.4       2.2          11.1
(0.3)     (0.2)       (7.5)    (0.5)          (8.5)
Refunding of Project                                          0.5           D.5
Preparation Advance                                     (0.5)          (0.5)
TOTAL       0.3       0.2         8.4       2.2           11.6
(0.3)     (0.2)       (7.5)    (1.0)          (9.0)
Note:    Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
AssocLation.



- 46 -
ANNR X
DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
1.    Government of the Sudan,   Preparation Report  for  Public Enterprise
Reform  Project,  two  volumes,  September
1986.
2.                             ,   Request for  Planning  Assistance Support,
September 1986.
3.                             ,   Request for  Assistance  for Civil Service
Reform. September 1986.
5.    IDA Project Brief, September 17, 1986
6.    IDA Preparation MIssion - Back To Office Report, March 19, 1986
7.    IDA Appraisal Mission Documents:
(a) Memorandum from IDA Project Officer (J. Silverman) to First
Undersecretary, Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning,
Government of the Republic of Sudan, October 21, 1986.
(b) Aide-Memoire, November 27, 1986
(c) K. Loos,                Summary Note  on  Accounting Practices and
Nsnagement  Iormation S_ystems   MIS) in
Public Enterprises, November 1986.
(d) A. Mazoomdar,           Economic Planning and Financial Manatement
Component, December 1986.
(f) __________________,   Economic Management  in  Sudan: An Update,
January 1987.
8.    Terms of Reference:
(a) Technical Assistance
(b) Training Activities
(c) PE Diagnostic Studies



