Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCLAL USE ONLY
Rqmort No. 14018-su
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE AND ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1789-SU)
MARCH 3, 1995
Public and Private Enterprise Division
Eastern Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Dinar
US$1.0 = SudaneseDinar42 (1995)
ABBREVIATIONS
GOS                Government of Sudan
MOF                Ministry of Finance
PE                 Public Enterprise
SOE                State-Owned Enterprise
SUDATEL            Sudan Telecommunications Corporation
TCDPE              Technical Committee for Disposal of Public Enterprises
UNJIDO             United Nations Industrial Development Organization
FISCAL YEAR
July 1-June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SUDAN
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE AND ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1789-SU)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE . ................................................................                                                                      i
EVALUATION   SUMMARY   ......................                                          ..........................................               1
A. Introduction              ..............................................................                                               I
B. Project Objectives   .............                          .................................................                          1
C. Implementation  Experience  and Results   .............................................................    2
D. Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned                                                       ...................  3
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                                                                       .................................   4
A. Statement and  Evaluation  of Objectives    4............................................................   4
1. Statement of Objectives .............................................................. 4
2. Evaluation  of Objectives                           .............................................................   4
a. Establishment of a Privatization  Implementation  Unit                                        ..................................4
b. Recent Performance of the  SOE  Sector                               ....................................................    6
c. Experiences with Large Privatizations   ........................................................                           8
d. Enhancing  Supervisory  Capabilities  ...........................................................                          9
e. Provision  of Technical Assistance  .............................................................    11
f  Designing  and  Implementing  PE  Restructuring  Programs ............................... 12
g. Provision  of Training  and Logistical Support                                 ..............................................  12
h. Summary  Evaluation  of Objectives  ............................................................    12
B. Achievement of Objectives  .............................................................   13
C. Major Factors which  Affected  the Project  ...........................................................                                13
D. Project Sustainability   .............................................................   13
E. Bank Performance .............................................................. 13
F. Borrower Performance  .............................................................   14
G. Assessment of Outcome .                                .............................................................  14
H. Futuire Operation   .............................................................   14
I. Key  Lessons Learned   .............................................................    14
PART II: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PART HI: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: Summary of Assessments
TABLE 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
TABLE 3: Project Timetable
TABLE 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
TABLE 5: Project Cost
TABLE 6: Project Financing
TABLE 7: Status of Legal Covenants
TABLE 8: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
TABLE 9: Bank Resources: Mission



SUDAN
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE AND ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1789-SU)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Sudan Public Enterprise and
Economic Management Project. The Credit (SDR 7.1 million) was approved by the Board on
May 5, 1987 and became effective July 8, 1988. An undisbursed and uncommitted balance of
about SDR 4.15 million from the Credit was cancelled on February 24, 1994 after Sudan went on
non-accrual status on January 19, 1994.
The ICR was prepared by Messrs. Khaled Sherif and Reynaldo Castro of the Public and
Private Enterprises Division, Eastern Africa Department of the Africa Regional Office.
The preparation of this ICR is based on a mission to Sudan from January 7 to 17, 1995,
the President's Report, Supervision Reports, correspondence between the Bank and the
Borrower, and internal Bank documents.






SUDAN
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE AND ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1789-SU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A. Introduction
1.    The Public Enterprise and Economic Management Credit (PEMC) was designed to
support the Government in rationalizing the public enterprise sector whose financial
performance had deteriorated seriously. PEMC was to support the policy and institutional
reforms in a number of selected public enterprises and was to provide the necessary support to
initiate the privatization effort.
2.    This project was seriously adversely affected by Sudan's continuing arrears to IDA.
These arrears led to the suspension of the project when Sudan went on non-accrual status on
January 19, 1994 and eventually cancellation of the undisbursed and uncomrnitted balance of
about SDR 4.15 million.
B. Project Objectives
3.    The project's main objectives included (i) establishing a privatization implementation
unit; (ii) strengthening the supervisory capabilities of the Ministry of Finance over public
enterprises, (iii) providing technical assistance to support the public enterprise reform and
privatization effort; (iv) designing and implementing a restructuring program for a select
number of troubled strategic public enterprises; and (v) providing training and logistical
support to facilitate the public enterprise reform and privatization effort.
4.    The original project objectives were revised since the initial project design was overly
ambitious. The original project design focused on enhancing the Government of Sudan's
(GOS) economic policy making capacity and also included a civil service reform component.
The objective of enhancing the capacity of the Ministry of Finance to design and implement
policy along with the civil service reform component were dropped at the request of GOS in
1991 and the focus of the Credit was re-directed to support the public enterprise reform and
privatization effort.
5.    During implementation the focus of the Credit shifted solely to support progress
toward implementing the Government of Sudan's privatization benchmarks. Based on the
magnitude of the public sector's problem existing at that time, the Credit's initial objectives
were overly optimistic relative to the resources devoted to the task and had to be amended.
6.    There were no specific loan covenants within PEMC, outside of normal Credit and
prudent practices requirements. The main conditionality that was incorporated within PEMC,
involved the establishment of a privatization cell to facilitate the reform effort with an
assurance of its continuity during the project's life.



- 2 -
C. Implementation Experience and Results
7.    The Credit closed with an undisbursed balance of about SDR 4.15 million (about
US$5.26 million equivalent). The Credit's objectives were largely not met. The Credit was
cancelled after Sudan went on non-accrual status in January 1994. It is unfortunate, however,
that the Credit closed largely undisbursed, with the main beneficiaries still in need of technical
assistance, training and logistical support
8.    On the one hand, some progress in moving the privatization effort forward had been
achieved since 1992, and subsequent to a change in public enterprise economic management,
the overall size of the public enterprise sector has decreased. Twenty-two privatizations have
been completed to date through the privatization cell established under this Credit and as of
January 1995 an additional twenty firms were in the sales pipeline.
9.    A project team  assisted the GOS with the establishment and upgrading of its
privatization cell. The project team was later named by GOS as the Technical Committee for
the Disposition of Public Enterprises (TCDPE). This work was assessed as timely and
effective. Various consultants played an effective role in capacity building and in supporting
TCDPE in the implementation of its various privatizations.
10.   Against this background, however, TCDPE has had to function in a highly political and
constantly changing environment. TCDPE lost support at a critical stage in its development
and is now severely constrained by the lack of both GOS and donor support.
11.   In 1993, once the privatization effort had begun to move rapidly, it became apparent
that donor support for this effort was to be seriously constrained by [DA's withdrawal from
this project. Many of the envisioned reforms were halted because of cancellation of the
remaining balance under this Credit. With the GOS facing an extremely difficult budgetary
deficit the gap in financing created by IDA's withdrawal was not made up by either the GOS or
other donors.
12.   Preparation and appraisal underestimated  the complexity of public enterprise
restructuring needs and the importance of timely action in initiating a privatization program.
The Credit design lacked measurable and monitorable outcomes, which if built in as
conditionality, may have kept the Credit focused and the momentum from dissipating.
13.   The quality of Bank supervision of this Credit was mixed. Supervision was detailed in
the latter years of the Credit, but in the deteriorating political conditions prior to 1991, was
less comprehensive. 'rhe project was supervised in the field in 1990 and 1991 for a total of
only 14 working days. In 1992, GOS requested IDA's approval to utilize credit funds for a
UNIDO executed privatization program. IDA agreed and a contract between GOS and
UNIDO was signed on February 8, 1993 at a cost of about $700,600. Implementation of the
contract continued past credit cancellation in February 1994, ending finally in October 1994.
The contract supported UNIDO to ensure proper technical assistance support to the
privatization program.



- 3 -
14.   The Ministry of Finance and TCDPE, as the beneficiaries of the Credit, showed strong
commitment to the project's objectives during project life. Commitment to policy reforms was
also strongly evidenced during periods of political stability. Overall, however, the project was
not highly satisfactory. It failed to achieve two of its critical project objectives. First, the
numbers of privatizations originally envisioned were not met. Second, the restructuring effort
within key public enterprises was not effective overall as it did not curtail flows from the
Treasury to key parastatals, notwithstanding individual exceptions.
D. Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
15.   The technical capacity generated in the creation and development of TCDPE, whose
functions are now curtailed because of lack of funding, is considered partially sustainable, if
supported by the appropriate policy environment. The Bank restructuring and privatization
efforts undertaken by this Credit were not assessed as sustainable during periods of political
flux.
16.   The key lessons learned include: (i) the importance of not exaggerating project
objectives, and the need to include adequate monitorable actions; and (ii) the need to design
projects with a clear understanding of the political environment. The implementation of a
privatization/restructuring program in Sudan did not adequately take into account political
constraints.
17.   Overall in the last two years before this project's cancellation, satisfactory action was
taken by GOS to pursue its privatization initiatives but questions of sustainability had arisen.
No further corrective action could be taken by IDA due to early credit cancellation brought
about by Sudan's continued arrears.






- 4 -
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement and Evaluation of Objectives
1. Statement of Objectives
1.    The main objectives of this project were to: (i) establish a privatization implementation
unit; (ii) strengthen the supervisory capabilities of the Ministry of Finance over public
enterprises; (iii) provide technical assistance to support the public enterprise reform and
privatization effort; (iv) design and implement a restructuring program for a select number of
troubled strategic public enterprises; and (v) provide the adequate training and logistical
support to facilitate the public enterprise reform and privatization effort.
2. Evaluation of Objectives
a. Establishment of a Privatization Implementation Unit
2.    TCDPE is now fully established as a government department. Its objectives are to
implement the Government of Sudan's privatization program and to further promote the public
enterprise reform effort.
3.    In order to achieve the Government's objectives, the President has appointed a high
level policy-making body to oversee the privatization effort. The functions of this policy
making body are:
(a)   to supervise and coordinate the implementation of the Parastatal Reform
Program in general;
(b)   to prioritize and determine the timing of the sale for each non-strategic SOE;
(c)   to approve the operational guidelines for privatization to be followed by
TCDPE, including the criteria and procedures to be followed in the divestiture
decisions;
(d)   to give final approval or rejection for the sale of public assets. In the event of a
rejection, the reasons justifying the action will be recorded in the Minutes of
said meeting;
(e)   to monitor and evaluate the progress of implementing the program; and
(f)   to provide political impetus for privatization and participation in building public
awareness and the national consensus in support of the government program.
4.    The management, coordination and implementation of the divestiture program, is under
the responsibility of TCDPE. The functions of TCDPE are:



(a)    to formulate and recommend policies, procedures, programs and operation
guidelines for divestiture;
(b)    to prepare, with the collaboration of the holding companies where applicable,
target lists of candidates for privatization;
(c)    to prepare State Owned Enterprises (SOEs) for privatization and monitor all
technical privatization matters undertaken by consultants, including: valuation,
selection of optimal privatization method and sale techniques, preparation of
prospectus or offering memorandum, elaboration of marketing plan,
identification of financing options, etc.; and
(d)     to organize the bidding process, and receive and evaluate offers and proposals.
5.     Staffing and Logistics. The organization structure of the TCDPE is shown below.
SUDAN
TECHNICAL COMMITTEE FOR THE DISPOSAL OF PUBLIC ENTERPRISES
Director
* Deputy Director
................  ........ . . . .   .. . . . . . . .   ............ ...   .. ..   .. .   .. .. .  .. . . . .. . . .   .. . . .. . .   ..1. . .. . . .
Sector Manager    Sector Manager    Sector Manager    Sector Manager    Sector Manager
Tourism &      Industrial  Finance, Construction  Mining, Energy &  Agricuture
Transport       Sector        Other Sector  Telecoms Sector   Sector
An Executive Director has been in place since this unit's creation and has received considerable
training under this Credit. Currently the TCDPE has a total of 6 staff, of which, 3 are at a
senior professional level. By the time the TCDPE is fully staffed, it will remain a small
organization having a total of about 16 professional staff.
6.     TCDPE also currently houses a privatization advisor funded under the project who was
hired by UNIDO. Other short term technical assistance to provide support in the development
of a safety net and in valuation were also provided during the course of project
implementation.
7.     The project played a key role in equipping TCDPE. For example, approximately six
micro computers were procured along with various photocopiers and other pieces of office
equipment. The list of goods to be provided under the Credit was never fully delivered due to
the project's early closure.



- 6 -
8.    The Privatization Program. With regards to the divestiture program, TCDPE has
made steady progress in carrying out its work program. A total of 21 state enterprises have
been offered for sale with 14 privatizations completed thus far. The Government has also
stated its desire to privatize an additional 5 enterprises in 1995.
9.    Some clear advances have been made in Public Enterprise (PE) reform  and
privatization in Sudan with the assistance of Credit 1789-SU, but efforts to make a substantial
impact at the macroeconomic level are still lacking. Even though the pace of reform has
accelerated markedly the kinds of reforms currently being implemented are not tied to a long
term vision of economic viability. For example, the pace of the privatization program has been
somewhat accelerated primarily as a result of the worsening economic environment. The
objective has been to promote privatization to generate government revenue to deal with
budgetary issues rather than implement clear budgetary reform policies. Nonetheless, the
Government now clearly realizes that they must curb public sector expenditures given the
current economic outlook.
10.   The following section reviews what TCDPE has been able to implement so far in its
privatization and public enterprise reform effort.
b. Recent Performance of the SOE Sector
11.   CORE SOEs. "Core" SOEs are those providing basic public services, according to a
recent classification by the TCDPE. The Government of Sudan has identified 17 such
enterprises operating mostly in utilities, railways and a variety of basic public services.
12.   Since the Government of Sudan has not introduced any system for improving the
accountability process of state enterprises currently offered for sale, it is now reviewing a
number of options in this regard. The use of performance contracts in power, water, railways
and the like are now seriously considered.
13.   Core SOEs performing functions not currently replicated in the private sector are
primarily in power, water and sewerage corporation, posts, domestic airline travel, rail,
shipping, ports and harbors.
14.   A few services provided by these core enterprises have already been hived off: catering
and maintenance at Sudan Airways, and some phone services by the Sudanese
Telecommunications Corporation. A number of others are under consideration for contracting
out, for example, container traffic at the Sudan Ports and Harbor Authority.
15.   None of the group of core enterprises currently has any viable system for corporate
planning and no performance contracts have been administered to date. Many of the core
SOEs have not submitted audited accounts to the state for at least the last two years and the
Ministry of Finance is currently in the process of attempting to resolve this problem. There is
also a clear need to develop a system to unify accounting standards to facilitate the aggregation
of data on sector performance as it becomes available.



- 7 -
16.   In several core SOEs subject to ex ante price and tariff regulation by the Government,
such as power and rail, real revenue growth has been negative since 1989. A major reason has
been that approved tariffs have lagged behind increases in costs, with revenue levels of 1992
below those of 1989 in real terms. Managers of state-owned enterprises continue to have little
discretion over tariffs, salaries and wages, and other costs.
17.   NON-CORE SOEs. Of the estimated 111 SOEs operating in Sudan, the majority are
now classified as "non-core", i.e. suitable for divestiture. According to the TCDPE, only 14
non-core SOEs were profitable in 1989/90 (last available data). The profitable SOEs are, on
average, small in terms of their operational scale.  By and large this group is domestic-
oriented, with less than 2% of turnover represented by export sales.
18.   Divestiture. The Government's divestiture program was begun in 1990. After a slow
start, it has made some useful progress. At end-1994, 14 SOEs had been divested, with a
further 5 planned for 1995. Of the completed divestments to date, only one, Sudatel, could be
regarded as large. Should the divestment of Sudan Airways go through this year, as planned,
this would represent a substantial acceleration in progress, not only on reducing the state
involvement in commercial activity, but in sending a signal of strong support for private sector
activity.
19.   The majority of privatizations to date have been relatively small, with limited publicity
or transparency in the process. There is, therefore, a need to re-orient the approach, if the
program is to realize its full potential.
20.   An important step being contemplated by the Government is the public offering for sale
of one or more profitable SOEs. This would allow both employees and the public an
opportunity to participate from the outset, as investors, in the development of the selected
enterprises. By involving both employees and the public in this way, an atmosphere of
understanding and support can be created, that will stand both the Government and the
companies in good stead in their efforts to move forward.
21.   Details of TCDPE's actual and planned divestiture program is outlined in Table I
below. From this it is clear that, while much work remains, some progress has been made and
the program is slowly building momentum.



- 8 -
Table 1: Divestiture of State Owned Enterprises (As of end 1993)
SOE               Govt's Orig.  Govt's Rev.  Buyer/Comments
Holding    Holding
1. Sudatel                       65%         35%      Foreign joint venture
2. Red Sweets Factory            100%         0%      Local Investor
3. Krikab Company                100%         0%      Local Investor
4. Abu Name Kenaf Factory        100%         0%      Local Investor
5. White Nile Factory            100%         0%      Local Investor
6. Nuba Agric. Corporation       100%         0%      Local Investor
7. Watania Distillery Company    100%         0%      Local Investor
8. Friendship Palace Hotel       100%         0%      Korean Investor
9. Gezira Tannery                100%         0%      Local Investor
10. Port Sudan Spinning Mill     100%         0%      Korean Investor
11. Supplies & Catering Dept.    100%        10%      Local Investor
12. Blue Nile Agric'l Cooperative    100%     0%      Local Investor
13. Aybe National Corp.          100%        10%      Local Investor
14. State Corp. for Cinema       100%         0%      Local Investor
c. Experiences with Large Privatizations
Sudatel Experience
22.   Background.  In January 1993, the Sudan Telecommunications Corporation was
privatized and 80% of its existing network was transferred to a private corporation, Sudatel.
Sudatel's ownership is 35% government and 65% private. Despite its 35% stake in the
company, the Government is allowed merely 20% of the voting power. This arrangement
limits government control and at the same time provides adequate autonomy for the
corporation. It is also expected that the Government will relinquish more of its shares to
private investors in the near future (Government, however, decrees that its ownership shall not
be less than 26%) to further promote private participation at Sudatel.
23.   Privatization Experience. One important action Sudatel undertook as part of its
privatization effort was the engagement of a management consulting firm from the
Netherlands.  Sudatel signed a management contract for a three-year period in order to
improve management efficiency and increase staff productivity through complementary training
programs for Sudanese counterparts and other skilled technicians. Furthermore, during the
recent past, Sudatel initiated other action programs such as: (a) formulation of a five-year
strategic action plan and prospects for investment; (b) promotion of staff productivity and
efficiency through increased salaries and 40% work force reduction; and (c) creation of a
functional organizational structure with clearly defined delegation authority to regional officers
(Sudatel stated that this organizational structure will be evaluated in the short-term and any
required changes or improvements would be done at that time).



9-
White Nile Tannery Experience
24.   Background. The tannery which was started in 1975 initially produced approximately
3,000 sheep skins and 800 pieces of hides per day but capacity drastically decreased because of
inadequate spares and poor physical infrastructure.  In 1985, the Government received
financial assistance to rehabilitate the plant and spares were ordered from a Yugoslav supplier.
Spares arrived in 1988 and the physical improvements were started but took a few years to
complete. In early 1992, although not yet fully operational, the Government decided to
privatize the tannery. The tannery is currently equally owned by four major private investors.
25.   Recent Experience. After its successful privatization the tannery has been able to
bring its production capacity to its normal level of about 3,050 sheep skins and about 750
pieces of hides per day since June 1992. Action was also taken to promote competitiveness
within the sector by reducing the number of its workers and employees from 400 to 240 and by
increasing the salaries of remaining staff almost 300%. The tannery's goal now is to further
improve the quality of its finished leather products to compete in the export market.
d. Enhancing Supervisory Capabilities
26.   One main objective of this Credit was to provide financial and technical assistance
support to enable the Government of Sudan to implement its public enterprise reform effort. In
this regard, the objective of the Credit was to provide technical assistance to support the
reform efforts envisioned in:
- Sudan Telecommunications Corporation (Sudatel)
- Sudan Airways Corporation (SAC)
- The Duty Free Shops Corporation (DFSC)
- The National Electricity Corporation (NEC)
- Atbara Cement Limited (ACL)
- Friendship Textiles Company (FTC)
- Guneid Sugar Company (GSC)
- Karima Fruit and Vegetable Canning Factory (KFCF)
- Tokar Delta Agricultural Corporation (TDAC)
27.   Clearly in terms of three key indicators: overall surplus/deficit, budgetary burden and
rates of return on capital, the Credit has failed to promote any clear budgetary gains except in
Sudatel.
28.   A major indicator of financial performance is the overall deficits of the above
mentioned nine public enterprises (PEs) that are covered by the GOS overdrafts.  This
indicator summarizes the amount of resources that have to be transferred from the rest of the
economy, including the Government, to these PEs. The overall deficit is defined as the
difference between total expenditures (excluding depreciation and profit transfers to the
Government) and total revenues (excluding government transfers) that must be covered by
subsidies and GOS overdrafts. The overall deficit is very large given the substantial size of



- 10 -
both subsidies and overdrafts to these parastatals. Given current estimates the overall deficit is
currently three times the size of the revalued assets of the nine public enterprises examined.
29.   A disaggregation by company of the above financial results indicates that deficits are
virtually evenly spread with the largest overdrafts resulting from operations in NEC, FTC and
ACL. Indeed, PEs like NEC, FTC and ACL appear to have experienced a systematic
deterioration in their overall balance since midway in the Credit's life with overdrafts and
accounts receivable amounting to almost one quarter of their total asset base. The deterioration
in the overall balance of the majority of these PEs is indeed alarming as reflected by the serious
imbalance between GOS overdrafts and the book value of total assets of these parastatals. In
1992, overdrafts to these nine PEs amounted to almost 28% of their existing share capital.
30.   A major consequence of the large overall deficit of these PEs is large fiscal deficits at
the national level. The fiscal burden, defined as net transfer of resources from the Treasury to
these nine PEs, is another indicator of their financial performance. The fiscal burden has been
substantial. More importantly, there has been a close correspondence between PE deficits and
national fiscal deficits. Thus, high national deficits have been positively and closely associated
with high budgetary burden of PEs. This result is very significant for economic stabilization.
Reduction of the PE fiscal burden, a project objective, could have reduced the national fiscal
deficit significantly. Unfortunately, this has not been the case.
31.   Large overall deficits, a low saving rate and a high budgetary burden are all symptoms
of the same weakness--a low or negative rate of return on assets (see Figure). The main
Sudan PE Returns on Assets
-1.2
-1.3  
O-1.7
E-1.8
a   -1.9
z -2
-2.1
1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
i                 ~~~~~~Yea rsl
enterprises constantly showing a negative rate of return in the mid 1 980s and early 1990s were
NEC, SAC, TDAC, ACL and FTC.
32.   The mounting financial difficulties of these nine PEs has tended to weaken their
financial capital structure considerably. One important summary indicator of this is the debt
ratio. Between 1985 and 1990 the debt equity ratio for these public companies increased by an
average of 35%. The main source of long-term borrowing has been GOS. Although the



- II -
official policy has been to provide investment funds on a loan basis, many companies do not
service the "debt" owed to GOS and virtually treat it as equity.
33.   The key elements underlying the increase in debt, however, have been short-term
borrowings and payment arrears. Credit to these nine PEs grew by an annual average of 20%
between 1985 and 1990. This was primarily due to the growing deficits in a large number of
these public companies and because GOS pursued a fairly liberal policy of allowing enterprises
to run overdrafts. Another worrisome factor is the large growth in payment arrears. Between
1985 and 1990 the stock of arrears in public companies piled up at an annual average rate of
over 25%. Although some of the debt is owed to each other, on a net basis (accounts
receivable minus accounts payable) the arrears grew from approximately 25% of sales in 1985
to 30% of sales in 1990. Although the structure of the arrears (who owes what to whom) is
not filly known, it indicates the existence of serious distortions at two levels. First, because
these PEs on a net basis owe money to outsiders (e.g. public banks), their true financial
problem is even more acute than reflected by their accounts on a cash basis. Second, some of
the arrears are between the enterprises themselves. This is leading to a complex chain link
effect. Apart from the fact that this creates liquidity problems in the affected enterprises, this
also induces an inefficient use of scarce management resources by requiring managers to
devote considerable attention to the matter of retrieving dues from the defaulting enterprises.
More importantly, this could lead to a break down of normal transactions between enterprises
and other economic agents (e.g. banks) and also within enterprises.
34.   Another worrisome factor is the GOS' continual large annual investmcnts in these PEs
even though they are making minimal or negative returns on assets. This disturbing trend
indicates a clear expansionary trend in assets as losses continue to accrue on an annual basis.
This trend also clearly indicates that the project's objective of strengthening the supervisory
capabilities of the Ministry of Finance over public enterprise finances has not been successful as
trends in flows have continued to worsen during the project's life.
e. Provision of Technical Assistance
35.   Under this Credit, technical assistance has been used primarily to support the
privatization effort and to develop a vision for the possible implementation of a safety net. No
technical assistance was brought in to aid in the process of developing coherent approaches to
dealing with the core public enterprise restructuring effort.
36.   The reasons for this have been that TCDPE has tended to focus on privatization
activities and does not have a clear mandate when it comes to public enterprise reform. Thus,
project funds that were intended to support the public enterprise reform effort have gone
virtually unused.
37.   In addition, the long-term advisor hired for this activity was housed at TCDPE and thus
his main focus became promoting the privatization effort. In addition, the safety net work
undertaken emphasized dealing with the problems of redundancy from privatization rather than
on redundancies as a result of public enterprise reform.



- 12 -
f. Designing and Implementing PE Restructuring Programs
38.   This project component was never implemented. To date the GOS has yet to finalize
any performance contracts for the "strategic parastatals" with which it had planned to reform.
"strategic parastatals" (mostly utilities) continue to be a major drain on GOS' finances (see
above discussion).
39.   Perhaps the most important weakness in GOS' parastatal reform program relates to
ambiguities regarding the institutional responsibilities for leading and coordinating the reform
of parastatals which will be retained in the government's portfolio - the "core" parastatals.
There is considerable overlap and duplication of institutional responsibilities regarding the
oversight function for core parastatals. In addition to the line ministries, the responsibility for
monitoring and reviewing the performance of PEs is, to varying degrees, also carried out by
holding companies, the various states and the Ministry of Finance. This has tended to paralyze
the reform process and has played a crucial role in the failure of this key project component.
40.   In the future one organization needs to be identified which will lead the reform program
and it should be responsible for: (i) playing a lead role in the restructuring and reform of
selected parastatals; (ii) in coordination with line ministries, furthering measures which will
enhance the performance of the parastatal sector; and (iii) monitoring the performance of the
whole parastatal sector on an on-going basis.
g. Provision of Training and Logistical Support
41.   A comprehensive training program was envisioned for TCDPE and a number of its key
staff members have already completed programs on privatization techniques. However, the
detailed training program envisioned for TCDPE has come to a halt as a result of early project
cancellation.
h. Summary Evaluation of Objectives
42.   The project was successful in establishing a privatization implementation unit
(TCDPE), but has failed to enhance the supervision capabilities of the Ministry of Finance over
public enterprises.   The technical assistance provided has tended to concentrate on
privatization efforts rather than on public enterprise reform and the commercialization program
envisioned under the project was never really implemented. Training support for TCDPE staff
was cut short because of early project cancellation.
43.   The objectives of the restructuring component in the Credit were far more complex
than the Credit envisioned. The institutional aspects to both supervising and restructuring a
select group of parastatals were not adequately addressed by the Credit. Given the magnitude
of the problem at that time (and remaining in the sector today), the objectives were overly
optimistic.



- 13 -
B. Achievement of Objectives
44.   The Credit closed with about US$4.01 million equivalent disbursed mostly for
consulting and training activities. Overall, the Credit objectives were only partially met.
Significant training and parastatal restructuring work remains.
C. Major Factors Which Affected the Project
45.   Three major factors affected the outcome of this project: (i) the constantly fluid
situation in Sudan made it extremely difficult for IDA to properly supervise this activity -
implementation was eventually handed over to UNIDO; (ii) the lack of clear institutional
arrangements tended to favor the implementation of the privatization program at the expense
of the public enterprise reform effort; and (iii) the early cancellation of this activity clearly
limited the institutional capacity building of TCDPE as training programs were never fully
implemented.
D. Project Sustainability
46.   The privatizations completed under this Credit are considered a step toward sustainable
private sector development as long as they are supported by the appropriate policy
environment and as long as TCDPE continues to survive. In fact, a continued enhancement of
private sector activities would be expected if the privatization program continues to move
forward. For example, the privatization experience developed under this Credit will continue
to support further divestitures and the techniques used will become more sophisticated over
time. New methodology in the area of privatization mechanics will likely evolve if financial
markets develop from their current embryonic stage.
47.   The parastatal restructuring efforts undertaken by this Credit are not assessed as
sustainable. No real restructuring was conducted under this Credit and this project component
remained largely in paralysis.
E. Bank Performance
48.   The fact that the project was not supervised on a regular basis because of the political
conditions in Sudan severely affected IDA's performance. For all practical purposes UNIDO
became the Government of Sudan's important counterpart and the Bank's role was limited
during times of political uncertainty. Overall, UNIDO did a good job managing this Credit on
the ground given the fluid political situation during various stages of the Credit's life.
Furthermore, UNIDO's presence will allow for the use of consultancy services to aid the public
enterprise reform and privatization process through 1995. In mid- 1993, the remaining balance
of $5.26 million under this Credit was canceled. This came as a result of Sudan's arrears to the
Bank.



- 14 -
F. Borrower Performance
49.   The Ministry of Finance and TCDPE, as the beneficiaries of the Credit, evidenced
strong commitment to the project objectives during project life.  Commitment to policy
reforms relating to privatization was always highly emphasized. Unfortunately, this same
emphasis was not given to the public enterprise reform effort. Equally, while the objective of
institutional development at TCDPE was not fully met as detailed above, its establishment and
the support which it has received has led to a number of successful privatizations. In view of
the complexity of the environment, this was no small undertaking.
G. Assessment of Outcome
50.   Overall, two project components were not implemented. The first project component
emphasizing public enterprise reform never really became operational. Confusion over
institutional objectives led to the creation of this problem which to date remains unresolved.
The second component which emphasized training and the development of human resources
was never fully implemented due to early project closure.
51.   The project was successful, however, in developing the TCDPE as a privatization
implementor on behalf of GOS. They have managed to privatize a number of parastatals
successfully and continue to operate well after project cancellation.
H. Future Operation
52.   The Ministers of Finance and Industry clearly see the need for a further operation to
support public enterprise reform and privatization in the future. It is the thinking of these
MIinisters that when the relations between Sudan and the Bank become normal that a follow-on
activity be immediately initiated.
I. Key Lessons Learned
53.   The major lessons drawn from this Credit include:
(i)   the importance of not establishing unrealistic objectives, and the need to design
specific components such that project implementation is possible. Detailed
monitorable targets and the existence of clear institutional mandates should
direct the focus and support the momentum of similar future project activities;
(ii)  the capacity to absorb change needs to be realistic and considered in the
framework of the political environment; and
(iii)   The INIDO contract is a good example of project management under severe
conditions.



PART H: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION
An Assessment of the Project Objectives, Design, Implementation and Operation
Experience
1.    The development objective of the project was "the growth efficiency through
privatization and private sector activities". The immediate objective of the project was to
enable the Technical Committee for the Disposition of Public Enterprise (TC) to undertake
steps towards achieving the GOS' privatization program.
a. Project Objectives and Design
2.    In its implementation, the GOS' privatization project sought to achieve the total
transfer of ownership and management of selected state enterprises (SE) to private sector
entrepreneurs.  Pre-privatization restructuring, both financial and institutional, sought to
insulate potential investors from dealing with accumulated inefficiencies inherent in public
sector management of commercial enterprises.
3.    GOS identified enterprises, agricultural schemes and utilities for restructuring and
privatization. These included several manufacturing, trading and service sector enterprises
which readily lent themselves to privatization. The enterprises in the agriculture and transport
sectors and the utilities identified, required detailed study, restructuring and identification of
activities and units suitable for privatization.
4.    The program was designed to achieve complete transfer of government ownership of
SEs to the private sector and total withdrawal of the Government from the operations of these
enterprises. GOS also designed the implementation of the program to provide potential private
sector investors taking over these SEs with a head start by extensive financial restructuring and
rescinding of accumulated long-term and current liabilities, and pre-divestiture staff
rationalization.
5.    In the implementation phase of the program, TC interfaced with both the domestic and
international private sectors in the process of tendering, bid evaluation, negotiation and
preparation of memoranda of understanding, activities required to ensure transparency and the
smooth transition of both ownership and management to selected private sector investors.
Post-privatization the enterprises have been granted complete independence:  financial,
managerial and operational.
b. Implementation and Operational Experience
6.    The process was managed by a Technical Committee and its Secretariat which reported
to a High Ministerial Committee (HMC) comprising of key members of the Council of
Ministers of GOS. The Technical Committee comprised of a full time chairman and secretary
general with seven other members representing various processional disciplines and the private
sector. The Secretariat of the TC comprised of five executives who were each allocated a



- 2 -
specific sector: agricultural, industry, tourism and transport, mining and energy, and
miscellaneous. The Technical Committee appointed ad-hoc sub-committees to value the assets
of each enterprise and make any enterprise specific recommendations on divestiture. These
sub-committees were manned by academicians and professionals.
7.    While the purely technical tasks of valuation and enterprise appraisal were
decentralized and handled by the sub-committees, the process was centrally coordinated and
directed by the TC, which reports to the HMC on all policy matters and on the significant
technical content of each divestiture. The tendering process and the transfer of management
was handled by the TC.
8.    Members of individual sub-committees gained valuable experience in asset valuation
and enterprise appraisal as the program became operational while members of the Technical
Committee gained considerable experience in effecting the transition from public sector
ownership to the private sector. Valuable experience was gained in tendering appraisal of bids,
specifically, the acquisition of negotiating skills on legal aspects of privatization, including
drafting and negotiation of memoranda of understanding.
An Evaluation of the Borrower's Own Performance during the Evaluation and
Implementation of the Project, with Specific Emphasis on Lessons Learned that may be
Relevant in the Future
9.    GOS personnel involved in the privatization process have gained considerable
experience in the technique of executing asset sales of SEs, negotiation of debt/equity swaps,
and strategic planning regarding restructuring of agriculture and utilities sectors.
10.   In executing asset sales, asset valuation technologies have been acquired and
continuously refined to a point where the technology has become pervasive among a large
group of professionals and academicians who make up the sub-committees. The TC in turn
has progressively developed and refined skills in negotiating memoranda of understanding and
recognizing and meeting the concerns of the private sector investors in the divestiture process.
11.   The TC has also gained experience in negotiating debt/equity swaps, a strategy which
few African countries have chosen to adopt in their privatization programs.



- 3 -
Transactions Concluded up to December 1994
NVame of Enterprise            Sector         Divestiture Strategy    When Privatized
Rea Sweet Factory            Industry              Asset Sale                11/92
Kirkab Sweet Factory          Industry             Asset Sale                11/92
White Nile Tannery           Industry              Asset Sale                11/92
Khartoum Tannery              Industry             Asset Sale                12/93
Port Sudan Spinning           Industry             Debt/Equity Swab          11/94
Sudanese Footwearing Co.     Industry              Debt/Equity Swab          11/93
Blue Nile Packing Co.         Industry             Debt/Equity Swab          11/93
Gazira Tannery                Industry             Debt/Equity Swab          03/92
Red Sea Hotel                 Tourism              Asset Sale                12/92
Sudan Hotel                  Tourism               Asset Sale                01/93
Friendship Palace Hotel       Tourism              Debt/Equity Swab          12/93
Kosti Rest House              Tourism              Asset Sale                06/92
Atbera Rest House             Tourism              Asset Sale                07/92
Arousa Tourist Village        Tourism              Lease
Juba Hotel                    Tourism              Asset Sale                01/93
Arkawit Rest House           Tourism               Asset Sale                05/92
National Mining Corp.         Energy and Mining    Asset Sale                10/93
Sudatel                      Telecommunications   Share Sale                09/94
Rabak Cotton Ginnery          Agriculture          Asset Sale                11/94
Koku Milk Processing Factory    Agriculture        Asset Sale                03/93
Sudan Cotton Co.              Agriculture          Asset Sale               06/93
Sudan Oil Seed Co.           Agriculture           Transfer                 01/93
Khartoum Dairy Products       Agriculture          Transfer                  01/93
Sudan Commercial Bank        Finance               Asset Sale                01/93
Watania Distillery Co.       Manufacture           Transfer                  10/92
Wafra Chemical Co.            Trade                Transfer                 01/92
State Cinema Corp.           Misc.                 Share Sale
12.    A further portfolio of 26 enterprises have been earmarked for privatization, mainly
through asset sales.
13.    A key accomplishment of the privatization process is the restructuring of SEs in the
agricultural and utilities sectors. Specifically, two corporations meeting the national needs of
drinking water, the Rural Water Corporation and the Urban Water Corporation have been
extensively restructured. The planning policy formulation activities of these SEs have been
merged in the newly established National Water Corporation (NWC). NWC's operational
activities are being progressively decentralized to the regional state governments with NWC
also acting as the focal point for the supply of technology and expertise to the regional water
corporations.  Three separate activities of the original corporations (drilling, equipment
manufacture, and dams and reservoir construction) have been hived off and each of these
departments was converted into public companies which are soon to be privatized through
joint ventures with private sector entities able to provide technology, plant and financing.
14.    The experience gained from  this exercise will be utilized in the restructuring and
possible privatization of the following agricultural schemes:



- 4 -
* Nuba MT Agricultural Corporation
* Gezira Scheme
* El Rahad Agricultural Corporation
* White Nile Agricultural Corporation
* North Agricultural Corporation
* Halfa Agricultural Corporation
* El Souki Agricultural Corporation
15.   Various lessons were also learned during the process. These included the following:
(a)   The need to address the redundancy issue associated with the privatization
process immediately. This issue was further highlighted by the social safety net
consultant who made proposals on how to deal with approximately 8500
redundancies and whose employment was terminated in the last two years. It is
intended that in future redundancies in privatized SEs would be served under
the safety net program presently being developed.
(b)   The need for extensive public awareness of the rationale, strategy and content
of the privatization program has also been recognized as a critical element of
the privatization process.
(c)   The need to maintain a detailed statistical database of the program is also felt
midway through the project, and the Secretariat of the TC needs to be made
aware of the need to both maintain and constantly update processed information
on every aspect of the privatization program, and in relation to each completed
transaction.
An Evaluation of the Performance of the Bank and any Cofinancing during the
Evolution and Implementation of the Project, including the Effectiveness of the
Relationships among the Borrower, the Bank and Cofinanciers, with Special Emphasis
on Lessons Learned
16.   While the project has positive achievements of transfer of SEs to private sector
ownership, the range of strategic alternatives of divestiture utilized has been largely restricted.
Although the UNIDO project document listed alternative techniques of divestiture, there was
insufficient awareness of the manner in which these varied techniques could be operationalized,
and the conditions under which they could be activated. This could have been partly addressed
through a comprehensive seminar/workshop prior to implementation, for all GOS personnel
connected with the program, using experts from the World Bank and UNIDO.
17.   The need to integrate the activities of the privatization program with other parallel
projects aimed at managing the development of the private sector could perhaps have been
foreseen and addressed at the inception of the program. As things stand, there seems to be
little awareness of the need to integrate the privatization process with the activities of the
fledgling Khartoum Stock exchange and with the direct foreign investment promotion activities
of concerned agencies.



- 5 -
18.   Subject to these observations, the project has been guided by both the in-house inputs
of the World Bank and UNIDO, both institutions interacting with GOS to execute the program
and provide the needed technical assistance.
Adopting a Plan for the Operational Phase of the Project, and Defining together with
the Bank of the Performance Indicators to be used to Monitor Operations and
Development Impact
19.   The portfolio of SEs for divestiture was determined by GOS and the TC and its
Secretariat formulated the procedures to be adopted in operationalizing the divestiture process.
While the manufacturing units in the pipeline were earmarked for early disposal, detailed
studies had to be undertaken on restructuring and possible privatization of large agricultural
projects and utilities. The Ad-Hoc subcommittees were appointed to value each SE and make
recommendations on restructuring and divestiture to TC. Across-the-board activities planned
include:
(a)   the design and implementation of a social safety net for employees retrenched as
a result of staff rationalization at privatization;
(b)   preparation of comprehensive profiles of SEs in the pipeline to improve their
marketability; and
(c)   design and implementation of a comprehensive public awareness program for
exposure in all media.
20.   From November to December 1994, TC also undertook a post-privatization survey of
enterprises divested, and reports were prepared on post privatization performance for
submission to the High Ministerial Committee.
21.   The survey was made through field visits and the circulation of a written questionnaire
requiring data on financial performance, operational performance including capacity utilization
and productivity, employee satisfaction, new investment, product diversification, future
investment plans and post-privatization fiscal impact.
22.   The results of the survey overall revealed commendable post-privatization growth and
expansion in most enterprises.
a. Assisting the Bank in ICR Preparation
23.   This support generally consists of providing the bank with all necessary information on
the economic, financial, social, institutional and environmental conditions in which the project
was implemented, and on implementation and operation results (according to the timing
specified in the Loan Agreement).



- 6 -
24.   With the cancellation of the loan of US$5m which the Bank was to extend to GOS, the
scale and dimensions of the project had to be curtailed in keeping with the available UNIDO
credit of US$0.76m.
25.   The technical assistance extended under the LTNIDO credit was limited to a single long-
term adviser and four short-term consultants. The institutional support in establishing and
making the privatization agency operational had to be supported by GOS with computer and
communication equipment being provided under the UNIDO credit. The establishment and
implementation of a social safety net for around 9,000 redundancies is to be development as a
separate project for which independent donor assistance will be sought.
b. Providing Feedback on the Quality of the Bank's Contribution from
Project Identification to Supervision
26.   In terms of technical assistance provided by UNIDO, a privatization advisor was made
available to the TC to advise and assist in all phases of the divestiture process and provide
guidance in critical areas of the privatization program.
27.   Regular reporting to UNIDO on progress has been instituted since September 1994,
with memoranda being addressed to TC on the need to refocus critical areas to ensure greater
social acceptability and public transparency.
28.   The design for a post-privatization survey was developed by TC with assistance from
the Privatization Adviser and was permitted on the appraisal of post-privatization performance
of SEs, as well as identification of problem areas encountered in the transition from public
transparency.
c. Participating in the Completion Mission and Relevant Discussions
among the Bank, the Implementing Agencies and Cofinanciers
29.   Discussions were held between TC and the Bank mission on the achievements of the
project in meeting the guidelines set out in the UNIDO project document "GOS will have
privatized some SOEs and others will have been prepared for later privatization".
30.   Representatives of the agency emphasized the training needs of secretariat personnel to
meet the challenges posed in the restructuring and privatization of the massive agricultural
schemes, the utilities and the need for enhanced financial support in the restructuring process
which involved defining areas which were to be restructured and retained in the public sector,
and the fragmentation and progressive privatization of identified units.
31.   GOS personnel reiterate their commitment to the transfer to a majority of public
investment to private sector ownership and the constraints of achieving such a transformation
without adequate donor support.



PART III: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
SUDAN
Public Enterprise & Economic Management (Credit 1789)
A. Achievement of obiectives         Substantial       Partial         Negligible      Not applicable
I                             ~~~ ~ ~ ~~(V)    (V)               (V)               (V/)
Macroeconomic policies               C                4                0                 0
Sector policies                       0               4            
Financial objectives                 0                4                0                 0
Institutional development            0                                 0 
Physical objectives                   0               0                0                  4
Poverty reduction                     0               0                0                  4
Gender concerns                      0                0                0                 4
Other social objectives               0               0                0                 4
Environmental objectives              0               0                0                 4
Public sector management             0                4           
Private sector development           0                4                0                 0
Other (specify)                       0               0                0                 0
B. Proiect sustainability              Likely                  Unlikely                  Uncertain
I                             ~~~~~~~(V)                 (F/)                      (s/)
0                        0                          l
C. Bank performance                   Highly
satisfactory              Satisfactory               Deficient
(V)                      (V)                       (V)
Identification                      O                         0                          4
Preparation assistance               0                        l
Appraisal                            0                        4                         C
Supervision                          0                        0                         411
D. Borrower performance               Hiehlv
satisfactory              Satisfactory               Deficient
(/)                      (1)                       (1)
Preparation                          C                        4                         0
Implementation                       0                        0
Covenant compliance                  0                        0                          4
Operation (if applicable)            0                        0                          4
Highly                                              Highly
E. Assessment of outcome            satisfactory     Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
I                             ~~~       ~     ~~~(V)  (V)        (//)              (/)
C               0                4 w
11 Supervision was mixed.



Table 2: Bank Loans/CreditsI
SUDAN
Public Enterprise & Economic Management (Credit 1789)
Credit Amount      Year of        Disbursed Amount
Loan/Credit Title               (US$ million)       Approval         (US$ million)
Credit 1388-0 Gezeira Rehabilitation                   80.00          06/16/83           70.91
Credit 1867-0 Southern Kordofan Agri. Dev.             19.70           12/22/87          11.85
Credit 1894-0 Railways Emergency Recovery              35.00          04/05/88          32.12
Credit 1961-0 Southern Kassala Agr.                    20.00           11/08/88          5.86
Credit 2011-0 Emergency Flood Reconst.                 75.00          05/04/89           67.58
Credit 2070-0 Port Sudan Road Rehab                    82.20           12/05/89         48.27
Includes projects in the Sudan Portfolio which were disbursing as of March 31, 1994.



Table 3: Project Timetable
SUDAN
Public Enterprise & Economic Management (Credit 1789)
Steps in project cycle                Date planned             Date actual/latest estimate
Identification                                   09/84                           09/84
Preparation                                      02/86                           02/86
Appraisal                                        10/86                           10/86
Negotiations                                    03/23/87                        03/23/87
Board presentation                              05/05/87                        05/05/87
Signing                                         11/09/87                        11/09/87
Effectiveness                                   07/08/88                        07/08/88
Project completion                              12/31/95                        06/30/95
Loan closing                                    12/31/95                       02/24/94 *
* Undisbursed Credit Balance cancelled due to closure of Sudan Portfolio.
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
SUDAN
Public Enterprise & Economic Management Credit 1789
(US$ million)
1988     1989      1990  I  1991  1  1992         993     1994  [  1995
Appraisal Estimate         1.55      2.20      2.75      0.50     0.50      0.50      0.50      0.50
Appraisal Estimate         1.55      3.75      6.50      7.00     7.50      8.00      8.50      9.00
Cummulative
Actual                               t.38      0.68     0.32      0.58      0.34      0.70         -
Actual Cummulative            -      1.38      2.06      2.38     2.96       3.31     4.01         -
Actual as % of estimate       -      63%       25%      64%      116%       68%      140%          -
Actual cumulative as %        -      37%       32%      34%       39%       41%       47%          -
of cummulative estimate
Date of final          July
disbursement           1993



Table 5: Project Cost
SUDAN
Public Enterprise & Economic Management (Credit 1789)
|   Appraisal Estimate (US$ million)   [      Actual (US$million)
Item               Local Cost    Foreign       Total    Local Cost   Foreign       Total
Cost*                     I/         Cost
Long Term Experts                        -         1.40        1.40      n/a                      2.82
Short-term Consultants                0.26         4.68        4.98      n/a
Formal Trng. incl. study tours        0.59         0.45        1.04      n/a           0.38       0.38
Equipt./Vehicles incl. maint.         0.29         0.34        0.63      n/a           0.11       0.11
Operating Costs                       1.95            -        1.95      n/a           0.02       0.02
Contingencies                         0.88         0.21        1.08      n/a              -          -
PPF                                      -         0.50        0.50      n/a           0.68       0.68
TOTAL                                 4.00         7.62       11.62      n/a           4.01       4.01
i/ The Implementing Agency was unable to provide disbursement informnation for local cost.
21 This amount represents disbursement for both Long Tenn Experts and Short-term consultants.
Table 6: Project Financing
SUDAN
Public Enterprise & Economic Management (Credit 1789)
|   Appraisal Estimate (US$ million)           Actual (US$million)
Source              Local Cost    Foreign       Total    Local Cost T Foreign  1  Total
Cost     _           _               Cost   !
IDA                                1.35         7.62        8.97         n/a         4.01       4.01
Government contrib.                2.65          -          2.65         n/a        rn/a         n/a
TOTAL                              4.00         7.62        11.62        n/a         4.01       4.01



Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants
SUDAN
Public Enterprise & Economic Management (Credit 1789-SU)
Covenant   Present    Original   Revised                   Description
Agreement   Section       type I      status2    fulfillment fulfillment            of covenant                    Comments
date        date
DCA        3.04 (a)       5          CP          n/a         n/a      The Borrower shall select qualified The Borrower
staff for participation in any      utilized about
training programs under the         US$0.38 million for
Project.                            formal training &
study tours of various
staff and since no
information is
available to the
contrary, it is
assumed that staff
selection was
adequate.
DCA        3.04 (b)       5          CP          n/a         n/a      The Borrower shall submit to the   Requests for training
Association, not later than 4       clearances were sent
months before the start of each     to IDA. It is not
particular training course abroad,   possible, however, to
the names and educational and       determine whether
work background of the proposed  these requests were
participants for approval by the    sent on time.
Association.
DCA         3.05         10          CP        9/30/88       n/a      The Borrower shall complete, not  Krikab & Red Sea
later than September 30, 1988, the  Sweets Factories
divestiture of the Krikab and Red   were privatized in
Sea Sweets Factories.               November 1992.
DCA         4.01          1          CP          n/a         n/a      The Borrower shall maintain or      There were only two
cause to be mainted records and    Project Accounts
accounts adequate to reflect, in    audit reports received
accordance with sound accounting  during the life of the
l                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~practices, the operations, resources project. One for l
l                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~and expenditures in respect of the   period July 1, 1988 - 
l                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Project of the departments or  June 30, 1990 & the|
l                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~agencies of the Borrower  other one was for the
l                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~responsible for carrying out the  period July 1, 1990 - 
l                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Project or any part thereof.  Dec. 31, 1992. l
I. Covenants Types:
I = Accounts/audits                                                             7 = Involuntary resettlement
2 = Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries                 8 = Indigenous people
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds                                       9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting
4 = Counterpart funding                                                         10 = Project implementation not covered by
5 = Management aspects ofthe project or executing agency                            categories 1-9
6 = Environmental covenants                                                     11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other
resource allocation
2. Present status:                                                                 12 = Sectoral or cross sectoral
policy/regulatory/institutional action
C = covenant complied with           CP = complied with partially               13 = Other
CD = complied with after delay       NC = not complied with
3. If the covenant is complied with only partially or not at all, the reason is provided



Table 8: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
SUDAN
Public Enterprise & Economic Management (Credit 1789)
Stage of                  Planned                     Revised                     Actual
project cycle    I               _
Weeks         US$          Weeks          US$          Weeks          US$
Through Appraisal             *           N/A            *            N/A           49.4          N/A
Appraisal - Board             *           N/A            *            N/A           34.9          N/A
Board - effectiveness         *           N/A            *            N/A           2.4           N/A
Supervision                  105          N/A                         N/A           48.6          N/A
Completion                  N/A           N/A            11          21,900         7.0          20,000
TOTAL                       N/A           N/A            55           N/A          142.3          N/A
*As of FY1995



Table 9: Bank Resources: Missions
SUDAN
Public Enterprise & Economic Management (Credit 1789)
Perfornance Rating
Stage of        Month/       #of       *Days    Specialized    Implementation    Developmen        Types
project cycle    year       persons      in      staff Skills       status          t impact         of
visit     field    represented                                      problem
Through          9/84         11         63
appraisal         to
3/86
Appraisal        10/86        6          18
through           to
Board            3/87
approval
Board            3/87
approval          to
through          7/88
effectiveness
Supervision
1989            3/19 -        2          8       PSM Spec.            2                2         Slow
3/26                                                                            Disb.
1990             1/12 -       1          6       PSM Spec.            2                2         Slow
1/17                                                                           Disb.
1991            3/17 -        2          8       PSM Spec.            2                2         Slow
3/23                                                                            Disb.
1992            10/24 -       2          15      PSM Spec.            2                2         Slow
11/7                                                                           Disb.
1993             1/3 -        2          9       PSM Spec;            2                2         Slow
1/11                               FA                                          Disb
Completion -     1/7 -        2          11      PSM Spec."       less than        less than
1994             1/17                               FA           satisfactory     satisfactory
* estimates









