CREDIT NUMBER 1789 SU
Development Credit Agreement
(Public Enterprise and Economic Management Project)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF SUDAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1789 SU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated         AA\})4A..J L         , 1987, between
THE REPUBLIC OF SUDAN (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the fea-
sibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
(a) "MFEP" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and
Economic Planning;
(b) "CBPE" means the Central Bureau for Public Enterprises
established by the Borrower;
(c) "Special Account A", "Special Account B" and "Special
Account C" (collectively referred to as "Special Accounts") mean
the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(d) "Project Preparation Advances" means the project
preparation advances granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to exchanges of letters (i) dated November 20, 1985, and
January 23, 1986, and (ii) October 2, 1987 and October 16, 1987,
between the Borrower and the Association; and


﻿-2-
(e) "Public Enterprise Rationalization Fund" means the
fund to be established by the Borrower for the purpose of:
(i) providing credit to employees for the purchase of assets of,
or equity in, public enterprises; (ii) paying the cost of post
service benefits to surplus employees of public enterprises; or
(iii) payi-,g the cost of rehabilitation of human resources.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to seven
million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 7,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in U.S. dollars three separate special accounts
in the Bank of Sudan, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Special Account A shall be opened for the purposes of
Part A of the Project, Special Account B for the purposes of Part
B of the Project and Special Account C for the purposes of Part C
of the Project. Deposits into, and payments out of, Special
Accounts A, B and C shall be made in accordance with the provi-
sions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal
amount of the Project Preparation Advances withdrawn and outstand-
ing as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advances shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-3-
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from a date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement to the respective
dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the
Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may, from time to
time, be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
February 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 1997, and ending
February 15, 2037. Each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on February 15, 2007, shall be one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and management practices, and shall


﻿-4-
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall consult with the Association
on any programs related to the parastatal sector which might be
implemented with support from other donors, including the Public
Enterprise Rationalization Fund.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a) select qualified staff for participation in any train4lng
programs under the Project; and
(b) submit to the Association, not later than four months
before the start of each particular training course abroad, the
names and educational and work background of the proposed
participants for approval by the Association.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall complete, not later than
September 30, 1988, the divestiture of the Krikab and Rea Sweets
factories.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause
to be maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect, in
accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project, the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.


﻿-5-
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in para-
graph (a) of this Section, including those for the
Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)    furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall, from time to
time, reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the comple-
tion of the audit for the fiscal year in which the
last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii)    enable the Association's representatives to examine
such records; and
(iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section, and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the proce-
dures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Economic Planning of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
P.O. Box 2092
Khartoum
The Republic of Sudan
Cable address:                      Telex:
EIMAR                            22324
Khartoum
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
THE REPUBLIC OF SUDAN
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
Part A:
(1) Goods                        153,000        100% of foreign
expenditures
(2) Consultants'                1,730,000       100%
services
(3) Training:
(a) trainers                 367,000       100%
(b) programs                 366,000       100% of foreign
expenditures and
30% of local
expenditures
(4) Operating                     112,000       100% of foreign
costs                                      expenditures and
30% of local
expenditures
Part B:
(5) Goods                         178,000       100% of foreign
expenditures
(6) Consultants'                1,585,000       100%
services


﻿-9-
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(7) Training:
(a) trainers                250,000        100%
(b) programs                253?000        100% of foreign
expenditures and
30% of local
expenditures
(8) Operating                    202,000        100% of foreign
costs                                      expenditures and
30% of local
expenditures
Part C:
(9) Goods                         12,000        100% of foreign
expenditures
(10) Consultants'                530,000        100%
services
(11) Training                    119,000        100% of foreign
expenditures and
30% of local
expenditures
(12) Operating                    48,000        100% of foreign
costs                                      expenditures and
30% of local
expenditures
(13) Refunding of                873,000        Amount due pur-
Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
tion Advances                              2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(14) Unallocated                 322,000
TOTAL                  7.100,000


﻿- 10 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) The term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower.
(b) The term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
(c) The term "operating costs" means the costs of logistical
and administrative support for: (i) CBPE in case of Category (4);
(ii) the Project Secretariat in MFEP in case of Category (8);
(iii) the Project Secretariat in the Civil Service Chamber in case
of Category (12); and (iv) the related Sudanese working groups.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 11
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) improve the
efficiency of the public enterprise sector; (ii) formulate new
policies and prepare detailed rehabilitation strategies for the
public enterprise sector as a whole; (iii) restructure selected
enterprises to the extent required through specific measures
which may include reorganizations, divestitures or liquidations;
(iv) define the relationship between the Borrower and the public
enterprises; (v) improve the general institutional framework of
the public enterprise sector; and (vi) initiate reform programs in
the areas of macro-economic planning and budgeting, and human
resources development and management.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Public Enterprise Sector Reform
Strengthening of CBPE through the provision of consultants'
services, equipment, training and logistical and administrative
support services in order to enable CBPE:
1. to formulate and establish a comprehensive policy frame-
work vis-a-vis the public enterprise sector;
2. to prepare, on the basis of the outcome of the diagnostic
studies for ten selected public enterprises, a rationali-
zation program for the retention, privatization or liqui-
dation of the respective public enterprises;
3. to strengthen the internal planning and management of the
ten selected public enterprises;
4. to identify and undertake additional functions with
respect to establishing, monitoring and evaluating appro-
priate incentives in support of improved public enter-
prises' performance;
5. to design and implement procedures and systems for the
efficient planning and management (including cost
accounting) of the public enterprise sector as a whole
allocating the specific authorities and responsibilities
among the various parties involved;


﻿- 12 -
6. to define the public enterprise monitoring functions of
the concerned sectoral ministries and to test these
defined functions, on a pilot basis, in the Ministry of
Agriculture and Ministry of Industry; and
7. to coordinate the review of the relevant legislative
framework and the implementation of revisions thereof, if
necessary.
Part B: National Economic Planning and Financial Management
Strengthening of MFEP through the provision of consultants'
services, equipment, training and logistical support services in
order to enable MFEP:
1. to undertake macro-economic analyses;
2. to assist in the rationalization of the national planning
and budgeting system;
3. to design a system of medium-term financial planning and
budgetary reform measures;
4. to reorganize the central economic management functions;
5. to improve the services of the Auditor General's Chamber
and the Sudanese Institute of Accountants; and
6. to improve Customs' capabilities for revenue collection.
Part C:   Human Resource Organizational Development
Strengthening of the Borrower's civil service planning and
management system through the provision of consultants' services,
equipment, training and logistical and administrative support
services in order to enable it:
1. to prepare a study and recommendations concerning the
reorganization of the central personnel functions;
2. to formulate, and assist in the implementation of, a
personnel management system in:
(a)   MFEP;
(b)   CBPE; and


﻿- 13 -
(c)   the ten selected public enterprises; and
3. to prepare proposals for the implementation of this
system in the entire public administrative sector.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or more each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Sudan may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedure
1.   Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $50,000, but more than the equivalent of $10,000 per
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Proprietary items and items estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $10,000 each may be purchased directly from the
supplier.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special


﻿- 15 -
Accounts, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the
Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Accounts in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Accounts, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract, together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3, shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this
Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Part A of the Project
1.   CBPE shall be responsible for the implementaton of Part A of
the Project. To this end, CBPE shall be responsible to the
Minister of Finance and Economic Planning, shall be adequately
staffed, shall be assisted by working groups, and shall operate
under terms of reference acceptable to the Association. CBPE
shall, in particular, prepare annual work programs for its
intended activities and submit them to the Association for its
approval not later than two months before the start of their
scheduled implementation.
2.   CBPE shall, not later than September 30, 1988, prepare and
furnish to the Association a detailed plan outlining the specific
authorities and responsibilities within the parastatal sectors of
the various parties involved, including terms of reference for
enterprise managers, board of directors, general shareholder
assemblies, sectoral ministries and other institutions.
3.   In order to carry out Part A.7 of the Project, the Borrower
shall appoint, not later than December 31, 1987, a committee of
experts for the review of the legislative framework.
Part B of the Project
4.   The Planning Wing of MFEP shall be responsible for managing
Part B of the Project. To this end, a Project Secretariat shall be
established, not later than December 31, 1987, under the chairman-
ship of the Undersecretary of Planning to be assisted by two
working groups.
Part C of the Project
5.   The Civil Service Chamber shall be responsible for the imple-
mentation of Part C of the Project. To this end, a Project
Secretariat shall be established, not later than December 31,
1987, under the chairmanship of the Undersecretary of the Civil
Service Chamber to be assisted by the working groups. These units
shall work closely together with CBPE as far as the parastatal
sector issues are involved.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Eligible Categories" means: (i) Categories (1)
through (4) with respect to Special Account A; (ii) Categories (5)
through (8) with respect to Special Account B; and (iii) Catego-
ries (9) through (12) with respect to Special Account C, as set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocations" means amounts equiva-
lent to SDR 80,000 each to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocations and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Accounts may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
each of the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit into the Special Accounts such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Accounts at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Accounts such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Accounts with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Accounts for Eligible


﻿- 18 -
Expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Associa-
tion from the Credit Account under the respective Eligible Catego-
ries, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Accounts for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant
to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, prior to or at the time of such request,
such documents and other evidence as the Association shall
reasonably request, showing that such payment was made for
Eligible Expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Accounts shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i)    the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Condi-
tions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
(ii)    the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the Eligible Categories, minus the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the respective Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligi-
ble Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Accounts as of the date of such notice will
be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Accounts: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence


﻿- 19 -
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into the
respective Special Accounts (or, if the Association shall so
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justi-
fied. No further deposit by the Association into the respective
Special Accounts shall be made until the Borrower has made such
deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the respective Special Account will
not be required to cover further payments for Eligible Expendi-
tures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Associa-
tion, refund to the Association such outstanding amount for
crediting to the Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


