Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2771 
Operation Name 
Tanzania Fifth Poverty Reduction Support Credit 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Central government administration (25%);General industry and 
trade sector (25%);General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector 
(25%);General public administration sector (25%) 
Project ID 
P095657 
Borrower(s) 
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
Madaraka Avenue 
Dar es Salaam 
Tanzania 
Tel: 022 2111174-6 
 
Date PID Prepared 
January 18, 2007 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
January 10, 2007 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
March 29, 2007 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Tanzania is among the world’s poorest countries, with an estimated per capita income of US$ 340 (2005). A 
household budget survey carried out in 2000/01 estimates that about 36 percent of Tanzanians fall below the basic 
needs poverty line and 19 percent fall below the food poverty line, with large variations between rural and urban 
areas as well as among rural areas.  Since the mid 1990’s, Tanzania has implemented a comprehensive program of 
reform, including macro-economic stabilization, privatization, strengthening of the financial system and reducing 
tariff and non-tariff barriers to trade, strengthening of the tax system, decentralization, improvements in public 
expenditure and financial management, as well as public service reforms.  These reforms have resulted in an 
acceleration of economic growth which reached 6.8 percent in 2005 in an environment of low inflation of around 
5
percent in recent years.  Tanzania’s reforms are supported by significant amounts of development assistance by 
multi- and bi lateral donors - estimated at about 14 percent of GDP - which finance more than 40 percent of 
Tanzania’s budget.  Tanzania reached the completion point under the enhanced HIPC initiative in 2001 and 
additional debt relief under the MDRI in 2006 which brought debt levels to a sustainable level. 
 
The implementation of Tanzania’s first PRSP (2001-2005) yielded significant outcomes. Especially in health and 
education, considerable progress was made. Net primary school enrollment increased from 57% in 2000 to 95% 
in 2005. Life expectancy increased from 44 years in 1978 to 49 years in 1988 to 54 years for males and 56 years 
for females in 2002. Infant mortality dropped from 115 per 1000 in 1988 to 95 per 1000 in 2002. The fraction of 
chronically undernourished or stunted children declined from 44% in 1999 to 38% in 2004. Other indicators 
recorded less progress. Maternal mortality which was 529 per 100,000 births in 1996 did not decline and may 
even have increased though the increase to 578 in 2004 is not statistically significant. The proportion of the 
population with access to piped or protected water as their main source of drinking water remains very low, 
especially in rural areas where –depending on the source 46% (census) to 56% (HBS) has access. 
 
A
new PRSP – the National Strategy for Growth and Reduction of Poverty (commonly referred to by its Swahili 
acronym MKUKUTA) – was approved in 2005.  It focuses on three clusters of outcomes, namely growth and 
reduction of income poverty, quality of life and social well being, and governance and accountability.  Compared 
to the first PRSP, it places greater emphasis on growth and the reduction of income poverty.  Improvements in the 
business environment, especially streamlining the business licensing regime which is currently one of the most 
cumbersome worldwide, improving infrastructure (especially rehabilitation of the rural road net work to increase 
Page  2
the year round market accessibility and enhancing the reliability of the power supply in urban areas), reforms of 
agricultural marketing with a focus on the role and functioning of crop boards, and implementation of the Land 
and Village Land Acts are among the structural measures currently pursued by government to sustain and 
accelerate high rates of economic growth.  A focus of government policies on rural development, strengthening of 
the capacity of the poor to participate and contribute to growth opportunities, and measures to reduce vulnerability 
are key strategies to ensure that high growth benefits the poor and does not lead to an excessive widening of 
inequalities.
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The proposed poverty reduction support operation (PRSC-5) is the second in a series of five annual operations 
supporting the implementation of the National Strategy for Growth and Reduction of Poverty.  It covers six focus 
areas. These are the three clusters of the MKUKUTA (i.e., growth and the reduction of income poverty, 
improvements of quality of life and social well being, and governance and accountability), macroeconomic 
stability, resource allocation and budget consistency, and public financial management.  The primary objective of 
the credit is to support Government in the implementation of the MKUKUTA and the achievement of the 
MKUKUTA objectives related to growth and reduction of income poverty, improvements of quality of life and 
social well being, and governance and accountability. 
 
3. Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The rationale for the Bank’s involvement rests on (a) the Bank’s ability to provide significant resources to narrow 
the gap between the financing needs for the implementation of the MKUKUTA and available resources from 
Tanzania’s own sources and other donors, (b) the Bank’s technical contributions to the policy dialogue, grounded 
in a combination of the Bank’s international experience with a long track record of work in Tanzania in the areas 
covered by the PRSC, and (c) the preference by the Tanzanian authorities to receive a significant part of IDA 
resources as general budget support with the objective of enhancing domestic ownership, capacity building 
through learning by doing, and accountability to domestic stakeholders by using the government’s budget process 
for the use of donor resources. 
 
4. Financing 
 
The proposed credit in the amount of US$190 million would be disbursed in a single tranche. 
 
5. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The Ministry of Finance will be responsible for overall implementation of the proposed operation and 
for reporting progress and coordinating actions among other concerned ministries and agencies. 
 
The Bank’s PRSC support is harmonized with general budget support (GBS) provided by a group of 13 other 
donors, using a common GBS performance assessment framework (PAF) and a common, streamlined review 
process.  The framework responds to the government objective of a more strategic, focused and streamlined PAF 
that is supportive of the outcome orientation of the MKUKUTA and encourages domestic accountability through 
the use of domestic participatory processes for dialogue and assessment. It thus focuses primarily on defining a 
small number of indicators that would allow an assessment of overall progress and the definition of local 
processes that would provide the forum for in depth policy dialogue on which the GBS facility would draw.   In 
addition to the reference to sectoral and thematic review processes and results indicators, the PAF also includes a 
small number of specific actions to monitor progress in areas where no processes for regular dialogue exist as yet.  
Among the key review processes are the Public Expenditure Review process, including the annual Public 
Expenditure and Financial Accountability Review, the IMF’s PRGF/PSI, education, health, and water sector 
reviews, reviews of Tanzania’s public sector and local government reform programs, and yet to be established 
fora for the dialogue on Tanzania’s growth strategy and on Tanzania’s implementation of its anti-corruption 
strategy. 
Page  3
A
joint Annual Review which takes place in October serves as the main forum for dialogue and 
assessment.  The Annual Review draws on a large number of sectoral and thematic dialogue and review 
processes that take place throughout the year. 
 
6. Benefits and Risks 
 
The proposed operation would support the government to pursue its policy objectives laid out in the MKUKUTA 
by providing financing for the execution of the 
government’s FY08 budget. It would also provide the incentives 
to implement key economic, social and institutional reforms to strengthen the overall performance of the economy 
and contribute to poverty alleviation. Over the period 2005-2010, it is expected that the reform program under the 
series of five annual PRSCs (PRSC-4 – PRSC-8) would help the government to sustain growth of around 6-8 
percent annually, which is projected to result in a significant reduction in poverty.  It would also help the 
government in making progress toward reaching the MDGs, namely, increase school enrollment and literacy 
rates, reduce child and maternal mortality, increase access to safe water, and strengthen the sustainability of 
development efforts
.
The energy crisis represents the most immediate risk for achieving Tanzania’s growth and poverty reduction 
objectives and the PRSC supports the implementation of energy sector reforms.  Tanzania remains vulnerable to 
external shocks such as droughts, changes in commodity prices, or fluctuations in aid flows.  The credit 
encourages the diversification of the economy and institutional reforms that will reduce this vulnerability.  As the 
utilization of PRSC-5 funds is determined by the budget process, there is a risk that resource allocation and use is 
not fully consistent with the MKUKUTA. However, government has adopted an open and participative budget 
process including an annual PER process which helps to align and monitor resource allocation and its consistency 
with the MKUKUTA.  The 2006 PEFAR assessment suggests that Tanzania’s financial management system is 
among the best in Africa, but significant fiduciary risks in the areas of financial management and procurement 
remain.  The Bank supports reforms that are expected to reduce these risks.  Capacity for program implementation 
and service delivery at both the central and district level is weak; however, in key areas programs are in place to 
strengthen capacity.
 
7. Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Poverty and Social Impacts 
The proposed operation
 supports Tanzania’s efforts to reduce poverty in all its dimensions as laid out in  
Tanzania’s MKUKUTA.  A range of analytic work carried out by Government, local and international 
academic and research institutes, development partners, and the Bank provide assessments of programs 
and policies supported by this operation.  This includes regular poverty and human development reports, 
analysis of the poverty incidence of government’s expenditure programs, and poverty and social impact 
analysis on issues such as crop board and local government revenue reform.   
 
Environmental Aspects 
As the PRSC focuses primarily on institutional reforms, there are no direct significant effects on Tanzania’s 
environment, forests, and other natural resources.  In addition, the PRSC supports reforms of Tanzania’s legal and 
institutional framework for environmental management, environmental impact assessments, and strategic 
environmental assessments (SEAs).   In an effort to mainstream the environmental sustainability dimension into 
the PRSC process, the Bank has undertaken various analyses with the objective to identify linkages between key 
macro and structural reforms policies and the environment. This analysis identifies measures at both national and 
local government levels to reduce poverty and enhance environmental sustainability of policy reforms. The 
analysis concluded that environment and poverty are linked in three major ways: (a) poverty reduction programs 
should not damage the resource base and the environment of which poor depend for their livelihoods (b) 
improving environmental conditions can help to reduce poverty and promote sustainable pro-poor growth; and 
(c) mitigating measures may be necessary as part of policy dialogue. 
Page  4
Working with the government and other development partners, the analysis identified a number strategic entry 
points for mainstreaming key issues of the poverty-environment nexus in Tanzania into PRSC process and 
ongoing policy reforms in general. This included 
inter alia
.
further support for EA activities, a comprehensive 
environmental review of all taxes and levies associated with the agricultural sector, and increased attention to 
removing land tenure uncertainties. Specifically, the Vice President’s Office and the National Environmental 
Management Council (NEMC) have been supporting the development  and implementation of various sector-
specific guidelines for EA (initially in roads and agriculture), and have more recently pursued procedures for 
strategic and sectoral environmental assessment to permit mitigation of any adverse environmental impacts while 
taking advantage of potential synergies between poverty reduction and environmental protection efforts. After the 
signing of the Environmental Management Act by the President of the United Republic of Tanzania in February 
2005, the Bank and the Government continues to support the drafting of environmental regulations, standards and 
guidelines that will allow for smooth implementation of the Act.  Commendable progress has been made and the 
Minister responsible for environment has signed the environmental impact assessment and audit regulations.  In 
addition, regulations on the registration of experts have also been signed.  Draft standards for water quality, waste 
water discharge, air quality and emissions limits have been developed; and consultations are underway.  Work on 
drafting noise, radiation and soil standards is on-going.  The Government continues to work on other regulations, 
standards, and ethics, as well as the building of the institutional and human resources capacities for environmental 
management. To achieve the objective of effective operationalization of the EMA is to ensure that the institutional 
and human resources capacities for environmental and natural resources management are built at all levels of 
society. The Bank and other development partners strongly urge the government to look at the possibilities of 
designing and seeking support to implement an Environmental Management Capacity Building Program.  It is the 
Bank’s view that in this way, the government will move away from short term, piece meal approaches to capacity 
building for environmental management, to a more comprehensive and sustainable approach.
 
8. Contact point 
Robert Johann Utz 
Sr. Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-0612 
Fax: (202) 473-8262 
Email: Rutz1@worldbank.org 
 
8. For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone: (202) 458-5454 
Fax: (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop)
 
