Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4294-TA 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Fifth Poverty Reduction Support Development Policy Financing) 
 
between 
 
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 12, 2007
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4294-TA 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated June 12, 2007, entered into between UNITED REPUBLIC OF 
TANZANIA (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in 
the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this financing on the 
basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and 
which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s 
maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy framework.  The Recipient and the 
Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
—GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II
—FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to one hundred and 
twenty seven million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 127,600,000) 
(referred to variously as 
“Credit” and “Financing”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Program  
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn 
Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance shall be 
equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are January 1 and July 1 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollar. 
 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE III
—PROGRAM 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end: 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either 
party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved  
in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this  
Section, the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing which would 
have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any 
action taken under the Program including any action specified in Section I of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV
—REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension shall be that a situation has arisen which shall make 
it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V
—TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement. 
 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE VI
—REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is its Minister responsible for finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
P.O. Box 9111 
Dar es Salaam 
United Republic of Tanzania 
 
Facsimile: 
(255) 222 11 0326  
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
Page  5
4
AGREED at Dar es Salaam, United Republic of Tanzania, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
UNITED 
REPUBLIC 
OF 
TANZANIA     
 
By 
/s/ 
Gray 
Mgonja 
      
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
/s/ 
Judy 
O'Connor 
      
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:
 
The Recipient has: 
1. 
in accordance with paragraph 9 of the Letter of Development Policy, prepared and 
 
approved for submission to Parliament a draft Roads Bill, including a road inventory; 
2. 
in accordance with paragraph 21 of the Letter of Development Policy, carried out 
 
consultations on implementation of crop board reforms and signed memoranda 
 
of understanding with at least four crop boards; 
3. 
in accordance with paragraph 19 of the Letter of Development Policy, made progress  
 
in the reform of the business activities registration and the business regulatory licensing 
 
regime, including reflecting private sector views in the redrafting of the Business 
 
Activities Registration Bill; 
4. 
in accordance with paragraph 29 of the Letter of Development Policy, approved its 
 
budget for FY 2006/07 in line with MKUKUTA implementation, delineating budget 
 
codes for budget activities related to MKUKUTA goals and strategies; 
5. 
in accordance with paragraph 27 of the Letter of Development Policy, provided its 
 
expenditure outturn for FY 2005/06 consistent with its approved budget for said FY; 
6. 
in accordance with paragraph 37 of the Letter of Development Policy, not later than  
 
April 30, 2006, issued its National Audit Office General Report for FY 2004/05; 
7. 
in accordance with paragraph 43 of the Letter of Development Policy, carried out a health 
 
sector review, satisfactory to the Association;  
8. 
in accordance with paragraph 44 of the Letter of Development Policy, carried out an 
 
education sector review, satisfactory to the Association; and 
9. 
in accordance with paragraph 46 of the Letter of Development Policy, carried out a water 
 
sector review, satisfactory to the Association. 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may 
specify by notice to the Recipient. 
Page  7
6
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a single tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of 
the Financing to this end is set out in the table below: 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
Single Tranche 
127,600,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
127,600,000
C. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts
 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:   
1. 
the withdrawal from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the Association 
into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable to the Association; 
and 
2.  
the Recipient shall ensure that upon deposit of the amount of the Financing into 
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association. 
D. Excluded 
Expenditures
 
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing shall not be used to finance 
Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at any time that an amount of the 
Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of 
such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request 
shall be cancelled.
 
E. Closing 
Date 
 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2008. 
Page  8
7
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each January 1 and July 1: 
 
commencing July 1, 2017 to and including  
January 1, 2027 
 1% 
commencing July 1, 2027 to and including  
January 1, 2047 
 
2% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be repaid, 
except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  9
8
APPENDIX 
Section I.   
Definitions
1. 
“The Business Activities Registration Bill” means a bill titled “The Business 
 
Activities Registration Act, 2006”, and published by the Recipient under Bill 
Supplement, No. 9 dated October, 2006, to the Special Gazette of the 
 
Recipient, No. 5 dated October 27, 2006. 
2. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Association  
or the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the 
Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another financing, credit, grant  
or loan; 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986)  
(the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions  
to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient: 
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured,  tobacco refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones, unworked or 
worked 
718 718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, for nuclear  reactors 
728 
728.43 
Tobacco  processing machinery 
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares (including set gems) 
971 
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
Page  10
9
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which  
is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements  
to which the Recipient is a party, and any other goods designated 
 
as environmentally hazardous by agreement between the Recipient and 
 
the Association; 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
(f) 
under a contract with respect to which the Association determines that  
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds 
during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the Recipient 
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to the Association to remedy the situation. 
3. 
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” means the Recipient’s fiscal year commencing on July 1 and 
ending on June 30 of the following year. 
4. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005, with the  modifications  set  forth 
in Section II of this Appendix. 
5. 
“Letter of Development Policy” means the letter dated February 12, 2007, received by 
the Association from the Recipient, describing the Program (as hereinafter defined), and 
declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Association in support of the Program during its execution. 
6. 
“MKUKUTA” means the Recipient’s National Strategy for Growth and Reduction  
of Poverty, dated June 2005. 
7. 
“National Audit Office General Report” means a report concerning audit of the 
Recipient’s accounts for each FY, prepared and submitted by the National Audit Office.  
8. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the 
Letter of Development Policy. 
9. 
“Road Bill” means a draft bill dated November 2006, and titled “Draft, The Roads  
Act, 2006, a Bill for an Act to repeal the Highways Ordinance (CAP 167), and enact the 
Roads Act 2006”, and approved by the Recipient’s Cabinet for presentation to Parliament 
for consideration and enactment. 
Page  11
10 
 
10. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
11. 
“Tranche of the Financing” means the amount of the Financing specified in 
 
Section 2.01 of this Agreement. 
Section II.   
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions 
for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005, are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications 
 
 
for Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing 
until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the 
Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read  
as follows: 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report  
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on 
the execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the 
Association of their respective obligations under the Financing Agreement and 
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing.” 
Page  12
11 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted  
as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order  
to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term 
“Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in support 
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the 
Financing Agreement.” 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in support 
of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” throughout these 
General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”. 
 
